{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Robert Neller speaks during a news conference last week at the Pentagon. Battered by a nude photo scandal, the Marine Corps has published a longer and more detailed social media policy, laying out the professional and legal ramifications for service members who participate in online misconduct. \n WASHINGTON >> Battered by a nude photo-sharing scandal, the Marine Corps has issued a longer and more detailed social media policy that lays out the professional and legal ramifications for service members culpable of online misconduct. Among the coming changes: a requirement that all Marines sign a statement acknowledging they have read and understand the new guidelines. \n The adjustments are designed to give leaders more leeway in prosecuting or punishing offenders. Former and current female Marines have reported their photographs and those of women in other services being posted on social media pages without their consent. Investigators are also looking into threatening and obscene comments Marines wrote accompanying the images. \n The new policy makes it clear how existing rules and the Uniform Code of Military Justice can be used to prosecute offensive, indecent or disrespectful online activities. But it creates no new laws, underscoring the legal quagmire posed by the internet and the constraints on military leaders posed by privacy laws and the First Amendment right of free speech. \n Released in recent days by Gen. Robert Neller, the Marine commandant, the Corps' new guidance is one result of the ongoing criminal investigation. \n \"Marines should think twice before engaging in questionable online activities, and must avoid actions online that threaten the morale, operational readiness and security, or public standing of their units, or that compromise our core values,\" the policy states, addressing any content or comments that are deemed defamatory, threatening, harassing or discriminating on the basis of race, color, sex, gender, age, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or other criteria. \n It makes clear that bad behavior can be punished under the military code. \n The Marine Corps isn't the only service making changes. The Army is sending out a new message to its force, signed by senior leaders including Gen. Mark Milley, the Army chief of staff, and warning soldiers that online misconduct is unacceptable and passive tolerance of bad behavior by others is also wrong. The Army has routinely updated its social media policy to emphasize treating soldiers with dignity and respect, including in February before the Marine scandal surfaced. \n The services are urging any victims of improper photo-sharing to come forward. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service said it is getting more tips every day, but investigators acknowledge the legal hurdles in finding and prosecuting offenders. \n Twenty women have reported that they're victims. The probe has expanded in the last two weeks, as services beyond the Marines examine if their members are involved. So far, they say no victims from the other services have come forward. No men have said they were victimized. \n One problem for investigations is that photos were shared by Marines and others on a private Facebook page that was members-only and men-only. And they were mainly housed on a Google Drive linked to the page. The Facebook page has been taken down and that Google drive link is also gone, although officials say the photos likely migrated to other sites. \n Because the page is gone, investigators must rely on screenshots showing the screen names of military members, as well as reports from victims who heard about or saw the images. Tracking offenders is difficult because many may not use real names. \n Another challenge: The bulk of the photos are selfies. Many were likely provided willingly by the person in the picture to someone else, or possibly posted on Instagram or another such site. The question then becomes whether sharing an explicit photo that was provided willingly is a crime. \n A number of states have laws prohibiting so-called revenge pornography, and the military is looking at making a similar addition to its code, a change several senators are suggesting. But such a law may require prosecutors to prove the posting's intent was to harm the individual and that it had an impact. Both can be difficult to prove. \n Officials also have to tread carefully to avoid restricting free speech. As an example, attempting to prohibit anyone from looking at or posting a nude photo on the internet would be difficult to do and nearly impossible to enforce. \n The military, however, has greater ability to punish service members beyond strictly legal violations. Officers can be charged with conduct unbecoming an officer, and service members can be punished for harming the good order and discipline of their unit, or their military service. These broader categories give commanders greater flexibility in ordering administrative punishment or even forcing service members to leave the military. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Battered by scandal, Marines issue new social media policy"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Neil Gorsuch, center, is President Donald Trump's pick to fill the vacancy of the late Justice Antonin Scalia. Gorsuch and the Judiciary Committee's 20 members will give opening statements on Monday. \n WASHINGTON >> Thirteen months after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, the Senate is finally holding confirmation hearings to fill the vacancy, considering President Donald Trump's choice of Neil Gorsuch for the high court. \n Republicans refused to even grant a hearing to former President Barack Obama's choice, Merrick Garland, insisting the next president should decide. Now, the Senate will exercise its \"advice and consent\" role, a politically fraught decision with liberals pressuring Democrats to reject Gorsuch. \n The Senate has confirmed 124 Supreme Court justices since the United States was founded. \n The process is arduous, with dozens of one-on-one meetings with senators in recent weeks giving way to days of testimony starting Monday. Gorsuch and the Judiciary Committee's 20 members will give opening statements that day. Gorsuch will answer questions Tuesday and Wednesday, and outside witnesses will testify Thursday. \n A look at the confirmation process, its rules, terminology and politics: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n WHAT DOES THE CONSTITUTION SAY \n The Constitution lays out the process in just a few words, saying the president shall nominate Supreme Court justices \"by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.\" Senate rules and tradition dictate the rest. President Donald Trump nominated Gorsuch, a judge on the Denver-based 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, on Jan. 31 and set the process in motion. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE PREPARATION AND DAY ONE \n Gorsuch has met with 72 of the 100 senators in advance of his hearings. Like other nominees, he has participated in mock questioning facilitated by the Trump administration. These are sometimes dubbed \"murder boards\" because of their intensity. \n On Monday, Gorsuch will have to sit through 10-minute statements from each of the 20 members of the committee, which will take several hours. After that, Gorsuch will finally speak, delivering his own 10-minute opening statement. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS \n In past hearings, the questions have centered around the nominee's legal qualifications, decisions as a judge, positions on political issues, interpretations of the Constitution, general legal philosophy and current legal controversies. \n The stakes are high with any court pick, and especially now as confirmation of Gorsuch would ensure a conservative advantage on the court. \n Gorsuch will face the same dilemma of many nominees before him \u2014 how to answer the questions clearly and concisely without weighing in on issues that could come before the Court or get himself in political trouble. \n Democrats are likely to push him if he is reluctant. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York has already criticized him for deflecting questions when he asked him during their meeting whether Trump's immigration ban is constitutional. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE OTHER WITNESSES \n The fourth and final day of the hearings, Thursday, will feature outside witnesses, usually former colleagues and advocacy groups who will testify for or against Gorsuch. In the past, one of the first to testify has been the chair of the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary. That group has given Gorsuch a unanimous \"well qualified\" rating. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE COMMITTEE VOTE \n By tradition, the committee will report the nomination to the Senate floor even if the majority of the panel opposes the nominee, so the full Senate can have the ultimate say. So instead of approving or rejecting the nominee, the committee will usually report the nomination favorably, unfavorably or without recommendation. \n Of the 15 most recent nominations, 13 were reported favorably. Robert Bork, whose nomination was ultimately rejected by the Senate, was reported unfavorably in 1987; Clarence Thomas, who won confirmation, was reported without recommendation in 1991. \n Gorsuch is expected to be reported favorably by the Republican-led committee. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE PROCEDURAL VOTES \n Gorsuch is expected to have support from more than half the Senate, but getting to that vote will require several procedural maneuvers. Some Democrats have already said they will try to hold up the nomination, which means Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., will have to hold a procedural vote requiring 60 votes to move forward. \n Republicans have a 52-48 majority, so at least eight Democrats and independents will have to vote with Republicans. It's unclear whether Republicans will have those votes, meaning Democrats have the ability to block the nomination. \n If the nomination is blocked, McConnell has another option. He could hold a vote to change the rules and lower the vote threshold. Former House Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., made a similar change for lower court nominations in 2013, a move called \"the nuclear option.\" McConnell was extremely critical of that move but may have to do it if that's his last option to confirm Gorsuch. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n THE REAL VOTE \n Once the Senate gets past procedural votes, it can hold a simple majority vote to confirm. In recent years, senators have sat at their desks during a Supreme Court vote and stood one by one to cast their votes. The votes have become more partisan over the years; the last unanimous vote was for Justice Anthony Kennedy in 1987. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gorsuch confirmation hearings set to begin Monday"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Malaysian police said Sunday that they are hunting for more North Korean suspects over the killing of the half brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Malaysia's Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar, left, said the new suspects are in addition to the seven North Koreans already being sought. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Malaysian police said Sunday that they are hunting for more North Korean suspects over the killing of the half brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. \n National police chief Khalid Abu Bakar said the new suspects are in addition to the seven North Koreans already being sought in last month's poisoning death of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport. \n Khalid said the new suspects include an \"important person,\" but he declined to give further details. \n \"I do not deny that there are more North Koreans involved in the murder of Kim Jong Nam. We will follow the legal channel to get them,\" he said. \"I do not want to say more than that. If I do, they may run \u2026 but we believe there is an important person too.\" \n Malaysian authorities say two women smeared Kim's face with the banned VX nerve agent on Feb. 13 at a crowded airport terminal. He died within 20 minutes. The two women, an Indonesian and a Vietnamese, have been charged with murder. \n Four of the seven initial North Korean suspects left Malaysia on the same day of the killing. Police have obtained an Interpol red alert notice for the four men, believed to be back in Pyongyang. Police said the other three men are believed to be hiding in the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur. \n Relations between Malaysia and North Korea have deteriorated sharply since Kim's death, with each expelling the other's ambassador. \n North Korea blocked Malaysians from leaving the country until a \"fair settlement\" of the case is reached. Malaysia then barred North Koreans from exiting its soil. The two countries have also scrapped visa-free travel for each other's citizens. \n Although Malaysia has never directly accused North Korea of being behind the attack, many speculate that it must have orchestrated it. \n Experts say the VX nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Malaysia hunting for more N. Korean suspects in Kim's death"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gesture as they protest against police violence in Paris today. Protesters carried placards and banners as they gathered at Place de la Republique, a square in the centre of the French capital, to listen to speeches. \n PARIS >> Several thousand people marched in Paris on Sunday against police violence. \n The demonstration was the latest protest sparked by the alleged rape in February of a young black man with a police baton, and other police abuse. \n Demonstrators carried banners with portraits of victims of alleged police brutality. \n Anarchists faced off with riot police at the end of the march and tear gas was fired but clashes remained limited in scope and violence. \n The alleged police rape of Theo in the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois turned the 22-year-old into a symbol for minorities standing up to police violence. His last name hasn't been publicly released. \n He was hospitalized for two weeks. One officer was charged with rape, while three others were accused of aggravated assault. All deny intentional wrongdoing. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Protesters march in Paris against police violence"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "COURTESY SPACEX \n The Dragon cargo ship parachutes into the Pacific off the Southern California coast today. Astronauts set it free from the International Space Station about 5\u00bd hours earlier. \n LOS ANGELES >> A SpaceX capsule is back on Earth with a full load of space station science samples. \n The Dragon cargo ship parachuted into the Pacific on Sunday off the Southern California coast. Astronauts set it free from the International Space Station 5\u00bd hours earlier. \n The Dragon flew to the space station a month ago from the same Florida launch pad used for NASA's Apollo moon shots. It took up more than 5,000 pounds of supplies and brought back just as much in completed experiments and used equipment. \n NASA's other supplier, Orbital ATK, plans to launch its own supply ship Friday, also from Cape Canaveral, Florida. That one, however, burns up on re-entry. \n The space station is home to one Frenchman, two Americans and three Russians. \n ", "author": "", "title": "SpaceX capsule returns space station science to Earth"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met with Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> The foreign and defense ministers from Japan and Russia met in Tokyo on Monday, with both sides expressing hope that discussions on joint development of islands claimed by both countries might help them move closer to resolving the territorial dispute preventing them from forging a peace treaty. \n The talks are the first \"two-plus-two\" meeting since Russia's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. \n The one-day meeting is largely focusing on regional security, especially how best to deal with North Korea's launches of missiles and its nuclear program. \n Russia's Foreign Ministry said before the talks that its envoys would raise the issue of a plan by the U.S. and its ally South Korea to deploy a state-of-the-art missile defense system known as THAAD, which has antagonized China and Russia. \n Joint efforts in fighting terrorism and drug trafficking were also on the agenda. \n Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida was meeting with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, while Japanese Defense Minister Tomomi Inada sat down for talks with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu. The four ministers will also hold joint talks on international and bilateral issues. \n Japan and Russia last held \"two-plus-two\" talks in November 2013. Meetings were shelved after that due to the crisis in Ukraine, as Japan joined sanctions against Moscow. \n The Tokyo talks are not expected to lead to a breakthrough on conflicting claims to islands north of Hokkaido \u2014 Etorofu, Kunashiri, Shikotan and the Habomai islets \u2014 that came under Russian control after Japan's defeat in World War II. \n But the countries see more room for agreement on joint development of fisheries, tourism and other areas that might help bridge the gap. \n Kishida said he intended to work in a \"speedy manner\" to move closer toward reaching a peace treaty, especially making progress on joint economic development. \n Lavrov agreed, saying at the outset of the talks that \"I believe this joint development will become an important step to create an appropriate environment for resolving a peace treaty.\" \n Earlier, a Japanese foreign ministry official said Tokyo would raise concerns over Russia's installment of surface-to-ship missiles on Etorofu and other military activity elsewhere on the disputed islands, and seek an explanation from Moscow. It does not plan to push harder than that, said the official, who briefed reporters on the condition he not be named. \n Japanese officials also said the talks would include work on planning a visit by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to Moscow later this year. Logistics of visits by Japanese former residents of the disputed islands will also be addressed, they said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan and Russia hold talks on security, territorial dispute"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KEVIN OLSON \n According to police, a woman believed to be in her 60s accidentally backed into another vehicle while trying to park then drove forward and smashed through the wall of Paia Fish Market. \n A parking mishap outside of the Paia Fish Market in Lahaina resulted in a badly damaged wall but no serious injuries today. \n According to police, a woman believed to be in her 60s accidentally backed into another vehicle while trying to park then drove forward and smashed through the wall of the popular restaurant. \n The accident leveled a portion of wall and a large section of window fronting an inside dining area. Neither the driver nor any of the staff or patrons of the restaurant were injured. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman plows car into Paia Fish Market"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Devin Nunes, R-Calif., is running one of the most scrutinized, complex and politically fraught congressional investigations in recent memory. As House intelligence committee chairman he's tasked with leading the probe into Russia's interference in the 2016 election and President Donald Trump's campaign associates' ties to Moscow. \n WASHINGTON >> Devin Nunes once said all he wanted to do was work on a dairy farm. \n Now the Republican from the rural Central Valley of California is running one of the most scrutinized, complex and politically fraught congressional investigations in recent memory. \n As chairman of the House intelligence committee, which holds its first public hearing on Monday, Nunes is at the helm of a probe of Moscow's meddling in the 2016 campaign and the murky web of contacts between President Donald Trump's campaign and Russia. It's a potentially sprawling enterprise that spans continents, plumbs spycraft and dominates international headlines. \n He's a long way from raising cattle. \n \"I'm not asking for any profile,\" Nunes told The Associated Press, when asked about his new place in the spotlight. \n Until recently, the soft-spoken 43-year-old \u2014 dubbed a \"normal dad\" by friends \u2014 was hardly a fixture on the national news circuit. Now he is holding weekly press briefings and being asked to weigh in on daily twists and unexpected developments. At Monday's hearing he will call FBI Director James Comey as a witness, an event that amounts to must-see television in Washington. \n Nunes was not an early Trump backer, but was named to the transition team as an adviser on appointments. \n The burden of leading a bipartisan, credible investigation into the integrity of the U.S. campaigns, not to mention the possible role of the new president's campaign associates, is a heavy one not only for him but for many veteran lawmakers. \n On the other side of the aisle, Democratic Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, has said the Senate intelligence committee investigation, which he is co-leading, is probably the most important thing he will do in his public life. Nunes says he does not feel the same way. \n \"Everything we do around here is really important,\" Nunes said. \"I wouldn't put one in front of the other.\" \n It's an understatement his friends recognize. \n Nunes is a third-generation Portuguese-American, and he grew up working on his family's dairy farm. As a teenager, he raised cattle and saved money to buy farmland with his brother, according to his congressional biography. He has degrees in agriculture and keeps his hand in farming through an investment in two California wineries run by a friend he met through his alumni network. \n Rep. David Valadao, a Republican congressman from a district next to Nunes' and fellow dairyman, said Nunes takes his job as congressman seriously. But, he said, aside from his work, \"he's a normal dad\" to three young daughters. \n \"All I wanted to be was a dairy farmer,\" Nunes told a group of high school students as he campaigned for his seat in Congress in 2002, according to an article in the Fresno Bee. \n His education and childhood aspiration suited his political ambitions. Like many politicians from California's interior farm belt, Nunes was well versed in agriculture and the water supply that supports it. \n Nunes' first entree into politics was as a member of the board of a local community college. He ran for Congress in 1998 and lost in the primary. In 2001, he was appointed by President George W. Bush to a California post at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. \n He was only 28 when he won a hotly contested congressional seat, beating his Republican competitors in the 2002 primary by appealing to the concerns of ranchers and dairymen in his solidly conservative district. \n Tom Barcellos, a Tulare County dairy producer who has known Nunes since he was a child, said Nunes was focused early on politics, without being showy. \n \"He knew what he wanted and he did his research, and he didn't blow a lot of smoke,\" Barcellos said. \n Nunes consistently has supported bills that would roll back environmental protections and boost federal water supplies to the fertile farmlands of the San Joaquin Valley, the lower stretch of California's vast Central Valley. His ongoing fight against what he describes as jobs-killing regulations promoted by \"radical environmentalists\" is a priority shared by a local group of wealthy farmers who belong to the giant Westlands Water District, which hired Nunes' friend and former chief of staff as its deputy general manager two years ago. \n \"Devin, from day one, has made water his top priority,\" said Tom Holyoke, a political scientist at California State University, Fresno. \n Nunes served on the Agriculture Committee during his first term, but quickly landed a spot on the House Ways and Means Committee, one of Congress' most influential panels. \n He was spotted by Republican leaders as a party loyalist and he was named to a leadership position during his first term. \n He vied for the chairmanship of the intelligence committee in 2014. While competing against more senior members, he proved a better fundraiser, bringing in far more money for his party than his competitors for the chairmanship. While many congressional committee leadership positions are based on seniority, the House intelligence committee leadership was chosen by then-House Speaker John Boehner. \n Nunes has suggested he pursued the intelligence committee post because it would be good for his constituents. Intelligence can play a key role in trade negotiations, he said, although it is only a sliver of the intelligence agencies' missions. \n \"The intelligence committee \u2014 that's a committee that I call the tip of the spear, because without national security it's tough to keep those trade routes open,\" Nunes said in a 2014 interview with the Tulare Advance-Register. \n Until now, much of Nunes' work on the committee has been focused on investigations into NSA leaker Edward Snowden, the intelligence behind the Iran nuclear deal, Hillary Clinton's emails and the placement of a Defense Department intelligence center. \n The congressman made a push to have the center built on the Azores islands, 800 miles off the coast of Portugal, a proposal that was popular among the valley's many dairy producers of Portuguese descent. The department ultimately chose a site in the U.K. \n Monday's hearing will be the latest spotlight on the tension between Nunes' loyalty to Trump and his commitment to a thorough, bipartisan investigation. \n The congressman's independence has already been questioned. Last month, the White House enlisted him to push back on a news article it didn't like about Trump associates' ties to Russia. The congressman has said he did nothing improper when he reached out to a reporter. \n Nunes has not appeared to relish the role of Trump defender. He's described Trump as a \"political neophyte.\" Asked about Trump's tweeted claims that former President Barack Obama wiretapped his phones, Nunes' response did little to help quiet the controversy. \n \"Are you going to take the tweets literally?\" Nunes said. \"If so, clearly the president was wrong.\" \n ", "author": "", "title": "Former dairy farmer leads Trump-Russia investigation"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "A 34-year-old man died today after he apparently lost control of his motorcycle while making a turn on Kalanianaole Highway near Sandy Beach. \n According to police, the man was riding a 2004 Honda motorcycle, heading west, when he failed to negotiate a turn. The motorcycle collided with a guardrail, ejecting the man onto the roadway. \n He was pronounced dead at the scene. \n Kalanianaole Highway was closed this evening in both directions between Hanauma Bay and Sandy Beach Park. It was reopened by 9 p.m. \n Police said speed appears to have been a factor in the crash. It is unknown if alcohol or drugs were involved. \n The rider was wearing a helmet. \n This is the ninth traffic-related fatality on Oahu this year, compared to seven at the same point last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalanianaole Hwy. reopened after motorcycle fatality"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From left to right: Former Penn State Vice President Gary Schultz, former Penn State President Graham Spanier, and former Penn State Director of Athletics Tim Curley. \n HARRISBURG, Pa. >> Jury selection is set to begin on Monday in the trial of Penn State's former president on charges that children were put at risk by how he responded to child sex abuse complaints about Jerry Sandusky more than 15 years ago. \n Graham Spanier's trial could last a week or more and might bring to the stand as prosecution witnesses two of his former top lieutenants who recently struck plea bargains. \n Spanier, 68, is accused of two counts of endangering the welfare of children and a single conspiracy charge, all felonies. Former Vice President Gary Schultz and former Athletic Director Tim Curley pleaded guilty last week to a single misdemeanor count of child endangerment, and await sentencing. \n The charges stem from their handling of a report in 2001 that Sandusky, a retired assistant football coach, had apparently molested a boy in a team shower. Prosecutors say their failure to report the incident to authorities allowed Sandusky to continue to abuse boys, one in the team shower, and also endangered others. \n Sandusky was not arrested until 2011, after prosecutors got an anonymous tip about the shower incident, witnessed by graduate assistant coach Mike McQueary. Sandusky was convicted in 2012 of sexually abusing 10 boys and is serving 30 to 60 years in prison. \n Shortly after Sandusky's arrest, Hall of Fame Coach Joe Paterno was fired over his handling of the matter. He had been the first school official to hear McQueary's account of the shower incident. \n One of the winningest coaches in college football history, he died of lung cancer a few months later at the age of 85. He was never charged with a crime. \n Spanier was forced out as president when Sandusky, Curley and Schultz were charged in 2011, but was not charged until the following year. \n He has steadfastly denied any wrongdoing, saying Curley and Schultz characterized the incident in the shower as horseplay and not any form of child abuse. \n A report commissioned by the university and conducted by a team led by former FBI Director Louis Freeh concluded that Paterno and the three others hushed up the allegations against Sandusky for fear of bad publicity. \n McQueary testified on several occasions about how he went to Paterno a day after the shower encounter to discuss what he had seen. Paterno notified Curley and Schultz, and McQueary met with both of them about a week later. In his 2011 grand jury testimony, Paterno said he was told by McQueary the encounter involved \"fondling\" and was of \"a sexual nature\" but wasn't quite sure what the act was. \n The administrators told Sandusky he could not bring children onto campus anymore, but they had no plan to enforce that rule, prosecutors said. \n A key piece of evidence is likely to be an email exchange the Freeh team obtained in which the three high-ranking officials debated how they should handle the 2001 shower incident. Spanier gave his approval to having Curley tell Sandusky to get professional help or face a report to the state's child welfare agency. \n \"The only downside for us is if the message isn't 'heard' and acted upon, and we then become vulnerable for not having reported it,\" Spanier replied. He called the plan \"humane and a reasonable way to proceed.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury selection to begin in Penn State ex-president's trial"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Brazil's President Michel Temer, center, alongside Angola's ambassador to Brazil, Nelson Manuel Cosme, attended a steak dinner after a meeting on the rotten meat scandal in Brasilia, Brazil. \n RIO DE JANEIRO >> Brazil's president met today with dozens of ambassadors from countries that import Brazilian meat, seeking to minimize damage from a corruption probe that alleges meatpackers bribed inspectors to keep rotten meat on the market. \n Speaking at the presidential palace, President Michel Temer told the diplomats that Brazil's \"government wants to reiterate its confidence in the quality of our national product.\" \n Temer set up the meeting following inquiries from the European Union and China over the scandal. Federal police issued 38 arrest warrants involving the giant meatpackers JBS and BRF in a blow to Brazil's reputation as one of the world's leading meat producers. \n The president minimized the investigation, saying that only 33 of the 11,000 inspectors at the Agriculture Ministry are being investigated for allegedly taking bribes to overlook meatpackers using chemicals to improve the appearance and smell of expired meat. \n Some of the bad meat was exported to Europe, investigators have said. Temer told the ambassadors that the Agriculture Ministry would soon release a list of countries that could have received rotten meat as well as the name of the meatpackers responsible. \n Temer said a task force would be created to speed up the investigation of the plants that were targeted. In a statement, his office also said it wanted to reiterate that packing plants are open to inspection by nations that buy Brazilian meats. Officials said Brazil exports meat to about 150 countries. \n Wrapping up the meeting, the president invited the ambassadors for dinner at a traditional Brazilian barbecue restaurant in Brasilia. \n Earlier, Temer met with his agriculture and foreign commerce ministers as well as meatpacking industry leaders to talk about impact of the case. \n Authorities say that out of the 4,800 meatpacking facilities subject to federal inspection in Brazil, 21 are under investigation, including units of the two big companies JBS and BRF. \n Federal police also said Friday the two-year investigation had determined that part of the money allegedly paid by JBS and BRF was channeled to two of Brazil's major political parties, including Temer's. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brazil reassures foreign countries after meat scandal"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "SESAME WORKSHOP \n Julia, a new autistic muppet character, will be debuting on the 47th Season of \"Sesame Street\" on April 10 on both PBS and HBO. \n NEW YORK >> Folks on Sesame Street have a way of making everyone feel accepted. \n That certainly goes for Julia, a Muppet youngster with blazing red hair, bright green eyes \u2014 and autism. Rather than being treated like an outsider, which too often is the plight of kids on the spectrum, Julia is one of the gang. \n Look: On this friendliest of streets (actually Studio J at New York's Kaufman Astoria Studios, where \"Sesame Street\" lives) Julia is about to play a game with Oscar, Abby and Grover. In this scene being taped for airing next season, these Muppet chums have been challenged to spot objects shaped like squares or circles or triangles. \n \"You're lucky,\" says Abby to Grover. \"You have Julia on your team, and she is really good at finding shapes!\" \n With that, they skedaddle, an exit that calls for the six Muppeteers squatted out of sight below them to scramble accordingly. Joining her pals, Julia (performed by Stacey Gordon) takes off hunting. \n For more than a year, Julia has existed in print and digital illustrations as the centerpiece of a multifaceted initiative by Sesame Workshop called \"Sesame Street and Autism: See Amazing in All Children.\" \n She has been the subject of a storybook released along with videos, e-books, an app and website. The goal is to promote a better understanding of what the Autism Speaks advocacy group describes as \"a range of conditions characterized by challenges with social skills, repetitive behaviors, speech and nonverbal communication, as well as by unique strengths and differences.\" \n But now Julia has been brought to life in fine Muppet fettle. She makes her TV debut on \"Sesame Street\" in the \"Meet Julia\" episode airing April 10 on both PBS and HBO. Additional videos featuring Julia will be available online. \n Developing Julia and all the other components of this campaign has required years of consultation with organizations, experts and families within the autism community, according to Jeanette Betancourt, Sesame Workshop's senior vice president of U.S. Social Impact. \n \"In the U.S., one in 68 children is diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder,\" she says. \"We wanted to promote a better understanding and reduce the stigma often found around these children. We're modeling the way both children and adults can look at autism from a strength-based perspective: finding things that all children share.\" \n Julia is at the heart of this effort. But while she represents the full range of children on the spectrum, she isn't meant to typify each one of them: \"Just as we look at all children as being unique, we should do the same thing when we're looking at children with autism,\" Betancourt says. \n It was with keen interest that Stacey Gordon first learned of Julia more than a year ago. \"I said, 'If she's ever a puppet, I want to BE Julia!'\" \n No wonder. Gordon is a Phoenix-based puppeteer who performs, conducts classes and workshops, and creates whimsical puppets for sale to the public. \n She also has a son with autism, and, before she started her family, was a therapist to youngsters on the spectrum. \n Although she figured her chances of landing the dream role of Julia were nil, her contacts in the puppet world paid off: Two friends who worked as Muppeteers on \"Sesame Street\" dropped her name to the producers. After submitting tapes, then coming to New York for an audition, she was hired. \n In the introductory segment, Julia is having fun with Abby and Elmo when Big Bird walks up. He wants to be her new friend, but she doesn't speak to him. He thinks she doesn't like him. \n \"She does things just a little differently, in a Julia sort of way,\" Abby informs him. \n Julia, chuckling, then displays a different-but-fun way of playing tag, and everyone joins in. But when a siren wails, she covers her ears and looks stricken. \n \"She needs to take a break,\" Big Bird's human friend Alan calmly explains. Soon, all is well and play resumes. \n \"The 'Meet Julia' episode is something that I wish my son's friends had been able to see when they were small,\" says Gordon. \"I remember him having meltdowns and his classmates not understanding how to react.\" \n Gordon says her son, now 13, isn't drawn to puppetry. \"He's more interested in math and science, and plays the piano brilliantly,\" she says with pride. \n But she's having a blast being part of the show that helped hook her, as a child, on puppeteering. \n \"It is so much fun to be on set with everyone, and get to play up all the positive things I've seen with the kids that I've worked with,\" Gordon says. \"At the same time, I come at this with a reverence. I don't want to let the autism community down.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Muppet with autism to debut on 'Sesame Street'"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "A 60-year-old man remained in police custody today accused of possessing property belonging to Central Middle School. \n Casey Ringor, of no local address, was charged Saturday with second-degree burglary and remained at the police main station unable to post $50,000 bail. \n Police said Ringor was arrested in downtown at 1:39 a.m. Friday after being caught with the school's property. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged with burglarizing Central Middle School"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jeff Jones, president of embattled Uber, has resigned six months after taking the job. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Jeff Jones, president of the embattled ride-hailing company Uber, has resigned just six months after taking the job, the company confirmed today. \n In a brief statement, Uber didn't say why Jones left. \"We want to thank Jeff for his six months at the company and wish him all the best,\" it said. \n Jones told the tech blog Recode, which first reported his resignation, that his values didn't align with Uber's. \n \"The beliefs and approach to leadership that have guided my career are inconsistent with what I saw and experienced at Uber, and I can no longer continue as president of the ride sharing business,\" he said in a statement. \n Jones is the latest of several high-level executives to leave the San Francisco-based company. \n Last month, a top engineering executive, Amit Singhal, left Uber five weeks after his hire was announced. He allegedly failed to disclose that he'd left his previous job at Google because of a sexual harassment allegation. \n Ed Baker, Uber's vice president of product and growth, resigned earlier this month. So did Charlie Miller, Uber's top security researcher, who left to join Didi, China's larger ride-hailing company. \n Jones' departure comes days after Uber CEO Travis Kalanick said the company will hire a chief operating officer who can help write its \"next chapter.\" \n Jones had left Target, where he was chief marketing officer, to join Uber in September. \n Uber has been hit by several controversies, including allegations that it routinely ignores sexual harassment. A recent video showed Kalanick profanely berating a driver who confronted him about steep cuts in Uber's rates. \n Uber also acknowledged it has used a program to thwart authorities who have been trying to curtail or shut down its service in cities around the world. \n The company also has faces challenges in court. \n Waymo, a self-driving car company that used to be part of Google, last month sued Uber in federal court, alleging betrayal and high-tech espionage. The complaint accuses Anthony Levandowski, a former top manager for Google's self-driving car project, of stealing technology now propelling Uber's effort to build an autonomous vehicle fleet. \n Uber denied Waymo's claims, calling them \"a baseless attempt to slow down a competitor.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "President of embattled Uber leaves after 6 months on job"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "Police were looking for a trio of bandits who robbed a group of elderly people in the middle of the day Saturday in Chinatown. \n The group of two males and a female threatened to use a weapon against the six victims and fled with their property at about 1:30 p.m., police said. \n The victims were listed as two 69-year-old men, three other men \u2014 ages 63, 72, and 77 \u2014 and a 58-year-old woman. \n Police said there were no injuries. Officers opened a first-degree robbery case. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police searching for trio who robbed elderly people in Chinatown"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "A 6-year-old girl died Saturday after running into trouble while swimming in Makaha, police said. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified her as Rema Esteras of Kalihi. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday. \n Esteras became unresponsive while swimming at about 4:15 p.m., police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Girl dies while swimming in Makaha"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "Speed appears to be a factor in a single-motorcycle crash that left a 33-year-old man in critical condition Saturday in Ewa Beach. \n The man crashed his 2007 Honda motorcycle about 7:50 p.m. near Fort Weaver Road and Laulaunui Street, authorities said. Police said the driver was speeding in the south-bound direction on Fort Weaver when he lost control and went down. \n He was taken to the Queen's Medical Center in extremely critical condition, police said. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said the man was not wearing a helmet. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Speed a factor in critical motorcycle crash in Ewa"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "A 19-year-old man was in serious condition today after being shot multiple times in Waianae, police said. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said the man walked into the Waianae Coast Comprehensive Health Center at about 1:15 a.m. with multiple gunshot wounds. \n Paramedics took him to a trauma center in serious condition, the report said. \n Police opened a second-degree attempted murder investigation. No one was arrested, police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Gunshot victim walked into Waianae hospital"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ROB SHIKINA / RSHIKINA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police closed Pohaku Street at School Street for an investigation today. \n Police closed Pohaku Street makai of School Street in Kalihi this afternoon while a police bomb squad cleared unexploded ordnance.  \n Police said officers were sent to a case about someone turning in his brother's weapon and ammunition at 12:06 p.m. \n Responding officers were shown a cache of grenades and pipe bombs in the unit and began clearing the six-story building at 1555 Pohaku St., said a man who was in the unit. \n Sean, who declined to give his last name, said he was helping his parents clean out his late uncle's fourth floor studio after the uncle died recently at the age of 80. The family found a gun and ammunition in the condo and called police. \n Sean said after calling police his family found three grenades and what appeared to be a pipe bomb in the closet. He said his uncle was former military. \n Resident Jason Souza said he overheard the deceased man's brother tell police they found 16 pipe bombs. \n A police lieutenant only said \"items\" were found. \n Hundreds were displaced in the evacuation of the building before 1 p.m. A resident manager said about 300 live in the building with about 160 units. Police sealed off access to the long cul-de-sac. Residents in surrounding structures who were not evacuated were told to shelter in place. Some residents across the street were evacuated while residents in surrounding structures were allowed to stay. \n Residents were allowed to return in the evening. \n Police requested city buses to transport displaced residents from the scene to Lanakila gym, where the Red Cross had set up a shelter. Dozens of elderly and other residents took the bus to the park. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Cache of grenades, pipe bombs prompts evacuation in Kalihi"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "GEORGE F. LEE / 2015 \n Hours before it was to take effect, President Donald Trump's revised travel ban was put on hold Wednesday, March 15, 2017, by Judge Derrick Watson, a federal judge in Hawaii who questioned whether the administration was motivated by national security concerns. \n A federal judge today rejected the U.S. government's request to clarify his temporary order blocking President Donald Trump's revised travel ban. \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson said nothing was unclear about his order and the government can't ask for a distinction that officials failed to make in earlier briefs and arguments, according to online court records. \n Watson issued the temporary restraining order Wednesday in response to a lawsuit from the state of Hawaii, concluding there was \"significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus\" behind the travel ban. \n Two days later, the Justice Department asked Watson to clarify that the order only applied to the ban on travel from six mostly Muslim countries and not a global freeze on refugees entering the United States. \n Watson asked federal officials and Hawaii on Sunday how they want to proceed regarding a possible extension of his order. \n Trump has called the Hawaii ruling an example of \"unprecedented judicial overreach\" and has indicated it will be appealed. \n Similar cases are being heard in federal courts in Washington state and Maryland. In all, more than half a dozen states are trying to block the travel ban. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge rejects U.S. request to clarify order halting travel ban"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke rises from a wildfire Sunday, March 19, 2017, in Boulder, Colo. Authorities said the small wildfire burning in the mountains forced people from their homes and is filling the sky with smoke. \n BOULDER, Colo. >> Firefighters made progress today in battling a small wildfire that forced people to flee hundreds of homes in the mountains just outside downtown Boulder and authorities said they believe the blaze may have been human-caused. \n Light winds pushed the flames in the wooded area a couple of miles west of Pearl Street, the shopping and dining hub in the heart of the university city. Crews contained roughly half of the fire that had burned just over 60 acres, but officials worried that stronger gusts that could fan the flames might develop overnight. \n The Boulder Office of Emergency Management said 426 homes were evacuated before dawn and residents of an additional 836 were warned to get ready to leave if conditions worsened. The evacuation orders will remain in place overnight, said Boulder County Sheriff's Cmdr. Mike Wagner. \n There were no reports of injuries or damage to homes, emergency officials said. Several aircraft were dropping water and retardant on the flames, and a community center opened as an evacuation shelter. \n The fire started in the Sunshine Canyon area, which is dotted with a mixture of expensive homes and rustic mountain residences. \n Boulder County Sheriff's Cmdr. Mike Wagner said the area is used by hikers and by transients for camping, leading authorities to believe the blaze was human-caused. Wagner said officials ruled out any lightning strikes or downed power lines. \n Wagner said fire crews will monitor the blaze overnight and focus on full containment and mop-up on Monday. \n Seth Frankel, who was warned that he and his family may need to evacuate, said he had packed up \"generations of things\" that can't be replaced and was ready to go if the air quality got worse. \n He said smoke was pouring toward neighborhoods and many dead trees were combusting and sending black smoke into the air less than a half-mile from his home. But he and his wife, a Boulder native, and three daughters have dealt with fires and floods before. \n \"It's always alarming and always on your mind, but it's not an uncommon sensation around here,\" said Frankel, who has lived in Boulder for 20 years. \n In 2010, a wildfire destroyed nearly 200 houses in the mountainous area west of the city, home to the University of Colorado, Boulder. \n Frankel got word of the fire early today from a neighbor who received a warning call, and he was outside with neighbors watching the flames and smoke. But he let his daughters, 9, 11 and 13, sleep in. \n \"It's still alarming, but there's no panic,\" Frankel said. \"We will be long since gone when parents are no longer smiling.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fire near downtown Boulder, Colorado, forces evacuations"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Washington state ferry sails on Elliott Bay, which is part of Puget Sound, near West Seattle. \n SEATTLE >> State officials, environmental advocates and others are warning of dire environmental and economic consequences if President Donald Trump's cuts to Puget Sound and other environmental programs go through as proposed. \n The Environmental Protection Agency's funding for Puget Sound \u2014 about $28 million last year \u2014 would be gutted under Trump's budget blueprint released Thursday. \n The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 50-year-old Sea Grant program, which focuses on creating a healthy coastal environment and economy, would also be axed, including about a $4 million hit to the program in Washington state. \n U.S. Rep. Derek Kilmer, a Washington state Democrat, called the cuts \"completely irresponsible\" and vowed to fight the president's proposal. \n \"It sets a bad starting point for the discussion,\" Kilmer, who is on the House Appropriations Committee, said in an interview Friday. \"These are iconic bodies of water that have an important role, not just environmentally but from an economic standpoint as well.\" \n Statewide tourism and recreational dollars are tied to Puget Sound and clean water supports shellfish and fishing industries that pumps up the economy, Kilmer said. \n EPA money has helped cities, counties, state agencies, local nonprofit and tribes on cleanup efforts in Puget Sound. The money has been used to restore salmon habitat, help open shellfish beds to harvest, manage stormwater runoff, replace culverts that block salmon passage and prevent flooding while restoring wetlands. \n Trump's spending plan says it \"returns the responsibility for funding local environmental efforts and programs to state and local entities, allowing EPA to focus on its highest national priorities.\" \n The plan also targets the Great Lakes and Chesapeake Bay. While the plan doesn't identify them, a proposal by the Office of Management and Budget this month called for cutting all or most funding for San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound and the Gulf of Mexico. The EPA in D.C. did not immediately respond to an email. \n \"We're just at the point where we're seeing things turn a corner,\" said Sheida Sahandy, executive director of the Puget Sound Partnership, the state agency set up in 2007 to oversee restoration of one of the nation's largest estuaries. \n \"It's a huge hit,\" she said, adding that cuts could mean less monitoring of pollutants that get into shellfish beds or backsliding on efforts to restore endangered salmon runs. She and others say federal cuts will put pressure on already strained state budgets. \n Todd Myers with the Washington Policy Center said Puget Sound recovery should be a local priority and local funding will mean more local control. \n He said it's disingenuous for local leaders to protest proposed cuts for Puget Sound when they have not prioritized spending for salmon recovery and Puget Sound. \n \"It's ironic to criticize people in Washington D.C. for not treasuring what is in our own backyard when we won't prioritize what's in our own backyard,\" Myers added. \n Trump's plan also eliminates funding for the nation's Sea Grant program. NOAA money makes up about $4 million, or about two-thirds, of the funding for Washington Sea Grant. \n The 50-year-old partnership between the University of Washington and NOAA has trained commercial fishermen in safety and marine technologies, funded research into technologies to monitor and measure algae that cause harmful blooms, supported a citizen science project tracking invasive European green crabs and helped communities prepare for coastal hazards such as tsunamis and sea-level rise. \n Penny Dalton, the group's executive director, said Washington Sea Grant provides about $9 million in economic benefits each year. \"It seems like it's a pretty good deal,\" she said. \n Brian Cladoosby, chairman of the Swinomish Indian Community, said Puget Sound has been under assault for the past century from pollution and other problems and that this budget proposal takes \"10 steps back.\" \n Cladoosby, who also is president of the National Congress of American Indians, said he and others have worked closely with lawmake to make sure that the proposal doesn't end up being passed. \n \"This is the president's blueprint,\" Cladoosby said. \"Lord willing, our friends in the House and the Senate will not see it the same way as the president does.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Environmentalists warn about Trump Puget Sound budget"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Roxbury Fire Department and OEM respond Sunday, March 19, 2017, on Mills Pond in Roxbury, N.J., to rescue a deer, which became stuck in a partially frozen pond. \n ROXBURY, N.J. >> Crews have rescued a deer that was stuck in a frozen pond in New Jersey for nearly a day. \n The deer was pulled from the water in Roxbury shortly after 10 a.m. Sunday. But the animal initially struggled to walk on its own and it wasn't immediately known if it had suffered any injuries. \n The rescue came shortly after an amphibious land boat that crews were using to get near the deer started taking on water, forcing the rescuers into the pond's cold waters. But officials say none of them were injured. \n The deer had gotten stuck about 60 yards off shore on Saturday morning. Crews then worked for most of the day to free the animal, but eventually had to suspend their efforts around dusk. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rescue crews free deer stuck in pond for nearly a day"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Soldiers patrol at Orly airport, south of Paris, Saturday, March, 18, 2017. Soldiers at Paris' busy Orly Aiport shot and killed a man who wrestled one of their colleagues to the ground and tried to steal her rifle Saturday, officials said. \n PARIS >> French officials completed an autopsy Sunday to determine whether a suspected Islamic extremist was drunk or high on drugs when he took a soldier hostage at Paris' Orly Airport and was shot dead by her fellow patrolmen. \n The suspect, Ziyed Ben Belgacem, stopped at a bar in the wee hours Saturday morning, around four hours before he first fired bird shot at traffic police. Then, 90 minutes later, he attacked the military patrol at Orly, causing panic and the shutdown of the French capital's second-biggest airport. \n A subsequent police search of his flat found cocaine, Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. Blood samples taken during Sunday's autopsy were to be screened for drugs and alcohol, the prosecutors' office said. \n In an interview Sunday with French radio Europe 1, a man identified as the suspect's father said Belgacem wasn't a practicing Muslim and drank alcohol. \n \"My son was never a terrorist. He never attended prayer. He drank. But under the effects of alcohol and cannabis, this is where one ends up,\" said the father. Europe 1 did not give his name. \n The Paris prosecutor's office, which is in charge of the probe, said Sunday that Belgacem's father was released from police custody overnight. His brother and a cousin also were released later Sunday. \n In a news conference late Saturday, Molins said Belgacem called his father and brother early that morning, minutes after he fired bird shot at a police traffic patrol, injuring an officer in the face, to say that he'd made a stupid mistake. \n \"He called me at seven, eight in the morning and said, 'there you go, Papa.' He was extremely angry, even his mother couldn't understand him,\" the man identified as the father said on Europe 1. \"He told me, 'I ask for your forgiveness. I've screwed up with a gendarme.'\" \n The 39-year-old Frenchman had a long criminal record, with multiple jail terms for drugs and robbery offences. \n Molins said Belgacem was out on bail, banned from leaving France and obliged to report regularly to police, having been handed preliminary charges for robberies in 2016. \n He was also flagged as having been radicalized during a spell in detention from 2011-2012, Molins said. His house was among scores searched in November 2015 in the immediate aftermath of suicide bomb-and-gun attacks that killed 130 people in Paris. \n Yelling that he wanted to kill and die for Allah, Belgacem wrested away the soldier's assault rifle during the Saturday morning airport attack but was shot and killed by her two colleagues before he could fire the military-grade weapon in Orly's busy South Terminal. \n \"With a pistol in his right hand and a bag over his shoulder, he grabbed (the soldier) with his left arm, made her move backward by three to four meters (yards), positioning her as a shield, and pointed his revolver at her forehead,\" Molins said. \n According to soldiers, the attacker yelled: \"Put down your weapons! Put your hands on your head! I am here to die for Allah. Whatever happens, there will be deaths,\" Molins added. \n The attack forced both of the airport's terminals to shut down and evacuate, sent passengers and workers fleeing in panic and trapped hundreds of others aboard flights that had just landed. It was the violent climax of what authorities described as a 90-minute spree of destructive criminality across Paris by the suspect. \n The fearsome drama \u2014 which caused no injuries aside to the lightly-wounded traffic police officer \u2014 further rattled France, which remains under a state of emergency after attacks in the past two years that have killed 235 people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Autopsy to learn if Paris airport attacker was drunk or high"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Socialist candidate for the presidential election Benoit Hamon, center, arrives for a meeting in Paris, Sunday, March 19, 2017. \n PARIS >> The Socialist candidate for the French presidency and his far-left rival have a big obstacle blocking their route to the presidential Elysee Palace: each other. \n Benoit Hamon and Jean-Luc Melenchon proved this weekend they both can pull impressive crowds. Hamon, the Socialist, packed an indoor sports and concert arena in Paris with at least 20,000 people on Sunday. Melenchon rallied tens of thousands of people in Paris on Saturday. \n But as long as both continue to hunt on shared ground for votes, and neither makes way for the other, their efforts to breathe new life into their campaigns look doomed. \n \"I have come to tell you that the left can win!\" Hamon told his supporters. \n They frequently interrupted him with chants of \"Benoit, president!\" \n Minutes into the 90-minute speech that called for an open, tolerant and European France, Hamon quieted the crowd by calling for one minute of silence to remember victims of attacks in France. Sunday marked the fifth anniversary of a shooting at a Jewish school in southwest France by an Islamic extremist who killed a rabbi and his two young sons and an 8-year-old girl. \n Theoretically, if their expected votes could somehow be added together, then either Hamon or Melenchon might have a shot of making the May runoff of the two-round presidential vote. \n But with both standing and splitting votes on the left between them, polls suggest they are effectively fighting between themselves for fourth and fifth place among the 11 candidates \u2014 unless they can add momentum and galvanize more support before the first-round vote on April 23. \n Hamon has struggled to carve out space for himself in a campaign largely overshadowed by the legal problems of conservative candidate Francois Fillon. He also has failed to unite the Socialists behind him since he won the party primary in January. \n He has been hurt by notable defections to the camp of Emmanuel Macron. Macron, the former economics minister for Socialist President Francois Hollande, is running a neither left-nor-right independent campaign. \n \"We have faced headwinds, even storms,\" Hamon acknowledged Sunday. \n \"Some quit the ship,\" he added, drawing boos from the crowd. \n Calling himself \"the candidate of the paycheck,\" Hamon defended his proposal to pay all French adults a basic universal income. \n With rainbow flags among those flying above the crowd, he also tore into the extreme right, warning: \"Their ideas kill.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "French Socialist draws crowd, says victory still possible"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hawaii state Rep. Chris Lee, right, and state Sen. Karl Rhoads talk about why they introduced legislation to require presidential candidates to release tax returns in Honolulu. Similar bills were introduced in more than 20 states, and Hawaii and New Jersey recently became the first states in which the bills passed out of legislative chambers. Some legal scholars question the constitutionality of states setting restrictions on presidential candidates, saying that is left to the U.S. Constitution. \n Lawmakers in nearly half the states want to add a requirement for presidential candidates: Show us your tax returns. \n The issue has dogged President Donald Trump, who became the first presidential candidate in modern times to refuse to make his returns public. It flared anew this week after MSNBC said it had obtained two pages of Trump's 2005 federal return, prompting the administration to release the documents preemptively. \n State lawmakers around the country, mostly Democrats, want to ensure transparency in future presidential campaigns so voters can evaluate candidates' sources of income and any possible conflicts of interest. Most of the bills would require presidential contenders to release copies of their returns as a condition for appearing on that state's ballot, although it's unclear whether they could pass constitutional muster. \n The aim is to find out about potential conflicts that candidates might have before they take office, said Hawaii Rep. Chris Lee, a Democrat who introduced one of the Hawaii bills. \n \"With what we've seen so far with this administration, there are clear conflicts with respect to whether or not parts of the president's business empire are directly benefiting from federal contracts to house Secret Service at his own hotels, for example, or pressuring foreign dignitaries or other corporations indirectly to patronize the businesses that the president or his children run,\" Lee said. \"And the real question is, What else don't we know?\" \n Hawaii was the first state to have votes on the bills before the full Legislature. The Democratically controlled House and Senate recently passed separate but largely similar measures, which would prevent the state's delegates to the Electoral College from voting for candidates who withheld their tax forms. \n Lawmakers are likely to send just one of those to Hawaii Gov. David Ige, a Democrat who expressed concerns about whether the proposed changes are constitutional. He said he does not think the state can place limits on the presidential election that are inconsistent with how the election is conducted around the country. \n Some legal experts raised similar flags, saying states do not have the power to create additional qualifications for the office of the president. That's up to the U.S. Constitution. \n The U.S. Supreme Court has held that states and the federal government cannot add to the qualifications of senators and congressional representatives outlined in the Constitution. Some legal experts said that guidance likely would extend to the office of the president. \n \"I think a requirement of revealing one's tax returns would be regarded as an additional qualification,\" said Michael McConnell, a professor at Stanford Law School. \"And then there's the tax law problem, because federal law guarantees the confidentiality of tax returns. And I think that law would pre-empt any state law requiring someone to divulge their returns.\" \n But Richard Hasen, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, said the Constitution has conflicting provisions. \n \"The question is whether a law that would deprive a presidential candidate of ballot access on the basis of a failure to provide a tax return would be creating an unconstitutional additional qualification, or whether it would be permissible within the state's power to set the rules for presidential elections,\" Hasen said. \"Nobody's tried it before.\" \n Trump has refused to make his tax returns public, breaking a decades-long tradition among presidential candidates. He initially promised to do so but then claimed he was under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and said his attorneys had advised against it. Experts and IRS officials said such audits do not prohibit taxpayers from releasing their own returns. \n Trump's full tax returns would contain key information, including his sources of income, how much he earned from his assets and what strategies he used to reduce his tax bill. \n Presidential tax return legislation has been introduced in at least 24 states, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Most were introduced by Democrats, although bills in Kansas and Minnesota were introduced by Republicans. \n New Jersey's Democratic legislature approved a presidential tax return bill on Thursday. Its prospects are uncertain once it lands on the desk of Republican Gov. Chris Christie, a Trump supporter. \n New Jersey Republicans criticized the measure as a stunt. \n \"This is a doozy,\" GOP Assemblyman Jay Webber said. \"This is both transparently political and blatantly unconstitutional.\" \n While bills in Democratic-leaning states such as Maryland and Vermont have had legislative hearings, those introduced in Republican-controlled statehouses such as Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania are stalling. \n \"I suspect that these bills will be very similar to the birth certificate legislation introduced after President Obama's election \u2014 political statement bills that likely aren't constitutionally sound or likely to be signed into law,\" said Daniel Diorio, senior policy specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures. \"If one were to become law, I'm sure it would be challenged immediately.\" \n Associated Press writers Bob Christie in Phoenix; Michael Catalini in Trenton, New Jersey; Jonathan J. Cooper in Sacramento, California; Cory Dawson in Montpelier, Vermont; David Eggert in Lansing, Michigan; Kathleen Foody in Atlanta; Marc Levy in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Kyle Potter in St. Paul, Minnesota; and Brian Witte in Annapolis, Maryland, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Running for president? Some states want tax returns public"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wendy Kline, a hairstylist who voted for Donald Trump poses for a photo in Harrisburg, Pa. Older Americans who buy their own health insurance are among the groups hardest hit under the Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. Kline tried buying a policy on the federal exchange but found she made a little too much money to qualify for a government subsidy. So she was stuck paying the market rate. \n NEW RINGGOLD, Pa. >> Among the groups hardest hit by the Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act is one that swung for Donald Trump during last year's presidential race \u2014 older Americans who have not yet reached Medicare age. \n Many of those who buy their own health insurance stand to pay a lot more for their coverage. That is especially true for the nearly 3.4 million older Americans who have enrolled through the government marketplaces, many of whom receive generous federal subsidies through the health care law enacted under former President Barack Obama. \n Health care experts predict those older adults will end up buying skimpier plans with lower coverage and higher deductibles because that's all they will be able to afford. The Republican plan replaces the subsidies in the Affordable Care Act, which mostly benefit low- and middle-income earners, with a flat tax credit that does not take into account income or local insurance prices. \n On top of that, the GOP plan allows insurers to charge older people five times what they charge younger customers, compared to three times under Obama's health care law. \n The Republican plan is still evolving, and many GOP lawmakers have said they want to see changes that reduce the impact on older consumers before they can support it. \n Based on the current plan, an Associated Press analysis of data from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows older consumers, defined as those age 55 and older, would be disproportionately affected. They could lose thousands of dollars per year in government subsidies for health insurance. \n The AP analysis also found that on average, the counties with the strongest Trump support will see costs for older enrollees rise 50 percent more than the counties that had the least amount of support for Trump. \n \"A lot of people just won't be able to afford to pay it. A lot of people are going to drop out of the market altogether,\" said Kaiser's Cynthia Cox. \n That includes older voters who helped put Trump into office. \n Take Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, an economically struggling former coal-mining center where the New York billionaire won 70 percent of the vote in November. \n About 40 percent of Schuylkill County's Affordable Care Act enrollees are 55 or older, more than 10 points higher than the national average. A 60-year-old making $30,000 annually here will pay roughly $8,750 more per year for coverage under the Republican plan moving through Congress, according to the AP analysis. \n \"When it comes to food or insurance, it's going to be an easy choice,\" said Matt Strauss, a health insurance broker in New Ringgold, some of whose customers voted for Trump. \n Older Americans on both ends of the political spectrum say they are worried about what the future holds. Here are some of their stories: \n Trump supporter and longtime Republican Robert Ruscoe, who runs a Florida liquidating business with his wife, said he is not feeling \"warm and fuzzy\" about the GOP health care plan. \n He went about five years without insurance because it was financially out of reach. When insurance became available through the Affordable Care Act, the couple was able to get a policy for about $350 per month, after a $700 monthly subsidy from the government. \n \"It's nice to be able to go the doctor whenever something comes up. It gives you a peace \u2026 especially when you get close to 60,\" said Ruscoe, 57, of West Palm Beach. \n He said he didn't hesitate to sign up through the Affordable Care Act, a program his party spent years vowing to dismantle. \n \"It doesn't matter who came up with it. It's a good thing to be supporting across party lines,\" he said. \n Worried about losing coverage, Ruscoe considered voting for a Democrat for the first time last November. But he ultimately placed his trust in Trump and the GOP. \n \"Obamacare is eventually going to have to be fiscally sound. Otherwise it's not going to stay,\" Ruscoe said. \"I figured (a replacement) was coming, anyway.\" \n He said he wants Trump to know that having access to insurance matters. \n \"That coverage made a big difference in a lot of people's lives, just like me,\" he said. \n Anna Holloway of Norman, Oklahoma, who takes daily medication for an auto-immune disease, said she is fearful the GOP plan will price her out of the market for health insurance. \n \"I am conscious of just how desperate this is,\" said Holloway, 60, fighting back tears. \"I try not to let myself feel this way, but to live this way with real terror, real fear that the universe is going to fall apart around me.\" \n She takes home about $1,150 per month working four part-time jobs. That's only $250 more than the monthly premium for a health care plan that includes Holloway and her 23-year-old daughter. Without the government subsidy that makes the policy affordable, she would have to drop it. \n The Kaiser analysis estimates a family plan in Norman under the current Republican proposal would cost as much as $20,000 more for someone in Holloway's income and age bracket. \n \"I'd go without health care. I would get sicker, and that would make it more difficult to work. I would eventually have to stop working,\" said Holloway, a registered Democrat who voted for Hillary Clinton. \n Holloway said she has contemplated the possibility of selling her home and moving in with a family member in Virginia. She acknowledges sometimes feeling hopeless when she considers how losing her health care would affect her life. \n \"I'm not suicidal, but there are times that I think of the damage that could be done to my daughter and her future if I have to eat up all my reserves and my house and all that I own,\" she said. \n The Affordable Care Act didn't work for Wendy Kline, a hairstylist in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, who voted for Donald Trump. \n Kline tried buying a policy on the federal exchange but found she made a little too much money to qualify for a government subsidy. So she was stuck paying the market rate. \n Her policy jumped this year from $630 to $929 a month. As a result, the 61-year-old isn't able to save much for retirement. \n \"I try to put as much away as I can, but my health insurance is $30 less than my mortgage payment,\" said Kline, who works two jobs. \n The GOP plan is a mixed bag for people like Kline. It gives some higher-income consumers the ability to get tax credits for coverage purchased off the exchange, but it also gives insurers the right to charge older customers like her more than they can under the current law. \n Kline voted for Trump hoping he would be able to work with Congress \"to make it affordable for everyone, across the board.\" \n She said she still has hope, but is increasingly skeptical. \n \"I'm so tired of the whole thing,\" she said. \"When they talk, I turn the television down because it just drives me crazy.\" \n Retired factory worker Bob Melton, 63, said the projected cost increases for older Americans mean he and his wife Tammy, 58, would be unable to continue to afford coverage. They now pay $225 a month after the subsidies they receive through the Affordable Care Act. \n He was staggered by a projection that the couple's premiums could go up by nearly $17,000 under the GOP plan. \n \"It'll put me and my wife out \u2014 out of insurance. There's just no way,\" he said. \n Melton saw a doctor for the first time in 12 years after he and his wife bought a policy through the federal health insurance exchange in 2014. After three appointments and blood tests ruled out more serious ailments, Melton said he learned the nagging pain he suffered in his hands was caused by arthritis. \n The Meltons live in Morganton, North Carolina, about 75 miles northwest of Charlotte, in a county that has seen an exodus of manufacturing jobs. Trump won more than two-thirds of the vote here. \n Bob Melton himself used to be a staunch Republican. Now he blames Republicans in North Carolina for what he views as efforts to obstruct the Affordable Care Act from working as intended, by refusing to expand Medicaid coverage. \n \"There's no justification for it except for spite. That's just the way I feel about it,\" said Melton, who voted for Clinton. \n Although he's grateful for his federally subsidized plan, Melton's experience highlights the diminishing options that have plagued those trying to buy health insurance on the government exchanges established under the Obama reforms. \n Last year, Melton's coverage cost only about $37 after subsidies through Coventry Health Care, a division of Aetna Inc., but the company has since dropped exchange offerings in the state. \n His current insurer, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina, is the only choice available, and his monthly premium is up nearly $200. \n Kennedy reported from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and Hoyer from Washington, D.C. Sean Murphy in Oklahoma City, and Emery Dalesio in Raleigh, North Carolina, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For many older Americans, costs rise under GOP health plan"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters wave a European flags and hold a poster reading 'yes' as they attend a rally of the Pulse of Europe movement in Frankfurt, Germany, Sunday \n BERLIN >> Thousands of people have joined rallies across Germany and other European countries to show their support for the idea of a united Europe. \n The weekly protests began last year as an attempt to counter growing nationalist sentiment on the continent, often expressed in opposition to the European Union. \n Protesters in Berlin, Frankfurt, Cologne and dozens of other locations danced, sang and waved the EU flag \u2014 12 stars on a blue background \u2014 during the rallies Sunday. \n The protests are organized on social media by a group calling itself Pulse of Europe. \n The group says it isn't tied to any particular political party. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thousands join pro-Europe rallies across Germany"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Live lobsters are packed and weighed for overseas shipment at the Maine Lobster Outlet in York, Maine. \n ROCKPORT, Maine >> The expanding market for lobsters in China is continuing to grow, with the country setting a new record for the value of its imports of the crustaceans from the United States. \n American lobster was almost unheard of in most of China until 2010, when the value of imports grew 250 percent to about $7.4 million. Last year, China imported more than $108 million in lobsters from America, surpassing the previous high of about $90.2 million in 2014. \n \"We've opened new markets in Asia, which is booming,\" said Dave Cousens, president of the Maine Lobstermen's Association. \"Everything is clicking now.\" \n Chinese importers took in more than 14 million pounds of U.S. lobsters last year, which was also a record. The previous high was about 13.1 million pounds the previous year. \n Interest in American lobster has grown in other countries in Asia as well, such as South Korea, which grew from less than $5 million in 2010 to nearly $28 million last year. Vietnam's imports grew from $142,940 to more than $31 million in that time. \n One of the factors spurring the growth of lobsters in China appears to be the growth of the country's middle class, said Stephanie Nadeau, owner of The Lobster Company, in Arundel, Maine, which is a key player in the export business. American lobsters tend to be less expensive in China than other live seafood, such as spiny lobsters and geoduck clams, she said. \n \"It's kind of an affordable luxury,\" Nadeau said. \"One of my customers said our lobsters are one of the cheapest things in the live tanks.\" \n The uptick came in a record year for lobster catch in Maine, where most of America's lobster catch comes ashore. Fishermen caught more than 130 million pounds of lobster in Maine last year, an all-time record and more than double the 2007 total. Atlantic Canada also has a large lobster fishery and sends the same species of lobster to China. \n \"The Asian market is a key component,\" said Patrick Keliher, the commissioner of the Maine Department of Marine Resources. \n Lobster sales to China do not appear to be slowing down in the new year. America exported more than 1.7 million pounds and $14 million in lobsters to the country in the first month of the year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lobster-crazy China sets record for U.S. crustacean imports"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump meets with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n BERLIN >> Germany has rejected President Donald Trump's claim that the country owes NATO large sums for underspending on defense. \n Trump tweeted Saturday that \"Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO and the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!\" \n His comments came a day after his first meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, which he described as \"great.\" \n Berlin's defense budget has long been below NATO's target of 2 percent of a member's gross domestic product. \n German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen said Sunday that \"there's no debtor's account at NATO,\" adding: \"To tie the 2 percent of defense spending, which we want to achieve in the middle of the next decade, only to NATO, is wrong.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Germany rejects Trump's claim it owes NATO 'vast sums'"}

{"date": "March 19, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FILE - In this April 17, 1986, file photo, Jimmy Breslin of the New York Daily News, speaks to reporters after winning the Pulitzer prize for commentary, in the newsroom of the newspaper in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Author-columnist Jimmy Breslin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning chronicler of wise guys and underdogs who became the brash embodiment of the old-time, street smart New Yorker, died Sunday. He was 88. \n Breslin died at his Manhattan home of complications from pneumonia, his stepdaughter, Emily Eldridge, said. \n Breslin was a fixture for decades in New York journalism, notably with the New York Daily News. It was Breslin, a rumpled bed of a reporter, who mounted a quixotic political campaign for citywide office in the '60s; who became the Son of Sam's regular correspondent in the '70s; who exposed the city's worst corruption scandal in decades in the '80s; who was pulled from a car and stripped to his underwear by Brooklyn rioters in the '90s. With his uncombed mop of hair and sneering Queens accent, Breslin was like a character right out of his own work, and didn't mind telling you. \n \"I'm the best person ever to have a column in this business,\" he once boasted. \"There's never been anybody in my league.\" \n With typical disregard for authority, Breslin once took out a newspaper ad to \"fire\" the ABC television network when it aired his short-lived TV show in a lousy time slot. That same year, he captured the 1986 Pulitzer for commentary and the George Polk Award for metropolitan reporting. More than 20 years earlier, with Gay Talese and Tom Wolfe, Breslin had helped create \"New Journalism\" \u2014 a more literary approach to news reporting. \n He was an acclaimed author, too, moving easily between genres. \"The Gang that Couldn't Shoot Straight\" was his comic chronicle of the Brooklyn mob, \"Damon Runyon: A Life\" was an account of his spiritual predecessor, \"I Want to Thank My Brain for Remembering Me\" was a memoir. \n Breslin was to Queens Boulevard what Runyon was to Broadway \u2014 columnist, confessor and town crier, from the Pastrami King to Red McGuire's saloon. He reveled in the borough, even as he moved far beyond it. \n \"Breslin is an intellectual disguised as a barroom primitive,\" wrote Jack Newfield and Wayne Barrett in their book \"City for Sale.\" \n The eccentric, entertaining Breslin acknowledged he was prone to fits of pique and a bad temper. After spewing ethnic slurs at a Korean-American co-worker in 1990, Breslin apologized by writing, \"I am no good and once again I can prove it.\" \n But the Pulitzer committee, in citing Breslin's commentary, noted that his columns \"consistently championed ordinary citizens.\" The winning pieces exposed police torture in a Queens precinct, and took a sympathetic look at the life of an AIDS patient. \n A few days after the 2001 World Trade Center attacks, he wrote of the dwindling hopes for the families. \n \"The streets have been covered with pictures and posters of missing people,\" he wrote. \"The messages on the posters begging for help. Their wife could be in a coma in a hospital. The husband could be wandering the street. Please look. My sister could have stumbled out of the wreckage and taken to a hospital that doesn't know her. Help. Call if you see her. But now it is the ninth day and the beautiful sad hope of the families seems more like denial.\" \n In other columns, Breslin presented an array of recurring characters \u2014 Klein the Lawyer, Shelly the Bail Bondsman, Un Occhio the mob boss. They seemed to blur the line between fact and fiction, until the first pair became key figures in Breslin's 1986 exclusive on the multimillion-dollar Parking Violations Bureau scandal. \n \"Of course I would betray a friend for the biggest story of the year,\" he said after doing just that on the last manual typewriter in the News' old 42nd Street newsroom. \n After such successes, he held court in Costello's bar in midtown Manhattan \u2014 at least until he quit drinking in his post-Pulitzer years. \n \"Whiskey betrays you when you need it most,\" he said in a 1989 interview. \"You think it will fortify you. But it weakens you.\" \n Breslin was born in Queens, the son of James Breslin Sr. and his wife Frances. The hard-drinking elder Breslin abandoned the family when Jimmy was 6; he died broken and broke in a Miami nursing home. \n Breslin's mother supported the family by working for 30 years as a welfare system administrator. \n Breslin demonstrated few early skills as a wordsmith; he once said that he graduated high school \"in the requisite five years\" before a brief, undistinguished stay at Long Island University. \n The college dropout-to-be was already working at the Long Island Press when he enrolled at LIU in 1948. Breslin was a sportswriter, bouncing between papers until landing at the New York Herald Tribune. \n He became a news columnist in 1963, and quickly found a story when none seemed left to tell. As reporters worldwide arrived to cover President Kennedy's funeral, Breslin alone sought out the presidential grave-digger, Clifton Pollard, and began his report with Pollard having a breakfast of bacon and eggs at his apartment on the Sunday following JFK's assassination. \n \"Pollard was in the middle of eating them when he received the phone call he had been expecting. It was from Mazo Kawalchik, who is the foreman of the gravediggers at Arlington National Cemetery, which is where Pollard works for a living,\" Breslin wrote. \n \"'Polly, could you please be here by eleven o'clock this morning?' Kawalchik asked. 'I guess you know what it's for.' Pollard did. He hung up the phone, finished breakfast, and left his apartment so he could spend Sunday digging a grave for John Fitzgerald Kennedy.\" \n Breslin later covered Robert Kennedy's assassination, in 1968, from a much closer angle; Breslin was standing 5 feet away when Sirhan Sirhan struck at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles. \n In 1969, Breslin joined author Norman Mailer on a twisted political ticket: Mailer for mayor, Breslin for city council president. After their predictable loss, Breslin observed, \"I'm mortified to have taken part in a process that has closed the bar for the better part of the day.\" \n By then, the failed politician was a successful author. His second book, \"Can't Anybody Here Play This Game?\", was praised for its tales of the sad-sack New York Mets. \"The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight\" was made into a 1971 movie. \n Breslin dabbled in television and magazine writing, but returned to the newspaper business in 1976 as a Daily News columnist and became part of one of the city's most horrifying stories; the \"Son of Sam\" killings in 1977. David \"Son of Sam\" Berkowitz sent Breslin several letters and impressed the columnist enough for him to observe: \"He's the only killer I ever knew who knew how to use a semicolon.\" \n Breslin jumped to New York Newsday in 1988, signing a contract for more than $500,000 a year. During the Crown Heights riots in 1991, the then-61-year-old columnist commandeered a cab and ordered the driver to head directly into the action. \n About 50 rioters instead yanked Breslin from the taxi, robbed and beat him. Breslin was left with only his underwear and his press card. \n Three years later, he underwent successful surgery for a brain aneurysm \u2014 an episode that led to his memoir. \n While Breslin had crowds of admirers, he created an equal number of enemies. One of his most enduring feuds was with ex-Mayor Edward I. Koch, who once promised to \"give the eulogy at Jimmy Breslin's funeral,\" a vow undone when Koch died in early 2013. Breslin also made his own ill-fated prediction. In his last regular column for Newsday, on Election Day of 2004, he rejoiced in the expected win of Democrat John Kerry for president; Republican George W. Bush was instead re-elected. \n Breslin had two daughters and four sons with his first wife, Rosemary, who died of cancer in 1981. He later married Ronnie Eldridge, a former New York City councilwoman. \n His elder daughter, Rosemary Breslin, died in 2004 at age 47 from a rare blood disease. His other daughter, Kelly Breslin, collapsed at a New York restaurant in April 2009 and died a few days later. She was 44. Eldridge said an arrhythmia episode was considered a likely cause. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jimmy Breslin, chronicler of wise guys and underdogs, dies"}

