{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image taken from video, people stand at the scene after the roof of The Reigners Bible Church International collapsed onto worshippers in Uyo, southern Nigeria today, killing dozens. \n WARRI, Nigeria \u00bb Mortuaries overflowed with bodies today from a church collapse in southern Nigeria that killed at least 160 people, and worshippers said construction of the building had been rushed. \n Hundreds had been inside the Reigners Bible Church International in the city of Uyo on Saturday for the consecration of founder Akan Weeks as its bishop when the metal girders fell and the corrugated iron roof caved in. \n Screaming survivors streamed out amid cries from the injured inside. \n \"There were trapped bodies, parts of bodies, blood all over the place and people's handbags and shoes scattered,\" said computer analyst Ukeme Eyibio. \n Officials feared the death toll could rise. \n Weeks and Akwa Ibom state Gov. Udom Emmanuel were among the survivors. \n Eyibio had parked his car outside the complex to make a phone call when he heard a deafening crash and saw that the church had disappeared. \n He and three others dragged 10 injured people from an overflow area for worshippers just outside the collapsed church. They did not enter the main structure because a construction worker warned it was not safe. \n The worker called his boss at Julius Berger construction company, which sent a crane to help lift debris off bodies. \n While they waited for the crane, Eyibio helped a man whose legs were trapped under a girder. \n \"I rushed to my car, got out the tire jack and used that to get the beam off his legs,\" the 27-year-old said by telephone. \n \"We managed to get him out, but we saw others dying all around us,\" he added. \"I'm so traumatized I could not sleep last night for the horrors repeating themselves in my mind.\" \n Mortuaries in Uyo were overwhelmed by the disaster, medical director Etete Peters of the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital told The Associated Press. \n Many of the dead were taken to private mortuaries scattered across the city, said youth leader Edikan Peters. Some people were taking the bodies of relatives to their homes because of the overcrowding. \n Peters said he counted 90 bodies removed from the church before he was stold to stop his tally Saturday night. Journalists also said that church officials sought to prevent them from documenting the tragedy, trying to seize cameras and forcing some to leave the area. \n The church had been still under construction and workers had been rushing to finish it in time for Saturday's ceremony, congregants said. The governor's spokesman, Ekerete Udoh, said the state government will investigate if any building standards were compromised. \n Buildings collapse often in Nigeria because of endemic corruption, with contractors using substandard materials and bribing inspectors to ignore shoddy work or a lack of permits. \n In 2014, 116 people died when a multistory guesthouse of the Synagogue Church of All Nations collapsed in Lagos, Nigeria's largest city. Most victims were visiting South African followers of the megachurch's influential founder T.B. Joshua. \n Two structural engineers, Joshua and church trustees were accused of criminal negligence and involuntary manslaughter after a coroner found the building collapsed from structural failures caused by design and detailing errors. Efforts to bring them to court have been foiled by repeated legal challenges. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "At least 160 dead after Nigerian church collapses"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "COURTESY MAUNA KEA WEATHER CENTER \n Snow blanketed Mauna Kea Saturday, when an earlier winter storm warning was in effect. \n Update 10 a.m. \n Weather officials canceled the winter weather advisory for Hawaii island summits after radar and satellite imagery showed earlier freezing precipitation has ended. \n The wind advisory remains in effect. \n Update 6:30 a.m. \n An earlier winter storm warning has been canceled, but a winter weather and wind advisories is in effect for the higher summits of Hawaii island this morning. \n The potential for freezing drizzle and fog prompted forecasters at the National Weather Service to issue the winter weather advisory early this morning for Big Isle summits over 12,000 feet. \n Winds of 25 to 45 mph with gusts up to 70 mph on summits above 8,000 feet prompted the wind advisory, which is in effect through 6 p.m. \n Temperatures are expected to hover between the upper 20s to lower 30s, rising to the mid-30s around noon. \n Weather officials warn of hazardous driving with up to a quarter-inch of ice on affected roads and visibility of less than a quarter-mile at times. \n Previous coverage \n The slopes of Hawaii island were under a winter storm warning today as several inches of snow were expected to fall this evening. \n The warning is in effect until 6 a.m. Sunday for Big Island summits above 12,000 feet and above 8,000 feet on Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, the National Weather Service said. \n An upper-level disturbance was bringing moderate to heavy snow as it moved over the eastern part of the state. \n Cameras on Mauna Kea showed snow covering the ground and poor visibility this afternoon. \n Heavy, blowing and drifting snow and gusts of up to 45 mph were forecast for the area. Visibility was expected to be poor \u2014 at times falling below a quarter-mile. \n Two to four inches of new snow was expected to fall this evening, with light snow possible after midnight, the Weather Service said. \n Travel may be hazardous or impossible in the area, and summit visits should be postponed until conditions improve, the Weather Service said. Driving or hiking in the area can be very dangerous, and anyone camping in the area should consider moving to lower elevation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Winter weather advisory canceled, wind advisory remains in effect for Big Isle summits"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue and medics carried a wounded person after attacks in Istanbul today. \n ISTANBUL >> Two bombs exploded outside a major soccer stadium in Istanbul after fans had gone home tonight, killing 15 people and wounding dozens, a Turkish official said, citing health ministry figures. One of the blasts was thought to be a suicide bomber. \n Police cordoned off the area as smoke rose from behind the newly built Vodafone Arena Stadium, known colloquially as Besiktas Stadium after the local team. Witnesses also heard gunfire after the explosions. The second blast was thought to be a car bomb. \n \"We have once again witnessed tonight in Istanbul the ugly face of terror which tramples on every value and decency,\" Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a statement. \n The official who gave the toll of 15 dead and dozens wounded spoke on condition anonymity because he was not authorized to talk publicly on the issue. He cited health ministry figures. \n The first and larger explosion took place about 10:30 p.m. after the home team Besiktas beat visitor Bursaspor 2-1 in the Turkish Super League. Erdogan said the timing of the attack aimed to maximize the loss of life and vowed the nation would overcome terrorism. \n There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack. This year, Istanbul has witnessed bombings attributed by authorities to the Islamic State group or claimed by Kurdish militants. A state of emergency is in force following a failed July 15 coup attempt. \n Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu, who gave an initial wounded toll of 20 police officers, rushed from Ankara to Istanbul. \n \"It is thought to be a car bomb at a point where our special forces police were located, right after the match at the exit where Bursaspor fans\" had earlier left, Soylu was quoted as saying by Turkey's state-run Anadolu Agency. \n Speaking later to reporters in Istanbul, he said the first explosion took place on a hill adjacent to and overlooking the stadium. The second explosion struck Macka Park and was believed to be a suicide bomb. \n The private NTV channel reported that the target of the first attack was a bus for riot police and said nearly 70 wounded were taken to hospitals. \n Television images showed more than a dozen ambulances on a street hugging the stadium and a police helicopter flying overhead with its searchlights on. The window glass of nearby buildings was shattered by the blasts and coated the pavement. Investigators, including Istanbul Police Chief Mustafa Caliskan, were quickly on the scene. \n Taxi driver Ismail Coskun said the force of the explosion caused him to hit his head on the taximeter and that his ears were still ringing from the blast and screaming that followed. \n \"Amid the screams I heard an officer saying 'do not shout! Do not make them (the perpetrators) be satisfied,\" he told The AP. \n The Besiktas sports club \"strongly condemned\" the attack in a statement posted on its website while Bursaspor reported that none of the wounded were fans and issued a statement wishing \"a speedy recovery to our wounded citizens.\" \n Aleksander Ceferin, president of European soccer's governing body UEFA, and European Union Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn, also made statements condemning the attack. \n \"Violence has no place in a democratic society,\" Hahn wrote on Twitter. \n The U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul, meanwhile, urged its citizens to avoid the area which is also home to a Ritz Carlton hotel. \n Turkey's radio and television board issued a temporary coverage ban citing national security concerns. It said \"to avoid broadcasts that can result in public fear, panic or chaos, or that will serve the aims of terrorist organizations.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Cinar Kiper in Istanbul and Rob Harris in London contributed reporting. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to say that it was official who cited health ministry officials not interior minister. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Turkish official: 15 killed, dozens wounded in twin bombings"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "Five people were injured \u2014 one critically \u2014 after a truck rear-ended a family in a car Friday night in Mililani Mauka. \n The unrestrained driver of the truck, age 24, had face and head injuries and was taken to a hospital in critical condition, an Emergency Medical Services report said. \n In the car, a 50-year-old man, a 52-year-old woman, and two girls, ages 9 and 13, were wearing seat belts and reported neck, back, or chest pains. They were each taken to a hospital in serious condition, the report said. \n The crash happened about 10 p.m. on Lehiwa Drive near Mililani Middle School. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "5 injured in crash near Mililani Middle School"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "Alcohol appears to be a factor in a Waimanalo crash that left a 26-year-old man in critical condition this morning, police said. \n The crash happened about 2:30 a.m. on Ala Koa Street south of Huli Street. \n The driver was northbound on Ala Koa when he lost control for unknown reasons and hit a parked vehicle, which struck two other parked vehicles, police said. \n He was taken to a hospital in critical condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waimanalo crash leaves man, 26, in critical condition"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "Firefighters airlifted a hiker in distress Friday afternoon in Wailua, according to the Kauai Fire Department. \n Around 2 p.m., a 66-year-old woman from California apparently fell while hiking Uluwehi Falls, or Secret Falls. \n Firefighters hiked the trail and found the woman. They were prepared to hike the woman out of the area, but later asked for assistance from Air 1 because of the hazardous condition of the trail. \n The injured woman was airlifted and transported to Wailua Homesteads Park and paramedics later took her to Wilcox Hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman airlifted from Uluwehi Falls"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The front door of Comet Ping Pong pizza shop, in Washington, Monday, Dec. 5, 2016. A fake news story prompted a man to fire a rifle inside a popular Washington, D.C., pizza place as he attempted to \"self-investigate\" a conspiracy theory that Hillary Clinton was running a child sex ring from there, police said. \n WASHINGTON >> There's at least a slice of good news for a pizza restaurant in the nation's capital caught up in fake news stories about a child sex trafficking ring run by prominent Democrats. \n In the days since a conspiracy theorist showed up and fired an assault weapon inside Comet Ping Pong, supporters of the restaurant have turned out in droves to buy pizzas and leave homemade signs and flowers. \n More than 2,000 people said on Facebook that they're going to this weekend's \"Stand With Comet\" event to support the pizza place and other neighborhood restaurants targeted by fake news fanatics. \n John McKeel walked out of Comet Ping Pong Friday carrying \"The Smoky,\" with mushrooms and bacon; and \"The Jimmy,\" topped with meatballs. But McKeel wasn't just coming for the food. \n \"I had to come today\" to support the restaurant, said McKeel, 39, of Alexandria, Virginia. \n The Facebook page urged people to support not only Comet Ping Pong but other nearby stores that have been subjected to harassing and threatening online comments and phone calls since the fake news stories began spreading. \n \"If they run out of dough today, that'd be a good thing,\" said Erick Sanchez, the event's organizer. \n So many came out Friday that people waited an hour and a half for a table and carry-out took 45 minutes. Other local restaurants spontaneously sent over wait staff to help. Others sent food for employees. \n The restaurant also is getting support online, where a GoFundMe page set up to help it pay for legal expenses and extra security had passed $15,000, with a goal of $28,000. \n Interim District of Columbia Police Chief Peter Newsham visited Friday, with a message for fake news peddlers. \n \"It's not funny. It's serious. It can have very, very serious consequences,\" he said, adding that police are following up on the harassment and threats local businesses have received. \n The man police arrested Sunday at Comet Ping Pong, Edgar Maddison Welch, has a court hearing next week. Police have said the 28-year-old from Salisbury, N.C., fired shots from an AR-15 assault weapon after coming to \"self-investigate\" the conspiracy theory known as \"pizzagate.\" \n He surrendered peacefully \"when he found no evidence that underage children were being harbored in the restaurant,\" police said. \n Joey Allen, the marketing and events manager for the District Restaurant Group, which owns the nearby Jake's American Grille, says its restaurant also was harassed with calls related to the conspiracy. At one point the calls were daily, Allen said. \n At Comet Ping Pong, the staff seemed to be in a good mood Friday, said Carrie Gillispie, 34, visiting with her husband. She wasn't bothered by the lines for tables. \n \"It makes me happy that the wait is so long,\" she said. \n Her husband, Sean Gillispie, 34, said anyone who still thinks the restaurant is somehow connected to nefarious activities should come see for themselves that \"this is just a normal business with normal people.\" \n Plus, he said: \"The pizza is really good.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Patrons use dough to back pizza place targeted by fake news"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Green Party candidate Jill Stein holds a press conference at the federal courthouse in Philadelphia after a hearing on the Green Party's request for a statewide recount, Friday, Dec. 9, 2016. A federal judge allowed Wisconsin's presidential recount to move forward Friday as a another federal judge in Pennsylvania planned to take the weekend to decide on a Green Party-backed request to recount paper ballots and examine election computer systems for signs of hacking. \n Long before presidential recounts crossed her mind, trash dumping and mercury contamination pushed Jill Stein into politics. \n Stein, a physician, joined a 1990s movement to shut down or better regulate mercury-polluting incinerators in Massachusetts. She authored papers on child neurological damage and spoke at public gatherings. She testified at hearings as a medical expert. \n Massachusetts eventually enacted strict limits on mercury emissions, and a few incinerators closed. But Stein had begun to see the system as set up to block change, and when the Green Party recruited her to run for governor in 2002, she took the chance. \n \"I was part of a very frustrated public health initiative, and then the Green Party came to me and said, 'Why don't you run for office?'\" Stein said in an October interview with The Associated Press. \"I said, 'Everything else is failing, I might as well try electoral politics.'\" \n She's been trying ever since, running for president in 2012 and again this year, earning roughly 1.5 million votes. She lost the 2002 bid, as well as another run for governor in 2010, state representative in 2004 and Massachusetts secretary of state in 2006. \n Stein is now gaining arguably more attention than she ever did on the campaign trail by pushing for recounts of the presidential contest in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. She has claimed, without concrete evidence, that the voting systems there are vulnerable to tampering and that a recount would reassure voters. \n A judge in Michigan ended the recount this week, ruling Stein lacked standing. A recount is underway in Wisconsin, and a judge is set to rule Monday on whether one can begin in Pennsylvania. Stein said efforts to stop the recounts will only increase voters' distrust in the system. \n Her critics, including President-elect Donald Trump, charge she is running a scam to raise her profile and rake in money for another presidential run. She has raised more than $7 million to help cover the costs of the recounts, double what she raised for her presidential campaign. \n Democrats have painted her as a spoiler stealing their votes. Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton would have won all three states, and the presidency, if all of Stein's votes had gone to her instead. But Stein argues most of her voters would not have supported Clinton. \n Stein denies she's trying to boost her profile. Her website says donors will be surveyed to determine how to spend any leftover recount money. \n \"If I was thinking about me, I'm not sure I would be doing this now,\" Stein told the AP this week. \"Election integrity is a big Green value.\" \n Those who know Stein say she is sincerely passionate about her issues. But few believe being a perennial candidate is the best route, given her lack of electoral success and inability to form an organized campaign. \n \"She certainly would've been, in my mind, more effective staying in the arena of being an advocate for health issues,\" said Joan Kulash, an activist with Stein on the incinerator campaigns. \n When the Green Party recruited Stein for 2002, co-chairman Jonathan Leavitt thought he had found a winner. He believed Stein's medical background and articulation made her perfect to woo voters fed up with the status quo but wary of supporting a third party. \n Massachusetts had just passed a law that allowed candidates to qualify for public funds. But campaigns were required to show 6,000 small contributions in order to qualify, and Stein came up short. Leavitt, serving as a campaign manager, eventually left because he felt too many people were trying to direct the campaign. \n A Boston news poll showed Stein performed strongly in a televised debate against Republican Mitt Romney, Democrat Shannon O'Brien and two other third-party candidates. Ultimately, she captured just 3.5 percent of the vote; Romney won. \n \"If we had stayed focused on the mechanics of the campaign, then we would've had a third-party campaign with a big budget,\" Leavitt said. \"We would've won that campaign with Jill Stein in Massachusetts.\" \n Stein, 66, argues winning isn't the only mark of success. She describes Democrats and Republicans as driving America toward an existential crisis, and sees the Green Party's struggle against powerful interests as a battle designed for her to lose. She argues that the media deliberately locks third-party candidates out of coverage and debates and that the two major parties practice fearmongering to maintain allegiances. \n Her presidential platform centered on erasing student debt, reaching 100 percent clean energy by 2030 and cutting back U.S. involvement in international conflicts. \n Stein received nearly 1 million more votes in 2016 than she did in 2012, which she considers a sign of growing displeasure with the status quo. She said she's not sure whether she'll run again. \n \"This is a David and Goliath struggle,\" Stein told the AP this week. \"David doesn't get Goliath on the first shot.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Recounts bring Stein publicity that eluded her on the trail"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / DECEMBER 2015 \n Fireworks light up the sky as runners advanced during the start of the 2015 Honolulu Marathon. \n Honolulu residents can expect fireworks and traffic detours for Sunday's Honolulu Marathon. \n HONOLULU MARATHON \n The 26.2-mile race starts at 5 a.m. at Ala Moana. The route runs to Kakaako, downtown and continues through Ala Moana, Waikiki, Diamond Head, Kahala and into East Honolulu. Runners turn around in Hawaii Kai and head back to the finish line at Kapiolani Park. \n Marathon officials are advising the public of louder than usual fireworks at Sunday's start. A projected lack of tradewinds won't carry the sound away from land. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Traffic detours, fireworks for Sunday's Honolulu Marathon"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Obama has ordered intelligence officials to conduct a broad review on the election-season hacking that rattled the presidential campaign and raised new concerns about foreign meddling in U.S. elections, a White House official said Friday. White House counterterrorism and Homeland Security adviser Lisa Monaco said Obama ordered officials to report on the hacking of Democratic officials' email accounts and Russia's involvement. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's presidential transition team pushed back Saturday against reports that Russia was caught trying to tip the November election to the Republican and challenged the veracity of U.S. intelligence agencies investigating the campaign-season cyberattacks. \n President Barack Obama's order for a full-scale review of campaign-season cyberattacks to be completed before he leaves office next month met with a chilly reception at Trump Tower, as did published reports saying that the CIA believes Russia acted specifically to harm Hillary Clinton's chances in the election. \n \"I believe there are people within these agencies who are upset with the outcome of the election,\" Sean Spicer, spokesman for the Trump transition, said on CNN. \n Spicer also denied a report in The New York Times that Republican National Committee systems had been breached during the election. He said the RNC has worked with intelligence agencies that have told it \"with certainty that we haven't been hacked.\" Both The Times and The Washington Post reported on a secret CIA assessment that Russia intervened to help Trump win, not just to cause aimless mischief in a U.S. election. \n Spicer questioned why the CIA wasn't making its assessment public as the intelligence community did after the hacking of the Democratic National Committee. \n An earlier statement by the Trump transition team also reflected the deep divisions that emerged between his campaign and intelligence agencies over Russian meddling. \"These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction,\" the statement said. \"The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. It's now time to move on and 'Make America Great Again.'\" \n But Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said he would press for a congressional investigation in the new year. \"That any country could be meddling in our elections should shake both political parties to their core,\" he said. \"It's imperative that our intelligence community turns over any relevant information so that Congress can conduct a full investigation.\" \n There was no immediate official response from Moscow. But Oleg Morozov, a member of the foreign relations committee in the upper house of the Russian parliament, dismissed the claim of Russian interference as \"silliness and paranoia,\" according to the RIA Novosti news agency. Morozov described the allegations as an attempt to force the next administration to stick to Obama's anti-Russian course. \n The investigation ordered by Obama will be a \"deep dive\" into a possible pattern of increased \"malicious cyber activity\" timed to the campaign season, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Friday, including the email hacks that rattled the presidential campaign. It will look at the tactics, targets, key actors and the U.S. government's response to the recent email hacks, as well as incidents reported in past elections, he said. \n The president ordered up the report earlier in the week asked that it be completed before he leaves office next month, Schultz said. \n \"The president wanted this done under his watch because he takes it very seriously,\" he said. \"We are committed to ensuring the integrity of our elections.\" \n The Kremlin has rejected the hacking accusations. \n In the months leading up to the election, email accounts of Democratic Party officials and a top Hillary Clinton campaign aide were breached, emails leaked and embarrassing and private emails posted online. Many Democrats believe the hackings benefited Trump's bid. \n Schultz said the president sought the probe as a way of improving U.S. defense against cyberattacks and was not intending to question the legitimacy of Trump's victory. \n \"This is not an effort to challenge the outcome of the election,\" Schultz said. \n Obama's move comes as Democratic lawmakers have been pushing Obama to declassify more information about Russia's role, fearing that Trump, who has promised a warmer relationship with Moscow, may not prioritize the issue. \n Given Trump's statements, \"there is an added urgency to the need for a thorough review before President Obama leaves office next month,\" said Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., senior Democrat on the House intelligence committee. If the administration doesn't respond \"forcefully\" to such actions, \"we can expect to see a lot more of this in the near future,\" he said. \n The White House said it would make portions of the report public and would brief lawmakers and relevant state officials on the findings. \n It emphasized the report would not focus solely on Russian operations or hacks involving Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and Democratic National Committee accounts. Schultz stressed officials would be reviewing incidents going back to the 2008 presidential campaign, when the campaigns of Sen. John McCain and Obama were breached by hackers. \n Intelligence officials have said Obama and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney were targets of Chinese cyberattacks four years later. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's team pushes back against Russia hacking reports"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n General Motors Co. nears terms for initial public offering could happen in mid-November 2010, according to people briefed on the matter, Monday, Nov. 1, 2010. \n General Motors plans to recall nearly 50,000 sport utility vehicles made for police departments and other government agencies because of a hazard in the cooling system. \n The problem affects the 2010 through 2014 models of the Chevrolet Tahoe Police Pursuit SUV. \n A GM notice sent to government regulators warned that the affected vehicles' cooling fan could trigger an electrical short circuit due to corrosion from fluids leaking into the system. The notice says the short circuit could cause a fire, but it didn't disclose if that happened to any of the 49,927 SUVs covered by the recall. \n GM will notify owners of the affected vehicles and fix the problem for free. \n More information from Chevrolet customer service at 800-222-1020. GM's referral number for the recall is 16145. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "General Motors to recall nearly 50,000 police SUVs"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The resolution honors Glenn, who died Thursday at age 95, as the first American to orbit the Earth and for his many military and public service accomplishments. \n COLUMBUS, Ohio >> Ohio's two U.S. senators say the chamber where the late astronaut-hero John Glenn once served has honored him with a resolution. \n Republican Rob Portman and Democrat Sherrod Brown introduced the measure this week and announced its passage Saturday. \n The resolution honors Glenn, who died Thursday at age 95, as the first American to orbit the Earth and for his many military and public service accomplishments. \n It says the nation is \"deeply indebted\" to Glenn \"for his passion for exploration, commitment to public service and desire to make the world a better place.\" \n The Senate will stand adjourned as a mark of respect to Glenn. \n A public viewing at the Ohio Statehouse and a memorial service for Glenn at Ohio State University's Mershon Auditorium are planned for next week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate honors John Glenn for service, desire to better world"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, third left, and France's Foreign Minister Jean Marc Ayrault, fifth left, attend a meeting with others on Syria in Paris, Saturday, Dec. 10, 2016. Kerry, Ayrault and leading diplomats are trying to find solutions for Syria's desperate opposition, as Syrian government forces squeeze rebels out of Aleppo after a devastating blitz. \n BEIRUT >> Hundreds more civilians fled what remained of the Syrian opposition's enclave in Aleppo on Saturday as rebels and government forces exchanged artillery and mortar fire across the northern city. \n In central Syria, reports circulated that a government warplane crashed while flying raids against the Islamic State group near the historic city of Palmyra. \n The group's Aamaq news agency claimed its militants downed the jet near the Jazal oil fields west of the city. \n Syrian government forces backed by the Russian military recaptured Palmyra and its famed ancient Roman ruins from the IS group in March this year. The two militaries have since turned their attention to fighting local opposition forces in Aleppo and Damascus. \n The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said a government jet crashed in the Jazal area. It reported IS militants were attacking government positions 2.5 miles from Palmyra, which the government recaptured from the extremists to great fanfare in March. The activist-run Palmyra Coordination Committee said the jet was a MiG-23. \n The Observatory said Friday that the IS assault near Palmyra has killed at least 49 pro-government forces. \n The Syrian government did not comment on the reports. \n The Observatory reported heavy clashes in Aleppo's southern neighborhoods, but rebels appeared to have held their ground on Saturday after two weeks of advances by government forces and allied militias nearly erased them from the city. \n Syrian state media said nine civilians were killed in retaliatory rebel shelling on government-held areas of the city. The Observatory reported 24 civilians were killed in the past 24 hours. \n Opposition activists accused the government of dropping bombs laden with poisonous chlorine gas on the Kalaseh neighborhood, one of the few still held in the city by the opposition, in the early hours Saturday. \n Wissam Zarqa, an English teacher trapped inside the government's siege, said he could still smell chlorine around midday. \n State television station al-Ikhbaria showed footage of hundreds of people carrying children and belongings crossing on foot to the city's government-held areas, where they were being received by state social workers and security services personnel. \n The U.N.'s humanitarian response agency OCHA reported Saturday that the government was confiscating IDs to vet the people seeking refuge. The agency expressed concerns about the vetting process. The U.N. human rights office has expressed concern about reports that hundreds of men have disappeared after crossing from eastern Aleppo into government-controlled areas. \n State media and other outlets loyal to the Syrian government are pushing to show a return to normalcy for Aleppo, delivering on President Bashar Assad's promise throughout the six-year war to return to the status quo ante. \n Lebanon's Al-Manar TV channel aired interviews with displaced Aleppo residents it said were arriving from around the country to inspect their homes in the city's formerly opposition-held neighborhoods. Interviewees praised the military's advances and sang chants in support of Assad. Al-Manar is run by the militant group Hezbollah, which is fighting alongside government forces in Aleppo. \n But some of those who have already returned to see their homes at the sight of looting and the damage wrought on the city's formerly rebel-held eastern neighborhoods. \n The government's push, preceded by months of air strikes that destroyed schools, hospitals, and first responder centers, has laid waste to the city's eastern neighborhoods, which have been held by the opposition since 2012. \n Russia's Defense Ministry, which is supporting Syrian government operations in Aleppo, said some 50,000 civilians had fled eastern Aleppo over the past two days in a \"constant stream.\" \n Such figures are impossible to verify. The Observatory said \"hundreds\" have fled in recent days but over 80,000 have been displaced over the past two weeks. The U.N. estimates the tally at over 30,000. \n Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the Russian military was providing civilians who have left eastern Aleppo with temporary accommodation, hot meals and medical assistance. \n U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and European and Arab diplomats are meeting members of Syria's opposition in Paris on Saturday. Kerry said he is working to ensure their safety and to save Aleppo \"from being absolutely, completely destroyed.\" \n U.S. and Russian military experts and diplomats are meeting in Geneva on Saturday to work out details of the rebels' exit from eastern Aleppo. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syrians stream out of eastern Aleppo as fighting rages"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald J. Trump greets Betsy DeVos, his choice for education secretary, during his \"USA Thank You Tour\" at the DeltaPlex in Walker, Mich., Friday, Dec. 9, 2016. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump is partaking in one of the nation's most storied football rivalries, saluting U.S. troops at the annual Army-Navy game on Saturday as he prepares to enter the White House. \n The future commander-in-chief planned to attend the 117th game between the military academies at West Point and Annapolis, which is being held on relatively neutral ground, at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland. \n Trump tweeted on Saturday morning that he was going to the game \"as a show of support for our Armed Forces.\" \n The appearance caps a week of rolling out Cabinet picks, holding \"thank you\" rallies in North Carolina, Iowa and Michigan, and trying to cement his incoming Senate majority with Saturday's runoff election in Louisiana. \n The incoming president appeared jovial and relaxed as he plunged back into electoral politics on Friday, a full month after he won the presidency. He held large-scale events in Louisiana and in Michigan, where he regaled supporters in Grand Rapids by reciting his victories in battleground states. \n Trump is the first Republican to win Michigan since George H.W. Bush in 1988. He attributed his feat to failures by Democrats. \n \"They forgot about you people,\" Trump said. \"In four years they're not going to forget. But it's not going to work because you're not going to forget.\" Several protesters were removed from his rally at DeltaPlex Arena, prompting the president-elect to declare at one point, \"Get 'em out of here.\" \n Trump introduced Betsy DeVos, his choice for education secretary who hails from west Michigan, and announced that Andrew Liveris, the chief executive of Dow Chemical, would lead his American Manufacturing Council. Taking the stage, Liveris said the company would soon bring a new research-and-development center to Michigan. \n In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Trump campaigned for Republican John Kennedy, the state treasurer who faces off Saturday against Public Service Commissioner Foster Campbell, a Democrat, for the seat of retiring Republican Sen. David Vitter. Neither won a majority in the November primary. Polls found Kennedy with a comfortable lead in the runoff. \n While candidate Trump was often at odds with the establishment wing of his party, GOP leaders have broadly supported him as president-elect, and he's trying to consolidate any lingering factions, most immediately in Louisiana, where a Kennedy win would cement the party's four-vote advantage in the new Senate. \n In private, people close to Trump said he was expected to name yet another Goldman Sachs executive to his White House team. The president-elect's National Economic Council is to be led by Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of the Wall Street bank, which Trump repeatedly complained during the election campaign would control Hillary Clinton if she won. \n Major decisions remain \u2014 most importantly Trump's choice for secretary of state. The deliberations have become a source of tension within his transition team, with chief of staff Reince Priebus said to be backing Mitt Romney while other advisers oppose the idea of selecting the 2012 GOP nominee, given his fierce criticism of Trump during the campaign. \n Trump announced that Rudy Giuliani, the former New York mayor who was an early favorite, was no longer under consideration. \n On a busy Friday, Trump also spoke by telephone with Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who broke with protocol during the campaign to endorse Hillary Clinton and said afterward she would not maintain \"a diplomatic silence in the face of attitudes of racism, sexism, misogyny or intolerance of any kind.\" \n Sturgeon's office said she used Friday's call to emphasize the \"values Scotland and the United States share.\" Trump's transition team described the conversation as a \"short congratulatory call.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Preparing for White House, Trump to attend Army-Navy game"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The KKK and other white extremist groups don't like being called \"white supremacists,\" a phrase that dates to the earliest days of white racist movements in the United States. \n PELHAM, N.C. >> White supremacy is a label that's too hot to handle even for groups like the Ku Klux Klan. \n Standing on a muddy dirt road in the dead of night near the North Carolina-Virginia border, masked Ku Klux Klan members claimed Donald Trump's election as president proves whites are taking back America from blacks, immigrants, Jews and other groups they describe as criminals and freeloaders. America was founded by and for whites, they say, and only whites can run a peaceful, productive society. \n But still, the KKK members insisted in an interview with The Associated Press, they're not white supremacists, a label that is gaining traction in the country since Trump won with the public backing of the Klan, neo-Nazis and other white racists. \n \"We're not white supremacists. We believe in our race,\" said a man with a Midwestern accent and glasses just hours before a pro-Trump Klan parade in a nearby town. He, like three Klan compatriots, wore a robe and pointed hood and wouldn't give his full name, in accordance with Klan rules. \n Claiming the Klan isn't white supremacist flies in the face of its very nature. The Klan's official rulebook, the Kloran \u2014 published in 1915 and still followed by many groups \u2014 says the organization \"shall ever be true in the faithful maintenance of White Supremacy,\" even capitalizing the term for emphasis. Watchdog groups also consider the Klan a white supremacist organization, and experts say the groups' denials are probably linked to efforts to make their racism more palatable. \n Still, KKK groups today typically renounce the term. The same goes for extremists including members of the self-proclaimed \"alt-right,\" an extreme branch of conservatism mixing racism, white nationalism and populism. \n \"We are white separatists, just as Yahweh in the Bible told us to be. Separate yourself from other nations. Do not intermix and mongrelize your seed,\" said one of the Klansmen who spoke along the muddy lane. \n The Associated Press interviewed the men, who claimed membership in the Loyal White Knights of the KKK, in a nighttime session set up with help of Chris Barker, a KKK leader who confirmed details of the group's \"Trump victory celebration\" in advance of the event. As many as 30 cars paraded through the town of Roxboro, North Carolina, some bearing Confederate and KKK flags. \n Barker didn't participate, though: He and a Klan leader from California were arrested hours earlier on charges linked to the stabbing of a third KKK member during a fight, sheriff's officials said. Both men were jailed; the injured man was recovering. \n Like the KKK members, Don Black said he doesn't care to be called a white supremacist, either. Black \u2014 who operates stormfront.org, a white extremist favorite website, from his Florida home \u2014 he prefers \"white nationalist.\" \n \"White supremacy is a legitimate term, though not usually applicable as used by the media. I think it's popular as a term of derision because of the implied unfairness, and, like 'racism,' it's got that 'hiss' (and, like 'hate' and 'racism,' frequently 'spewed' in headlines),\" Black said in an email interview. \n The Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League, which monitor white extremist organizations and are tracking an increase in reports of racist incidents since the election, often use the \"white supremacist\" label when describing groups like the Klan; white nationalism and white separatism are parts of the ideology. But what exactly is involved? \n The ADL issued a report last year describing white supremacists as \"ideologically motivated by a series of racist beliefs, including the notion that whites should be dominant over people of other backgrounds, that whites should live by themselves in a whites-only society, and that white people have their own culture and are genetically superior to other cultures.\" \n That sounds a lot like some of the ideas espoused by today's white radicals, yet they reject the label. That's likely because they learned the lessons of one-time Klan leader David Duke, who unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. Senate in Louisiana this year, said Penn State University associate professor Josh Inwood. \n \"(There was) this peddling of kinder, softer white supremacy. He tried to pioneer a more respectable vision of the Klan,\" Inwood said. \n Extremist expert Sophie Bjork-James, a scholar at Vanderbilt University, prefers the term \"racist right\" to describe today's white supremacists. \n \"They are not simply conservative or alt-right, but actually espousing racist ideas and racist goals,\" she said. \"They won't agree with this label, but I think it is important to be clear about what they represent and what their goals are.\" \n Whatever you call them, the muddy-road Klansmen said their beliefs have gained a foothold. The popularity of Trump's proposal to build a wall on the Mexican border \u2014 an idea long espoused by the Klan \u2014 is part of the proof, they said. \n \"White Americans are finally, most of them, opening their eyes and coming around and seeing what is happening,\" said a man in a satiny green Klan robe. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White supremacists? Not exactly, KKK and other groups claim"}

{"date": "December 10, 2016", "text": "HPD \n Suspect Stephen Joshua Whitney \n A Hawaii County police officer fatally shot a 30-year-old attempted murder suspect Friday afternoon in Keaau. \n Police said the officer-involved shooting occurred 4 p.m. Friday on Highway 11. \n Police identified the man as Stephen Joshua Whitney of Hilo, who was being sought by police Friday in the stabbing of a woman during a domestic dispute on Banyan Drive in Hilo. \n Officers were making checks for a stolen pickup truck connected to an attempted murder investigation and found it parked in the Hilo-bound lane of Highway 11 in the Shipman Industrial Park area of Keaau. \n It was facing in the opposite direction of the flow of traffic. \n The Hawaii County fire department said firefighters responded to a man wounded by gunshots on Highway 11. \n They found police doing compressions on a man who was lying on the shoulder of the highway with two gunshot wounds to the torso. \n The Fire Department took over treatment from police and continued cardiopulmonary resuscitation until medics arrived. The man was transported to the Hilo Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. \n Police said the officers approached and the driver failed to obey the officer's orders. \n \"The suspect drove forward, gunning his engine heading toward another officer,\" police said in a news release. \n Police had been searching the island for Whitney Friday after he allegedly stabbed a 41-year-old woman sometime before 8:21 a.m. at a Banyan Drive apartment complex in the 100 block of that street. \n Police said the woman had severe cuts, and was initially in critical condition when she was taken to Hilo Medical Center, but improved to serious but stable condition. \n Police then responded at 9:02 a.m. to a call from road surveyors who saw a man exit a Honda, get into their gray Nissan Frontier pickup truck with a camper top and drive off. \n The officer who fired the gun has three years of experience with police, and will be placed on administrative leave, as is standard practice. The Office of Professional Standards is conducting an administrative investigation into the shooting by police, and the Criminal Investigation Section will conduct a criminal investigation. \n Anyone with information is asked to call Detective Wendall Carter at 961-2383 or email wendall.carter@hawaiicounty.gov \n Anonymous tips may be made to CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police shoot suspect in Keaau"}

