{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "A 35-year-old Hanama'ulu man was medevaced to Queen's Medical Center after he was stuck by a car tonight. \n Kauai police said the man was walking in the westbound lane of Hehi Road when he was struck by a Nissan sedan at about 6:08 p.m. tonight. The car was being driven by a 27-year-old Hanama'ulu woman. \n The man sustained head injuries and was medevaced to Queen's Medical Center. His condition was not immediately known. \n The driver and her passenger were not injured. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai man medevaced to Oahu after he is struck by car"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The U.S. surgeon general is urging Puerto Rico to step up its public education campaign against Zika as he warned that 25 percent of the island will be infected with the mosquito-borne virus by year's end. \n The declaration allows the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to award grants, access emergency funds and temporarily appoint personnel where needed, among other things. \n \"This administration is committed to meeting the Zika outbreak in Puerto Rico with the necessary urgency,\" Secretary Sylvia Burwell said in a department statement. Burwell traveled to the U.S. territory in late April to evaluate its response to the outbreak. \n A department spokesman did not immediately return a message seeking comment on what immediate steps the agency may take. \n The announcement came hours after Puerto Rico reported 1,914 new cases in the past week, for a total of 10,690 since the first one was reported in December. \n The mosquito-borne virus has infected 1,035 pregnant women, which is a concern to authorities because Zika has been tied to a severe birth defect known as microcephaly. More than 100 pregnant women infected with Zika in Puerto Rico who have given birth have had healthy babies, officials said. \n Puerto Rico reported the first microcephaly case acquired on U.S. soil in May, involving a dead fetus that a woman turned over to health authorities. Since then no microcephaly cases have been reported, but federal officials say it's only a matter of time. \n Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla said he had asked federal officials to declare a public health emergency and thanked them for their support. \n \"Zika poses a hidden threat to future generations of Puerto Ricans, and I feel the responsibility to do everything in my power to fight the spread of it,\" he said. \n Garcia recently authorized the use of Bti, an organic larvicide, to fight the spread of Zika after rejecting aerial spraying with the insecticide naled as proposed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. \n Puerto Rico Health Secretary Ana Rius said 90 people have been hospitalized because of Zika. Officials also say 30 people have been diagnosed with a temporary paralysis condition known as Guillain-Barre that has been linked to Zika. \n Health authorities say they believe the number of Zika cases is much higher because eight of 10 people show no symptoms and many don't go to the doctor. \n The emergency was declared one day after the U.S. surgeon general visited Puerto Rico and said he expected 25 percent of Puerto Rico's nearly 3.5 million people will be infected with Zika by year's end. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. declares health emergency in Puerto Rico due to Zika"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters gathered at Rizal Park during a rally to oppose the burial of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery in Manila. \n MANILA \u00bb Hundreds of Filipinos rallied in stormy weather Sunday against President Rodrigo Duterte's approval of dictator Ferdinand Marcos' burial in a heroes' cemetery, but he remained steadfast on his decision despite growing opposition. \n Police said about 1,500 protesters carrying a large streamer that read \"Marcos not a hero\" braved the rains, wind and mud at Manila's seaside Rizal Park to call on Duterte to reconsider his decision. They launched a signature campaign to try to stop the burial, tentatively set for next month. \n Loretta Ann Rosales, who formerly headed the government's Commission on Human Rights, said she was tortured, electrocuted and molested with thousands of other detained left-wing activists under Marcos during a dark era in Philippine history that clearly shows why the brutal leader did not deserve to be accorded any state honors. \n \"Is that not enough evidence? \u2026 Is Marcos a hero?\" Rosales asked, with the crowd yelling back: \"No!\" \n Sen. Risa Hontiveros, who joined the protest, said she has filed a Senate resolution opposing a hero's burial for Marcos, adding that Duterte should not commit \"this atrocious mistake\" of bestowing honors to the former dictator. \n \"Marcos went down in history as an unrepentant enemy of our heroes,\" Hontiveros said. \"To honor the man a hero and bury his remains in a place reserved for the brave and martyred is an inimitable political abomination.\" \n Burying a dictator accused of massive rights violations and plunder at the heroes' cemetery has long been an emotional and divisive issue in the country, where Marcos was ousted by a \"people power\" revolt in 1986. He was flown to Hawaii, where he lived with his wife and children in exile until and died in 1989. \n His remains were later returned to his northern Philippine hometown and displayed in a glass coffin. His wife, Imelda, and two of three children gradually regained political influence after being elected to public office. \n Duterte, who was sworn in as president in June, argues that Marcos is qualified to be buried at the military-run cemetery as a former soldier and president. He has disclosed that he once voted for Marcos and that his late father, a politician, served in Marcos's Cabinet. \n Duterte's communications secretary, Martin Andanar, said Sunday that the president's position \"remains firm,\" arguing that military rules allow Marcos to be buried at the hollowed cemetery as a former president and soldier. \n A group of ex-political detainees and rights victims under Marcos called Selda said in a statement it plans to ask the Supreme Court to stop what it calls \"grave injustice\" to thousands of human rights victims. \n Communist guerrillas, who are set to restart peace talks with Duterte's government this month, condemned his move for its \"extreme insensitivity.\" \n \"Duterte is virtually deleting Marcos' bloody record as a military despot and the fascist violence, human rights violation, corruption and economic hardships he made the Filipino people suffer through 14 years of dictatorship,\" the rebels said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hundreds protest hero's burial for Philippine dictator"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Authorities respond near a burning gas station as dozens of people protest following the fatal shooting of a man in Milwaukee. \n MILWAUKEE >> Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett says the north side is calming after violence in the wake of a police shooting that left one man dead. \n The violence erupted a few hours after an officer shot and killed a 23-year-old man. Police said the man was fleeing a traffic stop and was armed with a gun. It wasn't immediately clear if he pointed it at or fired it at the officer. \n As many as 100 protesters skirmished with police in violence that began early in the evening and stretched past midnight. At least four businesses burned, including a gas station and a bank, and one officer was hurt by a thrown brick. \n Police said they made three arrests. \n The shooting will be investigated by the state. Barrett says the officer was wearing a body camera. \n 12:15 a.m. \n Officials in Milwaukee are asking the community for help restoring order on the city's north side. \n Violence broke out Saturday night, hours after a police officer shot and killed a man that police said was fleeing and armed. At least four buildings were burned and one officer was hurt as up to 100 protesters skirmished with police. \n Mayor Tom Barrett implored the parents of any children at the scene to \"get them home right now.\" \n Alderman Ashanti Hamilton promised to get information about the shooting to the public. \"Please allow the process to work,\" he said. \n 11:55 p.m. \n A bank on Milwaukee's north side has been set ablaze in continuing unrest following the fatal shooting of a man by police. \n Smoke could be seen billowing from The BMO Harris branch a few blocks away from the intersection where as many as 100 protesters skirmished with police earlier Saturday evening. It was at least the fourth building to burn, following a BP gas station, an O'Reilly Auto Parts store and a beauty supply store. Footage from a news helicopter also appeared to show a small grocery store had been looted. \n A traffic signal was also bent and bus shelters overturned. \n The unrest broke out several hours after a police officer shot and killed a man. Police said the 23-year-old man was fleeing a traffic stop. They said the man was armed with a gun but it wasn't clear whether he was pointing it at or shot at police. \n 11:15 p.m. \n Police in Milwaukee are trying again to disperse protesters on the city's north side in the wake of a man's fatal police shooting. \n Some 100 protesters skirmished with officers Saturday night, hours after an officer shot and killed a 23-year-old man whom police said was armed and had run from a traffic stop. Police say it's not clear whether the man pointed the gun at or fired at officers. \n Police said in a tweet that officers were moving into an intersection and asking the crowd to disperse peacefully, but rocks were being thrown at officers. \n The department said in earlier tweets that one officer was injured by a thrown brick, a squad car had its windows smashed and another one was set on fire. \n 10:20 p.m. \n Police in Milwaukee say one police officer is being treated after he was hit in the head by a brick through a squad car window. \n The injury happened Saturday night as officers are dealing with unrest on the city's north side following a man's fatal shooting by police hours earlier. Police say the man was armed and was shot during a foot chase that followed a traffic stop. \n Assistant Chief Bill Jessup told the Journal Sentinel newspaper that it wasn't immediately clear whether the man pointed a gun at or shot at the officer. \n Police said in an earlier tweet that they had a large presence as they tried to disperse a crowd. They said some in the crowd had broken the windows of an unoccupied squad car and set another police car on fire. \n 9:20 p.m. \n Police say a Milwaukee officer has shot and killed an armed man during a foot chase. \n Capt. Mark Stanmeyer says officers stopped a car with two people inside Saturday. He says the pair got out of the car and ran and that the officers chased them. \n He says a 23-year-old man who was one of the people fleeing was armed with a handgun and was shot by an officer during the pursuit. The man's name wasn't immediately released. Stanmeyer says the man died at the scene. \n The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that more than 100 people gathered near the scene Saturday night and some in the crowd started smashing a squad car's windows. \n The 24-year-old officer who shot the man has been placed on administrative duty. \n 7:50 p.m. \n Police say a Milwaukee officer has shot and killed an armed man during a foot chase. \n Capt. Mark Stanmeyer says officers stopped a car with two people inside Saturday. He says the pair got out of the car and ran and that the officers chased them. \n He says a 23-year-old man who was one of the people fleeing was armed with a handgun and was shot by an officer during the pursuit. The man's name wasn't immediately released. \n Stanmeyer says the man died at the scene. He says the handgun was determined to be stolen. \n The 24-year-old officer who shot him has been placed on administrative duty during the investigation. The officer's name wasn't immediately released. \n The officer has been with the Milwaukee department six years, three as an officer. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Milwaukee Mayor: North side calming after violence"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM & JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell, left, and former congressman and City Councilman Charles Djou will head to a Nov. 8 runoff election in the race for Honolulu mayor. \n Former Mayor Peter Carlisle came in a distant third, garnering 9.4 percent of the votes. Caldwell and Djou are sure to be vying for those Carlisle voters over the next three months. \n Because neither candidate received more than 50 percent of the vote, the two top vote-getters go on to the general election. \n Former Honolulu mayor and city prosecutor Peter Carlisle was far behind with 9.3 percent. \n Caldwell had 45 percent versus 43.3 percent for Djou after results were released about 8:35 p.m. Former Mayor Peter Carlisle, with 9.4 percent, has already conceded defeat. The percentages do not include blank or over votes. \n Previous coverage \n Early results show Mayor Kirk Caldwell slightly ahead of former congressman and City Councilman Charles Djou in the race for Honolulu mayor, with former Mayor Peter Carlisle a distant third among the field of 11. \n Caldwell had 44.6 percent of the vote, Djou had 43.7 percent and Carlisle had 9.5 percent, according to the first results released after the last poll closed tonight. The percentages do not include blank or over votes. \n Carlisle wasted no time in conceding after the first results were announced but said he would not support Djou or Caldwell if the two go to a runoff in the general election. \n The top two vote-getters advance to the Nov. 8 general election unless the first-place finisher manages to collect 50 percent of the votes cast plus at least one vote. If that happens, he or she is automatically declared the winner and negates the need for a runoff. \n The problems encountered by the city's increasingly expensive rail project loomed over the election, and dominated the conversation at nearly every one of the seven forums or debates the three main candidates attended. \n Both Djou and Carlisle accused Caldwell of mismanaging the project, and pointed out its price had risen to an estimated $8 billion from the $5.26 billion it was projected to cost when Caldwell took office in January 2013. But Caldwell argued economics and court delays were to blame for the price hikes, and charged that his opponents were only wont to criticize and could not produce a clearer plan to stretch the line to Ala Moana as promised under the 20-mile plan agreed to with federal transit officials. \n As the primary season wound down, it was clear that all three are for the line being built at least to Ala Moana, are hoping for further federal support to do so, and reject the notion of using property taxes to pay for any part of rail construction. \n The key differences on the rail issue were that Djou, who had voted against the rail project while on the Council, opposes extending the 0.5 general excise tax beyond 2021 to fund construction while Caldwell and Carlisle haven't ruled it out, and that Djou appears more willing to change the technology for a rapid-transit means of moving from Middle Street to Ala Moana, while Caldwell and Carlisle believe switching tracks now would be disastrous. \n Caldwell touted the progress he made on improving roads, sewers and other infrastructure needs of the city, as well as a parks improvement program and tackling homelessness. Djou and Carlisle questioned his effectiveness on dealing with those issues. \n The opponents also accused the incumbent of meddling with the city Ethics Commission and longtime Executive Director Chuck Totto, who resigned in June after publicly stating the Caldwell administration and Corporation Counsel Donna Leong attempted to exert control over management of his office. \n Similiar questions were raised by the challengers about Caldwell's handling of the troubles involving the Honolulu Police Department and Police Chief Louis Kealoha, who is being investigated by federal prosecutors. While Carlisle and Djou said they would have pressed Kealoha to remove himself from office at least temporarily while under investigation while Caldwell said the fate of the chief should be in the hands of the Police Commission. \n Caldwell's favorability and job performance ratings have declined steadily, according to the Hawaii Poll results, but more than half of those polled still had a favorable opinion of him and his job performance. \n Campaigning practically nonstop since taking office in January 2013, Caldwell had a big jump on fundraising efforts over both Carlisle, who threw his hat in the ring in May, and Djou, who announced his candidacy in June the day before the deadline to file for office. \n The latest reports show Caldwell for Mayor having raised $2.85 million and spent $2.1 million; Djou having raised $484,894 and spent $277,474; and Carlisle having raised $3,824 and spent $3,382. \n Caldwell, who began fundraising almost immediately after taking office in 2013, far outgained and outspent his opponents in the election. \n Djou, a lifelong Republican in a Democratic-dominant state, fought to present himself as a centrist. That claim was bolstered by endorsements from former Gov. Ben Cayetano, longtime Democratic Party leader Walter Heen, Councilwoman Ann Kobayashi and, five trade labor unions that had previously backed Caldwell. All said they were disenchanted by Caldwell's leadership and felt the need for a change. \n The mayor, meanwhile, won endorsements from more than 20 labor unions, current Gov. David Ige and former Gov. George Ariyoshi. \n In recent days, state Attorney General Doug Chin waved signs in support of Carlisle, for whom he once served as managing director. \n A big question now is what happens to those who supported Carlisle or any of the other eight also-rans in the race. \n In the 2012 primary election, former Gov. Ben Cayetano finished first with 90,956 votes, or 44.7 percent of the votes, putting him into a runoff with runner-up Caldwell, who finished with 59,963 votes, or 29.5 percent. Carlisle, the incumbent, had 51,101, or 25.1 percent, and was eliminated. \n In the 2012 general election, Caldwell won with 157,714 votes (53.9 percent) over Cayetano's 134,740 votes (46.1 percent). \n Caldwell, 63, was a late-comer to politics first elected in 2002 to the state House of Representatives, where he served until 2008. In 2009, then-Mayor Mufi Hannemann tapped Caldwell to be his managing director, or second in command and Caldwell became acting mayor in summer 2010 when Hannemann resigned to run for governor. Caldwell lost to Carlisle that fall to fill the last two years of Hannemann's term. In 2012, Caldwell finished second to former Gov. Ben Cayetano in the August primary, which eliminated Carlisle from contention. Caldwell then beat Cayetano in the general when the two went head-to-head that November. An attorney, Caldwell was born in Waipahu, the son of a plantation doctor, and spent most of his youth in Hilo. \n Djou, 46, served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 2010-11 after winning a run-off special election to replace Neil Abercrombie, who resigned to run for governor. Djou, running as a Republican, then lost the seat to Democrat Colleen Hanabusa in 2012 and to Democrat Mark Takai in 2014. Before that, he served eight years on the City Council and two years in the state House of Representatives. A lawyer by profession, he is the local-born son of immigrants. He has been a U.S. Army reservist and was in Afghanistan in 2011-2012 during Operation Enduring Freedom. \n Carlisle, also 63, made his name as a deputy prosecutor in the 1980s under former Prosecutor Charles Marsland. After going into private practice for eight years, he ran successfully in 1996 to be Honolulu prosecutor and was reelected three times. He resigned in 2010, midway through his fourth term, to run for the seat left vacant by Hannemann's resignation. The New Jersey native, in announcing his bid for mayor in May, said this will be his last time seeking political office. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Caldwell, Djou head to runoff election in November"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / AUG. 2014 \n In this file photo, former Hawaii County mayor Harry Kim shakes hands with an election worker after casting his vote at Hilo High School. \n Former two-term Hawaii County mayor Harry Kim appeared headed to an outright victory tonight, avoiding a runoff against his closest rival, former managing director Wally Lau, in the contest to replace Mayor Billy Kenoi. \n After the third printout of results tonight and with all but one precinct reporting, Kim leads with more than 51 percent of the vote. If he's able to maintain the same percentage lead by the end of the night, he will be elected without having to face the runnerup in the Nov. 8 general election. \n Lau was firmly in second place with 25 percent of the vote, followed further down by former eight-year Kohala County Councilman Pete Hoffman, and Marlene M. Hapai, who is a former University of Hawaii regent and UH-Manoa biology professor. \n The group led a crowded field of 13 candidates vying for the county's top elected office. \n Kim's supporters were jubilant after the third printout at 10 p.m., while Lau kept a positive outlook in the early going. \n \"It's just the beginning. It's not the end,\" he told supporters in Hilo. \"We're still in this journey.\" \n Calls for honesty and transparency in county government were heard on the campaign trail this year after Kenoi, who is wrapping up his second and final term, faces trial in October for criminal charges linked to the alleged misuse of his county purchasing card, or pCard. \n Kim, the former high-profile civil defense director who was mayor from 2000 to 2008, said he was running to restore faith and trust in government and to \"make things right.\" \n Kim, 76, who was edged by Kenoi, his former executive assistant, in the 2012 mayoral race, is running again on a shoe-string budget funded largely by donations of $10 or less. \n Kim said today was another day for him as he attended his granddaughter's soccer game. \n Lau, 68, who worked as Kenoi's former managing director and deputy managing director for seven years, raised more than $200,000 for his campaign. \n Lau said he was not in charge of overseeing Kenoi's pCard charges and that a review of his own pCard charges found no misuse. He said he would make sure the recommendations of the pCard audit are implemented as mayor. \n All of the Hawaii County Council offices are contested with the exception of one: the council seat for Hamakua. Incumbent Valerie Poindexter will return to her District 1 seat unopposed. \n In the contested races, most of the incumbents won their races. \n Incumbent Aaron Chung won big over Margarita \"Dayday\" and Hopkins William J. Halversen in District 2. \n With four of five precincts reporting, Susan Lee Loy pulled ahead of Grace Castillo and Moana M.H. Kelii, in the District 3 seat previously held by outgoing councilman Dennis \"Fresh\" Onishi, who is running for state Senate. \n Eileen Ohara over Madie Greene and Michael R. Bernard in District 4. The winner will replace Greggor Ilagan, who is running for state Senate. \n Jen Ruggles knocked off incumbent Danny Peleka by increasing her lead in the District 5 race. \n Incumbent Maile David handily beat Raina Whiting in District 6. \n Incumbent Dru Kanuha won over challenger Nestorio Domingo in District 7. \n Incumbent Karen S. Eoff trounced Jeffrey Citron in District 8. \n Waimea veterinarian Herbert \"Tim\" Richards overtook incumbent Margaret Wille in District 9. \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Big Island's Kim appears headed to outright victory"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / JULY 25 & BRUCE ASATO / MAY 29 \n Former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa, left, U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard and U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz \n The 2014 storm of political controversy \u2014 and weather \u2014 wasn't there this time for Colleen Hanabusa and Brian Schatz in today's Democratic congressional primary, with both nailing lopsided victories in U.S. House and Senate races. \n With almost all precincts in, Hanabusa, who is seeking a return to the House, had 64,996 votes for the urban Honolulu 1st District seat compared to the next highest vote getter, Leinaala \"Lei\" Ahu Isa, a trustee for the state Office of Hawaiian Affairs who had 10,094 votes. \n Schatz, with the benefit of incumbency in the U.S. Senate, had 147,402 votes to Makani Christensen, a Honolulu resident and founder of Keawe Adventures, with 10,736 votes. \n In a storm-delayed Democratic primary in 2014 for the Senate seat, Schatz bested Hanabusa by 1,782 votes in one of the most dramatic races in state history. \n At stake at the time was the likely candidate to fill the remaining term of the late Sen. Dan Inouye. A makeup election was held for two Hawaii island precincts where voters were unable to cast ballots because of Tropical Storm Iselle. \n Today's election had no such drama. \n The other House seat, the 2nd District covering rural Oahu and the neighbor islands and held by Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, was hers to keep. Gabbard had 74,657 votes. Rival Shay Chan Hodges, a Maui resident, grant writer and author in her first political campaign, had 13,588 votes. \n \"It's a nice evening, no question,\" Hanabusa said by phone from her campaign's gathering spot at Kakaako Agora. She said the results were a reflection of her supporters. \"This is a reflection of their investment in me, and I hope that I live up to it,\" she said. \n Hanabusa is running for the two-year term after U.S. Rep Mark Takai died in July at age 49 after battling pancreatic cancer. Hanabusa also said she'll run in a special election for the last two months of Takai's unfinished term. \n \"If I win in the general and in the special (election) at the same time, I think that I'm probably the best person to hit the ground running because of the fact that it would be filling out Mark's term,\" she said. \n Gabbard said she spent the day visiting different parts of the district on Oahu, sign-waving with supporters and \"thanking people as I saw them who came up and said, 'Hey Tulsi, I already voted for you.' It was actually quite a lot of fun.\" \n The Democratic winners will face Republican and other party challengers in the general election. But barring some unexpected outcome, the three Democratic election winners appear headed toward the predictable outcome of past Hawaii congressional elections, election watchers say. \n \"It's almost a slam dunk\" for Hanabusa, Schatz and Gabbard to win the primary and general elections, said longtime Hawaii political observer Jerry Burris. \n Hanabusa, 65, is \"extremely well known,\" has a political team that's still pretty much in place, and kind of projects as a quasi-incumbent, Burris said. Hanabusa served for four years in the U.S. House before deciding to take on Schatz in the Senate, who was appointed to the seat by Gov. Neil Abercrombie. \n \"People respect her,\" Burris said. She's \"not your favorite neighbor,\" he added, but, \"she is your favorite leader.\" Hanabusa is chairwoman of the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation board. \n Schatz, Burris said, is pushing his incumbency and conveying, \"I'm already in there (the U.S. Senate), I'm already making friends, I'm already gaining seniority.\" \n Schatz, 43, says on his website that he \"serves on three Senate committees essential to the future of Hawaii: Appropriations; Commerce, Science, and Transportation; and Indian Affairs.\" No U.S. senator has lost an election in Hawaii since statehood. \n The 35-year-old Gabbard is a Sunday talk show favorite, but the high-profile national image she has cultivated is also one that some find troubling, with Hawaii voters traditionally looking more to the congressional delegation to quietly bring home the bacon. \n Gabbard is not one to toe the party line, breaking with the Democratic establishment to endorse Bernie Sanders, whom she nominated for president at the Democratic National Convention. She has subsequently said she will vote for Hillary Clinton in November. \n \"Given the remaining choices, like Bernie Sanders I will be casting my vote for Hillary Clinton,\" she has said. The Iraq War veteran said she would \"push for an end to counterproductive interventionist wars and lead our country toward a path toward peace.\" \n The 2nd District district encompasses Maui County, Kauai, Hawaii island and rural Oahu. \n Burris said Gabbard can be \"provocative when it kind of enhances her visibility,\" but she's also very canny. \"I don't think the Bernie thing hurt her. There are a lot of Bernie people here.\" \n Over the time she's served in Congress, Gabbard said her office has held over 700 community meetings, forums and events and responded to over 150,000 pieces of correspondence. \n Burris predicted Hodges \"might make some numbers\" knowing Gabbard was bound to win, but with some casting a vote for Hodges to keep Gabbard \"a little bit humble.\" \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Schatz, Hanabusa, Gabbard cruise to victory in congressional races"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "Former Waianae Neighborhood Board member Cedric Gates has ousted Rep. Jo Jordan from her House seat representing Waianae, Makaha and Makua in the Democratic Primary. Gates secured 52 percent of the votes to Jordan's 42 percent, with all precincts reporting. \n The Hawaii Democratic Party said late last month that Gates was actually not supposed to run as a Democrat on the ticket because he had run in 2014 as a Green Party candidate, which should bar him from the party for three years. However, party officials said they didn't notice the error in time. \n Gates told the Star-Advertiser last month that he hadn't been notified by the party of the ban. Furthermore, he said that he confirmed with the Democratic Party on May 27, the day he filed election papers, that he was an active member of the party. \n He is expected to remain listed as a Democrat on the general ballot as he faces Republican Marc Paaluhi. \n All of the 51 House seats and half of the 25-member Senate seats are up for election this year. It appears that the rest of the incumbents who had primary challengers have held on to their party's nomination and will move on to the general election, though not all of them have opponents. \n Rep. Sam Kong, the cab driver who also serves as a lawmaker, was nearly ousted from office by small business owner and independent television producer Tracy Arakaki in the closest race ofthe primary. \n Kong, 56, is serving his first two-year term representing Aiea, and used the unusual strategy of accepting no campaign donations and no political endorsements. \"It's refreshing to be beholden tono one but you, my friend and neighbor,\" Kong wrote. \n Kong had a 37-vote lead at the final printout. \n Daniel Holt, 31, managed to win a state House seat with a total of just 669 votes in the crowded five-member field in the Democratic primary for House District 29, which includes Kalihi, Palama,Iwilei and Chinatown. That seat was left vacant when House Judiciary Chairman Karl Rhoads opted to run for the state Senate. \n Holt is state Senate assistant sergeant-at-arms, and is the son of former state Sen. Milton Holt. \n In Manoa, House Higher Education Chairman Isaac Choy successfully defended his seat against a strong challenge by Dale Kobayashi, a political newcomer. \n During the Democratic primary campaign, Kobayashi hammered on Choy for supporting the Paradise Park redevelopment plan in Manoa. Choy, who has represented the state House district thatincludes Manoa since 2009, said he supported the $15 million Paradise Park redevelopment proposal only if the community concerns were resolved. \n Choy, 62, is known for his pointed public criticism of the University of Hawaii system, which he says must become more efficient. The faculty union University of Hawaii Professional Assemblyendorsed Kobayashi, who is an accountant and son of Honolulu City Councilwoman Ann Kobayashi. \n State Rep. Cindy Evans prevailed in another close race with former state Rep. David Tarnas in the Democratic primary for the state House district that includes Kohala and portions of North Kona onthe Big Island, with Evans winning by 184 votes. \n Evans, 63, is a full-time lawmaker who won her eighth term in the House, where she is majority floor leader for the Democrats. \n Tarnas, 55, has an environmental consulting business, and has worked on projects that include the Kiholo State Park Reserve plan, the Thirty Meter Telescope and the East Hawaii biofuels powerplant called Hu Honua Bioenergy. \n On the East side of the Big Island, state Sen. Russell Ruderman also deflected a challenge from two-term Hawaii County Councilman Greggor Ilagan. Ruderman enjoyed a more comfortable 670-votemargin of victory. \n Ilagan supports continued geothermal development on the Big Island, and was one of three County Council members to vote in 2013 against a ban on farming of new genetically modified crops onthe island. Ilagan said he could find no scientific evidence that GMO crops are unsafe. \n Ruderman, who is operator of a chain of organic food stores on Hawaii island, strongly supported the GMO ban. He also opposes additional geothermal development on the island, arguing thatother types of renewable energy are more desirable. \n On Kauai, planning consultant and former Kauai County Managing Director Nadine Nakamura easily won the Democratic primary race to fill the open District 14 House seat representing Hanalei,Princeville, Anahola, Kapaa and Wailua. \n Also in that race was Fern Anuenue Rosenstiel. The seat became open when state Rep. Derek Kawakami opted to run for the Kauai County Council. \n Rep. Karl Rhoads won the Democratic Primary race for the Senate seat representing portions of downtown, Nuuanu and Liliha that's being vacated by veteran lawmaker Sen. Suzanne Chun Oakland. She announced earlier this year that she would not be seeking another term. \n Rhoads will face Rod Tam, who is running as a Republican, in the general election. He beat Kim Coco Iwamoto, a member of the Hawaii Civil Rights Commission and LGBT advocate, and Keone Nakota, a former aide to retired U.S. Sen. Daniel Akaka, in a competitive race. \n Rep. John Mizuno, who has served portions of Kalihi and Kamehameha Heights for a decade, beat political newcomer Ikaika Hussey, 68 percent to 27 percent in the Democratic primary. Mizuno will face Republican Carole Kaapu in the general. \n Hussey, publisher of Summit Magazine, couched himself as a \"more progressive choice\" for voters. He is one of a number of candidates this year who say they were inspired by Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign. \n Kaniela Ing held off Democratic primary challenger Deidre Tegarden in the race for the the House seat representing South Maui, securing 62 percent of the votes to Tegarden's 36 percent. He will face Republican Daniel Pekus in the general election. \n Ing has represented the district since 2012. Tegarden, who served as chief of protocol under both Ige and former Gov. Neil Abercrombie, before stepping down to run for the seat, proved to be a formidable challenger. \n She attracted the backing of several construction-related labor unions and raised about $71,160 in campaign cash, as of the end of July, compared to Ing's $41,557. \n Sen. Kai Kahele, the son of the late Sen. Gil Kahele, fended off his two challengers \u2014 Dennis Onishi and Kaloa Robinson \u2014 in the Democratic primary for the state Senate seat representing Hilo with 55 percent of the vote. Onishi trailed with 34 percent. \n Ige appointed Kahele in February to take the place of his father who passed away after suffering a heart attack. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com and Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State House incumbent loses; others cling to victories in tight races"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JAN. 2016 \n Kymberly Pine \n With a dominating 65 percent share of the vote late into the evening, Honolulu City Councilwoman Kymberly Pine has clinched reelection in today's primary election. \n By getting more than 50 percent of the vote, Pine, who represents the Waianae Coast and other parts of West Oahu, will not have to face a challenger in November. \n Pine's Council seat was the only one in play during the primary election, and her district is among the island region's most impacted by one of the election's hottest issues: rail. Land-use planning and future residential building, such as the planned controversial Hoopili community, are also key issues in the West Oahu district. \n Pine faced three challengers in today's primary race: community activist Kioni Dudley, Kapolei resident Marc Anthony, and a political rival whom Pine unseated in 2012 \u2014 former Councilman Tom Berg. \n Dudley continues to maintain a 17 percent share of the vote, and Berg is maintaining his 14 percent share. Anthony has about 4 percent. \n \"We're very proud of the work we've done for people \u2026 we hope that we can continue for another four years to serve them,\" Pine said today while awaiting results. The councilwoman has voted in support of rezoning for the 11,750-unit Hoopili project. \n She's also a staunch supporter of completing the full 20-mile rail project and often advocates in public for the cash-strapped elevated transit line, saying it would help improve quality of life in the Leeward area. \n Pine said today that what her constituents ultimately want are more opportunities on the island's west side. \n \"My opponents made rail the biggest issue, but when I talk to people they want jobs close to their homes, they want to spend more time with their families,\" Pine said. \"They just want the true promise of the second city\" \u2014 a reference to the development of Kapolei. \n Meanwhile, Dudley said that during the primary campaign he found traffic to be by far the No. 1 issue in the district. \n \"I've campaigned for years \u2026 and I've never seen anything like it,\" said Dudley, who's previously run for state representative, governor, lieutenant governor and City Council. \"My feeling is people are really responding to that issue\" \n Dudley, a Makakilo resident and an educator at the college and high school levels for more than four decades, is a staunch Hoopili critic and has called for a moratorium on new housing development. \n \"If we could stop building and get the new freeway lane in, we could straighten out the traffic that we've got right now,\" Dudley said while awaiting results. He supports building the elevated rail pathway into downtown but opposes running it to Ala Moana because he believes in several decades \"the last five stops are going to be underwater.\" \n Neither Berg nor Anthony could be reached for comment. \n Windward-area Councilman Ikaika Anderson, running unopposed, also secured his reelection to a second four-year term today. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Councilwoman Pine wins bid for reelection"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "Office of Hawaiian Affairs incumbent Colette Machado appeared to have garnered enough votes to retain her seat on the board of trustees, but Haunani Apoliona and Robert Lindsey will likely face challengers in a general election runoff. \n With all but two precincts reporting, Mililani Trask had edged out current board chair Lindsey for his Hawaii island seat. \n Trask, an attorney, maintained a lead throughout the night and had received 60,199 votes with ballots from just the two precincts not yet counted. Lindsey, a retired Kamehameha Schools Land Assets Division director on Hawaii island, had 57,230 votes. Bo Kahui, a Kailua-Kona resident, had received 19,101 votes. \n Haunani Apoliona, who has served on the OHA board as an at-large trustee for 20 years, was maintaining a strong lead with 55,476 votes. Apoliona, former president and CEO of Alu Like, also served as the board's chairwoman from 2000 t0 2010. \n Apoliona, however, didn't appear to have enough votes to avoid a runoff with Kelii Akina, president of Grassroot Institute of Hawaii. Akina, who ran for an at-large position two years ago, had received 28,758 votes with the two precincts still out. \n Other candidates for the at-large seat in order of highest vote tally were Paul Mossman, Daniel Anthony, Leona Kalima, Kealii Makekau and Douglas Crum. \n Machado, the Molokai incumbent, received 55,311 votes. The Kaunakakai resident has served on the OHA board for 20 years and previously was chairwoman for four years. Her challengers, Alapai Hanapi, had received 32,176 votes with two precincts out, and Jerry Flowers took 18,280 votes. \n Once all votes are counted, if a candidate receives the majority of ballots cast in the primary election, excluding blank and over votes, the candidate will win outright. Machado appeared likely to avoid the runoff. \n Dan Ahuna, the Kauai incumbent, ran unopposed and was elected at the close of candidate filing in June. Ahuna, a Kapaa resident, has served on the board for four years and is a teacher at Kauai High School. \n OHA, a public agency that advocates for Native Hawaiians, is governed by nine trustees, four of which are at-large positions and five from each of the island districts \u2014 Oahu, Hawaii island, Maui, Molokai and Lanai, and Kauai and Niihau. All voters statewide are able to cast ballots in the OHA elections. \n The election comes at a pivotal time as Native Hawaiians shape the course for self-determination. \n ", "author": "By Jayna Omaye jomaye@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Machado likely to avoid runoff for OHA seat"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / MAY 3 \n Representative Derek Kawakami discusses HB 1850 in a house floor session at the State Capitol on May 3. \n State Rep. Derek Kawakami clinched the top spot in his bid to return to the Kauai County Council while Councilmember Gary Hooser faces an uphill climb in the general election. \n Kawakami came in first in the primary among 13 candidates vying for seven at-large seats on the Council. But the primary is only a dry run because all 13 Kauai Council candidates will advance to the general election. \n \"The competitive spirit in me always looks at every election as if it's the most important election,\" Kawakami said before the polls closed. \"Even though this is just the primary and we're all going to get through to the general, we've campaigned extremely hard.\" \n Kawakami served on the Council from 2008 to 2011, when he was appointed to the state House. \n Councilmembers Ross Kagawa placed second in the vote, followed by Councilmembers Arryl Kaneshiro, Mel Rapozo and KipuKai Kualii. \n Arthur Brun, who says he wants to represent \"the average working person,\" enjoyed strong union backing and placed sixth. \n Councilmembers Mason Chock and JoAnn Yukimura were battling for seventh place, with Councilmember Gary Hooser falling behind them. They were followed by Juno Ann Apalla, Norma Doctor Sparks, Richard Fukushima and Matt Bernabe. \n Kauai Prosecutor Justin Kollar far outpaced his challenger, Lisa Arin, a former deputy prosecutor. Both will advance to the general election. \n \"We did what we set out to do, which is rebuild the prosecutor's office and restore the community's confidence,\" Kollar said. \"We want to build on those successes we've had in the past four years.\" \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kawakami on top in Kauai Council race"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "Community activist and natural farmer Alika Atay pulled ahead of Maui County Managing Director Keith Regan and will face off against frontrunner Dain Kane in the November general election for the County Council's Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu seat. \n In the nonpartisan Council races, the top two vote-getters for each seat advance to the general election. While candidates have to reside in the district, voters countywide can vote for all of the council seats. \n An early edge that Regan held over Atay was erased in the final round of voting results that included tallies from all 34 of Maui County's precincts.  \n Kane, a former councilman who held the seat from 1998 to 2004, secured 24.1 percent of votes, or 6,329 votes. Atay, who played an active role in a 2014 anti-GMO ballot initiative that called for a moratorium on the growing of genetically engineered crops, got 23.4 percent of votes. \n In all, five candidates had been vying for the seat, which is being vacated by longtime Councilman Mike Victorino, who has served the maximum terms allowed. \n Regan received 22.3 percent of votes, followed by retired fire captain and police officer Joseph Blackburn (16.4 percent) and Hana Steel (5.3 percent), who works as the county's recycling coordinator. \n Meanwhile, Yuki Sugimura, vice chairwoman of the Maui County Democratic Party and a small business owner, and kumu hula Napua Greig-Nakasone are headed to the general election for the Upcountry residency seat being vacated by longtime Councilwoman Gladys Baisa, who also is facing term limits. \n Sugimura collected 37.3 percent of votes to Greig-Nakasone's 25.2 percent. Trailing behind were challengers Stacey Moniz (18.3 percent), a nonprofit director and advertising executive Eric Molina (9 percent). \n Council Chairman Mike White handily edged out challengers for his Makawao-Haiku-Paia seat with 49.6 percent of votes. He'll face challenger Trinette Furtado, a community activist and self-employed graphic and web designer, who received 28.5 percent of votes. Veterinarian Alan Kaufman got 9.8 percent of votes. \n In the South Maui residency race, incumbent Don Couch, who has held the seat since 2010, and entrepreneur Kelly King, who co-founded renewable energy company Pacific Biodiesel, will face off in the general election. Couch received 42 percent of votes to King's 31.2 percent. Challengers Richard DeLeon, a tour operator, and Jerome \"Tiger\" Metcalfe, a former restaurateur, garnered 11.5 percent and 2.9 percent, respectively. \n Candidates running for the remaining five council seats automatically advance to the general election. Under the county's charter, races with two or fewer candidates bypass the primary election. \n East Maui incumbent Robert Carroll will face challenger Shane Sinenci; West Maui incumbent Elle Cochran is facing Ernest Balinbin; Kahului incumbent Don Guzman is running against Vanessa Medeiros; Lanai incumbent Riki Hokama will face off against Gabe Johnson; and Molokai incumbent Stacy Crivello is running against Keani Rawlins-Fernandez. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "General election to feature 4 Maui Council races"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. on Aug. 11 spoke at a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. Pelosi advising fellow Democrats to change their cellphone numbers and not let family members read their text messages after personal and official information of Democratic House members and congressional staff was posted online. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb After receiving a deluge of obscene voicemails and text messages, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi informed her fellow Democrats today of \"an electronic Watergate break-in\" and warned them not to allow family members to answer their phones or read incoming texts. \n The breach targeted the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and other Democratic Party entities, Pelosi said in a statement. As a result, a mix of personal and official information of Democratic members and hundreds of congressional staff, purportedly from a hack of the DCCC, was posted online, she said. \n Pelosi said she is changing her phone number and advised her colleagues to do the same. \n A hacker who calls himself Guccifer 2.0 took credit for posting the information Friday night. He had claimed responsibility for the recent hack of Democratic National Committee emails, which roiled the Democratic National Convention last month. While Guccifer 2.0 has described himself as a Romanian hacker and denies working for Russia, online investigators assert that he is linked to Russia. \n President Barack Obama said in late July that Russia may have been behind the leak of the hacked Democratic National Committee emails. Obama, who noted that outside experts have blamed Russia for the leak, suggested Russian President Vladimir Putin may have reason to facilitate the attack. \n \"Anything's possible,\" Obama told NBC News when asked whether Moscow was trying to influence the presidential election. \n The FBI, which is investigating, hasn't publicly attributed the attack to Russia. But Democrat Hillary Clinton's campaign has, implying that the goal was to benefit Donald Trump's presidential campaign. \n Trump has rejected the allegation, insisting Democrats were trying to \"deflect the horror and stupidity\" of the leak. \n Two U.S. cybersecurity firms have said their analysis of computer breaches at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, or DCCC, showed detailed evidence that the intrusions were likely linked to Russian hackers. The internet domains and registrants used in the breach of computers used by the committee tied back to a Russian hacking group linked to that nation's intelligence services. That same hacking group, known as \"Fancy Bear,\" was previously connected to the cyber breach at the Democratic National Committee. \n Both firms, Fidelis Cybersecurity and ThreatConnect, said the hackers created a fake internet DCCC donation site. The registrant for the fake DCCC site was linked back to other web domains used by \"Fancy Bear. \n WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who began publishing thousands of the emails last month, has said there is \"no proof\" Russia was behind the hack. \n Pelosi said today she was flying from Florida to California when she heard about the posting of information such as cell phone numbers. \n \"Upon landing, I have received scores of mostly obscene and sick calls, voicemails and text messages,\" Pelosi said in her letter to colleagues. \n Pelosi said the chief information security officer of the House, John Ramsey, in coordination with U.S. Capitol Police, has sent communications to those people whose email addresses have been made public about how to address the problem. The chief administrative officer of the House has also sent an email stating that the House computer system has not been compromised, but urged members and staff to be vigilant about opening emails and websites. \n Ramsey, in a memo distributed by Pelosi, advised lawmakers to change passwords to all email accounts that they use and strongly consider changing non-House email addresses if possible. Should lawmakers or staff receive any threats or observe suspicious activity, they should contact U.S. Capitol Police and local police, he said in the memo. \n Rep. Ben Ray Luj\u00e1n, D-N.M., the DCCC chairman, was holding a conference call with lawmakers this evening along with cybersecurity experts who have been investigating and responding to the breach. \n \"This is a sad course of events, not only for us, but more importantly for our country,\" Pelosi said in urging lawmakers to join the conference call with Lujan. \n Disclosures of email showing DNC staffers privately supporting Clinton during the presidential primary while publicly maintaining they were neutral in her race with Bernie Sanders led to the resignation of DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz. \n Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement late Friday that when the responsible parties are caught, he hopes the Obama administration \"will disclose who is attempting to interfere with the American political process, and levy strong consequences against those responsible.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hacker posts personal info of House Democrats and staff"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gather for a demonstration in the Queens borough of New York, near a crime scene after the leader of a New York City mosque and an associate were fatally shot as they left afternoon prayers. \n NEW YORK >> The leader of a New York City mosque and a friend were fatally shot in a brazen daylight attack as they left afternoon prayers Saturday. \n Police said Imam Maulama Akonjee, 55, and 64-year-old Thara Uddin were shot in the head as they left the Al-Furqan Jame Masjid mosque in the Ozone Park section of Queens shortly before 2 p.m. Both men were later pronounced dead. \n Police said no motive had been established and there was no reason to believe the men were shot because they were Muslim. No suspects were in custody late Saturday. \n \"There's nothing in the preliminary investigation to indicate that they were targeted because of their faith,\" said Deputy Inspector Henry Sautner of the New York Police Department. \n Sautner said video surveillance showed the victims were approached from behind by a man in a dark polo shirt and shorts who shot them and then fled with the gun still in his hand. \n The imam's daughter, Naima Akonjee, said her father and Uddin were close friends who always walked together to the mosque from their homes on the same street. \n Members of the Bangladeshi Muslim community served by the mosque said they want the shootings to be treated as a hate crime. More than 100 people attended a rally Saturday night and chanted \"We want justice!\" \n The Council on American-Islamic Relations, an advocacy group, held a news conference near the shooting scene, where Kobir Chowdhury, a leader at another local mosque, said, \"Read my lips: This is a hate crime\" directed at Islam. \"We are peace-loving.\" \n Naima Akonjee said her father didn't \"have any problems with anyone.\" \n Sarah Sayeed, a member of Mayor Bill de Blasio's staff, serves as a liaison to Muslim communities. She attended the rally and said, \"I understand the fear because I feel it myself. I understand the anger. But it's very important to mount a thorough investigation.\" \n Members of the community had felt animosity lately, with people cursing while passing the mosque, said worshipper Shahin Chowdhury. He said he had advised people to be careful walking around, especially when in traditional clothing. \n He called the imam a \"wonderful person\" with a voice that made his Koran readings especially compelling. \n Worshipper Millat Uddin said Akonjee had led the mosque for about two years and was a very pious man. \n \"The community's heart is totally broken,\" said Uddin, who is not related to Thara Uddin. \"It's a great misery. It's a great loss to the community and it's a great loss to the society.\" \n Naima Akonjee, 28, one of the imam's seven children, said she rushed to her parents' home after the shooting. \n She said her father used to call her just to check up on whether she had eaten properly. She'd tell him, \"Why are you caring about me?\" \n \"And he said, 'If I'm not caring about you, who will?'\" she recalled. \n Neighbors also described Uddin as a pious and thoughtful man who prayed five times a day and went to the mosque. While at home, they said he would water his garden and one next door. \n \"A very honest, wise man \u2026 (And) a very helpful guy,\" said neighbor Mohammed Uddin, who is not a relation of Thara Uddin's. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Imam, friend fatally shot after leaving NYC mosque"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER FILE \n Oahu Community Correctional Center. \n An Oahu Community Correctional Center inmate died at a hospital in an apparent suicide. \n At approximately 7 a.m. Friday, the 66-year-old inmate was transported to a hospital in serious condition due to a head injury, said Shayne Enright, spokeperson for the Honolulu Emergency Services Department. In an e-mailed statement, Toni Schwartz, spokeswoman of the Department of Public Safety, said assigned staff and facility medical staff immediately responded and Emergency Medical Services was called. \n \"The inmate was responsive while being transported to the hospital,\" said Schwartz. At about 11 a.m., he was pronounced dead at the hospital. \n Schwartz said the official cause of death is pending an autopsy by the medical examiner's office. As standard procedure, an internal investigation as well as an investigation by law enforcement are underway. \n The man's identification is being withheld at this time pending notification of next-of-kin. \n Police said there is no evidence of foul play. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "OCCC inmate dies in apparent suicide"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "GEORGE F. LEE / JUNE 2016 \n The four masted sailing ship Falls of Clyde was impounded by the state Harbors Divison. \n Friends of the Falls of Clyde, a 19th century oiler docked at Honolulu Harbor, received a notice today that the ship has been impounded by the state Harbors Division. \n Friends President Bruce McEwan said by telephone that he received the notice at his Pauoa Valley residence from state harbor police. \n McEwan said the organization plans to request an administrative hearing to appeal the notice ordering the ship's immediate removal from Honolulu Harbor. \n \"This makes absolutely no sense,\" McEwan said. \n McEwan said the Friends dispute the state's allegation that the ship is a safety hazard and have asked until July 2017 to either restore, remove or safely sink the ship, a national historic landmark. \n He said the state has consistently said the ship moored at Pier 7 is a safety hazard but has given no details. \n The Bishop Museum halted public access to the Falls of Clyde in 2007 and sold it to the Friends for $1 in 2008. \n The state Harbors Division, part of the Department of Transportation, said it expected the Friends' plan to include more immediate action and that the vessel poses an unacceptable risk to navigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Historic museum ship impounded by state Harbors Division"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United States' Michael Phelps and Britain's James Guy compete in the men's 4 x 100-meter medley relay final during the swimming competitions at the 2016 Summer Olympics on Saturday in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. \n RIO DE JANEIRO \u00bb Standing atop the medal podium for the 23rd time, Michael Phelps teared up, bit his lip and gave a little nod. \n This was how he really wanted to go out. \n On top of his game in the water. \n Totally content away from the pool. \n \"It turned out pretty cool,\" Phelps said, another gold medal around his neck. \"It's just a perfect way to finish.\" \n Phelps put the United States ahead to stay on the butterfly leg of the 4\u00d7100-meter medley relay, giving the most decorated athlete in Olympic history his 23rd career gold medal Saturday night. \n If that was the end, and Phelps insists it is, the numbers are simply astonishing. \n No other Olympian has more than nine gold medals. \n With 28 medals in all, he's 10 clear of anyone else. \n \"It's not even once in a generation,\" said his coach, Bob Bowman. \"It might be once in 10 generations that someone like Michael Phelps comes along. \" \n As Nathan Adrian touched the wall to finish off the victory, Phelps gathered the other relay swimmers, Ryan Murphy and Cody Miller, in his arms. One night after his only setback of the games, an upset loss to Joseph Schooling in the 100 fly, Phelps was back on top. \n At age 31, he leaves Rio with five golds and a silver. \n \"I wouldn't change anything,\" he said. \"This is the best place I've ever been in my life.\" \n In the stands, his fiancee, Nicole Johnson, bounced along to the music with their son, 3-month-old Boomer, cradled in her arms. \n Phelps is eager to spend a lot more time with them. He plans to marry Johnson after the Olympics and said he wants to watch his son grow, maybe even dole out a swimming lesson or two. \n And what if Boomer wants to take all those medals to show-and-tell someday? \n \"I might let him take one,\" Phelps said with a grin. \n \"Maybe a bronze,\" Bowman chimed in. \n Most of the U.S. swim team was in the stands to watch Phelps' finale, including the biggest female star at the pool, Katie Ledecky. \n The 19-year-old Ledecky joked that she was proud to be part of Phelps' final Olympics \u2014 twice. He initially retired after the 2012 London Olympics, only to decide about a year later to return. \n The comeback endured a huge setback with his second drunken-driving arrest in 2014, which led to Phelps being banned from the world championships last year. But it also sparked a turnaround in his personal life. He entered six weeks of inpatient therapy, where he got in touch with some of the issues that seemed to lead him astray. \n He quit drinking, reconnected with his estranged father, got engaged, moved to Arizona along with Bowman, and became a father for the first time. \n Phelps sounds much more adamant when he says his swimming career really is over. \n \"These games really showed his growth,\" teammate Anthony Ervin said. \"That human spirit, that capacity to heal. I think it showed in his swimming, it showed in his demeanor, and it certainly showed in his leadership on the team.\" \n Phelps was elected a team captain for the first time in his fifth Olympics and truly seemed to enjoy being around his fellow swimmers. He was still the same ruthless competitor, but he was also willing to join in when some of his younger teammates made a carpool karaoke video at their final training camp in Atlanta. \n Took a starring role, in fact. \n \"Being Michael requires such isolation,\" Ervin said. \"Other people respect that. They give him that space because he is the greatest. But this time around he started reaching out, reaching out to other people, bringing them closer, letting that gap be bridged. That was special.\" \n On a victory stroll around the pool, Phelps and his teammates grabbed a sign that said, \"Thank You Rio.\" \n \"No matter what country you swim for, you're indebted to Michael Phelps for bringing a lot of exposure to the sport and making it a little more mainstream,\" Murphy said. \"If this is the end that was a great way to cap off an incredible career.\" \n Murphy, who won two backstroke golds in Rio, put the Americans out front with a world-record split \u2014 it counts since he was leading off \u2014 before Britain surged ahead on the breaststroke with its own world-record holder, Adam Peaty. \n Phelps dove into the pool in second place. \n He wouldn't be for long. \n On the return lap, Phelps powered through the water with his windmill of a stroke, surging ahead of James Guy to pass off a lead to the anchor Adrian. \n It wasn't in doubt after that. Adrian pulled away on the freestyle to win in an Olympic-record time of 3 minutes, 27.95 seconds. Britain held on for silver, with Australia nabbing bronze. \n The victory came just minutes after the women's medley relay gave the United States its 1,000th Olympic gold medal at the Summer Games. \n \"A thousandth gold for team USA,\" said Simone Manuel, who swam the anchor leg for her second gold of the games and second medal of the night. \"It's a nice number.\" \n Kathleen Baker, Lilly King and Dana Vollmer joined Manuel in the historic victory, which came with a time of 3:53.13. Australia earned silver, while Denmark took bronze. \n Earlier in the night, Manuel took silver in the 50 free. She already became the first African-American woman to win an Olympic swimming title with her win in the 100 free. \n Connor Jaeger gave the U.S. another silver in the 1,500 free, leaving the American with 33 swimming medals in Rio \u2014 matching the highest total since they captured 34 against a depleted field at the boycotted Los Angeles Games of 1984. \n The U.S. also won 33 medals at Sydney in 2000. \n The final two individual golds of the games went to Pernille Blume of Denmark in the 50 free, her country's first swimming victory since 1948, and Italy's Gregorio Paltrinieri in the grueling 1,500 free. \n The night, though, belonged to Phelps, who walked out of the arena for the final time carrying an American flag handed to him by his mother from her front-row seat, right next to Johnson and little Boomer. \n With a gold medal around his neck. \n The only way imaginable. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spoiler alert: Olympic results of men's 4 x 100-meter medley relay"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Primary election voters at District 35, Precinct 3, cast their ballots at the Waipahu Intermediate School polling station today. \n GREGG KAKESAKO / GKAKESAKO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n People arrived early to vote at Manoa Elementary School. \n GREGG KAKESAKO / GKAKESAKO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Robin Leong was the among the early morning voters at Manoa Elementary School. \n GREGG KAKESAKO / GKAKESAKO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Precinct worker Jo Ann Yamazaki, left, helps voter Delmond Won with instructions at Manoa Elementary School. \n Update 12:10 p.m.: \n With the final results of the night released, it's official: Hawaii set a record low for voter apathy in a primary election on Saturday, when only 34.7 percent of registered voters bothered to cast ballots. In all, 251,959 people voted. The previous low for a primary election was set in 2008, when 36.9 percent of registered voters cast ballots. Some 246,070 people voted in the 2008 primary. \n Update 10:38 p.m.: \n Hawaii is on pace tonight to set a record for voter apathy in a primary election, with only 31.4 percent of registered voters bothering to cast ballots. In all, 228,017 people voted. The previous low for a primary election was set in 2008, when 36.9 percent of registered voters \u2014 or 246,070 people \u2014 cast ballots. \n All of the polling sites on Kauai and Maui were closed. \n The first printout is expected to include 109,000 mail-in and walk-in ballots. \n Previous coverage \n Voter turnout was running behind the 2014 primary election based on a sampling of the state's 233 polling places and the number of people who took advantage of absentee and early walk-in voting, according to a state election official. \n The state elections office projected that voter turnout was 27 percent as of 3 p.m., compared with 33 percent at the same time in the 2014 primary, according to spokeswoman Nedielyn Bueno. In the 2014 primary election, only 41.5 percent of the state's 697,033 registered voters cast a ballot. \n On Maui, County Clerk Danny Matteo was hoping that voting would pick up in the afternoon. \n Kauai County Clerk Lyndon Yoshioka said based on the number of calls to the Lihue election control center, \"it's quiet here. Things are running smoothly.\" \n The state's 233 polling places from Hanalei on Kauai to South Point on the Big Island opened without any major problems, according to Bueno. No major problems were reported by the state elections office. \n Bueno said there was a problem with a paper ballot scanner just before the polls opened at 7 a.m. at Maunawili Elementary School. A troubleshooter was dispatched and a replacement machine put into operation, she said. \n Some 19,215 of the state's 726,9401 registered voters had cast ballots by the close of business Thursday when early walk-in and absentee voting. \n On Oahu that means 9,928 of the city's 483,076 registered voters have cast their ballots, according to the elections office, down from about 10,500 in 2014. \n For the neighbor islands, state elections officials reported that 4,838 of the Big Island's 109,690 registered voters have voted; 2,101 of Maui County's 91,139 registered voters have cast their ballots; and 2,348 of the Garden Island's 43,036 registered voters have taken advantage of early walk-in and mail-in voting. \n Among the two dozen voters at Manoa Elementary School this morning were attorney Robin Leong and a medical technician Cory Yutaka, who had to wait about 15 minutes to vote. \n Robyn Loudermilk, who is running the Manoa precinct voting operation for the first time, said she could have used another three to five precinct workers. \n \"We try our best,\" said Loudermilk, noting there were about 10 people working at the Manoa precinct who are paid $85 for a shift that could run more than 12 hours. \"We have a couple of old-timers who really help the newcomers in coming up with the best way to keep the flow of voters going.\" \n On Maui, County Clerk Matteo said this morning that his office was still trying to hire precinct workers. \n \"We have 500 now,\" Matteo said, \"Fully manned, we should have 600. I think it is a problem statewide. \n Keone Anderson, who moved to Manoa from Waikiki more than a year ago, ran into a small problem even after reporting an address change online: her name was not listed on the pollbooks at the Manoa precinct. However, Anderson was issued a provisional ballot and allowed to vote. \n Yutaka, who has been the first to vote at Manoa school during the last three elections, said, \"It is very important to vote. There is a lot of power in voting.\" \n Leong, 60, a lifelong Manoa resident, added, \"I have voted here since I was 18.\" \n Leong, however, will only use paper ballots. \"I don't trust electronic voting,\" Leong said. \"I believe in paper ballots.\" \n Leong predicted a spirited race between Democratic incumbent Isaac Choy and newcomer Dale Kobayashi in today's Democratic state House primary. \n There are 16 uncontested races in the state Senate and House, and all but one of the unopposed candidates are Democrats. \n Polls opened at 7 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. but elections officials say anyone in line at 6 p.m. will be allowed to vote. \n In the 2014 primary election Tropical Storm Iselle forced the closure of two voting precincts in Puna which resulted in voting extended for six additional days. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii sinks to record low voter turnout"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The recall involves the Toyota RAV4 SUV from the 2006-2011 model years and the Lexus HS250h sedan from the 2010 model year. \n DETROIT >> Toyota Motor Corp. is recalling 337,000 vehicles for a third time. \n The recall involves the Toyota RAV4 SUV from the 2006-2011 model years and the Lexus HS250h sedan from the 2010 model year. \n Toyota first recalled the vehicles in 2012 because of a wobbly rear suspension. The company recalled them again in 2013 because the nuts it used to adjust the rear wheel alignment weren't tightened properly. \n This time, Toyota found that rust can form on the suspension arm threads if the nuts for the rear wheel alignment weren't tightened correctly. If that happens, the suspension arm could separate from the vehicle and cause the driver to lose control. \n Toyota will contact owners and replace both rear suspension arm assemblies for free. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Toyota recalls older models with recurring suspension issues"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 28-year-old Hawaii Kai man in connection with the fatal stabbing of a 25-year-old man. \n Iosua Fiso, also known as Iosua Faipaua, was stabbed on Aug. 7 on Makiki Street after a confrontation with the suspect. He was taken to a hospital where he died. \n The cause of death was a stab wound to the chest. \n Police arrested the suspect at 10:40 p.m. Friday in the McCully-Moiliili area on suspicion of second-degree murder. \n The 28-year-old man has a criminal record of second-degree theft, fourth-degree theft and promotion of a dangerous drug in the third-degree. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Man arrested in connection with fatal stabbing in Makiki"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Early walk-in voting has opened at Honolulu Hale, Monday, August 1, 2016. \n Unlike two years ago, no hurricanes or tropical storms are in today's primary election day forecast, but there's a good chance of low voter turnout nevertheless. \n In the 2014 primary election, a majority of voters \u2014 51 percent \u2014 for the first time voted early or by mail-in ballot. That election was hampered by Tropical Storm Iselle, which closed two voting precincts in Puna, forcing the vote there to be continued six days later. \n This year, with little more than breezy tradewinds and occasional showers in the forecast, early walk-in voting was way down on Oahu compared to 2014 and 2012, while early mail-in votes were up slightly. \n The change in both weather and voting preference left Scott Nago, the state's chief election officer, uncertain about what kind of turnout to expect when the first ballots are scheduled to be released at 7 tonight, an hour after the polls close at 6 p.m. \n \"We're supposed to have good weather, but I have no guess on turnout,\" Nago said. \"Either we're going to have a big turnout at the polls or a low turnout this election.\" \n The highest-profile race is the contest between Mayor Kirk Caldwell and challengers Charles Djou, a former city councilman and congressman, and former Mayor Peter Carlisle. \n An outright winner must gain a simple majority of tonight's votes, or there will be a runoff among the top two vote-getters. \n Only 9,925 people took advantage of absentee walk-in voting on Oahu, the Honolulu City Clerk's office reported Friday. \n That's a 12.9 percent drop from the 14,859 votes cast at Honolulu Hale and Kapolei Hale during the 2014 primary. In the primary of 2012, the last time Oahu got to vote for U.S. president and Honolulu mayor, 12,941 absentee walk-in ballots were cast. \n City Clerk Glen Takahashi said the percent of absentee walk-in participants suggests people are becoming more familiar and comfortable with the idea of voting via the mailbox. \n The city had collected 83,106 absentee mail-in ballots out of 129,166 ballots that were sent out to Oahu voters by request, Takahashi said. Absentee mail-in ballots received by 6 p.m. Saturday will be counted. He advised those still holding onto mail-in ballots to not mail them, but to drop them off at any official precinct booth. \n To match the 82.5 percent of absentee mail Oahu ballots cast in 2014, the city would need to see 22,572 more ballots received by 6 p.m. \n Overall, 202,728 Oahu voters cast ballots in the 2014 primary, about 43.5 percent of those registered. To match that percentage of votes cast, a total of 210,138 people, out of 483,076 registered voters on the island, would need to cast ballots. \n Primary election day voting at precincts across the state runs from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. \n Hawaii has 247 precincts statewide but only 233 polling places because some communities of 500 people or fewer in places such as Niihau and Kalaupapa are automatically sent mail-in ballots, Nago said. \n The polls open at 7 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. but anyone in line at 6 p.m. will be allowed to vote, Nago said. \n The smallest crowds tend to be from 7:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. \n \"You want to avoid showing up when the polls open, the lunch crowd and when the polls close,\" Nago said. \"Those are the busiest times.\" \n Voters are encouraged to bring government-issued identification to speed up the voting process, but ID is not required, Nago said. Voters without ID will have to provide information to verify they're registered to vote, he said. \n His office expects to release five election returns starting at 7 p.m. \n Based on the 2014 primary election, the 7 p.m. printout of voting results represented 65 percent of absentee ballots but no votes cast at the precincts. The 8:30 p.m. printout included 3 percent of precinct voting and 74 percent of absentee ballots. The 10 p.m. printout had 80 percent of the absentee ballots and 99 percent of the precincts. The 11:30 p.m. printout contained 86 percent of absentee ballots and 100 percent of precincts. \n An expected 1 a.m. printout should account for all absentee and precinct ballots, Nago said. \n Staff writer Gordon Y.K. Pang contributed to this report. \n Glen Takahashi is the Honolulu city clerk. His last name was misspelled in an earlier version of this story and in Saturday's print edition. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Early, absentee voting on Oahu mixed"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, heads to a closed-door policy meeting with fellow Democrats at the Capitol in Washington. \n U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz is seeking his first full term in the Senate after being appointed in 2012, and he starts that journey in Saturday's primary. \n Hawaii's former governor chose Schatz to fill the seat that became vacant with the death of Sen. Daniel Inouye. Schatz was then elected to fill out the remainder of Inouye's unexpired term in 2014. \n Schatz faces four Democrats in the primary and is widely expected to advance to the general election. Four Republicans are also campaigning for the nomination. \n The other Democratic candidates are Makani Christensen, Tutz Honeychurch, Artuto Reyes and Miles Shiratori. The Republican candidates are John Carroll, Karla Gottschalk, Eddie Pirkowski and John Roco. Libertarian Michael Koloski also put his name in for the seat. \n Schatz had an unlikely road to the Senate. When Inouye died in December 2012, it was left to then-Gov. Neil Abercrombie to fill the seat. Inouye's dying wish was to have U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa take the job, but Abercrombie instead chose Schatz, his lieutenant governor. \n Hanabusa challenged but lost to Schatz two years later when a special election was held for someone to fill the last two years of Inouye's unexpired term. \n Schatz serves on the Appropriations, Commerce Science and Transportation and Indian Affairs committees. He also serves on the Select Committee on Ethics. \n Schatz has introduced legislation on reducing the effects of climate change and promoting clean energy. Hawaii leads the nation in its initiatives to become completely energy independent by 2045. \n Schatz, who was raised in Hawaii, was a member of the Hawaii House from 1998 to 2006. He is married and has two children. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Schatz seeks first full term of his own in U.S. Senate"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton waved as she finished a speech on the economy after touring Futuramic Tool & Engineering, in Warren, Mich., Thursday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump waved after delivering an economic policy speech to the Detroit Economic Club, Monday, in Detroit. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton spelled out their economic visions in high-profile speeches in Michigan this week. They delved into taxes and regulations, trade deals and job growth. \n Yet perhaps most notable about their speeches is what they left out. \n Mostly unmentioned were major challenges that have slowed the U.S. economy and made good-paying jobs harder to find, particularly in struggling pockets of the country. They are challenges that tend to preoccupy economists and defy simple fixes: \n A less efficient workforce. A dwindling proportion of adults either working or looking for work. Automation and increasingly high-skilled jobs that require technological know-how that many people lack. \n They are problems that analysts say require a transformative vision. Yet neither candidate voiced anything like the high-reaching themes that were hallmarks of previous campaigns \u2014 from Bill Clinton's \"Bridge to the 21stcentury,\" which urged Americans to face a more globalized economy, or George W. Bush's \"No Child Left Behind,\" which sought to overhaul public education to better serve more children. \n Each promised a bright future but also spotlighted the country's challenges. \n \"It's much easier to be either optimistic about the future or harp on problems that voters already recognize,\" said Daron Acemoglu, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has studied the impact of automation on the workforce. \n When Trump spoke Monday and Clinton followed on Thursday, each pledged more spending for rebuilding roads, bridges, tunnels and other infrastructure, which many economists say is long overdue. Such work, beyond creating more construction jobs, could ultimately lower transportation costs, raise workers' productivity and accelerate economic growth. \n But economists worry that the United States faces long-run challenges beyond dilapidated airports and tunnels. An economy's ability to expand is shaped largely by two trends: The size of its workforce and how much its workers produce for each hour on the job. \n In both areas, the United States is weakening. In the past decade, the workforce has grown an average of just 0.5 percent a year \u2014 barely half its post-World War II pace. Much of that slowdown is due to the continuing retirements of the vast baby boom generation, 10,000 of whom turn 65 every day. Similar demographic trends are also bedeviling Europe and Japan. \n And productivity \u2014 output per hour worked \u2014 has increased an average of just 0.6 percent a year in the past five years, the slowest pace since the recession of the early 1980s. Rising productivity is vital to raising living standards because it allows businesses to pay employees more without having to raise prices. \n All of which means the United States may be stuck in a low-growth rut for years to come. Federal Reserve officials now estimate that the economy's growth potential is only 1.8 percent to 2 percent a year, down from 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent five years ago. \n That broader slowdown went unmentioned by either candidate. Potential solutions are complicated and in many cases wouldn't be popular with voters. \n For example, most economists consider increased immigration not a problem but a solution \u2014 to the challenge of an aging U.S. workforce. More legal immigrants would accelerate workforce growth. Yet few issues are as contentious in this election. \n William Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said immigration reform, if it provided a path to citizenship for people who entered the country illegally, would be economically beneficial \u2014 in part because it would bar employers from underpaying those workers and thereby give them more spending power. \n Galston argued that Japan's economy, which is aging faster than the United States and has barely grown for two decades, has suffered from an \"absolute refusal to countenance immigration.\" \n In her speech, Clinton briefly mentioned \"comprehensive immigration reform\" and said it would \"unleash a lot of new income and growth.\" Trump, who launched his campaign with promises to build a wall to keep out Mexicans, barely mentioned the issue. \n Clinton also proposed helping more students attend college, increasing training for those who don't and spending more on \"scientific research that can create entire new industries.\" \n Those steps might help boost productivity over time if they improved workers' skills. But Clinton didn't cast them as potential remedies for weak productivity. Rather, she hailed the U.S. workforce as the \"most productive\" in the world. \n Openings for such high-skilled jobs as data scientist, software engineer, physician's assistant and nurse practitioner have grown fast since the Great Recession. Yet they require more skills than many workers have, particularly older people with less education. That trend has contributed to a sharp drop in the proportion of Americans in their prime working years \u2014 ages 25 through 54 \u2014 who either have a job or are looking for one. \n And automation is threatening lower-paying jobs. Self-driving cars, check-in kiosks at airports and hotel and potentially touch-screen ordering at restaurants could put more lower-skilled Americans out of work. \n \"We're really just seeing the very beginning of robots competing with workers,\" Acemoglu said. The consequences \"could be potentially very disruptive if we pursue business as usual. Or they could amazingly fruitful if we adapt to them.\" \n Acemoglu says this would require overhauling high school education to provide more skills-related training, rather than waiting for community college, in addition to providing training for current workers. \n Yet instead, both candidates spent considerable time discussing ways to revitalize American manufacturing. Trump focused more on old-line sectors, like autos, planes and steel, which have mostly shrunk in recent years. Clinton cited \"advanced manufacturing\" that requires greater skills. Yet modern factories that use more technology typically don't employ as many people as those that are retrenching. \n \"I would like to see the workforce prepared for the jobs of tomorrow, rather than bringing back the jobs of the past,\" said Tara Sinclair, chief economist at Indeed, a jobs listing website. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "What Trump and Clinton didn't say in their economic speeches"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for two men who allegedly held a 56 year-old man hostage in in his Waianae home early Friday morning and stole his car. \n The incident occurred at 5:45 a.m. \n Police said the suspects threatened the victim and fled with his car. \n The case has been classified as a first-degree robbery, kidnapping and first-degree burglary. \n Police did not release a description of the suspects or the stolen car. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police searching for men who allegedly held a man hostage in Waianae"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Rodney Komatsu, 69, died at the hospital Friday where he was taken following a collision with a truck on South King street near Kahoaloha lane at 3:50 p.m. Friday. \n The Medical Examiner's office has released the names of the 69 year-old motorcyclist killed in Moiliili and a 68 year-old woman who was ejected from her van and died in Kailua. Both accidents occurred Friday. \n Rodney Komatsu, 69, died at the hospital Friday where he was taken following a collision with a truck on South King street near Kahoaloha lane at 3:50 p.m. Friday. \n Beverly Rodrigues, 68, died at Castle Medical Center where she was taken after she was ejected from her van at 11:50 a.m. Friday on Kalanianaole highway near Kapaa Quarry Road. Police said Rodrigues veered from the left lane of Kalanianaole highway, went across the right lane, struck a guardrail flipping the van. \n Autopsy will be conducted to determine cause of the two deaths. \n There have been 34 traffic deaths this year, compared to 31 at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Victims in Moiliili, Kailua traffic fatalities identified"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton gives a speech on the economy after touring Futuramic Tool & Engineering, in Warren, Mich., Thursday, Aug. 11, 2016. \n WASHINGTON >> Hillary and Bill Clinton earned $10.6 million last year, according to a tax filing released by her campaign that sought to pressure presidential rival Donald Trump to disclose his tax returns. \n The filing shows that the Clintons paid a federal tax rate of 34.2 percent in 2015. The bulk of their income \u2014 more than $6 million \u2014 came from speaking fees for appearances made largely before Hillary Clinton launched her campaign in April 2015. They gave more than $1,042,000 to charity, with $1 million going to the Clinton family foundation. That is the financial vehicle the family uses to give money to museums, schools, churches and other charitable causes. It is not the same organization as the better-known Clinton Foundation. \n The Clintons' income puts them well within the ranks of the top 0.1 percent of Americans, though they pay a higher tax rate than many of their elite peers, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, based on 2013 data. \n The release on Friday is part of an effort to undercut Trump's character by questioning the celebrity businessman's record. Trump has refused to make his filings public, saying they're under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and he'll release them only once that review is complete. All major U.S. presidential candidates in modern history have released their returns. \n Trump steered clear of mentioning his personal taxes Friday. A spokesman pointed to Clinton's move to delete tens of thousands of personal emails from her private account as secretary of state and questions about whether she used her government post to benefit the Clinton Foundation. \n \"Hillary Clinton has turned over the only records nobody wants to see from her \u2014 the American public wants to see the 33,000 emails she deleted to obstruct an FBI investigation,\" said Trump spokesman Jason Miller. \n The Clintons have disclosed tax returns for every year since 1977, in part due to laws requiring public officials release returns. She put out her most recent eight years of tax filings last summer and several years during her first presidential bid. \n Seeking common ground with blue-collar workers who have been attracted to Trump, Clinton frequently mentions his returns as a way of underscoring how his economic plans would benefit his personal interests and questioning whether he's as wealthy as he claims. \n Democrats believe Trump's returns could be a trove of politically damaging information. They want to see his tax rate, charitable giving, and business dealings with foreign governments. \n \"Here's a pretty incredible fact: There is a non-zero chance that Donald Trump isn't paying (asterisk)any(asterisk) taxes,\" Clinton tweeted, after releasing her own returns. \n Protesters at Trump afternoon rally in Erie, Pennsylvania, held up signs reading \"Tax Forms\" before being escorted out by security. \n Clinton's strategy borrows from President Barack Obama's winning playbook against Mitt Romney in 2012. Obama repeatedly used Romney's business dealings against him and seized upon his reluctance to release certain tax records. \n Clinton's campaign also released 10 years of returns from running mate Tim Kaine and his wife, Anne Holton. Over the last decade, the couple has donated 7.5 percent of their income to charity, the campaign said, and paid an effective tax rate of 25.6 percent last year. \n Kaine, the Virginia senator who's spent much of his life in public service, reported a far lower income than the Clintons. Over the past decade, he and his wife earned the most in 2014, more than $314,000 in adjusted gross income. The Clintons made about 90 times more, reporting nearly $28 million for the same year. \n Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, has yet to say if he will release his taxes, which he has not done as governor of Indiana. A spokesman for the governor's office referred all tax-related questions to his vice presidential campaign. The campaign did not respond to messages. \n Clinton has tried to paint Trump as an out-of-touch business mogul. But her substantial wealth has caused headaches. Republicans have seized upon the millions in speaking fees and a tone-deaf comment by Clinton in a 2014 interview that she was \"dead broke\" after leaving the White House in 2001. The couple owed millions in legal fees, but quickly generated far more from book deals, paid appearances and consulting fees. \n In total, the Clintons earned than $139 million between 2007 and 2014, according to eight years of federal income tax returns released by her campaign last July. \n The bulk of their income came from speeches delivered to corporate and interest groups, which paid Bill Clinton and later Hillary Clinton after she resigned as secretary of state in early 2013. \n Clinton delivered six paid speeches in 2015, including one to the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. She commanded her highest rate from EBay, which paid her $315,000 for a March 2015 address in San Jose. \n Bill Clinton's consulting work for GEMS Education, a global network of for-profit schools based in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, earned him more than $5.6 million in fees between 2010 and 2015, according to the tax returns. \n He also earned more than $17 million over the same period for consulting work for Laureate Education, Inc., another for-profit education system based in Baltimore that makes most of its profits from overseas operations. Several students enrolled in some of the schools have sued the company. The cases have since settled. \n Bill Clinton's office previously said he had ended his consulting work with Laureate last year. On Friday, his office confirmed that Clinton also halted his business dealings with GEMS Education last year. His office said he had \"engaged with GEMS students and faculty around the world and assisted the Varkey GEMS Foundation in its efforts to increase access to education to underprivileged children.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Eileen Sullivan and Jeff Horwitz contributed to this report from Washington. Associated Press writer Josh Lederman contributed from Erie, Pa. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Lisa Lerer and Ken Thomas on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/llerer and http://twitter.com/KThomasDC \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton releases 2015 tax returns, pushing Trump for his"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / MAY 2007 \n In this file photo, actor Kenny Baker, who portrayed the R2-D2 in the first Star Wars movie, signed autographs at Star Wars Celebration IV at the Los Angeles Convention Center. Baker, 81, died today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actor Kenny Baker, who portrayed the R2-D2 in the first Star Wars movie, has died Saturday, Aug. 13, 2016. His niece, Abigail Shield, said he was found dead by a nephew on Saturday at his home in northwest England after a long illness. \n Kenny Baker played the lovable droid R2-D2 in the \"Star Wars\" films, achieving cult status and fans' adulation without showing his face or speaking any lines. \n The 3-foot 8-inch performer \u2014 a word he preferred to actor \u2014 inside the waste-bin-shaped costume has died at 81. Baker's nephew and carer, Drew Myerscough, said he found Baker dead today at his home in Preston, northwest England. \n Myerscough told Sky News that Baker had suffered years of breathing problems, \"which he had borne very bravely.\" He said the affection of \"Star Wars\" fans around the world \"kept him going, without any doubt.\" \n \"He was amazed that, even after 30-odd years, the fans still basically adored him,\" Myerscough said. \n Baker's agent, Johnny Mans, confirmed his death. He said Baker was \"one of the nicest guys you could ever wish to meet, and a fabulous and talented performer.\" \n Mark Hamill, the \"Star Wars\" series' Luke Skywalker, tweeted: \"Goodbye #KennyBaker A lifelong loyal friend-I loved his optimism & determination. He WAS the droid I was looking for!\" \u2014 a reference to a famous line from the first film. \n Actor Ewan McGregor, who played Obi-Wan Kenobi in three \"Star Wars\" movies, tweeted: \"So sorry to hear about this. It was lovely working with Kenny.\" \n Born to a music-loving family in the central England city of Birmingham on Aug 24, 1934, Baker started performing at 16 as part of a troupe called \"Burton Lester's Midgets.\" \n Baker told The Associated Press in 1985 that Burton had asked him \"What can you do?' I said I could roller skate, ride a bike and whistle. I joined them and did all that, and conjuring tricks, played drums and comedy routines as well.\" \n Baker later worked as a DJ and circus clown, and as half a comedy-musical duo called the Mini-Tones with Jack Purvis, who also appeared in the \"Star Wars\" films. \n Fame came when he was cast as the actor inside R2-D2's cylindrical robot costume in 1977's \"Star Wars.\" \n \"I worked the levers,\" he told the AP. \n Baker said he initially turned down the part. In an interview on his website, he said he told director George Lucas \"I don't want to be stuck in a robot, what for, for goodness sake?\" \n Eventually, he said he told Lucas, \"I'll help you out.\" \n Even though R2-D2's dialogue amounted only to beeps and whistles, the droid and his lanky friend C-3PO became two of the series' most beloved characters. \n Baker returned for \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"Return of the Jedi,\" and reprised the role in three prequels released between 1999 and 2005. \n Despite their onscreen rapport, Baker and Anthony Daniels, who played C-390, weren't close. Baker accused Daniels of being snobbish; Daniels was once quoted by Britain's Daily Mirror as saying Baker \"might as well be a bucket.\" \n Baker also appeared in films including \"The Elephant Man,\" \"Time Bandits,\" \"Willow\" and \"Labyrinth.\" \n Baker's wife Eileen died in 1993. The couple had two sons. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kenny Baker, who played R2-D2 in 'Star Wars,' dead at 81"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "GREGG KAKESAKO / GKAKESAKO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A boy accompanies his father at the polls at Manoa Elementary School this morning. \n Hawaii voters head to the polls Saturday to decide who will get their party nominations and advance to the general election in congressional and local races. Here are some key things to know about the state's primary: \n CONGRESS \n Little drama is expected in the U.S. Senate race as incumbent Brian Schatz seeks his first full term. He was appointed to replace the late Sen. Daniel Inouye in 2012 and won a special election in 2014 to serve out the remainder of the term. \n For the U.S. House, former Rep. Colleen Hanabusa is attempting to win back the seat she gave up to challenge Schatz in the 2014 special election. Her old seat opened up when Rep. Mark Takai, D-Hawaii, died last month. \n U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, a Democrat who holds Hawaii's other House seat, also faces a primary challenge. \n SPECIAL ELECTION \n There might be some confusion about one U.S. House race. \n After Takai's death, election officials set the date to elect a new representative at the November election, not Saturday's primary, because state law requires 60 days' notice for an election. \n Instead, primary voters will advance candidates from each party to the general election. The winner will serve a two-year term. \n Also on the November ballot will be a special election to choose someone to serve out the last two months of Takai's unexpired term. \n That means in the general election, two people could be elected to that seat \u2014 one to serve two months and another to take office in January. Of course, the same person could win both and get a jumpstart on some seniority in the next Congress. \n Don't expect much turnover in the Hawaii Legislature. There are 16 uncontested races in the state Senate and House, and all but one of the unopposed candidates are Democrats. \n The lone Republican state senator, Sam Slom, was unopposed but will face a stiff challenge in November in a sole bid to keep the chamber from falling to one-party domination. \n WHEN AND WHERE TO VOTE \n Residents also were given the opportunity to vote before Aug. 11, either by mail or at walk-in locations. \n TURNOUT \n The Hawaii Office of Elections does not project voter turnout. But if the numbers of voters in the 2012 and 2014 primary elections hold true, about 40 percent of the state's registered voters will cast ballots in the contest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Today's primary election at a glance"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Arabic caption on the photo reads, \"Targeting strongholds of Kurdish infidels with Grad rockets south of Manbij.\" \n BEIRUT >> U.S.-backed fighters have seized a key Islamic State stronghold in northern Syria after two months of heavy fighting and freed hundreds of civilians the extremists had used as human shields, Syrian Kurdish officials and an opposition activist group said Saturday. \n Nasser Haj Mansour, of the predominantly Kurdish Syria Democratic Forces told The Associated Press that the town of Manbij \"is under full control,\" adding that operations are ongoing to search for any IS militants who might have stayed behind. \n The SDF launched its offensive in late May to capture Manbij under the cover of U.S.-led airstrikes. The town lies on a key supply route between the Turkish border and the city of Raqqa, the de facto capital of the IS group's self-styled caliphate. \n Amateur videos posted online showed that shortly after SDF fighters captured the town late Friday, scores of residents went down to celebrate in the streets. Some men were seen clipping their beards with scissors while women were able to uncover their faces. IS imposes a harsh and extreme version of Islam on the territory under its control, including a mandatory dress code. \n \"May God destroy them. They slaughtered us,\" a young man shouted in a Manbij square. \"May they not live for a minute.\" \n The videos appeared genuine and corresponded to Associated Press reporting of events. \n In a photo posted online by Kurdish activists, a young woman defiantly uncovered her face while smoking a cigarette and flashing a victory sign. \n Under the extremists' reign, women had to wear long black cloaks that covered all but their eyes, while all adult men were forced to grow beards. Smoking was banned. \n Haj Mansour said some IS fighters were captured in the town while others fled to nearby villages. \n \"Military operations will continue until these villages are clean,\" Haj Mansour said. \n Sherfan Darwish, another SDF official in Manbij, also confirmed that the town is under the full control of his fighters. \n The capture of Manbij is the biggest defeat for the extremist group in Syria since July 2015, when they lost the town of Tal Abyad on the border with Turkey. \n The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that with the capture of Manbij, hundreds of civilians that IS used as human shields are now free. \n For weeks, SDF fighters have been slowly advancing in the town and nearby villages over the past weeks. The fighting and the airstrikes have killed some 450 people, according to the Observatory. \n IS has suffered major defeats over the past months in Syria and Iraq, where the military recaptured the cities of Ramadi and Fallujah in the western Anbar province. However, IS still controls large parts of Syria as well as Iraq's second largest city, Mosul. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.-backed Syrian force captures key IS stronghold"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Scientists from the U.S. Geological Survey will study how nutrient levels contribute to algae bloom outbreaks on the heels of this summer's massive algae bloom that closed Utah Lake, sickened people and left farmers scrambling for clean water during some of the hottest days of the year. \n SALT LAKE CITY >> Scientists spent this week studying how nutrient levels contribute to algae blooms on the heels of this summer's massive outbreak that closed Utah Lake, sickened people and left farmers scrambling for clean water during some of the hottest days of the year. \n The goal of the study on the waters of Utah Lake and the Great Salt Lake is to determine how to predict outbreaks before they happen, said Christopher Shope, a research hydrologist with the U.S. Geological Survey in Utah. \n That would allow state and county officials to be able to warn boaters, swimmers and farmers ahead of time, he said. The federal agency conducted the study. \n Toxic algae is a problem around the U.S. An enormous outbreak in Florida this year fouled beaches on the Atlantic coast, and a 2014 outbreak at Lake Erie left more than 400,000 people in the Toledo, Ohio, area without tap water for two days. \n This study is an experimental \"proof of concept\" project designed to show longer-term research is worth the financial investment, Shope said. Currently, state officials monitor water bodies for algae on a limited basis because equipment is expensive, and monitoring and analyzing are time-consuming. \n U.S. Geological Survey teams used one set of equipment to collect data at each lake \u2014 in the Great Salt Lake's Gilbert Bay and throughout Utah Lake. A larger study of Utah Lake, for instance, would require five sets of monitoring equipment that cost $150,000 each and an additional $50,000 annually to operate. \n The study aims to hone in on which nutrients are causing the algae. Researchers will look at wastewater treatment plants and agriculture operations, among other things, Shope said. \n The study was launched after this summer's bloom that covered large parts of the 150-square-mile Utah Lake and left about 100 people with symptoms such as vomiting, headache and rashes. \n The bacteria commonly known as blue-green algae spread rapidly, turning the water bright, antifreeze green with a pea soup texture and leaving scummy foam along the shore. The lake was reopened after the algae dissipated at most locations. \n Ben Holcomb of Utah's Division of Water Quality said his team is grateful for the U.S. Geological Survey's assistance. \n \"It really helps us fill in those gaps across the lake,\" said Holcomb, the biological assessment program coordinator. \n He said he's unaware of any way to get rid of the bloom in huge bodies of water with protected wildlife. But he said being able to closely monitor water readings in real time would give officials a tremendous tool. \n \"We would be able to get the word out quicker to perhaps keep people off the lake,\" Holcomb said. \"The amount of data limits our ability to make good, quick decisions.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. agency studies how to detect algae bloom outbreaks"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man surfs the internet with his cell phone backdropped by decorated storefront windows celebrating Fidel Castro's upcoming 90th birthday, in Havana, Cuba, Friday, Aug. 12, 2016. \n HAVANA >> Fidel Castro thanked Cubans for their well-wishes on his 90th birthday on Saturday and criticized President Barack Obama in a lengthy letter published in state media. \n \"I want to express my deepest gratitude for the shows of respect, greetings and praise that I've received in recent days, which give me strength to reciprocate with ideas that I will send to party militants and relevant organizations,\" he wrote. \n \"Modern medical techniques have allowed me to scrutinize the universe,\" wrote Castro, who stepped down as Cuba's president 10 years ago after suffering a severe gastrointestinal illness. \n Castro accompanied his thanks with reminiscences about his childhood and youth in eastern Cuba, describing the geology and plant life of the region where he grew up. He touched on his father's death shortly before his own victory in overthrowing U.S-backed strongman Fulgencio Batista in 1959. \n Castro returns at the end to criticize Obama, who appeared to anger the revolutionary leader with a March trip to Cuba in which he called for Cubans to look toward the future. A week after the trip, Castro wrote a sternly worded letter admonishing Obama to read up on Cuban history, and declaring that \"we don't need the empire to give us anything.\" \n In Saturday's letter, he criticizes Obama for not apologizing to the Japanese people during a May trip to Hiroshima, describing Obama's speech there as \"lacking stature.\" \n The Cuban government has taken a relatively low-key approach to Castro's birthday, in comparison with the large-scale gatherings that had been planned for his 80th. Government ministries have held small musical performances and photo exhibitions that pay tribute to the former head of state. On Saturday morning, state media showed images of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro arriving in Havana and a tribute was planned at a Havana theater Sunday evening. The government did not say which Cuban officials would attend. \n Castro last appeared in public in April, closing the twice-a-decade congress of the Cuban Communist Party with a call for Cuba to stick to its socialist ideals amid ongoing normalization with the U.S. \n The need for closer economic ties with the U.S. has grown more urgent as Venezuela, Castro's greatest ally, tumbles into economic free-fall, cutting the flow of subsidized oil that Cuba has depended on the South American country for more than a decade. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Cubans are emigrating to the United States, hollowing out the ranks of highly educated professionals. \n The brightest spot in Cuba's flagging economy has been a post-detente surge in tourism that is expected to boom when commercial flights to and from the United States, Cuba's former longtime enemy, resume on Aug. 31. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "On 90th birthday, Fidel Castro thanks Cuba, criticizes Obama"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement cordon off the area surrounding the Ferris wheel Monday, Aug. 8, 2016, after three people fell from the ride during a county fair in Greenville, Tenn. Baileyton police Officer Kenneth Bitner is visible at right. Police say one of three people who fell from the Ferris wheel suffered a head injury and remains hospitalized in serious condition. \n NASHVILLE, Tenn. >> Worn out rivet fasteners on a Ferris wheel are being blamed for an overturned gondola at an eastern Tennessee fair that earlier this week sent three girls plummeting more than 30 feet to the ground. \n The Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Development announced late Friday that it has renewed permits for the ride's owner, Family Attractions Amusement, to resume operations at other fairs around the state. But the Frris wheel is excluded from the permit. \n Inspectors hired by the company and the Greene County Fair found that rivets had worn out on the bottom of the tub carrying the girls, allowing a trim piece to come loose and get lodged in the frame of the wheel and tipping the gondola over. \n \"Ride NOT safe to operate at time of inspection,\" Frank Guenthner, an inspector hired by ride owner Family Attractions Amusement, wrote in his report. \n The Ferris wheel, which inspectors say was correctly assembled at the site, is being sent back to the manufacturer for repair. \n Tennessee does not conduct its own inspections of fair or amusement park rides, instead relying on third-party inspectors. The company was allowed to operate in the state based on an inspection made in Indiana in June. \n Six-year-old Briley Rae Reynolds suffered a traumatic brain injury in the fall on Monday and her 10-year-old sister, Kayla, broke her arm. Kayla and an unidentified 16-year old have been released from the hospital. Briley Rae had been in listed critical condition for nearly four days, but was upgraded to serious condition on Friday, according to The Greenville Sun. \n Republican Gov. Bill Haslam told reporters earlier Friday that it was too soon to say what Tennessee might do to avoid future injuries on rides \n \"I don't know that right now I have a policy shift of what should happen differently,\" he said. \n It's not the first time Family Attractions Amusement rides have hurt riders. \n At the 2013 North Carolina State Fair, five people were injured when an Italian-made ride called the Vortex unexpectedly restarted as they were trying to get off the ride, flinging them through the air and down to the steel deck below. Investigators determined that a safety mechanism had been disabled by ride operators including the son of company owners Dominic and Ruby Macaroni. \n Joshua Macaroni earlier this year entered an Alford plea \u2014 a concession that there is sufficient evidence for a conviction without admitting guilt \u2014 on a felony charge of obstruction of justice. He was sentenced in February to five to 15 months in prison, though the judge suspended that to a month in jail. He was also ordered pay a $22,500 fine. \n The Greeneville Sun has reported that Greene County Fair Board officials decided to go through with a five-year contract with a Family Attractions despite the North Carolina incident, citing the company's previous safety record in Tennessee and the owners' claims that they were not involved with the Vortex ride. \" \n Their rides were not inspected when they were assembled in Tennessee. \n Family Attractions Amusement had already taken down its rides in Greeneville the day before the state decision to allow most of the rides to resume. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Ferris wheel that dropped girls had worn out rivets"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A member of the St. George Fire Department assists residents as they wade through floodwaters from heavy rains in the Chateau Wein Apartments in Baton Rouge, La., Friday, Aug. 12, 2016. \n NEW ORLEANS >> National Guard soldiers and other officials in boats and helicopters plucked more than 1,000 people from their homes and cars as \"unprecedented, historic\" flooding swamped Louisiana, the governor said Saturday, warning that the slow-moving storm would dump even more rain and cause further problems. \n At least two people were killed when swift-moving water quickly inundated roads. \n \"This is an ongoing event. We're still in response mode,\" Gov. John Bel Edwards said, urging residents to heed warnings to evacuate and not rely on their past experiences because the state has never seen flooding like this before. \n Beginning Friday, 6 to 10 inches of rain fell on parts of Louisiana and an additional 4 to 6 inches was possible Saturday afternoon, National Weather forecaster Donald Jones said. \n Mississippi and Alabama were also struggling with heavy rainfall. \n In Baker, just north of Baton Rouge, residents said they had to be rescued by boats or wade though waist-deep, snake-infested water to reach dry ground. Dozens of them awoke Saturday morning on cots at a makeshift Red Cross shelter only a few blocks from their flooded homes and cars. \n John Mitchell, 23, said he swam to safety with his pit bull after police officers in a boat picked up his 20-year-old girlfriend, Haybriel Thomas; her 1 year-old daughter, Kaylee; and Mitchell's father. \n \"This is the worst it's been, ever,\" Mitchell said of the flooding. \"We tried to wait it out, but we had to get out.\" \n Mitchell fears he lost their trailer home and his car, which was flooded up to the seats. A bag of clothes was all he had time to save as the water levels rapidly rose. \n \"People are keeping it together better than I thought they would,\" he said of the roughly 60 people who stayed at the Red Cross shelter. \n Shanita Angrum, 32, said she called 911 on Friday morning when she realized flood waters had trapped her family in their home. A police officer carried her 6-year-old daughter, Khoie, on his back while she and her husband waded behind them for what \"felt like forever.\" \n \"Snakes were everywhere,\" she said. \"The whole time I was just praying for God to make sure me and my family were OK.\" \n Angrum said her family probably lost most of their possessions, including two cars and the new school clothes she purchased for her daughter. \n \"We got to start all over,\" she said. \n The storm system was drifting slowly west from southeast Louisiana to an area along the central Gulf coast. \n Edwards declared a state of emergency Friday. He said the basement of the Governor's Mansion had flooded. \n \"That's never happened before,\" he said. \n One man died Friday after slipping into a flooded ditch near the city of Zachary, said East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's spokesman Casey Rayborn Hicks, who identified the victim as 68-year-old William Mayfield. \n A second victim was found in St. Helena Parish, where crews pulled a body from a submerged pickup on Louisiana Highway 10. His name has not been released, but he's believed to be from the area. \n Meanwhile, crews continued to search for possibly another washed away vehicle after residents reported a missing person. \n Numerous rivers in southeast Louisiana and southern Mississippi were overflowing their banks. The governor said some were expected to crest more than 4 feet above previous records and officials were not sure just how widespread the damage would be. \n In a 24-hour period, Baton Rouge reported as much as 11.34 inches of rain compared with 2.34 inches at New Orleans' international airport in Kenner. A weather service meteorologist said one weather observer reported 17.09 inches of rainfall in Livingston. \n The Comite River near Baton Rouge and Amite River near Denham Springs, both in Louisiana, were predicted to set record crests over the weekend. \n The Tickfaw River, just south of the Mississippi state line in Liverpool, Louisiana, was already at the highest level ever recorded. \n In southwest Mississippi, Leroy Hansford, his wife and stepson were among those rescued near Gloster. \n Hansford, 62, said waters from Beaver Creek, which is normally more than 400 feet away from his house, rose quickly overnight. He said another stepson who lives nearby alerted him. \n \"We woke up and the water kept on coming,\" Hansford said. \"It came up to my waist.\" His wife told Hansford that it's the highest she's seen the creek in the 48 years she's lived there. \n In Crosby, Mississippi, more than 50 people flooded out of a neighborhood will be housed at a shelter in Natchez. \n Wilkinson County Chancery Clerk Thomas Tolliver said an apartment complex and surrounding houses in the town were flooded after 10 inches of rain fell. Authorities said they expect to shelter displaced Crosby residents at least until Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More than 1,000 rescued in Louisiana floods; 2 dead"}

{"date": "August 13, 2016", "text": "KABUL, Afghanistan \u00bb Afghan officials today confirmed that Hafiz Sayed Khan, leader of Islamic State's Afghanistan branch, was killed in a U.S. drone strike. \n The Pentagon said Friday that Khan was killed in Afghanistan's eastern Nangarhar province. \n \"We can confirm that Hafiz Sayed was killed on July 26 in the Achin district of Nangarhar province,\" Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman Dawlat Waziri said. \n The drone strike occurred in July, during joint monthlong U.S. special forces and Afghan military operations against Islamic State in Nangarhar. The airstrike was carried out with Khan as the target, according to the Pentagon. \n Nangarhar has been used by Islamic State to recruit, train and equip fighters. \n Khan, described as the emir of Islamic State's Afghanistan and Pakistan wing, had previously been part of the Taliban before swearing allegiance to Islamic State. \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Officials confirm U.S. drone strike killed Islamic State leader"}

