{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of Iga ninja group Ashura demonstrate a ninja-inspired martial-art during a press conference by the Japan Ninja Council at Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan in Tokyo. The Japan Ninja Council, a government-backed organization of scholars, tourism groups and businesses, said that it's starting a Ninja Academy to train people in the art of ninja, and building a new museum in Tokyo devoted to ninja, hooded samurai-era acrobatic spies, set to open in 2018. \n TOKYO >> Japan is turning to those hooded samurai-era acrobatic spies known as ninja to woo tourism. \n The Japan Ninja Council, a government-backed organization of scholars, tourism groups and businesses, said Wednesday that it's starting a Ninja Academy to train people in the art of ninja, and building a new museum in Tokyo devoted to ninja, set to open in 2018. \n \"The art of ninja is made up of various elements, such as combat, survival techniques and astronomy,\" Jinichi Kawakami, known as \"the last ninja\" and a master of the Koga ninja school, told reporters at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan. \"We hope this will appeal to people all over the world.\" \n The council, set up in 2015, has created an official logo for certified products and movies to nurture what it called the \"ninja business,\" and it hopes to educate \"ninja ambassadors\" to promote the culture globally. \n The first certified product is an origami, or folding paper, for messages shaped like a shuriken, the star-shaped daggers that ninja throw as weapons. \n Hiroshi Mizohata, council vice president, who heads the Osaka Convention & Tourism Bureau, shrugged off questions about commercializing tradition. \n Dressed in a black ninja outfit, he stressed that ninja fun is good for business and potentially a big part of the government's \"Cool Japan\" campaign, which includes animation, video games, food and movies, especially leading up to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. \n The council put on a ninja-inspired martial-arts demonstration, in which a muscular actor used rope to ward off, choke and disarm an attacker, and a woman dressed in a mini-ninja outfit did flips to recorded rock music. \n It also showed a guidebook in English highlighting several ninja-related places in Japan, such as castles where ninja had been employed, a gorge used for training by Sarutobi Sasuke, a legendary ninja, and a ninja-village theme park. \n Tourism has been booming in Japan, with 24 million visitors from abroad last year, and those numbers are expected to grow. \n Historically, ninja were hired by samurai as spies on enemies \u2014 hence their appearance in movies, eavesdropping from attics and summersaulting escapes from rooftops. Iga and Koga clan ninja were reputed to be the best. They have inspired countless novels, movies and cartoons, including the \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.\" \n According to the council, ninja can stare at a burning candle without blinking, frequently massage their ears to stay nimble and never gain weight above 60 kilograms (130 pounds). Their diligence and perseverance, as well as their humble acceptance of anonymity, are integral parts of Japanese culture and should become a pillar export, the council argues. \n Kawakami acknowledged that real ninja training was hard to pass down today, and said that was why he is called the last real ninja. But ninja had much to offer spiritually, such as the meditative focus they muster when they clasp their hands in concentration in their trademark pose. \n \"It is also about respect to our ancestors,\" Kawakami said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ninja Academy in Tokyo set to open in 2018"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n China's men have only qualified for one World Cup and President Xi Jinping has made boosting China's football fortunes a national priority. Plans call for again qualifying for the sport's marquee event, hosting it and winning the title by 2050. \n BEIJING >> China plans to have 50,000 football academies by 2025 as part of an ambitious blueprint to grow into a soccer superpower. \n The announcement, made by China's football association Vice President Wang Dengfeng, more than doubles the earlier target of 20,000 academies by 2020. \n Wang was quoted by state media on Wednesday as saying that each school would be able to train 1,000 young players on average, fulfilling the goal laid out in a plan announced last April of having 50 million competent players. \n \"This is a solid way to select football talent for our future reserves. Improving Chinese football is no longer just a dream,\" Wang was quoted as saying on the website of the ruling Communist Party mouthpiece People's Daily. \n China's men have only qualified for one World Cup and President Xi Jinping has made boosting China's football fortunes a national priority. Plans call for again qualifying for the sport's marquee event, hosting it and winning the title by 2050. \n To that end, China last year signed Brazil's World Cup-winning manager Marcello Lippi to take over the national men's team. The government has also ordered the creation of 70,000 football fields to fill gaps in its youth program. \n Teams in China's professional leagues, meanwhile, have recruited international stars such as Alex Teixeira and Jackson Martinez on highly paid contracts, raising concerns that they are neglecting home-grown talent. \n In response, China's football association last month said it plans a series of measures in response to \"irrational\" spending by clubs. It also reduced the number of foreigners who can play per club at any given time from four to three and required that each team's starting list must include at least two Chinese players under age 23. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China plans for 50,000 football academies by 2025"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image taken from video provided by WABC, a bull that escaped from a local slaughter house is pursued by New York City Police today in New York. \n NEW YORK >> A plucky bull escaped from a slaughterhouse and led police on a wild chase through the streets today only to die on its way to a shelter. \n Police corralled the bull in a backyard in Queens after a two-hour chase that continued even after the bull's hide was studded with tranquilizer darts. \n A spokeswoman for Animal Care Centers of New York City said the bull died en route to one of the agency's care centers. \n Police said the bull had escaped from the Aziz halal slaughterhouse. No one answered a phone number listed there. \n The bull would have been spared the butcher's knife if it had lived. Mike Stura, the founder of Skylands Animal Sanctuary & Rescue in Wantage, New Jersey, said he was on his way to pick the bull up and take it to his facility. \n \"I was there trying to get him,\" Stura said. \"This is not the outcome I was hoping for.\" \n The beast's break for freedom was covered live on local TV. \n Footage that aired on WABC-TV showed the black bull trotting briskly through a residential neighborhood. \n The nimble bovine eluded attempts to box it in between police vehicles by squeezing through narrow openings. \n There were no reports of the bull causing any injuries during the chase, though it ripped the door off a car. \n Escaped livestock episodes are rare but not unheard of in the city. \n A bull that escaped while being transported to a Queens slaughterhouse last year was taken to an upstate farm sanctuary by former \"Daily Show\" host Jon Stewart and his wife, Tracey Stewart, an animal advocate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bull that led police chase after slaughterhouse escape dies"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Dave Baker, of Minnesota, reacts after watching the Dose of Reality video depicting a parent who can't wake her child who overdosed on an opioid. \n ST. PAUL, Minn. >> In statehouses across the country, lawmakers with loved ones who fell victim to drugs are leading the fight against the nation's deadly opioid-abuse crisis, drawing on tragic personal experience to attack the problem. \n A Minnesota state senator whose daughter died of a heroin overdose in a Burger King parking lot \u2014 a friend hid the needles instead of calling for help \u2014 spearheaded a law that grants immunity to 911 callers. In Wisconsin, a state representative has introduced more than a dozen opioid-related bills in the years since his daughter went from painkillers to heroin to prison. A Pennsylvania lawmaker whose son is a recovering heroin addict championed a state law that expanded availability of an antidote that can reverse an overdose. \n \"We're all here because we have this empty void in our lives,\" said Minnesota state Rep. Dave Baker, whose son started out taking prescription drugs for back pain and died of a heroin overdose in 2011. \n The lawmakers' personal stories have lent weight to the effort to combat what public health officials have deemed a full-blown epidemic that is fast approaching the severity of the AIDS outbreak of the 1980s and '90s. \n More than 52,000 people died of a drug overdose in 2015, and roughly two-thirds of them had used prescription opioids like OxyContin or Vicodin or illegal drugs like heroin, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Those overdoses have jumped 33 percent in the past five years alone, with some states reporting the death toll had doubled or more. \n \"It drives what I do,\" state Sen. Chris Eaton, a Minnesota Democrat whose daughter, Ariel, died almost 10 years ago, said Tuesday. \"It's a crisis. We're losing a generation.\" \n In trying to combat what they see as the reckless overprescribing of opioids, lawmakers are up against powerful adversaries. A joint investigation by The Associated Press and the Center for Public Integrity last fall found that pharmaceutical companies and allied groups spent more than $880 million nationwide on lobbying and campaign contributions from 2006 through 2015. \n The industry group Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America said in a statement Tuesday that it is \"committed to helping combat misuse and abuse\" of prescription drugs. \n Wisconsin Rep. John Nygren's daughter, Cassie, suffered a heroin overdose in 2009 and has been in and out prisons, jails and drug court. \n \"Drug addiction was never in my world,\" said Nygren, a high-ranking Republican who has shepherded countless measures into law. \n Among them were laws that require people to show identification when picking up opioid prescriptions, provide immunity for those who report overdoses, and allow police and paramedics to carry naloxone, the overdose antidote better known as Narcan. Similar laws were passed in Pennsylvania, written by Rep. Gene DiGirolamo, a Philadelphia-area Republican whose son is a recovering heroin addict. \n Governors are telling their personal stories from the bully pulpit, too. \n Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan launched his long-running effort to curb drug addiction and deaths by revealing that his cousin had died of a heroin overdose. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has devoted his final year in office to curbing his state's rapidly growing heroin and prescription drug epidemic, citing the case of a friend from law school who was found dead with a painkiller bottle at his side. \n Christie said his friend fell into a haze of addiction that started with a simple back injury. \n \"I sat at his funeral with our friends and helplessly watched his family grieve. I thought to myself, 'There but for the grace of God go I,'\" Christie said. \"It can happen to anyone.\" \n In that January speech, Christie called for such measures as a five-day limit for first-time opioid prescriptions and a requirement that insurance cover six months of substance abuse treatment. Last week, he signed them into law. \n Increasingly, state legislatures are looking at prescription painkillers as the start of an addiction that can lead to heroin or other drugs and, eventually, death. \n Baker and fellow Minnesota lawmakers want to take the fight directly to pharmaceutical companies, proposing legislation Tuesday that would charge manufacturers a 1-cent fee on every milligram of opioids they sell. \n The measure is projected to raise an estimated $20 million or more to support addiction programs and public awareness efforts. \n The pharmaceutical industry group called that proposal a \"burdensome and arbitrary tax that would not help those struggling with addiction, but would jeopardize patient access.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State lawmakers channel grief into fight against opioids"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue crews take out residents from a flooded neighborhood today in San Jose, Calif. Rescuers chest-deep in water steered boats carrying dozens of people, some with babies and pets, from a San Jose neighborhood inundated by water from an overflowing creek. \n SAN JOSE, Calif. >> Rescuers chest-deep in water steered boats full of people, some with babies and pets, from a San Jose neighborhood inundated today by water from an overflowing creek. \n Further north, farmers used tractors to shore up an endangered levee in California's agricultural heartland, officials opened a spillway at the Don Pedro reservoir for the first time in 20 years, and a Sierra Nevada highway threatened to collapse after the latest downpours swelled waterways, leaving nearly half of the state under flood advisories. \n In San Jose, at least 225 residents were taken to dry land and rinsed with soap and water to prevent them from being sickened by floodwaters from the Coyote Creek that had traveled through engine fuel, garbage, debris and over sewer lines, San Jose Fire Capt. Mitch Matlow said. \n Rescuers went door-to-door searching for people who needed to leave the neighborhood. Only residents who could prove they had been cleaned of the floodwaters were allowed to board buses to shelters. \n \"The water started to seep in the driveway, and then it started to creep up into the front door. It kept getting worse and worse,\" said Alex Hilario, who walked in knee-high water to get to his car and leave the area. \n \"We didn't get a chance to get anything out,\" Hilario added. \n Bobby Lee, 15, said he was rescued with his brother and parents, who took clothes, electronics and some photos from their home in a neighborhood that ended up littered with submerged cars. \n \"This is like once-in-a-lifetime,\" Lee said. \n Earlier today, firefighters rescued five people stranded by flooding at a homeless camp along the same creek in San Jose. \n Firefighters knocked on doors to tell residents to get out of their homes because the city does not have sirens or another emergency warning system, San Jose spokesman David Vossbrink said. \n The rains were the latest produced by a series of storms generated by so-called atmospheric rivers that dump massive quantities of Pacific Ocean water on California after carrying it aloft from as far away as Hawaii. \n In the Sierra Nevada mountain range, part of Highway 50, one of the main routes to Lake Tahoe, was in danger of collapsing after a roadway shoulder gave way following heavy storms, leaving a gaping hole about 40 feet long and 17 feet wide, Caltrans engineer Jarrett Woodruff said. \n Crews opened one lane open today as Caltrans workers tried to fix the road failure after numerous mudslides blocked it for days at a time in recent weeks. \n Heavy storms over the last two weeks caused parts of the shoulder and part of one lane on the four-lane highway give way. \n In the San Joaquin Valley in California's agricultural heartland, farmers used their tractors and other heavy equipment to help shore up an endangered levee along the San Joaquin River. \n Some farmers took their tractors and other equipment to the levee to help shore it up, arriving to fill a big breach within half an hour of noticing the break, said alfalfa farmer Tony Coit. \n \"The farmers ran it like a boss,\" he said, using soil from the levee itself to fill in the 30-foot-wide break until they could truck in large rocks for more substantial repairs. \n Water began flowing from the Don Pedro reservoir on the Tuolumne River, for the first time in 20 years, said Calvin Curtin, a spokesman for the Turlock Irrigation District. A stretch of the river flowing through Modesto was just below flood stage, but officials warned small neighborhoods of mobile homes to be alert, and asked some owners to tow their trailers to higher ground. The relief flows from the reservoir are expected through Thursday. \n The water level rose at Lake Oroville for the first time since authorities ordered an emergency evacuation of 188,000 people more than a week ago after a damaged spillway caused major flooding concerns. \n The rains have saturated the once-drought stricken region and wreaked havoc for residents hit hard by the heavy rain. At least four people have died in the storms throughout the state in the last week. \n A motorist in Northern California was swept into a creek Saturday during another in the series of storms and drowned inside her car, the Los Angeles Times reported today. \n Witnesses had seen the woman driving around signs blocking the road near Orland, Undersheriff Todd James of the Glenn County Sheriff's Office told the newspaper. \n The current storm system began to weaken today after dumping more than a half-inch of rain in the San Joaquin Valley, over an inch in San Francisco, and more than 5 inches in the mountains above Big Sur over the previous 24 hours, the National Weather Service reported. \n Dry weather was expected to return to the region on Wednesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hundreds rescued from California floodwaters in San Jose"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean students wearing traditional Korean costumes perform during a graduation ceremony at Sungkyunkwan University in Seoul, South Korea. By 2030, Americans will continue to have one of the lowest life expectancies of any developed country, a new study published online predicts. \n LONDON >> While most people born in rich countries will live longer by 2030 \u2014 with women in South Korea projected to reach nearly 91 \u2014 Americans will continue to have one of the lowest life expectancies of any developed country, a new study predicts. \n Scientists once thought an average life expectancy beyond 90 was impossible but medical advances combined with improved social programs are continuing to break barriers, including in countries where many people already live well into old age, according to the study's lead researcher, Majid Ezzati of Imperial College London. \n \"I can imagine that there is a limit, but we are still very far from it,\" he said. \n Ezzati estimated that people would eventually survive on average to at least 110 or 120 years. The longevity of South Korean women estimated in 2030 is due largely to investments in universal health care, he said. South Korea also led the list for men. \n \"It's basically the opposite of what we're doing in the West, where there's a lot of austerity and inequality,\" he said. \n Ezzati and his co-authors used death and longevity trends to estimate life expectancy in 35 developed countries. The calculation is for a baby born in 2030. The study was published online today in the journal Lancet. \n Women were ahead of men in all countries. Behind South Korea, women in France, Japan, Spain and Switzerland were projected to live until 88. For South Korea men, life expectancy is expected to reach 84. Next were Australia, Switzerland, Canada and the Netherlands at nearly 84. \n At the bottom of the list: Macedonia for women at nearly 78, and Serbia for men at about 73. \n While some genetic factors might explain the longevity in certain countries, social and environmental factors were probably more important, Ezzati said. \n The study estimated that the U.S., which already lags behind other developed countries, will fall even further behind by 2030, when men and women are projected to live to 80 and 83. American women will fall to 27th out of 35 countries, from their current ranking of 25, and men will fall from 23rd to 26th. \n The researchers note that among rich countries, the U.S. has the highest maternal and child death rates, homicide rate and is the only high-income country without comprehensive health care. \n The researchers also predicted how much longer 65 year olds in 2030 would live; they guessed that among men, those in Canada would live the longest, surviving another 23 years. Among 65-year-old women in 2030, they estimated that South Koreans would live the longest, another 28 years. \n In an accompanying commentary, Ailiana Santosa of Umea University in Sweden wrote that the projections raise \"crucial issues\" about which strategies are needed to tackle worsening inequality problems. \n \"Achieving universal health coverage is worthy, plausible and needs to be continued,\" she said. \n The study was paid for by the U.K. Medical Research Council and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Life expectancy to keep rising; S. Korean women could hit 91"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo released by Matangi Tonga Online, Queen Mother Halaevalu Mata'aho, center, wearing her own crown from her July 4 1967 coronation as Queen Consort to King Tupou IV, smiles at her grandson Crown Prince Tupouto'a 'Ulukalala, left, and Crown Princess Sinaitakala, second left, as she leaves the Free Wesleyan Church in Nuku'alofa, the capital of Tonga, following the coronation of her son King Tupou VI, in July 2015. \n NUKU'ALOFA, Tonga >> The South Pacific island kingdom of Tonga is mourning the death of its queen mother, who dedicated her time to helping the elderly and those with disabilities. \n Halaevalu Mata'aho died Sunday at the age of 90 in Auckland, New Zealand, after traveling there for health reasons. The cause of her death has not been released by her family. \n She was the mother of two kings: George Tupou V, who died in 2012, and the current monarch, King Tupou VI. \n Her funeral procession will be held in Tonga on Feb. 28, when most people in the country of just over 100,000 are expected to turn out wearing black. \n Mata'aho will be particularly missed by the Alonga Centre and the Tonga Red Cross, with leaders at the two agencies saying she worked tirelessly. \n Lavinia Satini, the coordinator for the Alonga Centre, was in tears when remembering the queen mother, the news website Matangi Tonga reported. \n \"Her love for those who are less fortunate was evident in her leadership because she made it a point to take care of each person here,\" Satini said. \n She said Mata'aho would personally visit the disabled and the elderly at their homes. \n \"I will always remember when she visited us from the Royal Palace she was already stocked with everything that we needed from food to various household items,\" Satini told the website. \"She not only distributed it to us here but she also made personal trips to homes of people she knew were in need.\" \n Crown Prince Tupouto'a 'Ulukalala announced that the Tongan people could pay their respects to the queen mother at the royal palace in Nuku'alofa before she is buried in the royal tombs on March 1. The crown prince said the royal family would observe 10 days of mourning following her burial. \n The queen mother married Tupouto'a Tungi, the eldest son of Queen Salote Tupou III, in a royal wedding in 1947. Her husband became King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV after Queen Salote died in 1965 and reigned until his death in 2006. \n As well as the king, the queen mother is survived by her daughter, Princess Salote Mafile'o Piloevu Tuita, 11 grandchildren and several great-grandchildren. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Island kingdom of Tonga mourns the death of its queen mother"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former skinhead Shannon Martinez talks about her time as a white supremacist during an interview last month at her home in Athens, Ga. A member of the racist group starting in her teen years, Martinez quit decades ago and is now worried about a possible rise in extremism in the United States. \n ATHENS, Ga. >> The Celtic cross tattoo on Shannon Martinez's leg gives away her past. \n A victim of sexual assault at age 14 and never quite able to meet her parents' expectations, Martinez sought out other angry teens. By 16, she was a skinhead spouting white supremacist rhetoric, giving stiff-armed Nazi salutes and tagging public property with swastikas. She favored racist fashion statements \u2014 like the symbol on her right calf. \n Fortified by the love of an adopted family, Martinez left the skinheads behind. Today she's helping others do the same as part of an emerging U.S. movement that helps people quit hate organizations. \n Modeled loosely upon organizations that formed in Europe years ago to combat extremism, groups and individuals are offering counseling, education and understanding to extremists seeking a way out. \n Now a 42-year-old mom who homeschools her kids at their house in Georgia, Martinez volunteers with Life After Hate, a leading organization dedicated to helping people leave white supremacy. On Facebook, she shares her story with others who've left or are looking to leave extremism. \n \"We act as a group of people who understand each other,\" said former skinhead Christian Picciolini, an old friend of Martinez who founded the Chicago-based Life After Hate. \"We understand the motivations of where we came from and why we joined. We understand what keeps people in. And we help each other detach and disengage from that ideology and provide a support system for them as they go through that transformation.\" \n Founded in 2009, Life After Hate was awarded a $400,000 Justice Department grant in the closing days of the Obama administration \u2014 funding that could be endangered if the Trump administration decides to refocus a federal program combatting violent extremism solely on Islamic radicals, as is being considered. \n While several other grant recipients are dedicated to countering radical Muslim ideology, Life After Hate concentrates specifically on showing white extremists there's another way. \n The group operates a website where people who want to explore leaving white extremism can submit contact information. It also conducts educational and counseling programs including the Facebook group where members sometimes chat with extremists trying to change their lives, Picciolini said. \n \"I started the organization \u2026 because it was so difficult to leave that movement,\" he said. \"Even though I'd abandoned the ideology, I wasn't ready to give up my community and my power and my identity, and I knew how hard it would be for other people to leave this type of ideology or this type of movement.\" \n Another group, One People's Project, was started by Daryle Lamont Jenkins of Philadelphia. Aside from monitoring racist groups, Jenkins \u2014 who is black \u2014 confronts white nationalists at public gatherings and talks one-on-one with willing white supremacists as he can, trying to show them there is a way other than hate. Some have never met a black person, he said. \n Jenkins' work is similar to that of Daryl Davis, a black musician from Maryland who has gained notice for trying to talk people out of the Ku Klux Klan. \n Mark Potok, a senior fellow with the liberal Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Alabama, said it's hard to determine exact numbers, but around 100,000 people might be members in hate groups and several hundred thousand could be linked informally. \n Potok said exit organizations began in Europe in the 1980s to counter the rise right-wing militants there. \n \"I do think that this is a particularly important moment for this kind of exit work to be happening because we have seen in the last year, year and a half, a real legitimization of these views,\" he said. \n President Donald Trump's election with the support of neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan has lent a new sense of urgency to opponents of white supremacy. \n \"The Trump election has absolutely lit a fire under the butts of the white nationalists,\" Martinez said. \"It is like, 'Our time is coming.'\" \n Martinez said she grew up in metro Atlanta in a relatively normal family but rebelled after being sexually assaulted at a party. She got involved in the punk scene, which led to the skinhead movement. \n Martinez said she was on a path to prison or an early death when she moved in with the family of her skinhead boyfriend, who was away for Army training. His mother showed unconditional love that pulled her out of the abyss, Martinez said. \n Today, she looks at photos of herself from her skinhead days and fights back tears. \n \"I was filled with rage and anger and the skinheads were the angriest people that I knew and I was kind of like, 'Those are my people.' And the ideology was a means of taking something that was ethereal, something that was unnamable, an anger and a rage that I felt, and giving it a focal point,\" she said. \n Shane Johnson was born into extremism. His father and many of his father's relatives were part of the Klan, he said, so there was only one real way for him to go as a youth in northern Indiana. \n \"We were known as the Klan family,\" he said. \"I got my first Klan robe when I was 14.\" \n Johnson eventually joined a skinhead group in addition to the KKK but finally decided to quit after getting arrested, stopping drinking and meeting the woman who is now his wife. Leaving was a real fight, though, as even relatives jumped him at a gas station one night after learning he wanted to quit. \n \"When I dropped out they beat the holy hell out of me,\" he said. \n Since then, Johnson has tried to cover some of his racist tattoos with new ones and wears long sleeves to hide remnants of the past he regrets. Life After Hate is helping him numerous ways, Johnson said, including showing him how to read the Bible without seeing it as a treatise on racial separation, as he had been taught. \n Johnson, now 25 and living in rural Indiana, isn't ready to begin counseling others about leaving extremism; he still sometimes longs for his racist buddies and their ways. But he said his own story is proof that hate doesn't have to be permanent. \n \"You can get out,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former white supremacists help others leave hate groups"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rabbi Hershey Novack of the Chabad center walks through Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City today, where almost 200 gravestones were vandalized over the weekend. \"People who are Jewish are shocked and angry,\" Novack said. \n ST. LOUIS >> Has anti-Semitism accompanied Donald Trump's rise to power? Some organizations that monitor hate groups and hate crimes believe so, noting a rash of recent incidents. But data is elusive, and the president's supporters note his family connection \u2014 a Jewish daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren \u2014 and his comments this week condemning hate and prejudice. \n Here's a look at recent incidents targeting Jewish sites and anti-Semitism in the U.S.: \n ARE HATE CRIMES TARGETING JEWS INCREASING? \n Human rights activists and organizations are convinced that Trump's popularity and electoral victory created an acceptance into the mainstream of the \"alt-right,\" an offshoot of conservatism mixing racism, white nationalism and populism, and along with it, anti-Semitism. \n There have been reports nationwide in recent months of anti-Semitic incidents, including people yelling pro-Hitler comments at a rabbi on the street in Providence, Rhode Island, swastikas drawn in subway cars in New York City, and bomb threats at Jewish buildings in several cities. \n But determining whether such incidents have increased is difficult. \n The Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit that monitors hate groups and extremists, reported last week that the number of hate groups operating in the U.S. rose from 892 in 2015 to 917 in last year. But that's still short of the all-time high of 1,018 hate groups in 2011. \n The organization also counted 1,094 bias-related incidents in the month following Trump's November election victory, including 33 against Jews, 108 involving swastikas and 47 white nationalist fliers. \n New York City police keep a running tab of hate crimes. As of Sunday, 31 hate crimes have been reported against Jewish people this year \u2014 more than double compared to the same period of 2016. \n Official nationwide government data for the last year isn't available. The FBI tracks hate crimes, but the most recent available data is from 2015. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n WHAT HAS INCREASED CONCERNS ABOUT ANTI-SEMITISM? \n Among the most recent events were bomb threats phoned in to 11 Jewish community centers across the country on Monday, including in Chicago, Cleveland and Houston. \n No bombs were found and no arrests have been made, but the threats \u2014 along with similar threats over recent months at other centers \u2014 created fear and uncertainty among Jewish people. \n Also on Monday, roughly 200 headstones were found knocked over or broken at a Jewish cemetery in suburban St. Louis. No arrests have been made for the damage at the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City, Missouri. Investigators have not yet determined if it was a hate crime. Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens, who is Jewish, posted a statement on Facebook calling the vandalism \"despicable\" and \"cowardly.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n WHAT HAS TRUMP SAID ABOUT ANTI-SEMITISM? \n Until Tuesday, it was what Trump hadn't said that raised eyebrows. \n Jewish groups and others were upset in January when a White House statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day failed to mention Jews. Aides to the president defended the statement as \"inclusive\" of all who were killed by the Nazis. \n Last week, when a reporter from the Orthodox Ami Magazine tried to ask Trump during a news conference about increased reports of anti-Jewish harassment and hate crimes, Trump interrupted, saying, \"not a fair question.\" When reporter Jake Turx tried to continue, the president said: \"Quiet, quiet, quiet \u2026 I find it repulsive. I hate even the question.\" \n Trump went on to call himself \"the least anti-Semitic person that you've ever seen in your life,\" and the \"least racist person.\" \n But on Tuesday, Trump denounced threats against Jewish community centers as \"horrible\" and \"painful,\" saying more needed to be done \"to root out hate and prejudice and evil.\" \n Speaking after a tour of the newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture, Trump said: \"This tour was a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n DOES TRUMP HAVE PERSONAL TIES TO JUDAISM? \n The president is a Presbyterian, but his daughter Ivanka converted to Judaism ahead of her 2009 marriage to Jared Kushner, who serves as a senior adviser to the president. \n Ivanka and Jared Kushner's children \u2014 the president's grandchildren \u2014 are Jewish. \n On Monday, Ivanka Trump wrote on Twitter, \"We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers,\" and used the hashtag #JCC, which stands for Jewish community center. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Evidence of rising anti-Semitism, but data mostly elusive"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "COURTESY TECHCRUNCH \n The test Monday used a delivery drone that docks on top of the truck, with a cage underneath it that goes through a hatch in the truck. The UPS driver uses the hatch to load the package onto the drone. \n ATLANTA >> UPS has tested delivering a package to a home by drone from one of its brown trucks. \n The test conducted Monday in Lithia, Fla., used a drone called HorseFly built by Workhorse Group, an Ohio-based developer of drones and battery-electric trucks. \n \"We think drones can help us with some of our routine daily deliveries,\" said UPS chief information officer Juan Perez during the company's investor conference Tuesday. \"I can imagine a day when we dispatch a fleet of autonomous cars. \u2026 Now imagine a day when these autonomous vehicles have a UPS delivery person on board,\" who delivers packages and deploys delivery drones, he said. \n The test Monday used a delivery drone that docks on top of the truck, with a cage underneath it that goes through a hatch in the truck. The UPS driver uses the hatch to load the package onto the drone. \n The drone can carry a package of up to 10 pounds and can fly autonomously for up to 30 minutes after the driver hits a button on a touch screen. The drone returns to the dock to recharge, and the driver can make other deliveries while the drone is away. \n \"The test is different than anything we've done with drones so far,\" said UPS senior vice president of global engineering Mark Wallace in a written statement. \"It has implications for future deliveries, especially in rural locations where our package cars often have to travel miles to make a single delivery.\" \n He said drones could \"reduce costly miles driven,\" improving efficiency and reducing emissions. \n With 66,000 delivery drivers on the road daily, cutting one mile driven per drive per day over a year could save the company as much as $50 million, according to UPS. \n Drivers will still be \"the face of our company,\" but drones could \"aid drivers at various points along their routes, helping them save time,\" Wallace added. \n But the demonstration of the drone Monday showed that there are still some glitches in the technology, according to a TechCrunch report describing a possible interference issue that caused the drone to abort a flight and fall to the side during a demonstration. \n UPS has done other drone tests, including a mock delivery of medicine in Beverly, Mass., last year. It also uses drones in warehouses to check inventory on high shelves and uses drones for humanitarian relief delivering blood and vaccines in Rwanda. \n But this week's test \"shows how drones might assist in making non-urgent residential deliveries as part of the day-to-day operation,\" according to UPS. \n The Federal Aviation Administration has authorized limited use of small drones for commercial purposes. UPS sits on a FAA drone advisory committee, which will provide recommendations on integrating drones into the national airspace. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UPS tests delivery by drone"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "CHRISTCHURCH CITY COUNCIL VIA AP \n New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English, right, prepares to lay a wreath during the dedication ceremony for the Canterbury Earthquake National Memorial in Christchurch, New Zealand. \n CHRISTCHURCH CITY COUNCIL VIA AP \n Visitors inspect the memorial wall of the 2011 Christchurch earthquake during the dedication ceremony for the Canterbury Earthquake National Memorial in Christchurch, New Zealand. \n CHRISTCHURCH CITY COUNCIL VIA AP \n A woman lays her hand on the name of a victim of the 2011 Christchurch earthquake during the dedication ceremony for the Canterbury Earthquake National Memorial in Christchurch, New Zealand. \n CHRISTCHURCH CITY COUNCIL VIA AP \n Piper Tom Glover plays the lament \"Flowers of the Forest\" as he walks along the memorial wall during the dedication ceremony for the Canterbury Earthquake National Memorial in Christchurch, New Zealand. \n CHRISTCHURCH CITY COUNCIL VIA AP \n New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English lays a wreath during the dedication ceremony today for the Canterbury Earthquake National Memorial in Christchurch, New Zealand. Christchurch unveiled a national memorial to commemorate the 185 people who died in an earthquake six years ago. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> The New Zealand city of Christchurch unveiled a national memorial Wednesday to commemorate the 185 people who died in an earthquake six years ago. \n Prime Minister Bill English joined other dignitaries to unveil the memorial wall on the anniversary of the 2011 quake. \n \"The earthquake, we saw so dramatically, took lives, destroyed homes, toppled workplaces, and ruined livelihoods,\" English said. \n \"As the horror and fear of those days retreat further into our past, this memorial will endure as a place of peace, a symbol of our love and respect for those who have gone,\" he said. \n English welcomed the families of victims from other nations, some of whom traveled to New Zealand for the unveiling. \n Clad with more than 500 Italian marble panels, the wall stretches 112 meters (370 feet) along the banks of the Avon River. \n The names of those who died have been written across a 40-meter section of the wall, which bereaved families got a chance to view during a private ceremony Tuesday. \n Designed by Slovenian architect Grega Vezjak, the memorial cost 11 million New Zealand dollars ($7.9 million), most of it paid for by the government. \n The memorial is named Oi Manawa, which means \"the tremor of the heart\" in the country's indigenous Maori language. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Zealand unveils national memorial for quake victims"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Victoria Cobb, head of the Family Foundation of Virginia, holds a sign today outside the executive mansion protesting the action of Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, who had just vetoed House Bill 2264, which would restrict state and federal funding for women's health providers like Planned Parenthood. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> A federal judge ruled today that Texas can't cut off Medicaid dollars to Planned Parenthood over secretly recorded videos taken by anti-abortion activists in 2015 that launched Republican efforts across the U.S. to defund the nation's largest abortion provider. \n An injunction issued by U.S. District Sam Sparks of Austin comes after he delayed making decision in January and essentially bought Planned Parenthood an extra month in the state's Medicaid program. \n Texas is now at least the sixth state where federal courts have kept Planned Parenthood eligible for Medicaid reimbursements for non-abortion services, although a bigger question remains over whether President Donald Trump will federally defund the organization. \n Sparks' decision preserves what Planned Parenthood says are cancer screenings, birth control access and other health services for nearly 11,000 low-income women at 30 clinics. Texas originally intended to boot Planned Parenthood in January but Sparks told the state to wait pending his ruling. Arkansas, Alabama, Kansas, Mississippi and Louisiana have also had similar efforts blocked. \n Sparks' unsparing opinion excoriated Texas for not providing \"any evidence\" of Planned Parenthood wrongdoing and stalling on the ouster for nearly a year. \n \"A secretly recorded video, fake names, a grand jury indictment, congressional investigations \u2014 these are the building blocks of a best-selling novel rather than a case concerning the interplay of federal and state authority through the Medicaid program,\" Sparks wrote. \"Yet, rather than a villain plotting to take over the world, the subject of this case is the State of Texas's efforts to expel a group of health care providers from a social health care program for families and individuals with limited resources.\" \n Like in other states, Texas health officials accused Planned Parenthood officials of making misrepresentation to investigators following the release of secretly recorded and heavily edited videos by an anti-abortion group last year. Investigations by 13 states into those videos have concluded without criminal charges, and Planned Parenthood officials have denied any wrongdoing. \n Republican Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said the state intends to appeal in a statement that repeated accusations that Planned Parenthood manipulated the timing of abortions to benefit researchers. Planned Parenthood has denied those claims, and Sparks said there was no evidence the organization violated ethical or medical standards. \n \"No taxpayer in Texas should have to subsidize this repugnant and illegal conduct. We should never lose sight of the fact that, as long as abortion is legal in the United States, the potential for these types of horrors will continue,\" Paxton said in a statement. \n A Houston grand jury indicted two activists behind the videos over how they covertly gained access inside a Planned Parenthood clinic, but a judge later dismissed the charges. \n Planned Parenthood serves only a fraction of the 4.3 million people enrolled in Medicaid in Texas, but Sparks said he was not convinced that its clients would quickly and easily be able to find new providers. \n Anti-abortion activists emboldened by a new Trump administration are looking for the federal government to cut off all federal funding to Planned Parenthood. That would cut nearly $400 million in Medicaid money to the group and result in roughly 400,000 women losing access to care, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. \n In one of his first acts as president, Trump last month banned U.S. funding to international groups that perform abortions or even provide information about abortions. Vice President Mike Pence strongly opposes abortion, citing his Catholic beliefs, and the newly confirmed health secretary, Tom Price, has supported cutting off taxpayer money to Planned Parenthood. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge blocks Texas cutting Medicaid to Planned Parenthood"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Debris is piled on the ground awaiting pickup by cleanup crews at the Dakota Access oil pipeline protest camp in southern North Dakota near Cannon Ball. The camp is on federal land, and authorities have told occupants to leave by Wednesday in advance of spring flooding. \n BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) >> The Army Corps of Engineers said it won't extend a Wednesday deadline for Dakota Access oil pipeline opponents to vacate their encampment on federal land in North Dakota. \n The camp has existed since August and at times has housed thousands of people who supported the concerns of Sioux nations that the $3.8 billion pipeline to carry North Dakota oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois threatens the environment and sacred sites. Dallas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners disputes those claims. \n With flooding expected this spring, the Corps on Feb. 3 told the few hundred people remaining in camp that they must take their possessions and leave by 2 p.m. Wednesday. \n Camp leader Phyllis Young said rain Monday hampered that effort, and that Native Americans also took time out for traditional ceremonies related to the weather. Frozen ground also is making it difficult for people to remove tent stakes, she said. \n Corps Capt. Ryan Hignight confirmed that people in camp sought an extension on the deadline to move. But he said the Corps is focused on people's safety and on the environment. \n Gov. Doug Burgum also listed Wednesday as the deadline in an evacuation order he issued last week. Spokesman Mike Nowatzki said Tuesday that the deadline hasn't changed. He said arrests are possible if people refuse to leave. \n A schedule for emptying the camp, released late Wednesday, calls for the first bus to arrive at 9 a.m. to take those willing to leave to a \"transition center\" in Bismarck to get a change of clothes, medical screening and hotel and bus vouchers. \n The schedule's entry for 2 p.m. says: \"Certain individuals in the camps would like to experience a ceremonial arrest which will occur at this time.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deadline to leave pipeline protest camp won't be extended"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n SANTA ANA, Calif. >> Video released Tuesday shows a plane piloted by Harrison Ford suddenly and mistakenly flying low over an airliner with 110 people aboard at a Southern California airport. \n The 45 seconds of soundless video show the 74-year-old \"Star Wars\" and \"Indiana Jones\" star's potentially serious mishap at John Wayne Airport in Orange County. \n In it, an American Airlines 737 is taxiing slowly. Then Ford's yellow, single-engine Aviat Husky suddenly zooms in from the right of the frame, flying low over the airliner and casting its shadow down the middle of the bigger plane before landing on the taxiway. \n Ford was supposed to have landed on a runway that runs parallel to the taxiway. \n \"Was that airliner meant to be underneath me?\" Ford asks in previously released sound from the air traffic control tower. \n But for the airliner, the taxiway and runway are both wide-open and apparently unmistakable. The video then shows the same landing from the back, giving more time to the approach of Ford's plane, but the flyover itself is barely visible. \n No reason has been given for why Ford made the mistake, and his publicist has not replied to requests for comment. \n The Federal Aviation Administration is investigating the incident. \n American Airlines Flight 1456, with 110 passengers and six crew members aboard, departed safely for Dallas a few minutes later. \n Ford collects vintage planes and has a long and good record as an aviator. \n But he has had several close-calls and a serious accident in March 2015 when he was injured in his World War II-era trainer as it crashed on a Los Angeles golf course. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Video shows Harrison Ford wrongly flying over airliner"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Malaysia's Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar spoke during a press conference at the Bukit Aman national police headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Tuesday. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> The two women suspected of fatally poisoning a scion of North Korea's ruling family were trained to coat their hands with toxic chemicals and then wipe them on his face, police in Malaysia said today, announcing they were seeking a North Korean diplomat in connection with the attack. \n But the North Korean Embassy ridiculed the police account of Kim Jong Nam's death at a Malaysian airport, demanding the immediate release of the two \"innocent women.\" \n If the toxins had been on their hands \"then how is it possible that these female suspects could still be alive?\" demanded a statement from North Korea's embassy in Kuala Lumpur. Police say the women \u2014 one of them Indonesian, the other Vietnamese \u2014 washed their hands soon after poisoning Kim, the long-estranged half brother of the North Korean ruler. \n Earlier today, Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar told reporters that authorities are searching for two new North Korean suspects, the second secretary of North Korea's embassy in Kuala Lumpur and an employee of North Korea's state-owned airline, Air Koryo. \n \"We hope that the Korean Embassy will cooperate with us, allow us to interview them and interview them quickly,\" he said. \"If not, we will compel them to come to us.\" \n Police say the substance used remains unknown, but it was potent enough to kill Kim before he could even make it to a hospital. \n Khalid said the women knew they were handling poisonous materials and \"were warned to take precautions.\" Surveillance video showed both keeping their hands away from their bodies after the attack, he said, then going to restrooms to wash. Those details are not clear in video obtained by media outlets. \n He said the women had practiced the attack at two Kuala Lumpur malls. \n \"We strongly believe it is a planned thing and that they have been trained,\" he told reporters. \n Khalid couldn't confirm whether North Korea's government was behind Kim's death but added, \"What is clear is that those involved are North Koreans.\" \n He also said a heavily armed special police force was deployed to the morgue holding Kim Jong Nam's body after police detected an attempt to break into the facility. He declined to give details, but local media reported that a South Korean cameraman was detained briefly outside the morgue after he was found without any identification documents. He was released after a colleague confirmed his identity. \n The North Korean Embassy's statement was aimed at getting at least a little of the country's spin in international coverage of the killing. It questioned the fairness of the Malaysian investigation, which it has alleged is based on lies and biased presumptions and has been tainted by South Korean influence. While that approach hasn't been particularly persuasive, it can create some level of doubt over what local authorities have found and cast doubt on whatever more concrete links to North Korea they may announce as the investigation progresses. \n Police have already arrested four people in connection with the attack: a Malaysian, a North Korean and the two women. The Malaysian was to be freed today on bail, Khalid said. \n At least one of the women has said she was tricked into attacking Kim Jong Nam, believing she was taking part in a comedy prank TV show. While the North Korean statement also raised this possibility, saying it could have been done \"for a joke,\" Khalid rejected that claim. \"This is not just like shooting a movie,\" he said. \n One of female suspects, Doan Thi Huong, 28, was posting to a Facebook page under the name Ruby Ruby, according to her niece, Dinh Thi Quyen. \n Photos on the page show Huong, who is Vietnamese, wearing a white shirt that appears to say \"LOL,\" like the one seen on security camera video during the attack. It shows her posing for selfies in Kuala Lumpur a few days before the incident and last month in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. \n Her last post was on the morning of Feb. 11, two days before the attack, from an area near the airport. \n \"I want to sleep more but by your side,\" she wrote above a photo showing her with her eyes closed. \n Police are looking for seven other North Korean suspects in connection with the attack, including the two announced today. The embassy official and the airline employee are among three North Koreans believed to still be at large in Malaysia. \n The four others are believed to have fled Kuala Lumpur shortly after the attack. Khalid said authorities believe they are back in North Korea, and that they provided the toxin. \n \"That's why we asked the North Korean Embassy to trace them and hand them over to us,\" he said, adding that Malaysian authorities had received no help from North Korea. \n The case has perplexed toxicologists, who question how the two women could have walked away unscathed after handling a powerful poison. \n Kim had spent most of the past 15 years living in China and Southeast Asia. He is believed to have had at least three children with two women. No family members have come forward to claim the body. \n South Korea's spy agency believes North Korea was behind the killing, but has produced no evidence. \n North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. While Kim Jong Nam was not thought to be seeking influence, his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since its founding could have made him appear to be a danger. \n He was at the airport to fly to Macau, where he had a home. \n Associated Press writers Margie Mason in Jakarta, Indonesia, and Eric Talmadge in Tokyo contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspects in N. Korean death coated hands with poison"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A new sticker is placed on the door at the ceremonial opening of a gender neutral bathroom at Nathan Hale High School in Seattle in May. Hundreds of parents across the country have called on President Donald Trump to embrace Obama-era protections for transgender students that call for letting them use school bathrooms in accordance with their gender identity. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is working on a new set of directives on the use of school bathrooms by transgender students, the White House said today. \n The announcement alarmed LGBT groups across the country that have urged President Donald Trump to safeguard Obama-era guidelines allowing students to use school restrooms that match their gender identity, not their assigned gender at birth. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer did not provide any details on the new guidelines that are being prepared by the Justice Department, but said Trump has long held that such matters should be left to the states, not the federal government, to decide. \n \"I think that all you have to do is look at what the president's view has been for a long time, that this is not something the federal government should be involved in, this is a states' rights issue,\" Spicer said. \n The Obama administration's guidance, issued last May, held that transgender students can access restrooms and participate in school athletics according with the gender they identify with. Schools were also instructed to treat students in line with their expressed gender identity without requiring any medical proof. \n While the move was hailed by rights organizations, it was attacked by conservative groups, which called it federal overreach and an infringement on the personal space and safety of all other students. \n A patchwork of state laws and policies on the issue is emerging. \n Fifteen states have explicit protections for transgender students, and many individual school districts in other states have adopted policies that recognize students on the basis of their gender identity, said Sarah Warbelow, legal director of the Human Rights Campaign. Just one state, North Carolina, has enacted a law restricting students' bathroom access to their sex at birth. But so far this year, lawmakers in more than 10 states are considering similar legislation, according to the National Conference of State Legislators. \n Vanita Gupta, who was head of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division under President Barack Obama, blasted the Trump administration's attempt to alter the guidelines. \n \"To cloak this in federalism ignores the vital and historic role that federal law plays in ensuring that all children, (including LGBT students) are able to attend school free from discrimination,\" Gupta said in a statement. \n The National Center for Transgender Equality said today that even without Obama's guidelines, federal law \u2014 called Title IX \u2014 would still prohibit discrimination against students based on their gender or sexual orientation. Still, rescinding those directives would put children in harm's way, the group said. \n \"Such clear action directed at children would be a brazen and shameless attack on hundreds of thousands of young Americans who must already defend themselves against schoolyard bullies, but are ill-equipped to fight bullies on the floors of their state legislatures and in the White House,\" NCTE said in a statement. \n But Ryan Anderson, a senior research fellow with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said the Obama guidelines were unlawful because Title IX protects students based on their sex, not their gender identity. He also said that those directives violated the rights of other students, especially girls who may have suffered from sexual abuse in the past and do not want to be exposed to male anatomy. \"It's understandable when a 16-year-old girl might not want an anatomical male in the shower or the locker room,\" Anderson said. \n He said that students, parents and teachers should work out \"win-win\" solutions at the local level, such as equipping schools with single-occupancy restrooms or locker rooms or allowing students to access the faculty lounge. \n \"We can find a way in which the privacy and safety of transgender students is respected while also respecting the privacy and safety of all other students,\" Anderson said. \n About 150,000 youth \u2014 0.7 percent\u2014 between the ages of 13 and 17 in the United States identify as transgender, according to a study by The Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law. \n Amber Briggle, a small business owner in Denton, Texas, said that it is vital to allow transgender children like her 9-year-old son Max to feel safe and comfortable when going to the bathroom at school. \n \"It's heartbreaking,\" Briggle said by phone. \"If a child's basic needs cannot be met, if he cannot empty his bladder \u2026. then our schools are failing our kids, they are not doing their job.\" \n But another parent disagreed. \n In Jefferson City, Missouri, Alissa Johnson, a volunteer with the Christian group Concerned Women for America, said that her 17-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter would be \"horrified\" to share school bathrooms. \n \"I don't believe that tolerance means that we have to give up our rights or our freedoms for another group,\" said Johnson. \"To be compassionate, let's accommodate.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump administration working on trans bathroom guidelines"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Jim Howe in Waikiki with lifeguards Josh Rossen and Robert Boughton in 2013. \n Longtime city ocean safety chief Jim Howe was chosen to be Honolulu's new director of the Department of Emergency Services. \n The department oversees both ocean safety and emergency services, including ambulance operations. \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell made the announcement in a press release Tuesday. Howe starts the job March 1 in a designee capacity pending confirmation by the Honolulu City Council. \n Howe replaces Mark Rigg, who resigned at the end of last year after holding the job since shortly after Caldwell was sworn-in as mayor in January 2013. \n Howe has more than 35 years of experience in emergency operations and risk management. For 20 years, beginning in 1995, he served as chief of lifeguard operations. He also served as chief of the department's Ocean Safety Division from January-October 2014. \n Most recently, Howe has served as an ocean safety consultant around the world, including to those who help refugees who take to treacherous ocean waters after fleeing from war, poverty or persecution. \n The press release credited Howe with being instrumental in the creation of the city's personal watercraft rescue program along with fellow lifeguard Brian Keaulana. The program has saved countless lives and is being used by ocean rescuers around the world, the release said. \n Howe has authored publications on rescue operations, and he belongs to a number of groups and organizations dedicated to improving ocean safety both in and outside of Hawaii. \n He was the incorporating officer for the nonprofit Hawaiian Lifeguard Association when it formed in 1991, and he has worked as an ocean safety instructor at various University of Hawaii campuses across the state. \n He participates in several community efforts, including serving as chairman of the State of Hawaii Drowning and Aquatic Injury Prevention Advisory Committee. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Ocean safety chief Jim Howe selected to lead city's Emergency Services department"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Steven Capobianco \n Police say a woman visiting convicted murderer Steven Capobianco at Maui Community Correctional Center tried to pass him drugs. \n Police didn't elaborate today on the contraband described as suspected illegal narcotics. The Maui woman tried to pass the contraband during visitation hours on Sunday. \n Maui Community Correctional Center is one of the state's correction facilities that still allow contact between visitors and inmates. \n A jury found Capobianco guilty of second-degree murder and arson in the death of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. She was five months pregnant with his child when she disappeared in 2014. \n Police say the woman and Capobianco were arrested for promoting prison contraband. Police didn't identify the woman. The attorney who represented Capobianco during the murder trial couldn't immediately be reached today for comment on the latest arrest. \n The state Department of Public Safety says guards confiscated the item wrapped in black tape. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Visitor attempted to pass drugs to Capobianco"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "Matson Inc., the biggest ocean cargo company serving Hawaii, suffered a 22 percent drop in profit last year as higher expenses overshadowed revenue growth. \n The Honolulu-based firm announced today that it earned $80.5 million in 2016 compared with $103 million the year before. \n Matson's 2015 income was a record, and was achieved despite incurring about $43 million in extraordinary expenses related to a molasses spill in Honolulu Harbor and purchasing Horizon Lines Inc. operations in Alaska. \n Not having such big extraordinary expenses benefited Matson's bottom line last year, but the company had other unusually high expenses that hurt income, including $85 million in ship maintenance that was 83 percent higher than maintenance expenses in 2015. \n Other factors that dragged down income for Matson last year included higher fuel costs that won't be recouped through surcharges until this year, lower freight rates in China and costs from putting more vessels into service during the first half of last year, the company said. \n In Hawaii, Matson's container volume edged up by 0.6 percent to 160,200 last year from 159,200 the year before. The company also delivered 7.4 percent more automobiles in Hawaii \u2014 75,200 last year compared with 70,000 the year before. \n The company's volume in China slipped about 2 percent to 61,600 containers, but surged in Alaska by 61 percent to 68,400 containers because last year was the first full year for Matson serving that state. The company took over operations there from Horizon in May 2015. \n Revenue for Matson rose to $1.94 billion last year from $1.88 billion the year before. \n ", "author": "By Andrew Gomes agomes@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Matson profit fell 22% in 2016"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police closed Kamehameha Highway because of a crash this afternoon near Kahana Bay. \n Police were contraflowing traffic at about 4 p.m. today on Kamehameha Highway near Kahana Bay because of a crash. \n Initially, the road was closed in both directions after a crash at about 3 p.m. in the area of 53-065 Kamehameha Highway, near Kahana Valley Road. \n Firefighters, paramedics, and police reponded to the scene, and one person was taken to a hospital in serious condition, police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kamehameha Highway reopened after crash near Kahana Bay"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "A man who taught English at a well-known chain of foreign language schools in Japan pleaded guilty Tuesday to defrauding his students out of more than $230,000. \n As part of a plea deal with prosecutors, Rick Mikaele pleaded guilty to mail fraud and impersonating a federal officer or employee. \n Mikaele, who was a Nova teacher, told two students he could get them a high rate of return by putting their money into a First Hawaiian Bank certificate of deposit, according to an indictment. He then sent them fake bank statements and a bogus letter to make it look like the U.S. Internal Revenue Service was demanding $7,000 in taxes for profit earned on the money, the court document said. \n Mikaele collected nearly $128,000 from one student and nearly $109,000 from another, the indictment said. \n He didn't open any CDs with the money, Mikaele said in court. He said he sent them fake First Hawaiian Bank statements. He also falsified IRS logos to send them fake letters directing them to mail money to a private Hawaii mailbox he obtained \"to see if I could get more money,\" from them, he said. \n The indictment said Mikaele is from Waimanalo. In court, defense attorney Steve Cedillos said Mikaele travels between Hawaii and Japan, where he and his wife run a concert promotion business. \n Sentencing is scheduled for June 7, but Cedillos said his client will need more time to raise about $236,000 in restitution with the concert promotion business. His wife recently gave birth in Japan, Mikaele said. \n ", "author": "The Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii man pleads guilty to defrauding students in Japan"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Police are investigating a robbery that occurred at a store in Waianae. \n Shortly before 8 a.m. Monday, police said two male suspects entered the business armed with a firearm and demanded money from a 67-year-old cashier. The two men then fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. \n Police provided no further details. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police investigate armed robbery at Waianae store"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "The annual open house Saturday at the University of Hawaii at Manoa for the first time will feature an urban market with vendors selling clothing, crafts, jewelry and more. \n The Manoa Experience-University Preview Day attracts a wide range of students (school-aged and high school to those currently enrolled at UH Manoa), prospective students from out-of-state as well as transfers and educators. \n \"Over 180 academic programs and student services will be represented by faculty, staff and current students in tents along the tree-lined McCarthy Mall. Attendees can enjoy interactive hands-on activities, demonstrations and displays that showcase the vast opportunities at UH M\u0101noa. The Office of Admissions will also be open for prospective students to check on their application status or to pay tuition deposits,\" a UH press release said. \n The Art + Flea urban market, sponsored by the Ka Leo campus newspaper and UHM Student Media Board, will be held at the at the Campus Center Courtyard. \n \"The M\u0101noa Experience provides an excellent opportunity for the community and prospective students to interact with our faculty and staff,\" said Ryan Yamaguchi, Associate Director of Admissions. \"This open house is designed to highlight the exciting programs that the University has to offer and how it impacts our community. Because of events like the M\u0101noa Experience, we saw an increase in the number of incoming freshmen from Hawai'i in Fall 2016.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "UH Manoa's annual open house scheduled for Saturday"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man walks through floodwaters Monday, Feb. 20, 2017, in Salinas, Calif. Forecasters issued flash flood warnings Monday throughout the San Francisco Bay Area and elsewhere in Northern California as downpours swelled creeks and rivers in the already soggy region. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Fire crews rescued five people today who were stranded in flooding at a homeless encampment along a San Jose creek after a series of heavy storms drenched already soggy Northern California. \n In the San Joaquin Valley in California's agricultural heartland, farmers used their tractors and other heavy equipment to help shore up an endangered levee along the San Joaquin River. \n San Jose residents rescued from one neighborhood inundated by water from an overflowing creek were taken to dry land and rinsed off to prevent them from being sickened by flood waters that traveled through garbage, debris and over sewer lines, said San Jose Fire Capt. Mitch Matlow. \n The rains were the latest produced by a series of storms generated by \"atmospheric rivers\" that dump massive quantities of Pacific Ocean water on California after carrying it through the air from as far away as Hawaii. \n The rains have saturated the once-drought stricken region but have created chaos for residents hit hard by the storms. \n The latest downpours swelled waterways to flood levels and left about half the state under flood, wind and snow advisories. \n The storm system began to weaken after dumping more than a half-inch of rain in the San Joaquin Valley, over an inch in San Francisco, and more than 5 inches in the mountains above Big Sur over the previous 24 hours, the National Weather Service reported. \n Dry weather was expected to return to the region on Wednesday. \n In San Jose, the fire department was called to Coyote Creek amid reports of as many as 40 people being stranded at the homeless encampment. \n That number turned out to be inaccurate and everyone was located, fire Capt. Mitch Matlow said. \n The conditions of the five people rescued were not immediately available. \n In the San Joaquin Valley, a flash flood warning remained in effect following a levee break along the San Joaquin River that prompted an evacuation order for about 500 people living mainly in ranch and farmland areas near the small city of Manteca. \n \"When the water gets that high and more water is coming, there is just too much pressure and levees can break,\" said Tim Daly, a spokesman with the San Joaquin County Office of Emergency Services. \n Dino Warda of Manteca told KCRA-TV that some farmers took their tractors and other equipment to the levee to help shore it up. \n In Monterey County, people living along a section of the Carmel River were told to leave, as were those in a neighborhood of Salinas near Santa Rita Creek. \n In Lake County, northwest of Sacramento, about 100 homes in two mobile home parks and nearby streets were evacuated when the nearby Clear Lake rose a foot above flood stage. \n \"It's very serious,\" county Sheriff Brian Martin said of the potential for flooding. \"There's going to be widespread property damage \u2026 our ground's been saturated.\" \n No injuries were immediately reported. \n The Carmel River, which has flooded several times in the past month, and the Salinas River were also expected to approach flood levels. \n At the Don Pedro reservoir, which captures water from the Tuolumne River, operators opened a spillway for the first time in 20 years. \n In the Sierra Nevada mountain range, part of one of the main routes to Lake Tahoe was in danger of collapsing after a roadway shoulder gave way following heavy storms, the California Highway Patrol reported. \n Numerous mudslides have blocked the road for days at a time in recent weeks. \n The water level continued to fall at Oroville Lake, where a damaged spillway of the nation's largest dams raised major flood concern a week ago and prompted the temporary evacuation of 188,000 people in communities downstream from the lake. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "5 rescued from swollen creek as storms pummel California"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "Hawaii County is working to ensure more of its parks are accessible to people with disabilities. \n \"We want to make every facility we have Americans with Disabilities Act accessible,\" she said. \"But we're (working on) the court-ordered ones first. My dream would be to have every park totally accessible.\" \n The county has made progress since a 1997 U.S. District Court consent decree called for increased accessibility for people with disabilities, but the county still has room for improvement. \n Under the court order, Hawaii still has to make several parks and venues more accessible, including popular Hilo surfing area Honolii Beach Park, Ahalanui Beach Park near Pahoa and the Hilo Bayfront Canoe Area. \n Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources identified Hapuna Beach as the only state park in Hawaii County where the actual beach itself can be wheelchair accessible. \n Dean Aoki, DLNR's ADA coordinator, said an important thing to consider when improving accessibility at beaches \"is providing beachgoers safety from the adjacent ocean conditions that are unpredictable and dangerous.\" \n State regulations also require wheelchair beach access be designed to avoid environmental impact and that cultural and historical attributes of the site be taken into consideration, according to a DLNR report requested by last year's Legislature. \n But some advocates for people with disabilities say progress at parks and beaches has been too slow. \n \"It's taking a long time,\" said attorney Louis Ertschik, who is the executive director of the Hawaii Disability Rights Center. \"And one of my concerns about the (DLNR) report was that we were going to spend a year or two doing this inventory without actually doing anything.\" \n As for Hawaii County, Kamaka said the renovations to improve accessibility are an ongoing part of park operations, with funding for upgrades included in the annual budget. \n \"It is very important to us because we want to service everybody,\" Kamaka said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii County aims to make beach parks more accessible"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "HOUSTON >> The police chief in Houston says no one has been found injured and there's no evidence of a shooting amid reports of gunfire inside the hospital at the Texas Medical Center. \n Chief Art Acevedo says his officers were making a second search of Ben Taub Hospital, one of the city's major trauma centers. \n Police began receiving reports of gunfire shortly after 2 p.m. Tuesday. \n Dozens of officers and SWAT team members are at the hospital. \n Television images from helicopters showed dozens of employees leaving the hospital, some of them attending to patients who appeared to have been evacuated on gurneys or in wheelchairs. \n The hospital has nearly 500 beds and its trauma center treats more than 100,000 emergency patients each year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Houston police chief: No injuries amid gunfire reports"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wells Fargo's board of directors said it is firing four senior managers as part of its investigation into the bank's sales practices scandal. \n NEW YORK >> Wells Fargo's board of directors fired four senior managers as part of its investigation into the bank's sales practices scandal. \n Tuesday's announcement is the first public firing of managers and executives since Wells acknowledged in September that its employees opened up to 2 million bank and credit card accounts without customer authorization in order to meet lofty sales goals. \n When the scandal first broke, Wells had said it had fired roughly 5,300 employees as a result of the scandal, the vast majority of them lower-level workers. Numerous low-level employees at the bank have said that intense sales pressure from senior managers was at least partially why they were driven to open the accounts. \n The board said the four executives being terminated, effective immediately, were Claudia Anderson, the former community bank chief risk officer; Pamela Conboy, the lead regional president in Arizona; Shelly Freeman, the former regional president in Los Angeles; and Matthew Raphaelson, head of the community bank's strategy and initiatives. The board said the decision was unanimous. \n The board also voted to deny any 2016 bonuses to the executives, and they will forfeit any unvested stock and stock options. \n Wells' board has been conducting its own investigation into the bank's scandal. That inquiry is expected to be finished before the company's annual shareholder meeting in April, the board said. \n The four executives fired represent markets and parts of Wells that were among those believed to be most deeply involved in the unethical practices. \n Anderson has been on unpaid leave since June, a spokeswoman for the bank said. As the community bank's chief risk officer, she had been in charge of the committee that in theory should have raised the alarm sooner to any questionable or illegal behavior. \n Conboy worked for Wells Fargo for more than 37 years, according to her LinkedIn profile. Arizona was an area disproportionately affected by the sales practices scandal. \n Freeman had been with Wells Fargo since 1996, serving in numerous roles at the bank. She had been promoted to Wells' head of consumer credit solutions in 2014, but served as president of the Los Angeles market before then. Southern California was where news of the unethical sales practices started, following an investigation by The Los Angeles Times. \n Raphaelson had been with Wells since at least 2003, heading up strategy and initiatives at the bank, and would have been partially in charge of designing sales programs at the bank. \n Before Tuesday's announcement, the only two executives to publicly lose their jobs following the sales practices scandal had been John Stumpf, the former CEO of Wells who resigned in October, and Carrie Tolstedt, the former head of Wells' community bank, who moved up her retirement date and left the bank in June. Both Tolstedt and Stumpf also had part of their announced 2016 bonuses rescinded. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wells Fargo fires 4 senior managers in sales scandal inquiry"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Milo Yiannopoulos has resigned as editor of Breitbart Tech after coming under fire from other conservatives over comments on sexual relationships between boys and older men. \n NEW YORK >> Polarizing right-wing writer Milo Yiannopoulos resigned as an editor at Breitbart News on Tuesday and apologized for comments he had made about sexual relationships between boys and men. \n Yiannopoulos, speaking to reporters, said that two men, including a priest, had touched him inappropriately when he was between the ages of 13 and 16. \n \"My experiences as a victim led me to believe I could say anything I wanted to on this subject, no matter how outrageous,\" he said. \"But I understand that my usual blend of British sarcasm, provocation and gallows humor might have come across as flippancy, a lack of care for other victims or, worse, advocacy. I am horrified by that impression.\" \n He said he was resigning from Breitbart, which helped make him a star, because it would be \"wrong to allow my poor choice of words to detract from my colleagues' important reporting.\" \n The apology followed days of criticism from fellow conservatives after the release of video clips in which Yiannopoulos appeared to defend sexual relationships between men and boys as young as 13. \n In one of them, Yiannopoulos, who is gay, said relationships between boys and men could \"help those young boys discover who they are and give them security and safety and provide them with love and a reliable sort of rock, where they can't speak to their parents.\" \n On Monday, he was disinvited from the Conservative Political Action Conference after video of his remarks was promoted through social media. \n Publisher Simon & Schuster announced it would cancel the publication of his upcoming book, \"Dangerous.\" \n Yiannopoulos said the book had already received interest from other publishers and would still come out this year. He pledged to donate 10 percent of the proceeds to child sex abuse charities. \n Yiannopoulos, who was born in Greece and raised in Britain, has long been known for provocative comments about women and Muslims and made his support for Republican Donald Trump clear in the last presidential election cycle. He was the technology editor at Breitbart News, whose former executive chairman, Steve Bannon, is now a senior adviser to Trump, who became president last month. \n Before this controversy, Yiannopoulos was perhaps best known for getting banned from Twitter for helping to lead an online harassment campaign against comedian and \"Ghostbusters\" actress Leslie Jones. \n Early in February, he was scheduled to give a talk at the University of California, Berkeley, but the speech was cancelled after violent protests. \n Yiannopoulos has appeared, until now, to revel in those controversies and has portrayed himself as a champion of free speech. Tuesday's apology, he said, was the first he'd ever made. \n Still, the video clips, he insisted, had been edited to remove important context. He characterized media reporting on the tapes as unfair and inaccurate. \n \"Nonetheless,\" he added, \"I do say some things on the tapes that I do not mean and which do not reflect my views.\" \n He said he \"would like to restate my disgust at adults who sexually abuse minors.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Milo Yiannopoulos apologizes for remarks, quits Breitbart"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2015 \n The Hawaii Department of Education released its latest update on the \"cool schools\" initiative on Feb. 14. The report says 209 classrooms have had air-conditioning units installed and 926 classrooms are in the construction or bidding process. \n Only about 200 Hawaii classrooms have received air conditioning units as part of Gov. David Ige's $100 million plan announced early last year to cool 1,000 classrooms. \n When Ige laid out the plan in his State of the State Address in January 2016, he said he wanted to cool 1,000 classrooms by the end of the year. \n But the project has faced setbacks due to the high number of bids for AC installation, budgetary concerns and the aging infrastructure of some schools, according to the department. \n The state has identified 33 schools on a priority list of the state's hottest campuses. \n The only Kauai school on that list is Kekaha Elementary School, which did not have any air-conditioning units installed as of Feb. 15. The school is ranked 31st on the priority list. \n DOE Kauai Complex Area Superintendent Bill Arakaki said the bid for the project went out and the \"award and partial notice to proceed is being processed.\" \n While the state has experienced delays in installing air-conditioning units, officials are still working to cool down classrooms in other ways. \n Arakaki said there are plans to add more trees around the school to provide more shade, irrigate the areas around the buildings to keep the lawns green and to build shade structures over the playground areas. But construction funding has not yet been appropriated for the projects. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii still lags on cool classrooms initiative"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Virginia death row inmate, William Morva. The U.S. Supreme Court rejected Morva's appeal. Morva was in jail awaiting trial on attempted robbery charges in 2006 when he overpowered a deputy sheriff during a trip to the hospital. \n RICHMOND, Va. >> The nation's highest court refused Tuesday to hear the appeal of a Virginia death row inmate who killed a hospital security guard and sheriff's deputy during an escape and sparked a massive manhunt that shut down Virginia Tech's campus in 2006. \n William Morva argued that he should have been allowed to present evidence that he wouldn't pose a threat to prison guards or others if he was sentenced to life in prison. But the U.S. Supreme Court left in place a ruling from the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejecting Morva's claims. \n Morva's attorneys didn't immediately respond to requests for comment Tuesday. \n Morva had been in jail for about a year awaiting trial on attempted robbery charges when he was taken to a Blacksburg hospital for treatment of an injury in August 2006. After arriving at the hospital, he overpowered a Montgomery County sheriff's deputy and used the deputy's pistol to shoot an unarmed security guard, 32-year-old Derrick McFarland, before fleeing. \n Morva's escape set off a police manhunt that forced Virginia Tech to cancel classes on the first day of the academic year and warn students to stay inside. \n A day after McFarland's killing, Morva fatally shot Montgomery County Sheriff's Deputy Eric Sutphin, who had been searching for the inmate on a walking trail near the Blacksburg campus. Later that day, police found Morva lying in a ditch with the sheriff's deputy's gun on the ground nearby. \n Attorneys for Morva, now 35, told the Supreme Court that he was unfairly prevented from presenting evidence at trial to refute prosecutors' argument that Morva would threaten the lives of prison guards and others if allowed to live. Morva's trial lawyers had said a forensic psychologist would have shown jurors that Morva wasn't dangerous in prison, but they were blocked from presenting that testimony. \n \"With that testimony excluded, the prosecution argued freely to the jury \u2014 without fear of any meaningful rebuttal \u2014 that Mr. Morva would endanger the lives of prison guards unless sentenced to death,\" his attorneys told the Supreme Court. \n Mary Pettitt, Montgomery County commonwealth's attorney, said she expects that the circuit court will hold a hearing within the next few weeks to set an execution date for Morva. \n Morva is one of six inmates on Virginia's death row. A court will hold a hearing on Friday to set an execution date for another inmate, Ivan Teleguz, who was convicted in 2006 of hiring another man to kill his ex-girlfriend. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court rejects appeal from Virginia death row inmate"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "A 39-year-old Waianae man who died after being struck by a van near Maili Point in Leeward Oahu has been identified as Aitnes Kenan. \n Kenan died of multiple blunt trauma, according to the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office. The manner of death was classified as an accident. \n The accident occurred during the early morning hours Thursday on the eastbound lanes of Farrington Highway near Kaukama Road. Police said Kenan was crossing the highway diagonally on his bicycle when a Toyota van driven by a 52-year-old Waianae woman collided into Kenan. \n He was transported in critical condition to Waianae Coast Comprehensive Health Center where he later died. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man who died in bike accident near Maili Point identified"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Debris is piled on the ground awaiting pickup by cleanup crews at the Dakota Access oil pipeline protest camp in southern North Dakota near Cannon Ball. The camp is on federal land, and authorities have told occupants to leave by Wednesday, Feb. 22 in advance of spring flooding. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> The Army Corps of Engineers said it won't extend a Wednesday deadline for Dakota Access oil pipeline opponents to vacate their encampment on federal land in North Dakota. \n The camp has existed since August and at times has housed thousands of people who supported the concerns of Sioux nations that the $3.8 billion pipeline to carry North Dakota oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois threatens the environment and sacred sites. Dallas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners disputes those claims. \n With flooding expected this spring, the Corps on Feb. 3 told the few hundred people remaining in camp that they must take their possessions and leave by 2 p.m. tomorrow. \n Camp leader Phyllis Young said rain Monday hampered that effort, and that Native Americans also took time out for traditional ceremonies related to the weather. Frozen ground also is making it difficult for people to remove tent stakes, she said. \n Corps Capt. Ryan Hignight confirmed that people in camp sought an extension on the deadline to move. But he said the Corps is focused on people's safety and on the environment. \n Gov. Mike Burgum also listed Wednesday as the deadline in an evacuation order he issued last week. Spokesman Mike Nowatzki said Tuesday that the deadline hasn't changed. He said arrests are possible if people refuse to leave. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deadline to leave pipeline protest camp won't be extended"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mexican forensic experts examine the body of 14-year-old Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca under the Paso Del Norte border bridge in the city of Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. \n WASHINGTON >> The Supreme Court appears to be evenly divided about the right of Mexican parents to use American courts to sue a U.S. Border Patrol agent who fired across the U.S.-Mexican border and killed their teenage son. \n Justice Anthony Kennedy and other conservative justices suggested during argument Tuesday that the boy's death on the Mexican side of the border was enough to keep the matter out of U.S. courts. \n The four liberal justices indicated they would support the parents' lawsuit because the shooting happened close to the border in an area in which the two nations share responsibility for upkeep. \n A 4-4 tie could cause the court to hold onto the case and schedule a new round of argument if Judge Neil Gorsuch is confirmed as the ninth justice. \n The case arose from an incident that took place in June 2010 in the cement culvert that separates El Paso, Texas, from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. \n The circumstances of exactly what occurred are in dispute, but what is clear is that the agent was on the U.S. side of the border when he fired his gun, striking Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca on the Mexican side. \n Lower courts dismissed the parents' lawsuit. The Supreme Court is considering whether noncitizens who are injured or killed outside the United States can have their day in American courts. \n The legal issues are different, but the Supreme Court case resembles the court battle over President Donald Trump's ban on travelers from seven majority Muslim nations in at least one sense. Courts examining both issues are weighing the rights of foreigners. \n Kennedy noted the court has been reluctant to allow civil rights lawsuits like the one the parents filed, especially when they may implicate international relations. \"This is a sensitive area of foreign affairs where the political branches ought to discuss with Mexico what the solutions ought to be,\" Kennedy said. \n U.S. officials chose not to prosecute Agent Jesus Mesa Jr. in the killing of the Mexican teenager, and the Obama administration refused a request to extradite him so that he could face criminal charges in Mexico. \n The Trump administration, like its predecessor, is arguing that the location of the teenager's death, in Mexico, should be the end of the story. \n Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler told the court that even if the victim had been American and all the other circumstances were the same, the lawsuit should be thrown out. \n But Kneedler and Mesa's lawyer both acknowledged that someone killed by an agent on the U.S. side of the culvert could sue. \n \"That doesn't make a whole lot of sense, does it? To distinguish these two victims?\" Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said. \n Privacy experts also are watching the case because it could affect how courts treat global internet surveillance, particularly when foreigners are involved. \n Sergio's shooting was not an isolated border incident. Parents of a teenager killed in Nogales, Mexico, from gunshots fired across the border by a U.S. agent have filed a civil rights lawsuit. It is being delayed until the Supreme Court rules. \n The government's response to that incident was notable because prosecutors are pursuing second-degree murder charges against Agent Lonnie Swartz in the death of Jose Antonio Elena Rodriguez, 16. \n A 2013 report commissioned by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and written by an outside group faulted the agency for not sufficiently investigating the 67 shootings that took place from 2010 to 2012 and questioned the use of force in some of those incidents. The agency has said it has tightened its policies, particularly in response to rock-throwing incidents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court seems split in case of boy's death near border"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A U.S. Park Service employee works to clean graffiti off of the Washington Monument, Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017, in Washington. U.S. Park Police spokeswoman Sgt. Anna Rose said that the messages written in permanent marker were discovered over the holiday weekend at the Lincoln Memorial, the Washington Monument and the World War II Memorial. \n WASHINGTON >> The National Park Service says graffiti has been found at the Lincoln Memorial, the Washington Monument and the World War II Memorial. \n U.S. Park Police spokeswoman Sgt. Anna Rose said Tuesday that messages written in permanent marker were discovered over the holiday weekend. Similar graffiti was found on a power box along the National Mall. \n Rose says the message written on the Washington Monument references President John F. Kennedy's assassination and the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. \n Park service spokesman Mike Litterst says because of similarities in what's written and the handwriting, it's thought the graffiti was left by one person. \n The Washington Post reports that workers estimate cleaning will take about two weeks. The newspaper reports that officials believe it happened Saturday night and are pulling surveillance video. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Graffiti found at 3 popular monuments in Washington, DC"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a robbery that occurred at a store in Waianae. \n Shortly before 8 a.m. Monday, police said two male suspects entered the business armed with a firearm and demanded money from a 67-year-old cashier. The two men then fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD investigating robbery in Waianae"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An arrest is made during a targeted enforcement operation conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) aimed at immigration fugitives, re-entrants and at-large criminal aliens in Los Angeles. \n WASHINGTON >> Many more people living in the United States illegally could face rapid deportation \u2014 including people simply arrested for traffic violations \u2014 under a sweeping rewrite of U.S. immigration enforcement policies announced today by the Trump administration. \n Any immigrant who is in the country illegally and is charged or convicted of any offense, or even suspected of a crime, will now be an enforcement priority, according to Homeland Security Department memos signed by Secretary John Kelly. That could include people arrested for shoplifting or minor offenses. \n The Trump administration memos replace more narrow guidance focusing on immigrants who have been convicted of serious crimes, are considered threats to national security or are recent border crossers. \n Under the Obama administration guidance, immigrants whose only violation was being in the country illegally were generally left alone. Those immigrants fall into two categories: those who crossed the border without permission and those who overstayed their visas. \n Crossing the border illegally is a criminal offense, and the new memos make clear that those who have done so are included in the broad list of enforcement priorities. \n Overstaying a visa is a civil, not criminal, offense. Those who do so are not specifically included in the priority list but, under the memos, they are still more likely to face deportation than they had been before. \n The new enforcement documents are the latest efforts by President Donald Trump to follow through on campaign promises to strictly enforce immigration laws. He's also promised to build a wall at the Mexican border \u2014 he insists Mexico will eventually foot the bill \u2014 and Kelly's memos reiterate calls for Homeland Security to start planning for the costs and construction. \n Trump's earlier immigration orders, which banned all refugees as well as foreigners from seven Muslim-majority countries, have faced widespread criticism and legal action. A federal appeals court has upheld a temporary halt. \n Kelly's enforcement plans call for enforcing a longstanding but obscure provision of immigration law that allows the government to send some people caught illegally crossing the Mexican border back to Mexico, regardless of where they are from. Those foreigners would wait in that country for U.S. deportation proceedings to be complete. This would be used for people who aren't considered a threat to cross the border illegally again, the memo says. \n That provision is almost certain to face opposition from civil libertarians and Mexican officials, and it's unclear whether the United States has the authority to force Mexico to accept third-country nationals. But the memo also calls for Homeland Security to provide an account of U.S. aid to Mexico, a possible signal that Trump plans to use that funding to get Mexico to accept the foreigners. \n Historically, the U.S. has quickly repatriated Mexican nationals caught at the border but has detained immigrants from other countries pending deportation proceedings that could take years. \n The memos do not change U.S. immigration laws, but take a far harder line toward enforcement. \n One example involves broader use of a program that fast-tracks deportations. It will now be applied to immigrants who cannot prove they have been in the United States longer than two years. \n Since at least 2002 that fast deportation effort \u2014 which does not require a judge's order \u2014 has been used only for immigrants caught within 100 miles of the border, within two weeks of crossing illegally. \n The administration also plans to expand immigration jail capacity. Currently Homeland Security has money and space to jail 34,000 immigrants at a time. It's unclear how much an increase would cost, but Congress would have to approve any new spending. \n The American Civil Liberties Union said it would challenge the directives. \n \"These memos confirm that the Trump administration is willing to trample on due process, human decency, the well-being of our communities, and even protections for vulnerable children, in pursuit of a hyper-aggressive mass deportation policy,\" said Omar Jadwat, director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project. \n However, Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who sits on the House Homeland Security Committee, applauded the Trump effort, saying the memos \"overturn dangerous\" policies from the Obama administration. \n The directives do not affect President Barack Obama's program that has protected more than 750,000 young immigrants from deportation. The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals remains in place, though participants could be deported if they commit crimes or otherwise are deemed to be threats to public safety or national security, according to the department. \n During the campaign Trump vowed to immediately end that program, which he described as illegal amnesty. \n The directives indicate that some young people caught crossing the border illegally by themselves may not be eligible for special legal protections if they are reunited with parents in the United States. And those parents or other relatives that the government believes helped the children would face criminal and immigration investigations. \n Under the Obama administration, more than 100,000 children, mostly from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala, were caught at the border. Most were reunited with parents or relatives living in the United States, regardless of the adults' immigration status. \n The enforcement memos also call for the hiring of 5,000 new Border Patrol agents and 10,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, but it's unclear how quickly that could take place. Currently, two of every three applicants for Customs and Border Protection jobs fail polygraph exams and there are about 2,000 vacancies. \n The government also plans to review a program that allows local police and jailers to act as immigration agents and a program that used fingerprint records from local jails to identify immigrants who had been arrested. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump targets many more immigrants for possible deportation"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PESS \n People search for loved ones' graves at Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City, Mo., on Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017. Authorities in Missouri are investigating after dozens of headstones were tipped over at the Jewish cemetery near St. Louis. \n UNIVERSITY CITY, Mo. >> Vandals have damaged or tipped over as many as 200 headstones at a Jewish cemetery in suburban St. Louis, leaving the region's Jewish community shaken and anxious. \n No arrests have been made in attacks that happened late Sunday or early Monday at the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery in University City, Missouri. Investigators have not yet determined if it was a hate crime or vandalism, but the impact on the Jewish community is the same, said Karen Aroesty, St. Louis regional director of the Anti-Defamation League. \n \"Anxiety is high,\" Aroesty said Tuesday. \"Your loved ones are there. Your memories are there.\" \n Police Lt. Fredrick Lemons said investigators are looking at surveillance camera footage to help determine who pushed over the headstones at the cemetery that opened in 1893. Aroesty said many of tipped over stones were broken, but that there didn't appear to be any graffiti. \n Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens, who is Jewish, posted a statement on Facebook late Monday night calling the vandalism \"despicable\" and \"cowardly.\" \n \"Anyone who would seek to divide us through an act of desecration will find instead that they unite us in shared determination,\" he said. \"From their pitiful act of ugliness, we can emerge even more powerful in our faith.\" \n Messages to the cemetery director were not immediately returned Tuesday. The cemetery's Facebook page said it hopes to publish names of those with damaged headstones by Wednesday morning. \n Aroesty said the Jewish Community Center in suburban St. Louis and another in Overland Park, Kansas, near Kansas City, were both victims of bomb threats last month and last fall. She said other Jewish institutions in the region have also received threats in recent months. She urged President Donald Trump to take action to show support for Jewish people. \n \"What is the government's position relative to rising anti-Semitism and intolerance generally, and what will the government do to put a stop to it?\" Aroesty asked. \"We've been asking that for several weeks now.\" \n During a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture on Tuesday morning, Trump denounced the recent threats against the Jewish community, calling them, \" horrible and \u2026 painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil.\" The president did not say what action he plans to take. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dozens of headstones toppled at Jewish cemetery in Missouri"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "COURTESY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS \n Harriet Tubman in seen in a photograph dating from 1860-75. Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., and Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md. are sponsoring legislation to bring a statue of Harriet Tubman to the U.S. Capitol Building. \n WASHINGTON >> Maryland's U.S. senators are sponsoring legislation to bring a statue of Harriet Tubman to the U.S. Capitol Building. \n The Maryland General Assembly passed legislation in 2012 creating the Harriet Tubman Statue Commission to raise money and commission a statue for display in the U.S. Capitol Building. But Congress must pass legislation to accept the donation. \n The bill Sens. Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin announced Monday will direct the Joint Committee on the Libraries to enter into an agreement to accept the statue. \n Van Hollen says this is an important way to honor Tubman's contributions to the nation's history. Tubman, who was born in Maryland, led slaves to freedom as a conductor on the Underground Railroad, served as a Union spy and pushed for women's suffrage. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill would bring Tubman statue to U.S. Capitol Building"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump tours the National Museum of African American History and Culture, Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017, in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today denounced recent threats against Jewish community centers as \"horrible \u2026 painful\" and said more must be done \"to root out hate and prejudice and evil.\" \n Trump made his remarks after touring the newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture. \n \"This tour was a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms,\" Trump said. \n On Monday, 11 Jewish community centers across the country received phoned-in bomb threats, according to the JCC Association of North America. Like three waves of similar calls in January, Monday's threats proved to be hoaxes, the association said in a statement. In addition, as many as 200 headstones were damaged or tipped over at a Jewish cemetery in suburban St. Louis late Sunday or early Monday. \n \"The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,\" Trump said. He did not outline what that might include. \n The president's comments marked the first time he had directly addressed recent incidents of anti-Semitism and followed a more general White House denouncement of \"hatred and hate-motivated violence.\" \n That statement, earlier today, did not mention the community center incidents or Jews. Trump \"has made it abundantly clear that these actions are unacceptable,\" the statement said. \n The FBI said it is joining with the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division to investigate \"possible civil rights violations in connection with threats.\" \n On Monday, Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump wrote on Twitter, \"We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers,\" and used the hashtag #JCC. She converted to Judaism ahead of her 2009 marriage to Jared Kushner. She joined her father at the African American museum tour. \n Throughout his presidential campaign, Trump was criticized for what some saw as belated and inadequately forceful denunciations of hateful rhetoric by supporters. \n During a news conference last week, Trump scolded a Jewish reporter for asking about rising anti-Semitism, calling his query a \"very insulting question.\" \n \"So here's the story, folks. Number one, I am the least anti- Semitic person that you've ever seen in your entire life. Number two, racism, the least racist person,\" Trump said, apparently misinterpreting the question as an attack on him personally. \n The White House was also criticized by Jewish groups last month after issuing an International Holocaust Remembrance Day statement that did not mention Jews. \n Early today, former presidential rival Hillary Clinton urged Trump to clearly denounce recent incidents. \"JCC threats, cemetery desecration & online attacks are so troubling & they need to be stopped. Everyone must speak out, starting w/ POTUS,\" she said on Twitter. \n Trump told NBC's Craig Melvin before his remarks today that he denounces anti-Semitism \"all the time\" and \"wherever I get a chance I do it.\" \n Trump's latest remarks came as he paid a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture with a group that included Ben Carson, his rival-turned-Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. \n The museum includes an exhibit dedicated to Carson's rise from poverty to prominent pediatric neurosurgeon, which the group stopped to admire and pose for photos in front of. \n \"Honestly, it's fantastic,\" Trump said during the tour. \"I've learned and I've seen and they've done an incredible job.\" \n Trump also took special interest in an exhibit dedicated to the boxer Muhammad Ali, museum officials said. \n Trump's wife Melania Trump visited the museum last week with Sara Netanyahu, wife of the Israeli prime minister. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump denounces 'horrible' threats against Jewish centers"}

{"date": "February 21, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Officials investigate an accident involving out-of-service commuter trains in Upper Darby, Pa. The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority said the Market-Frankford Line trains were traveling near the 69th Street Transportation Center when the accident occurred. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Officials are investigating an accident involving two out-of-service commuter trains in suburban Philadelphia that injured four railroad workers. \n The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority says the Market-Frankford Line trains were travelling near the 69th Street Transportation Center when the accident occurred Tuesday morning. \n Television news footage shows several cars have derailed and one is tipped over at a 45-degree angle. \n Upper Darby police Superintendent Michael Chitwood says four SEPTA workers were injured but none of the injuries appeared life-threatening. \n SEPTA says the cause of the accident is under investigation. \n Shuttle buses are running between 69th Street Transportation Center and 63rd Street Station. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Out-of-service commuter train accident near Philly; 4 hurt"}

