{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "A 21-year-old woman turned herself in at the Waianae police station after she allegedly intentionally struck two people with her car in Nanakuli. \n At about 3 p.m. Sunday, police said a 28-year-old woman and 30-year-old man got into an argument with the suspect at the Pacific Shopping Mall. The argument escalated when the suspect drove her car into them. \n Police said the suspect attempted to leave when she struck another vehicle, causing injuries to a 73-year-old woman. The suspect then fled. \n Emergency Medical Services said paramedics assessed both the 28-year-old woman and 73-year-old woman and transported them to a hospital in stable condition. \n Police said the two victims were released from the hospital. \n Shortly before 6 p.m., the 21-year-old woman turned herself in at the police station where she was arrested on suspicion of two counts of second-degree assault, accidents involving substantial bodily injury and an outstanding traffic warrant. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Nanakuli hit-and-run suspect turns herself in to police"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "A 33-year-old Waipahu man, who had been accused of first-degree sexual assault, was charged Friday with kidnapping. \n Jayvan Curioso was arrested at 7:45 a.m. Friday on suspicion of first-degree sexual assault, criminal property damage, first-degree terroristic threatening and choking (abuse/strangulation) of a 34-year-old woman, with whom he had or has a relationship. \n Police said the woman reported the man threatened and physically and sexually assaulted her on Tuesday. \n Prosecutors charged Curioso with kidnapping, first-degree terroristic threatening and choking (abuse/strangulation), but did not charge him with sexual assault. \n Curioso's bail was set at $150,000 bail. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Sex assault suspect charged with kidnapping"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, back center, meets, Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin, second from left, with his wife Merle Bari, left clockwise, Trump, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and his wife Hilary Geary, right, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and his fiancee Scottish actress Louise Linton, together with other members of his cabinet and the White House staff, Saturday, March 11, 2017, at the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va. \n WASHINGTON >> The House intelligence committee is asking the Trump administration for evidence that the phones at Trump Tower were tapped during the campaign as its namesake has charged, a request reinforced Sunday by an influential Republican senator who says the president must either come up with the evidence or retract his claim. \n \"I think the president has one of two choices: either retract or to provide the information that the American people deserve, because, if his predecessor violated the law, President Obama violated the law, we have got a serious issue here, to say the least,\" Sen. John McCain said. \n President Donald Trump asserted in a tweet last week: \"Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my 'wires tapped' in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!\" He continued the allegation against former President Barack Obama in other tweets but offered no evidence. \n The request for evidence by Monday was made in a letter sent to the Justice Department by the House committee chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., and the panel's ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., a senior congressional aide said Saturday. The aide wasn't authorized to discuss the request by name and requested anonymity. \n Obama's director of national intelligence, James Clapper, has said that nothing matching Trump's claims had taken place, but that has not quelled speculation that Trump's communications were monitored by the Obama administration. Trump has asked Congress to investigate. \n Early this past week, Schiff said the committee would answer the president's call to investigate the claim. He also said he would ask FBI Director James Comey directly when he appears later this month before the full committee, which is investigating Russian activities during the election. \n On Sunday, Schiff said he doubted there was any evidence of wiretapping, but that Comey and others called to testify at the upcoming hearing \"would be in a position to have to know.\" \n \"I think on March 20 if not before we'll be able to put this to rest,\" Schiff told George Stephanopoulos on ABC's \"This Week.\" \"I don't think anyone has any question about this, George. The only question is why the president would make up such a thing.\" \n McCain said Trump could \"clear this up in a minute\" if he were to call \"the director of the CIA, director of national intelligence and say, 'OK, what happened?'\" \n The president has an obligation to provide evidence that Obama broke the law or retract his claim, the Arizona Republican said. \n \"I do believe on issues such as this, accusing a former president of the United States of something which is not only illegal, but just unheard of, that requires corroboration. I'll let the American people be the judge, but this is serious stuff,\" McCain said on CNN's \"State of the Union.\" \n Kellyanne Conway, a counselor to the president, said Sunday on Fox News Channel's \"MediaBuzz that the House and Senate intelligence committees have agreed to investigate and \"we'll make a comment after those findings are complete.\" \n Nunes has said that so far he has not seen any evidence to back up Trump's claim and has suggested the news media were taking the president's weekend tweets too literally. \n \"The president is a neophyte to politics \u2014 he's been doing this a little over a year,\" Nunes told reporters this past week. \n Other lawmakers also have asked for evidence. \n Declaring that Congress \"must get to the bottom\" of Trump's claim, Sens. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., asked Comey and Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente to produce the paper trail created when the Justice Department's criminal division secures warrants for wiretaps. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "McCain to Trump: Provide wiretap evidence or retract claim"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "Police were looking for clues to an early morning shooting Sunday that seriously injured a 31-year-old man driving in Waialua. \n The man's condition improved to stable by Sunday afternoon, police said. \n Police said the shooting occurred at about 4:30 a.m. in the general area of the old Waialua Sugar Mill camp. \n The 31-year-old man was driving when someone shot a firearm toward his vehicle and struck him in the head, police said. Details on the caliber of the projectile and the exact area of the wound were unavailable. \n Police said late Sunday afternoon that detectives had not yet been able to interview the victim. The case is classified as second-degree attempted murder. \n Emergency Medical Services transported the man in serious condition to a hospital, EMS said in a report. Paramedics responded to an address on Haleki Street and treated the man at 4:43 a.m. for an apparent gunshot wound to the head. \n Police confirmed the man drove to his home on Haleki Street after being shot. \n A Dole Plantation security guard, parked on Haleki Street, said the area houses are home to retired plantation workers. Area residents said they knew nothing of the shooting. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police searching for suspect in Waialua shooting"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kush Patel, right, carries out bags of merchandise while helping his uncle Andy Patel, rear, clean up the looting damage from Monday's riots at his store, Ferguson Market and Liquor, in Ferguson, Mo. \n FERGUSON, Mo. >> A convenience store is disputing a new documentary's claim that previously unreleased surveillance video suggests Michael Brown didn't rob the store shortly before he was fatally shot by police in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014. \n One of the filmmakers, Jason Pollock, told The New York Times he believes the footage shows Brown trading a small amount of marijuana for a bag of cigarillos around 1 a.m. on Aug. 9, 2014. The video doesn't clearly show what was exchanged, but shows Brown leaving behind the cigarillos. \n Pollock reasons Brown intended to come back later for the bag of cigarillos. But a lawyer for the store and its employees said no such transaction took place, and that Brown stole the cigarillos when he returned to the store about 10 hours later. \n \"There was no understanding. No agreement. Those folks didn't sell him cigarillos for pot. The reason he gave it back is he was walking out the door with unpaid merchandise and they wanted it back,\" attorney Jay Kanzler told the newspaper. \n Pollock argues the new footage challenges what authorities have said about Brown pushing a worker and taking cigarillos during the later store visit, shortly before the fatal police confrontation. Brown's mother called it \"a misunderstanding.\" \n Previously released surveillance video shows Brown strong-arming the store's co-owner, Andy Patel, and pushing him as he left the store during the second visit. Patel reaffirmed his version of events on Sunday, telling the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that Brown \"grabbed the cigarillos and stole them.\" \n Brown, who was 18, was fatally shot minutes later by Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson. Brown, who was black, was unarmed. Wilson is white. \n Some of the local officials who investigated the fatal shooting said they didn't think the new footage shed much light on the case. \n St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch he wasn't surprised that Brown was in the Ferguson Market earlier in the day. Belmar said his department focused on investigating the shooting, not the incident at the store. \n Former Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson said he hadn't seen the earlier surveillance video, but that he didn't think it was fair to connect the store to a drug transaction. \n The shooting led to months of unrest and sometimes violent protests in the St. Louis suburb. A local grand jury and the U.S. Department of Justice found no evidence of wrongdoing by Wilson, who resigned in November 2014. \n But the shooting and protests led to scrutiny of Ferguson, resulting in a scathing Justice Department report alleging racial bias in the city's criminal justice system. \n The new documentary called \"Stranger Fruit\" premiered Saturday at the South By Southwest festival in Austin, Texas. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New video of events before fatal Ferguson shooting in film"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions waits to make a statement at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection office in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Two days before Attorney General Jeff Sessions ordered dozens of the country's top federal prosecutors to clean out their desks, he gave those political appointees a pep talk during a conference call. \n The seemingly abrupt about-face Friday left the affected U.S. attorneys scrambling to brief the people left behind and say goodbye to colleagues. It also could have an impact on morale for the career prosecutors who now must pick up the slack, according to some close to the process. The quick exits aren't expected to have a major impact on ongoing prosecutions, but they gave U.S. attorneys little time to prepare deputies who will take over until successors are named. \n \"It's very, very gut-level reaction,\" said Steven Schleicher, a former prosecutor who left Minnesota U.S. Attorney Andrew Luger's office in January and was still in contact with people there. \n The request for resignations from the 46 prosecutors who were holdovers from the Obama administration wasn't shocking. It's fairly customary for the 93 U.S. attorneys to leave their posts once a new president is in office, and many had already left or were making plans for their departures. Sessions himself was asked to resign as a U.S. attorney in a similar purge by Attorney General Janet Reno in 1993. \n But the abrupt nature of the dismissals \u2014 done with little explanation and none of the customary thanks for years of service \u2014 stunned and angered some of those left behind in offices around the country. \n Former prosecutors, friends and colleagues immediately started reaching out to each other on a growing email chain to express condolences and support, commiserating about how unfair they felt the situation was. One U.S. attorney was out of state on Friday and was forced to say goodbye to his office by a blast email, said Tim Purdon, a former U.S. attorney from North Dakota who was included on the email chain. \n Some of those ousted were longtime prosecutors who had spent their careers coming up through the ranks of the Justice Department. John W. Vaudreuil, U.S. attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin, became an assistant U.S. attorney in that office in 1980. Another, Richard S. Hartunian of the Northern District of New York, joined the Justice Department in the 1990s. \n \"All of these U.S. attorneys know they serve at the pleasure of the president. No one complains about that,\" said John Walsh, an Obama-era appointee as U.S. attorney in Colorado who resigned in July. \"But it was handled in a way that was disrespectful to the U.S. attorneys because they were almost treated as though they had done something wrong, when in fact they had not.\" \n Peter Neronha, who had served since 2009 as U.S. attorney for Rhode Island, said even before Friday he had been preparing for his eventual departure and had written a resignation statement to be released upon his exit. He said he knew his time was limited but had been eager to stay on to see through a major public corruption prosecution and to speak with students about the perils of opioid addiction. \n \"When that was done, I was going to go anyway \u2014 whether I got 24 hours' notice, or two weeks' notice, or two months' notice. It doesn't really matter,\" Neronha said. \n Whenever there's a change in presidential administration, he said, \"I think it would be unwise not to be ready.\" \n It's not clear why the Justice Department asked the prosecutors to exit so quickly. Sessions gave no warning during the Wednesday conference call in which he articulated his agenda for fighting violent crime. \n \"The attorney general did not mention on that call, 'Stay tuned for changes,'\" Neronha said. \n Much of the public attention since Friday has focused on Preet Bharara, the high-profile Manhattan federal prosecutor who said he was fired despite meeting with then-President-elect Donald Trump and saying he was asked to remain. \n Trump himself did apparently make an attempt to speak with Bharara in advance of the Friday demand for resignations. The president reached out through a secretary on his staff to Bharara a day earlier but the two men never spoke, according to a person told about the conversation but who requested anonymity. The White House on Sunday said the president reached out to thank Bharara for his service and to wish him good luck. \n The Justice Department on Friday did say it would not accept the resignations of Dana Boente, now the acting deputy attorney general, and Rod Rosenstein, the Maryland prosecutor who's been nominated for the deputy role. \n On Sunday, some Democrats condemned the demand for resignations in highly partisan comments. Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, suggested Trump might have fired Bharara to thwart a potential corruption investigation, and believed the move added to a lack of trust of the administration. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Abrupt dismissals spark turmoil among federal prosecutors"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police officers secure the perimeter at the scene of a garbage landslide, as excavators aid rescue efforts, on the outskirts of the capital Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Sunday, March 12, 2017. Officials and residents say more than a dozen people have been killed in a landslide at a massive garbage dump on the outskirts of Ethiopia's capital, and several dozen people are missing. \n ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia >> A mountain of trash gave way in a massive garbage dump on the outskirts of Ethiopia's capital, killing at least 46 people and leaving several dozen missing, residents said, as officials vowed to relocate those who called the landfill home. \n Addis Ababa city spokeswoman Dagmawit Moges said most of the 46 dead were women and children, and more bodies were expected to be found in the coming hours. \n It was not immediately clear what caused Saturday night's collapse at the Koshe Garbage Landfill, which buried several makeshift homes and concrete buildings. The landfill has been a dumping ground for the capital's garbage for more than 50 years. \n About 150 people were there when the landslide occurred, resident Assefa Teklemahimanot told The Associated Press. Addis Ababa Mayor Diriba Kuma said 37 people had been rescued and were receiving medical treatment. Dagmawit said two had serious injuries. \n Many people at the landfill had been scavenging items to make a living, but others live there because renting homes, largely built of mud and sticks, is relatively inexpensive. \n An AP reporter saw four bodies taken away by ambulances after being pulled from the debris. Elderly women cried, and others stood anxiously waiting for news of loved ones. Six excavators dug through the ruins. \n \"My house was right inside there,\" said a shaken Tebeju Asres, pointing to where one of the excavators was digging in deep, black mud. \"My mother and three of my sisters were there when the landslide happened. Now I don't know the fate of all of them.\" \n The resumption of garbage dumping at the site in recent months likely caused the landslide, Assefa said. The dumping had stopped in recent years, but it resumed after farmers in a nearby restive region where a new garbage landfill complex was being built blocked dumping in their area. \n Smaller collapses have occurred at Koshe \u2014 or \"dirty\" in the local Amharic language \u2014 in the past two years but only two or three people were killed, Assefa said. \n \"In the long run, we will conduct a resettling program to relocate people who live in and around the landfill,\" the Addis Ababa mayor said. \n Around 500 waste-pickers are believed to work at the landfill every day, sorting through the debris from the capital's estimated 4 million residents. City officials say close to 300,000 tons of waste are collected each year from the capital, most of it dumped at the landfill. \n Since 2010, city officials have warned that the landfill was running out of room and was being closed in by nearby housing and schools. \n City officials in recent years have been trying to turn the garbage into a source of clean energy with a $120 million investment. The Koshe waste-to-energy facility, which has been under construction since 2013, is expected to generate 50 megawatts of electricity upon completion. \n Ethiopia, which has one of Africa's fastest growing economies, is under a state of emergency imposed in October after several months of sometimes deadly protests demanding wider political freedoms. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "46 killed, dozens missing in Ethiopia garbage dump landslide"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price talks with a guest as they wait for the arrival of Vice President Mike Pence to begin a meeting with conservative groups to discuss healthcare, Friday, March 10, 2017, in the Indian Treaty Room of the Eisenhower Executive Office on the White House complex in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans on Sunday dismissed an upcoming Congressional Budget Office analysis widely expected to conclude that more Americans will be uninsured under a proposal to dismantle Barack Obama's health law, despite President Donald Trump's promise of universal coverage. \n Meanwhile, GOP opponents from the right and center hardened their positions against the Trump-backed legislation. House conservatives vowed to block the bill as \"Obamacare Lite\" unless there are more restrictions, even as a Republican senator warned the plan would never pass as is due to opposition from moderates. \n \"Do not walk the plank and vote for a bill that cannot pass the Senate and then have to face the consequences of that vote,\" said Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark. \"If they vote for this bill, they're going to put the House majority at risk next year.\" \n Speaking in television interviews, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Trump administration officials vowed to move forward on their proposed \"repeal and replace\" plan regardless of the CBO findings, insisting they can work past GOP disagreements and casting the issue as one of \"choice\" in which consumers are freed of a government mandate to buy insurance. \n The CBO is scheduled to release its long-awaited cost analysis of the House GOP leadership plan early this week, including estimates on the number of people likely to be covered. It'll likely affect Republicans' chances of passing the proposal. \n Ryan, R-Wis., said he fully expects the CBO analysis to find that fewer people will be covered under the GOP plan because it eliminates the government requirement to be insured. \n \"What we're trying to achieve here is bringing down the cost of care, bringing down the cost of insurance not through government mandates and monopolies but by having more choice and competition,\" he said. \"We're not going to make an American do what they don't want to do.\" \n The GOP legislation would eliminate the current mandate that nearly all people in the United States carry insurance or face fines. It would use tax credits to help consumers buy health coverage, expand health savings accounts, phase out an expansion of Medicaid and cap that program for the future, end some requirements for health plans under Obama's law, and scrap a number of taxes. \n During the presidential campaign and as recently as January, Trump repeatedly stressed his support for universal health coverage, saying his plan to replace the Affordable Care Act would provide \"insurance for everybody.\" \n But on Sunday, his aides took pains to explain that a CBO finding of fewer people covered would not necessarily mean that fewer people will be covered. \n \"If the CBO was right about Obamacare to begin with, there'd be 8 million more people on Obamacare today than there actually are,\" said Mick Mulvaney, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, disputing the accuracy of CBO data. \"Sometimes we ask them to do stuff they're not capable of doing, and estimating the impact of a bill of this size probably isn't the best use of their time.\" \n Health Secretary Tom Price said he \"firmly\" believed that \"nobody will be worse off financially\" under the health care overhaul. He said people will have choices as they select the kind of coverage they want as opposed to what the government forces them to buy. In actuality, tax credits in Republican legislation being debated in the House may not be as generous to older people as what is in the current law. \n \"I believe and the president believes firmly that if you create a system that's accessible for everybody and you provide the financial feasibility for everybody to get coverage, that we have a great opportunity to increase coverage over where we are right now,\" he said. \n Gary Cohn, Trump's chief economic adviser, described past CBO analyses as \"meaningless.\" \n \"We are offering coverage to everyone,\" he said. \"If you are on Medicaid today, you're going to stay on Medicaid. If you are covered under an employee-sponsored plan, you're going to be continued to be covered under an employee-sponsored plan. If you fall into that middle group, we're going to provide tax credit so you can go out and buy a plan.\" \n House conservatives weren't buying it. \n Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, a co-founder of the House Freedom Caucus, criticized the plan as an unacceptable form of \"Obamacare Lite.\" He reiterated that he and other caucus members will seek to block the House bill unless there are additional changes. They want a quicker phaseout of Medicaid benefits and are opposed to proposed tax credits as a new entitlement that will add to government costs. \n Members of the caucus will meet with White House officials on Tuesday. Jordan expressed hope that Trump is sincere in expressing a willingness to negotiate changes, criticizing Ryan for his \"take it or leave it\" stance. \n \"I'm not for this plan and I think there's lot of opposition to this plan in the House and Senate,\" Jordan said. \"Either work with us or you don't end up getting the votes. That's the real choice here.\" \n But pressuring the White House on the opposite side were moderate Republican governors and senators, who said Trump needed to allow for continuing Medicaid coverage for the poor. \n \"It's not like we love Obamacare. It means don't throw the baby out with the bathwater,\" said Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican. \"Don't kill Medicaid expansion. And you've got to fix the exchange, but you have to have an ability to subsidize people at lower income levels.\" \n \"We need to have Democrats involved so that what we do is going to be not only significant but will last,\" Kasich added. \n Ryan spoke on CBS' \"Face the Nation,\" Price and Kasich appeared on NBC's \"Meet the Press,\" Mulvaney spoke on ABC's \"This Week\" and CNN's \"State of the Union,\" Cotton was on ABC's \"This Week,\" and Jordan and Cohn appeared on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republicans dismiss upcoming budget analysis of health plan"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "NEW YORK >> The Northeast is bracing for winter's last hurrah \u2014 a blizzard expected to sweep the New York region starting Monday with possibly the season's biggest snowstorm dumping up to 18 inches on Central Park. \n The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch Sunday for coastal regions including New York City and surrounding areas of Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut. \n A winter storm watch was in effect for a larger area of the Northeast: New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New England. \n In New York City, forecasters said the first snow is expected late Monday or just after midnight Tuesday, with up to 4 inches falling by dawn. Heavy snow the rest of the day could pile 10 to 14 inches more of white stuff, with sustained winds of about 30 mph and wind gusts of up to 50 mph. \n \"This would certainly be the biggest snowstorm of the 2017 winter season in New York City,\" said Faye Barthold, a weather service meteorologist based on Long Island. \n On Long Island, a snowfall of 12 to 18 inches was forecast along with equally strong winds and visibility of a quarter mile or less. \n New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Sunday that the New York State Emergency Operations Center will be activated Monday evening, with stockpiles of sandbags, generators and pumps at the ready. \n Other areas, including the lower Hudson Valley and northeastern New Jersey, also could get 12 to 18 inches of snow. But those areas were not under a blizzard watch because high winds and low visibility were not expected. \n The severe weather would arrive just a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Sunny days and T-shirt-wearing temperatures made it seem like winter had made an early exit. But the chilly weather and snow some areas got Friday may prove to be just a teaser. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Northeast blizzard could dump up to 18 inches of snow on NYC"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Julie Conti, right, leads her government class at Niagara Falls High School through a lesson about political cartoons, examining the structure and intent of the cartoons but staying neutral on whether she agrees with the content, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. \n NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. >> A New York City teacher was warned over a homework question critical of President Donald Trump. An Alabama district fielded complaints for a teacher's \"Obama, you're fired!\" caption under a Trump display. And video caught a Texas art teacher shooting a squirt gun at an image of the president, and yelling, \"Die!\" \n In the age of Trump, when current events are increasingly dominating classroom discussions, there's a debate among educators whether it's appropriate or even ethical for teachers to weigh in with their own political views. Is there a point when such opinionating crosses the line into political proselytizing? \n \"Why shouldn't a teacher be able to vocalize their opinion?\" Niagara Falls High School student Santino Cafarella, 18, asked after his government class this past week. \"We're in high school at this point. We should be able to discover our own viewpoints.\" \n It's become a flashpoint at a time when many teachers say students are more energized than ever by current events, with issues such as immigration, racial justice and transgender rights discussed not only in social studies but in other classes, the hallways and at lunch, too. And students often ask teachers what they think. \n \"There's a general belief in the public that teachers shouldn't be using their classroom as a soapbox but there's a ton of variation on what's allowed and what's not allowed,\" said Paula McAvoy, program director at the University of Wisconsin's Center for Ethics and Education. \n She's seen everything from prohibitions on political statements and buttons to no policies whatsoever. But McAvoy contends shying away from political discussions in the classroom isn't the answer because schools should offer a place for young people to consider differences, challenge assumptions and form their own opinions. \n Minnesota teacher Tom Schoper makes no secret of his Republican and conservative leanings (the Nixon/Agnew and Barry Goldwater posters in his room are a clue), but said he makes a point to expose students to other perspectives, bringing in Democrats, Socialists, Libertarians and others to speak at his rural high school. \n \"What I give the kids is opportunity. I set the table,\" the Glencoe-Silver Lake High School social studies teacher said. \"It's up to those kids to make up their mind.\" \n At West Chicago Community High School, government teacher Mary Ellen Daneels goes to the other extreme. She won't give up her personal political beliefs even when regularly pressed by students. \n \"The kids go a little bit crazy,\" she said. \"They'll come to me and say, 'OK, when I graduate, can I Facebook message you and you'll tell me what your partisanship is?'\" \n Daneels' stand is part of a voluntary non-disclosure pledge government teachers at her school have taken as a way to stay out of their students' ways as they examine sensitive issues. She said the policy also keeps the instructors above reproach should anyone suspect students are being steered one way or another. \n \"It's inevitable for social studies teachers to have an opinion,\" Niagara Falls High School student Michael McDonald, 17, said after a class lesson on political cartoons taking aim at Donald Trump's speech to Congress, student debt and the fake news phenomenon, among others. \"But as long as they're not clearly expressing their opinion and trying to influence our opinions with their own, then I don't think it's a problem.\" \n His teacher, Julie Conti, pressed students about the intent, structure and effectiveness of the cartoons they examined, but stayed neutral on whether she agreed with the content. Conti said she sometimes plays devil's advocate to get a classroom conversation started, but her aim is to give students the knowledge and ability to make up their own minds. \"If I just express my opinion, I don't think that has done that for them,\" she said. \n Some administrators across the country have taken a hard line. \n The Tuscaloosa, Alabama, City Board of Education temporarily suspended teacher Scott Johnson without pay and sent him to sensitivity training for his \"Obama, you're fired\" display the day after the election, saying it violated the board's policy prohibiting partisan political activity in the classroom. Johnson, in a statement, said he made \"an error in good professional judgment.\" \n The Dallas Independent School District placed art teacher Payal Modi on administrative leave after her video with the water gun. Modi, through her mother, declined comment to The Associated Press. \n Staten Island teacher Adria Zawatsky received a disciplinary letter after a vocabulary question on a homework assignment sought the word \"haughty\" to describe Trump's speaking manner. The New York City Department of Education encourages respectful conversations, spokesman Michael Aciman said, \"but staff are directed to maintain neutrality when discussing political issues in school.\" Zawatsky didn't respond to a request for comment. \n Larry Paska, executive director of the National Council for the Social Studies, an organization of educators and curriculum designers, acknowledged that teachers weighing in to class discussions with their own politics can be fraught with peril. \n \"You are helping kids to form their own perspective and I think by including your own, you shape it for them,\" he said. \"And that's not really the goal of social education.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Teaching Trump: Should teachers offer up their own politics?"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stands in front of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Faced with aggressive on-air questioning about the president's wiretapping claims, Sarah Huckabee Sanders didn't flinch, she went folksy. \n Speaking to George Stephanopoulos on \"Good Morning America,\" she pulled out a version of an old line from President Lyndon Johnson: \"If the president walked across the Potomac, the media would be reporting that he could not swim.\" \n The 34-year-old spokeswoman for President Donald Trump was schooled in hardscrabble politics \u2014 and down-home rhetoric \u2014 from a young age by her father, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee. Her way with a zinger \u2014 and her unshakable loyalty to an often unpredictable boss \u2014 are big reasons why the deputy press secretary is a rising star in Trump's orbit. \n In recent weeks, Sanders has taken on a notably more prominent role in selling Trump's agenda, including on television and at White House press briefings. As White House press secretary Sean Spicer's public profile has fluctuated in recent weeks amid criticism of his performance, Sanders has increasingly become a chief defender of Trump in some of his toughest moments. \n Sanders' rise has fueled speculation that she's becoming the president's favored articulator, a notion she disputes. \"It's hard for any one person to maintain a schedule of being the singular face all day every day,\" she said. She argued that more than one press aide spoke for President Barack Obama. \n \"When Eric Schultz went on TV did anybody say Josh Earnest is getting fired?\" Sanders asked. \"Was that story ever written?\" \n Spicer echoed that message: \"My goal is to use other key folks in the administration and the White House to do the shows.\" \n Indeed, speaking on behalf of this president is a challenging and consuming job. \n Trump often presents his own thoughts directly on Twitter in the early hours of the morning and is known to closely follow his surrogates on television, assessing their performances. He has been happy with Sanders' advocacy, said Kellyanne Conway, a counselor to the president. \n \"She understands America. She understands the president. And she understands how to connect the two,\" said Conway, who noted that Sanders had appeared on television throughout the campaign as well. \"The president has a great deal of trust in Sarah.\" \n On some days recently Sanders has been the administration's messenger of choice, even when news outlets aren't thrilled. Last Sunday, NBC's Chuck Todd said on-air that \"Meet the Press\" had sought a \"senior administration official or a Cabinet secretary,\" but that the \"White House offered a deputy press secretary. And so we declined.\" \n Sanders credits her larger-than-life dad with helping her learn how to deliver a message. Huckabee, a frequent political commentator, has long been famed for his pithy rhetoric. The two speak most mornings before 6 a.m. \n \"I'll call and say, 'What do you think if I say this?' He'll say, 'That's really good. You might try to say it a little bit more like X,'\" she said. \n On advocating for the unconventional Trump, Sanders admits that even in the press office, they don't always get a heads up before Trump tweets. But she says part of Trump's appeal is that he \"directly communicates with the American people on a regular basis.\" \n Arkansas-raised, Sanders moved her young family to Washington to be part of the administration. She is married to a Republican consultant and they have three young children. She joined the Trump campaign not long after her father's second presidential bid \u2014 which she managed \u2014 fizzled out in the 2016 Iowa caucuses. She said she was drawn to Trump's message of economic populism and his outsider attitude. \n \"One of the big things my dad was running on was changing Washington, breaking that cycle,\" Sanders said. \"I felt like the outsider component was important and I thought he had the ability to actually win and defeat Hillary.\" \n She also said she was drawn to the Trump family's close involvement in the campaign, \"having kind of been in the same scenario for my dad's campaign.\" \n Being part of an effort to defeat Hillary Clinton had extra significance for Sanders, whose father entered the Arkansas governor's mansion just a few years after Bill Clinton exited and who shared advisers and friends in the state. Sanders said at times it was difficult to be aggressive, but she \"so disagreed\" with Hillary Clinton's policies, that she kept on. \n Sanders entered politics young, helping with her father's campaigns as a child and then working her way up the ranks until she had the top job in 2016. In 2007, she moved to Iowa to run her father's operation in the leadoff caucus state, where he was the surprise winner. She has also served in the Education Department under President George W. Bush and worked on a number of Senate and presidential campaigns. \n Mike Huckabee said his daughter was always a natural. \n \"When most kids at 7 or 8 are jumping rope, she's sitting at the kitchen table listening to Dick Morris doing cross tabs on statewide polls,\" said Huckabee, referring to the adviser-turned-adversary to President Bill Clinton. \n Those Arkansas ties continue to hold strong. Sanders has consulted with friends from the state about her new role, including Mack McLarty, the former Clinton chief of staff, who she said counseled her to appreciate the \"historic opportunity\" to work in the White House. \n Her rising profile has come with ups and downs. Sanders says she is turning off social media alerts because she has been flooded with criticism. For now, she has not been treated to a portrayal on \"Saturday Night Live\" \u2014 like Spicer and Conway. But her dad says that if that comes next, she should roll with it. \n \"One of the great honors of life is to be parodied,\" Huckabee said. \"It's kind of an indication that you've arrived at a place of real power.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to state that Mike Huckabee did not immediately follow Clinton as Arkansas governor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump looking to Sarah Huckabee Sanders in tough moments"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pascalina Chirinos poses for a portrait in the Queens borough of New York where she was attending a know-your-rights training session by the pro-immigrant advocacy group Make the Road New York. Chirinos, a permanent resident from Venezuela who has been in the U.S. for about five years said she attended so she could share the information with friends and neighbors, but also to know her own rights if she were ever caught up in immigration enforcement efforts. \n NEW YORK >> Don't open the front door if immigration officials knock. If you are taken into custody, tell them your name and nothing else. Definitely don't sign anything. \n That is some of the advice being given in New York City and around the country at training sessions, put on by advocacy organizations, aimed at helping immigrants living in the country illegally get in as little trouble as possible if they encounter U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. \n Called \"know your rights\" training, the sessions have been pushed by some groups as a way to prepare for a possible crackdown on illegal immigration under President Donald Trump. Similar trainings are scheduled in New Mexico and El Paso. \n The idea, organizers said, is to give immigrants guidance on how to legitimately push back against attempts to detain them, mostly using tactics designed to keep agents from learning anything they don't already know. The government can't deport someone unless they can prove they are in the U.S. illegally. \n At a training session Tuesday in Queens, a little more than two dozen people sat in a room listening to Yaritza Mendez, an outreach coordinator at the pro-immigrant advocacy group Make the Road New York. She spoke about various ways ICE agents can find a person, and what to do if they come knocking. \n Even people in the country illegally have constitutional rights, Mendez said, such as not being subjected to unreasonable searches and seizures, not answering questions and not signing any documents without speaking with an attorney. \n Volunteers took part in a role-playing exercise. The audience broke into laughter when a woman wearing a vest with \"ICE\" taped on it burst into the room after knocking loudly on a door. \n \"I try to make it interactive because it's long and very sad, in a way,\" Mendez said. \n A lady sitting at the back had a question. If immigration officials knocked on her door, what if she opened it a crack but kept the chain on? \n No, Mendez said. Not even a crack. That's guidance that closely mirrors something criminal defense attorneys have long been telling clients. Letting a law enforcement agent peek inside could give them the probable cause they need to enter without a warrant. \n Other advice dispensed during the session: Make sure any warrants presented have the right name and addresses and are signed by a judge. Do not volunteer information. Do not show the agents any fake documents, since doing so is a crime that could land them in much deeper trouble. \n Plan ahead for the worst. For example, she said, parents in danger of being detained should have paperwork in place to have someone look after their children, instead of scrambling to find someone in an emergency. \n Most of the people in the audience were immigrants in the country illegally. \n But they were also people like Pascalina Chirinos, 63, a legal permanent resident from Venezuela who has been in the U.S. for about five years. \n She said she attended so she could share the information with friends and neighbors, but also to know her own rights if she were ever caught up even in passing in immigration enforcement efforts. \n \"In reality, all of us are afraid,\" Chirinos said in Spanish, through an interpreter. \"The air that we breathe is very tense.\" \n In Los Angeles, Pablo Alvarado, executive director of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, said his organization is trying to train more people to conduct know-your-rights presentations at schools and churches to keep up with rising community demand. \n \"We're training the trainers,\" he said. \"People don't have to be lawyers to share what the constitutional rights of people are.\" \n Mendez said Make the Road has been getting calls from churches and other institutions like a local hospital to come and give the trainings in those places for their staffs and clients. \n The atmosphere is \"fearful,\" she said. \"You don't know what is going to happen the next day.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fearful immigrants are offered anti-deportation training"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Two-time Iditarod champion Mitch Seavey takes off two positions ahead of his son, reigning champion Dallas Seavey, at the start of the 45th Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race in Fairbanks, Alaska, Monday, March 6, 2017. \n ANCHORAGE, Alaska >> A father and son held the lead early Sunday in Alaska's Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. \n Mitch Seavey, a two-time Iditarod champion, was the first musher to leave the checkpoint in the village of Kaltag. His son, current Iditarod champ Dallas Seavey, was close behind. \n Mitch Seavey departed Kaltag at 4:40 a.m., and Dallas Seavey left five minutes later. Each arrived with 13 dogs and left with 12. \n Dallas Seavey has won four of the past five races. According to the Iditarod's website, he is a third generation musher who grew up helping his dad train his racing teams. \n The third competitor out of Kaltag was veteran musher Wade Marrs of Alaska, who left at 5:28 a.m. \n Next was Nicolas Petit, a native of France who lives just south of Anchorage. Petit departed at 6:35 a.m. \n Rounding out the top five was Joar Leifseth Ulsom of Norway, who left Kaltag at 6:50 a.m. \n The Iditarod crosses nearly 1,000 miles of grueling Alaska wilderness. This year's race started March 6 in Fairbanks. \n The winner is expected early this week in the town of Nome, along Alaska's frozen Bering Sea coast. \n The Kaltag checkpoint offers a brief respite before the trail heads overland to the wind-whipped coast of Norton Sound, the Iditarod website says. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Father, son take the lead in Iditarod race across Alaska"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Budget director Mick Mulvaney speaks to reporters at the White House in Washington. President Donald Trump unveils a proposed budget on March 16 that will sharply test Republicans' ability to keep longstanding promises to beef up the military by making politically painful cuts to a lengthy list of popular domestic programs. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump sends Congress a proposed budget this week that will sharply test Republicans' ability to keep long-standing promises to bolster the military, making politically painful cuts to a lengthy list of popular domestic programs. \n The Republican president will ask his adopted political party, which runs Capitol Hill, to cut domestic agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the departments of Education and Housing and Urban Development, along with grants to state and local governments and community development projects. The spending plan, set for release Thursday, would make the Pentagon the big winner with a $54 billion boost to defense spending. \n Trump has promised to \"do a lot more with less,\" but his blueprint faces a reality test with Republicans, many of whom are already protesting. \n Republicans have groused about some of the preliminary plans, including elimination of the $3 billion community development block grant program that's popular among local GOP officials, a 25 percent cut to the EPA and elimination of 3,000 jobs, and essentially scuttling a $300 million per-year program to clean up the Great Lakes. \n Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, is joining with Democrats to push back on that last proposed reduction. Cuts to the Coast Guard are meeting Republican resistance. Trump's plan to eliminate community development block grants was dismissed on Capitol Hill by those who remember how a modest cut to the program sank a spending bill not long ago. \n \"Unfortunately, we have no alternative but to reinvest in our military and make ourselves a military power once again,\" White House economic adviser Gary Cohn said on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \n The United States, however, already spends more than half trillion dollars on defense, more than the next seven countries combined. \n Cohn defended the spending cuts elsewhere as necessary to balance the budget. \"These are tough decisions, but the president has shown he is ready, willing and able to make these tough decisions,\" he said Sunday. \n Democrats are unlikely to support the cuts, and Republican defections raise the possibility of a congressional train wreck and a potential government shutdown when the 2018 budget year begins Oct. 1. \n Preliminary reports on the budget show some domestic Cabinet agencies, such as the departments of Homeland Security and Veterans Affairs, would see increases, including $3 billion for Trump's promised wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. Trump said repeatedly during the campaign that Mexico would pay for that project, but Mexico has said no. \n Those intended spending increases, however, would mean deeper cuts elsewhere. \n People familiar with the budget who spoke on condition of anonymity in advance of the public release say the White House is seeking a 30 percent cut from an Energy Department office that promotes energy efficiency and renewable energy. The office has funded research on projects such as LED light bulbs, electric trucks, advanced batteries and biofuels. \n The Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy is targeted for at least $700 million in cuts from its current $2.1 billion budget, said Scott Sklar, chairman of the steering committee of the Sustainable Energy Coalition. \n The Energy Department could see steep cuts for its 17 national laboratories, which conduct cutting-edge research on topics from nuclear power to advanced materials for energy generation, storage and use. \n Trump's preliminary budget, delivered in secret to agencies last month, proposes a 37 percent cut to the State Department and foreign aid budgets. Those cuts and others were subject to revision in the back and forth that the White House had with agencies leading up to the coming release this week. \n Trump's submission won't tell the complete story. It will be limited to the discretionary, $1 trillion-plus portion of the $4 trillion annual federal budget that pays for Cabinet agencies and departments. \n These annually appropriated programs have been squeezed in recent years while the costs of mandatory programs such as Medicare and Social Security have risen each year, mostly unchecked. \n The remainder of Trump's budget \u2014 proposals on taxes, mandatory spending and deficits and projections on the economy \u2014 won't come out until May. That document is sure to upset members of the GOP's once-proud and large band of deficit hawks, because Trump's full plans are sure to show large, permanent budget deficits, even with all of the tricks and tools available to the White House Budget office. \n The government ran a $587 billion deficit last year that required it to borrow 15 cents of every dollar it spent. Looking ahead, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the government is on track for accumulated deficits of more than $9 trillion over the coming decade. \n CBO Director Keith Hall warns that such huge deficits are putting the government on a long-term path that \"would have serious negative consequences for the budget and the nation, including an increased risk of fiscal crisis.\" \n But Trump is promising to leave the government's two largest programs, Medicare and Social Security, virtually untouched. He's also promising $1 trillion in infrastructure spending, even as pressure is building to finance tax cuts with borrowed money. \n Trump's budget options are already being hemmed in by decisions on health care. The Trump-endorsed House bill cuts taxes by $1 trillion over the coming decade while devoting hundreds of billions of dollars in Medicaid cuts toward a new GOP subsidy. \n \"They're going to have a hell of a hard time passing a budget that balances \u2014 even fabricating a budget that balances,\" said Kentucky Rep. John Yarmuth, the top Democrat on the House Budget committee. \"This health care bill is going to make their budget very tricky.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In 1st budget, Trump to push conservative view of government"}

{"date": "March 12, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dr. Garen Wintemute, an emergency room physician at the University of California, Davis, Medical Center, shows the website of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, on a computer in the hospital in Sacramento, Calif., on Thursday. On the day President Donald Trump was inaugurated, Wintemute got a call from a colleague, who reported that the White House had removed a climate change page from its website. \n WASHINGTON (AP) \u2014 Wondering who is visiting the White House? The web-based search has gone dark. Curious about climate change? Some government sites have been softened or taken down. Worried about racial discrimination in housing? Laws have been introduced to bar federal mapping of such disparities. \n Since taking office, the Trump administration has made a series of moves that have alarmed groups with a stake in public access to information \u2014 historians, librarians, journalists, climate scientists, internet activists, to name a few. Some are so concerned they have thrown themselves into \"data rescue\" sessions nationwide, where they spend their weekends downloading and archiving federal databases they fear could soon be taken down or obscured. \n Previous presidential transitions have triggered fears about access to government data, but not on this scope. \n \"What is unprecedented is the scale of networking and connectivity of groups working on this, and the degree it is being driven by librarians and scientists and professors,\" said Alex Howard, deputy director of the Sunlight Foundation, a group that tracks transparency in government. \n The White House declined to comment, but Trump's supporters say the administration's detractors are overreacting. Trump is committed to open government, said Ben Marchi, a Trump supporter and Republican operative. In a recent interview with McClatchy, Marchi noted how, prior to announcing the selection of Neil Gorsuch to serve on the Supreme Court, the White House released a list of 21 candidates under consideration. \n Yet moves by the Trump administration have helped stoke the fears. In February, the U.S. Department of Agriculture removed animal cruelty data from its website, prompting protests from animal welfare advocates, including the Humane Society, which has filed a lawsuit against the USDA. \n Also in February, the Trump administration suspended an Obama regulation aimed at protecting whistleblowers who work for Department of Energy contractors. The regulation would have permitted civil penalties against contractors that retaliate against whistleblowers. Supporters of the rule say that its rescission will make it harder for contract workers at the government nuclear facilities to report waste, abuse and safety concerns. \n Trump, Howard said, has made clear he will seek to prosecute leakers and has labeled the media an \"enemy of the people.\" He has dismissed climate change science and raised questions about the use of vaccines. \n \"The reaction we are seeing is driven by concerns unique to this administration,\" Howard said. \n During his eight years in office, President Barack Obama was hardly a darling of open government advocates. His Justice Department prosecuted nine cases against whistleblowers and leakers, compared to three by all other previous administrations. \n But Obama also took some steps to increase transparency, including establishing a web-based log of visitors to the White House. That log allowed journalists and others to track lobbying at the White House, including links between the Obama administration and the pharmaceutical industry. \n But easy access to the log disappeared after Trump was sworn in. The National Archives and Records Administration stopped paying a contractor to maintain an embedded web application for the Obama-era visitation records. They are still available at the Obama White House archive, but only on zip files that are difficult to download and analyze. \n As of last week, the Trump administration had not built a web page with information about recent visitors to the White House, although it has said it will post such records \"on an ongoing basis, once they become available.\" \n Other information of interest has also disappeared. The phone book for employees at the U.S. Department of Energy has been removed from the agency's website. Several federal websites have been altered to eliminate or tone down evidence linking human activities to global climate change. \n While all incoming administrations put their ideological stamp on federal websites, librarians and other professionals fear that previously accessible raw data could be put behind walls. They have started networking on how to salvage what they can. \n Bethany Wiggin, founding director of the environmental humanities program at the University of Pennsylvania, and others started organizing dozens of \"data rescue\" sessions nationwide, in which activists were invited to bring their laptops and ideas for federal data sets deemed vulnerable. \n Fearing that federal data on gun violence might also vanish under a president with close ties to the National Rifle Association, Dr. Garen Wintemute called together his partners in the Violence Prevention Research Program at the University of California, Davis. \n Within minutes, the team was downloading a crime victimization survey from the Bureau of Justice Statistics. They scoured the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, gathering data on retail gun sales. They preserved mortality records from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which includes a field for deaths caused by firearms. \n \"I don't think the CDC would do that of their own volition, but they might be directed to,\" said Wintemute, an emergency room doctor. The data sets are now stored on a secure server at UC Davis. \n Access to existing federal records is one concern of data rescuers. The other is whether the government will continue to collect information as it has in the past. Earlier this year, for example, a group of Republicans that included U.S. Sen Mike Lee of Utah, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and U.S. Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona introduced legislation to undo a 2015 Obama regulation aimed at reducing past patterns of housing segregation. \n How Trump may approach access to federal data is not entirely known, but one upcoming appointment will provide a signal. In coming weeks, the administration will appoint a director to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, which it is charged with guiding federal policy on information technology, information policy, privacy and statistics. \n \"That is going to be a key position in the federal collection of data going forward,\" said Raphael Calel, an assistant professor of public policy at Georgetown University. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's actions raise fears about access to government data"}

