{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a July 14, 1955 file photo, Zsa Zsa Gabor arrives at London Airport from Paris, in a Crimson dress and a straw hat. Gabor died Sunday of a heart attack at her Bel-Air home, her husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, said. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a May 1, 1990 file photo, Zsa Zsa Gabor gestures while answering questions as she leaves the Beverly Hills courtroom where judge Charles Rubin ruled that she violated her probation. Gabor died Sunday of a heart attack at her Bel-Air home. \n Zsa Zsa Gabor, the jet-setting Hungarian actress and socialite who helped invent a new kind of fame out of multiple marriages, conspicuous wealth and jaded wisdom about the glamorous life, died Sunday at her home, her husband said. She was 99.  \n The middle and most famous of the sisters Gabor died of a heart attack at her Los Angeles home, Frederic von Anhalt said. \n Gabor had been hospitalized repeatedly since she broke her right hip in July 2010 after a fall at her home. She already had to use a wheelchair after being partly paralyzed in a 2002 car accident and suffering a stroke in 2005. Most of her right leg was amputated in January 2011 because of gangrene and the left leg was also threatened. Her misfortunes were duly reported to the media by von Anhalt. \n The great aunt of Paris Hilton and a spiritual matriarch to the Kardashians, Simpsons and other tabloid favorites, she was the original hall-of-mirrors celebrity, famous for being famous for being famous. Starting in the 1940s, Gabor rose from beauty queen to millionaire's wife to minor television personality to minor film actress to major public character. With no special talent, no hit TV series such as her sister Eva's \"Green Acres,\" Zsa Zsa nevertheless was a long-running hit just being Zsa Zsa \u2014 her accent drenched in diamonds, her name synonymous with frivolity and camp as she winked and carried on about men, dahling, and the droll burdens of the idle rich. \n She was like popcorn for the public and, for sociologists, the seeming fulfillment of the mindless future imagined in Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World,\" a creation made possible by mass, electronic media; her words and image transcribed and beamed into theaters and living rooms, on the Internet and the shelves of newsstands and supermarket checkout lines. \n Her secret, in part, was being in on the joke, once saying about a 1956 TV role, \"I play a fabulously rich woman who has just bought her fifth husband; she is very unhappy. I won't tell you who it's supposed to be.\" Ever game for a laugh, Gabor spoofed her image in a videotaped segment on David Letterman's \"Late Show,\" which had the two stars driving from one fast-food restaurant to another, sipping sodas and digging into burgers like they were slabs of wedding cake. \n Amid all the trivia, she had a peripheral part in two big scandals of the early 21st century: the death of Anna Nicole Smith (von Anhalt claimed to have had an affair with her) and the alleged financial scam of Bernard Madoff (a lawyer said she might have lost $10 million through him). And she was in the spotlight for a dustup from the late 20th century: \"The slap heard 'round the world.\" \n In June 1989, Gabor smacked Paul Kramer, a police officer, on a Beverly Hills street, after he pulled over her Rolls-Royce Corniche convertible for a traffic violation. She was convicted of misdemeanor battery on a police officer, driving without a driver's license and having an open container of alcohol in the car. She served three days in jail, performed community service at a woman's shelter and paid $13,000 in fines and restitution. \n When she was freed, she told reporters the jailers were kind but \"at first I was petrified. They even took my makeup away.\" \n Gabor kept up the act in the advice book \"How to Catch a Man, How to Keep a Man, How to Get Rid of a Man,\" and in the exercise video, \"It's Simple Darling,\" in which she banters and stretches with a pair of muscular young trainers. Her memoir, \"One Life Is Not Enough,\" came out in 1991 and dished about everything from her virginity (gone at 15) to the endless men who came on to her (She would claim that William Paley of CBS promised Gabor her own show if only she would spend an afternoon with him.) \n Gabor had one child, Francesca Hilton, from her marriage to hotelier Conrad Hilton. (She would allege the child was conceived after Hilton raped her.) In later years, Gabor, von Anhalt and Francesca battled in court over family finances. Francesca Hilton died of an apparent stroke in 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jet-setting Hungarian actress Zsa Zsa Gabor dies at age 99"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "A 31-year-old man was charged with breaking a woman's hand in Kalihi. \n Police said the man, of a Kalihi address, was arguing with the woman when he grabbed her hand and bent it backwards at about 10 p.m Nov. 16. The incident caused the woman to feel pain and hear a \"crack.\" She was later diagnosed with a fracture in her left hand. \n Police arrested the man about 4 p.m. Friday at the main police station. He was charged Saturday with abuse, and his bail was set at $1,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged with breaking a woman's hand in Kalihi"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "A 23-year-old man was charged Saturday with trespass after he broke into the Ralph Lauren Store at T Galleria Hawaii in Waikiki and damaged property, police said. \n The man, of a Waikiki address, damaged the front glass door to enter the store at 330 Royal Hawaiian Ave. at about 5 a.m. Saturday and damaged items while inside, police said. \n Police found the man, allegedly appearing highly intoxicated, inside the business. \n He was arrested for investigation of burglary, but the case was reclassified to fourth-degree criminal property damage and second-degree trespass. His bail was set at $500. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged after breaking into Ralph Lauren store in Waikiki"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "An 18-year-old man was charged this weekend with robbing two businesses within a few hours in Ewa Beach and Aiea. \n Nicholas Yonemura, of Aiea, was charged Saturday night with two counts of first-degree robbery and kidnapping. His bail was set at $200,000. \n Police said Yonemura entered an Ewa Beach store at about 10:45 p.m. Thursday, brandished a dangerous instrument, and demanded money and cigarettes before fleeing. \n At about 1:15 a.m. Friday, he entered an Aiea business where he brandished a weapon and demanded property, police said. \n He fled, but was located a short while later on Kaonohi Street and arrested as a suspect in both robberies. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Aiea man charged with two counts of robbery"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jordanian security forces stand next to their armored vehicle at the scene next to Karak Castle, during an ongoing attack, in the central town of Karak, about 140 kilometers (87 miles) south of the capital Amman in Jordan, Sunday, Dec.18, 2016. Officials say gunmen have carried out a series of attacks in central Jordan, including at the Crusader castle popular with tourists, killing four members of the Jordanian security forces and a woman visiting from Canada. \n KARAK, Jordan >> Gunmen assaulted Jordanian police in a series of attacks Sunday, including at a Crusader castle popular with tourists, killing seven officers, two local civilians and a woman visiting from Canada, officials said. Several armed men were reported barricaded inside the castle after nightfall, hemmed in by special forces soldiers. \n At least 34 people, including two foreign nationals, were wounded in the day's violence, which was one of the bloodiest attacks in Jordan in recent memory. \n Security officials said in a statement late Sunday that at least four gunmen were killed and that troops continued to search the area. The statement said large amounts of weapons had been seized. It made no reference to local media reports that at one point, the attackers had held hostages. \n The shootings were the latest in a series of attacks that have challenged this pro-Western kingdom's claim to be an oasis of calm in a region threatened by Islamic extremists. \n The killing of the Canadian tourist could further hurt Jordan's embattled tourism sector, which has declined sharply since the Islamic State group seized large parts of neighboring Syria and Iraq two years ago. \n Another Canadian was injured in the shooting, Canada's Global Affairs spokesman John Babcock said. \n \"Canadian officials in Amman are actively working with local authorities to gather additional information and are providing consular assistance to Canadians at this difficult time,\" he said. \n The Canadian Embassy in Amman issued an alert warning urging Canadians to avoid travel to Karak, a town in central Jordan about 140 kilometers (87 miles) south of the capital. \n There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks in and near Karak. \n The chain of events began when a police patrol received reports of a house fire in the town of Qatraneh in the Karak district, said a statement by Jordan's Public Security Directorate. Officers responding to the call came under fire from inside the house, the statement said. Two policemen were wounded and the assailants fled in a car, it said. \n In another attack, gunmen fired on a security patrol in Karak, causing no injuries, the statement said. \n Armed men also opened fire on a police station at Karak Castle, a Crusader fort, wounding members of security forces. The statement said five or six gunmen were believed to be holed up inside the castle. \n In all, seven members of the security forces, two local civilians and the tourist from Canada were killed, security officials said. Fifteen members of the security forces, 17 local civilians and two foreign nationals were injured. \n Jordan faces homegrown extremism, with hundreds of Jordanians fighting alongside other Islamic State militants in Iraq and Syria and several thousand more supporting the extremist group in the kingdom. Jordan is a key U.S. ally, and a member of a U.S.-led military coalition fighting IS. \n Over the past year, gunmen have carried out several attacks on members of the Jordanian security forces and foreign trainers. Earlier this year, Jordanian security forces engaged in a deadly shootout with suspected IS sympathizers in a northern Jordanian town. \n In the most recent incident, three U.S. military members were killed in a shooting outside an air base in southern Jordan in November. The three were in Jordan on a training mission, and came under fire while driving into the base. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gunmen kill 10, including Canadian, in attacks on police"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A motorcade with President Barack Obama aboard is seen from the media van as it drives from Marine Corps Base Hawaii, in Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii, Saturday, Dec. 17, 2016, after the president golfed at Kaneohe Klipper Golf Course on the base. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman stands on the roadside with signs as a motorcade with President Barack Obama aboard leaves the Kailua, Hawaii, neighborhood were he and the first family are staying during their annual family vacation, Saturday, Dec. 17, 2016. The president is en route to play golf at Marine Corps Base Hawaii. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A motorcade with President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama aboard leaves the Kailua, Hawaii, neighborhood were the first family is staying during their annual family vacation, Sunday, Dec. 18, 2016, en route to an outing at Ho'omaluhia Botanical Garden in Kaneohe, Hawaii. \n President Obama is spending the second day of his Hawaii holiday vacation hiking at Hoomaluhia Botanical Garden in Kaneohe. \n Obama left his Kailua rental house at 9:41 a.m., according to a White House travel pool report. \n He is hiking with wife Michelle Obama and some friends, according to reports. \n The First Family landed in Hawaii Friday night at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam. \n On Saturday, President Obama spent the day playing golf at the Kaneohe Klipper golf course with friends Michael Brush, Luke Rosa, Bobby Titcomb and Joe Paulsen. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Obama goes hiking on Day 2 of Hawaii vacation"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Dec. 13, 2016 photo, Shay Chamberlain poses for a picture in her small clothing store and boutique in Menomonie, Wis. As each Cabinet announcement draws fresh criticism of Donald Trump's latest appointees, many Americans who voted for him, like Chamberlain, say the president-elect is doing what he promised to do: draining the swamp. \n As each Cabinet announcement draws fresh criticism of the wealth, connections or opinions of Donald Trump's latest appointees, many Americans who voted for him say the president-elect is doing what he promised to do: draining the swamp. \n And they're excited. \n To them, the idea of a defense secretary nicknamed \"Mad Dog\" is bliss. They rejoice in an energy secretary who once said he would eliminate the Department of Energy. And while some Trump supporters balk at ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson's close ties with Russia's Vladimir Putin, they say they will trust Trump's judgment about his secretary of state nominee. \n These voters, who often echo Trump's own campaign statements, say the affluence of his Cabinet picks is an advantage, not a liability. \n \"The guys he's putting in there, they don't need to do this. They're independently wealthy,\" said Trump voter Roger Mansfield, 67, a small business owner in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. \"They don't need any more money. The motivation is to make pragmatic, rational business decisions. What could be wrong about that?\" \n The Associated Press interviewed Trump voters about his Cabinet picks and other postelection revelations, such as a CIA assessment that Russia interfered in the November election on Trump's behalf. Top Republicans in Congress have endorsed investigations into the Russian meddling, but the idea drew jeers from Shay Chamberlain, 37, of Menomonie, Wisconsin. \n \"That's kind of ridiculous,\" Chamberlain said. \"I tried to influence the elections, you know what I mean? I mean, we all did when we went on Facebook and put silly memes on there and tried to influence our friends to go one way or another.\" \n Some Cabinet choices have been called into question for their lack of experience, their extraordinary wealth and their past relationships with the departments they are to lead. Much of the criticism has come from Democrats, but experts, past government officials and some Republicans have also raised doubts. \n John Barnes, a 60-year-old Air Force retiree living in Albuquerque, said he liked that Trump was \"hiring outsiders and not local yokel knuckleheads.\" \n In Sandy Hook, Kentucky, Wesley Lewis applauded Trump's decision to nominate three retired generals for top jobs: James \"Mad Dog\" Mattis to head the Pentagon, John Kelly for the Department of Homeland Security and Michael Flynn as national security adviser. \n But Lewis, 67, said he is skeptical about Tillerson, who has opposed sanctions levied on Moscow, and about Trump's hope of improving relations with Russia. \n \"I don't see that we need to have a buddy-buddy relationship with Russia or China or any of them. We need to remain strong, help where we can,\" Lewis said. \"Being buddies with Russia, that's only going to cause us problems.\" \n On jobs, some Trump voters are celebrating. \n \"I'm tickled pink, man,\" said Jimmy McDonald, an assistant bank vice president, from Tazewell County, Virginia. Some laid-off miners in Appalachia have been called back to work, some shortly before Trump was elected. One factor was a recent spike in the price of metallurgical coal used to make steel. McDonald credits Trump. \n \"More coal's being brought out right now since the last 60 days actually,\" said McDonald, 57. \"Trump made that a major focus of his campaign in August, when he started talking about the coal miners, and the coal trains are running, man. And people are excited. It's just a different vibe in the air right now.\" \n But Iraq War veteran and factory worker Rebecca Zbichorski, 28, of Milwaukee, said she's reevaluating Trump's rosy predictions. \n \"His promising to bring all those jobs back? I think he over spoke on that a little bit. I don't feel confident on that,\" Zbichorski said. A skit on \"Saturday Night Live\" mocking an unemployed coal miner eagerly expecting Trump to get him back to work shifted her views, she said. \n \"Some of those jobs are dying.\" She was swayed, too, by an Indiana union leader who criticized Trump for raising false hopes by inflating the number of jobs being saved at a Carrier Corp. factory in Indianapolis. \n However, Jack Stauffenberg, a 65-year-old coal company superintendent from New Tripoli, Pennsylvania, said that Indiana union leader was off base, explaining that Trump \"talks in round numbers.\" \n \"Look at the stock market,\" Stauffenberg said, referring to Wall Street's recent streak of records. \"That expresses the optimism of this country right now.\" \n Americans sense that the country is \"being righted, and we're kind of getting a new start,\" he added. \n Eileen Barlow, a 56-year-old small business owner in Naperville, Illinois, welcomes charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as education secretary. Barlow favors vouchers for private education. \n \"I don't like the indoctrination that goes on in the public schools. They teach the theory of evolution as truth,\" said Barlow, who has an infant grandson. \"If people want to send their kids to a Christian school, they should get help with that.\" \n If they had their wishes, some Trump voters would tone him down on Twitter. \n Zbichorski thinks Trump will need \"more tact and professionalism\" when he takes office, and she worries he'll tweet an insult about a leader of another country and escalate international tensions. \"Right now, he's just being who he is. No filter,\" she said. \n Chamberlain still wants to see Trump's Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, investigated. \n \"He kind of almost promised the American people, 'If I'm elected, she'll pay. If I'm elected, I'll hold her accountable.' And then as soon as he won, it was kind of nicey-nice. 'You know I'm not really going to go after her,'\" Chamberlain said. \n Mansfield said he trusts Trump to act in the country's best interests. \n \"Do we have any choice? We have to trust him. He's going to be our president. Wishing him to fail would be like getting on an airliner and hoping the two pilots don't know what they're doing,\" he said. \"My gut says he will do the right thing.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump Cabinet excites his voters: 'We have to trust him'"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / SEPT. 2015 \n Restaurants in Maui County would have to pack food in eco-friendly containers free of plastic foam under a measure that could be approved early next year. \n WAILUKU >> Restaurants in Maui County would have to pack food in eco-friendly containers free of plastic foam under a measure that could be approved early next year. \n Councilmembers decided at their last meeting in December to move a measure forward that restricts the use and sale of plastic containers. \n It also bans the products at county events and facilities. \n Some businesses are supportive while others express concerns over the cost and quality of alternative containers. \n Businesses can apply for hardship exemptions. \n Maui News reported the council approved an amendment covering food packaged outside the county. \n The change raised questions about potential violations to rules regarding interstate commerce. \n Vice Chairman Don Guzman proposed the amendment and said it levels the playing field. \n The proposed measure could go into effect by July 2018. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui gives initial OK to limits on plastic foam containers"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "The three eastbound lanes on the H-1 freeway are closed near the Waikele off-ramp due to an accident, Honolulu police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Accident closes 3 H-1 eastbound lanes near Waikele"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "COURTESY PACIFIC TSUNAMI WARNING CENTER \n The 4.5 quake struck at 6:31 a.m. in the ocean south of South Point. \n A tsunami is not expected after a magnitude-4.5 earthquake shook the Big Island today, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. \n The quake struck at 6:31 a.m. in the ocean south of South Point. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "No tsunami expected after magnitude-4.5 earthquake shakes Big Island"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "Temperatures in the nation's midsection and on the East Coast warmed up on Sunday after a bitterly cold few days. \n A warm front passing through the region pushed temperatures into the mid- to upper 40s in New York, the National Weather Service said. \n \"Temperatures have soared into the 40s,\" meteorologist Jay Engle said. \"Milder air is with us today but today only.\" \n The temperature will take a slight dip Sunday night into Monday, but it won't be as cold as it has been across much of the country, Engle said. The last few days have been more than 10 degrees below normal in many areas for this time of year, he said. \n With Christmas shopping underway and holiday travel gearing up, the nation's midsection and East Coast were hammered by a winter storm bearing snow, freezing rain and often bone-chilling temperatures. \n Snow and freezing rain spawned a multitude of highway accidents, some serious. At least nine deaths were blamed on the slick roads. Authorities were investigating other traffic fatalities as possibly weather-related. \n A tanker carrying gasoline skidded off a highway in Baltimore on Saturday and exploded. Two people died in the nearly 70-vehicle pileup on Interstate 95, authorities said. Baltimore fire Chief Roman Clark said it was too early to determine the cause of the crash. \n It was unclear whether the pileup started before the tanker crash or was caused by it. The northbound lanes of I-95 were closed while crews cleaned up the mess. \n There were dozens of crashes in Indiana \u2014 two of them with fatalities \u2014 due to freezing rain and ice. The roads were so slick that authorities had to move motorists stranded on an overpass with a ladder. \n In Ohio, a Columbus woman died Saturday when her car skidded off a slick road, authorities said. \n In Virginia, a Fairfax County firetruck slid off an icy road while responding to a crash, but no one was injured. \n In Colorado, up to a foot of snow fell in places, snarling traffic. Even weather-hardened locals apparently had trouble driving. \n \"I worked for the fire department for 45 years, and we used to call this highway hockey because people keep bumping into each other,\" said Kevin Sweeney, of Brighton, a town about 20 miles northeast of Denver. \"I think it's that first big snow thing.\" \n In North Carolina, police and emergency workers reported more than 100 crashes in Raleigh and Charlotte as the drizzle combined with temperatures below freezing to create dangerous icy patches. \n Winter weather advisories were posted from Denver to Bangor, Maine. Airports reported hundreds of flight delays or cancellations. \n The nasty weather put a damper on holiday plans for Luke Perez, who was hoping to make it home to Los Angeles on Saturday for a family party. Perez's flight out of Washington, D.C., where he's in graduate school, was canceled, so he said he was going to try again Sunday or Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "After icy storm raked Midwest, East, warmer weather comes"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n One of President-elect Donald Trump's first, and defining, acts next year could come on Republican legislation to cut off taxpayer money from Planned Parenthood. Trump sent mixed signals during the campaign about the 100-year-old organization which provides birth control, abortions and various women's health services. He said \"millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood,\" but also endorsed efforts to defund it. \n WASHINGTON >> One of President-elect Donald Trump's first, and defining, acts next year could come on Republican legislation to cut off taxpayer money from Planned Parenthood. \n Trump sent mixed signals during the campaign about the 100-year-old organization, which provides birth control, abortions and various women's health services. He said \"millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood,\" but he also endorsed efforts to defund it. \n Trump once described himself as \"very pro-choice.\" Now he's in the anti-abortion camp. \n Still, the Republican has been steadfast in calling for repeal of President Barack Obama's health care law, and the GOP-led Congress is eager to comply. One of the first pieces of legislation will be a repeal measure that's paired with cutting off money for Planned Parenthood. While the GOP may delay the impact of scuttling the law for almost four years, denying Planned Parenthood roughly $400 million in Medicaid funds would take effect immediately. \n \"We've already shown what we believe with respect to funding of Planned Parenthood,\" House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., told reporters last month. \"Our position has not changed.\" \n Legislation to both repeal the law and cut Planned Parenthood funds for services to low-income women moved through Congress along party lines last year. Obama vetoed it; Trump's win removes any obstacle. \n Cutting off Planned Parenthood from taxpayer money is a long-sought dream of social conservatives, but it's a loser in the minds of some GOP strategists. Planned Parenthood is loathed by anti-abortion activists who are the backbone of the GOP coalition. Polls, however, show that the group is favorably viewed by a sizable majority of Americans \u2014 59 percent in a Gallup survey last year, including more than one-third of Republicans. \n \"Defunding Planned Parenthood as one of their first acts in the New Year would be devastating for millions of families and a huge mistake by Republicans,\" said incoming Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. \n Democrats pledge to defend the group, and they point to the issue of birth control and women's health as helping them win Senate races in New Hampshire and Nevada this year. They argue that Trump would be leading off with a political loser. But if he were to have second thoughts and if the Planned Parenthood provision were to be dropped from the health law repeal, then social conservatives probably would erupt. \n \"They may well be able to succeed, but the women of America are going to know what that means,\" said Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., citing reduced access to services Planned Parenthood clinics provide. \"And we're going to call Republicans on the carpet for that.\" \n At least one Republican senator, Susan Collins of Maine, may oppose the effort. Collins has defended Planned Parenthood, saying it \"provides important family planning, cancer screening, and basic preventive health care services to millions of women across the country.\" She voted against the health overhaul repeal last year as a result. \n Continued opposition from Collins, which appears likely, would put the repeal measure on a knife's edge in the Senate, where Republicans will have a 52-48 majority next year. Senate GOP leaders could afford to lose just one other Republican. \n Anti-abortion conservatives have long tried to cut Planned Parenthood funds, arguing that reimbursements for nonabortion services such as gynecological exams help subsidize abortions. Though Planned Parenthood says it performed 324,000 abortions in 2014, the most recent year tallied, the vast majority of women seek out contraception, testing and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and other services including cancer screenings. \n The drive against Planned Parenthood picked up steam in 2015 after an anti-abortion group called the Center for Medical Progress released secretly-recorded videos that it claimed showed Planned Parenthood officials profiting from sales of fetal tissue for medical research. The measure, however, would strip Planned Parenthood's Medicaid funding for only a year, a step taken to give time for continued investigations of Planned Parenthood's activities. A House panel is still active, but investigations by 13 states have been concluded without charges of wrongdoing. \n Planned Parenthood strongly denied the allegations and no wrongdoing was proved, but the group announced in October that it will no longer accept reimbursement for the costs involved in providing fetal tissue to researchers. \n The defunding measure would take away roughly $400 million in Medicaid money from the group in the year after enactment, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, and would result in roughly 400,000 women losing access to care. One factor is that being enrolled in Medicaid doesn't guarantee access to a doctor, so women denied Medicaid services from Planned Parenthood may not be able to find replacement care. \n Planned Parenthood says private contributions are way up since the election, but that they are not a permanent replacement for federal reimbursements. \"We're going to fight like hell to make sure our doors stay open,\" said Planned Parenthood spokeswoman Erica Sackin. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump action on health care could cost Planned Parenthood"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The massive oil spill still isn't fully cleaned up three years and three months after it happened. The company responsible hasn't even set a date for completion. Some say that one of the largest onshore oil spills recorded in the U.S. serves as a cautionary example, especially given a recent pipeline break about 150 miles south and ongoing debates over the four-state Dakota Access pipeline. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> Three years and three months later, a massive oil spill in North Dakota still isn't fully cleaned up. The company responsible hasn't even set a date for completion. \n Though crews have been working around the clock to deal with the Tesoro Corp. pipeline break, which happened in a wheat field in September 2013, less than a third of the 840,000 gallons that spilled has been recovered \u2014 or ever will be, North Dakota Health Department environmental scientist Bill Suess said. \n A farmer, Steve Jenkins, who'd smelled the crude oil for days, discovered the spill in his northwestern North Dakota field near Tioga \u2014 his combines' tires were covered in it. \n While the nearest home was a half-mile away and the state said no water sources were contaminated and no wildlife hurt, one of the largest onshore oil spills recorded in the U.S. serves for some as a cautionary example, especially given a recent pipeline break about 150 miles south and ongoing debates over the four-state Dakota Access pipeline. \n \"What happened to us happened and we can't go back,\" said Patty Jensen, Steve's wife. This month's pipeline break in Belfield, which belched an estimated 176,000 gallons of oil into a creek that feeds into the Little Missouri River, a tributary of the Missouri River, really rankled her. \n \"But I get really upset when I hear of a new one and I wonder what is being done to prevent these spills,\" she said. \n Both the Tesoro break and the Belfield break occurred on 6-inch steel pipelines \u2014 a part of a large network pipelines that crisscross western North Dakota's oil patch. By comparison, the Dakota Access pipeline is made of 30-inch steel and will carry nearly 20 million gallons daily. \n The Tesoro spill was not far from where oil was first discovered in North Dakota in 1951.The Texas-based company and federal regulators have said a lightning strike may have caused the 2013 rupture in the pipeline, which runs from Tioga to a rail facility outside of Columbus, near the Canadian border. \n North Dakota regulators initially thought just 750 barrels of oil was involved in the spill, but later updated the amount exponentially. They also expanded the affected acreage from about 7 \u2014 the size of seven football fields \u2014 to about 13 acres, Suess said. The cleanup has cost Tesoro more than $49 million to date and is expected to top $60 million, according to recent filings to the state. \n Tesoro spokeswoman Destin Singleton said she could not immediately confirm the numbers, and noted the cleanup completion date remains unknown. The pipeline was monitored remotely, but the company has said the spill wasn't detected. \n Crews have had to dig as deep as 50 feet to remove hundreds of thousands of tons of oil-tainted soil, Suess said. The company has now switched to special equipment that cooks hydrocarbons from crude-soaked soil in a process called thermal desorption before putting it back in place. \n The Dec. 5 spill on the Belle Fourche pipeline also was discovered by a landowner. Crude oil migrated about almost 6 miles from the spill site along Ash Coulee Creek, and fouled an unknown amount of private and U.S. Forest Service land along the waterway. Seuss said it appears no oil got as far as the Little Missouri River, and no drinking water sources were threatened. \n It's not yet clear why monitoring equipment didn't detect the leak, according to Wendy Owen, a spokeswoman for Casper, Wyoming-based True Cos., which operates the pipeline. \n The Dakota Access pipeline builder, Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners, has said the project will be safe and that workers remotely monitoring the pipeline will be able to shut it down if a leak is detected. \n Owen said didn't know how long it would take to clean the Belle Fourche spill, given that wintry weather was slowing down the progress, or how much it would cost. \n Patty Jensen is aware of the glacial pace of oil spill cleanups. For more than three years, it's been part the couple's life. \n \"They are there working away 24 hours a day, seven days a week \u2014 it's pretty amazing,\" she said. \"The noise from the equipment used to bug us but we've grown used to it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Massive 2013 oil spill in North Dakota still not cleaned up"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo released by the U.S. Navy Visual News Service, the USNS Bowditch, a T-AGS 60 Class Oceanographic Survey Ship, sails in open water. The USNS Bowditch, a civilian U.S. Navy oceanographic survey ship, was recovering two drones on Thursday when a Chinese navy ship approached and sent out a small boat that took one of the drones, said Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman. He said the Chinese navy ship acknowledged radio messages from the Bowditch, but did not respond to demands the craft be returned. \n BEIJING >> China says its military seized a U.S. Navy unmanned underwater glider in the South China Sea, but that it will give it back. President-elect Donald Trump, however, says the Chinese government should be told \"we don't want the drone they stole back\" and \"let them keep it!\" \n This comes after U.S. officials confirmed that they \"secured an understanding\" for the return of the device. Trump's tweet Saturday evening may extend one of the most serious incidents between the American and the Chinese militaries in years. \n The Chinese navy on Thursday seized the drone, which the Pentagon said was being operated by civilian contractors to conduct oceanic research. The U.S. lodged a formal diplomatic complaint and demanded the drone back. \n Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun issued a statement late Saturday saying that a Chinese navy lifeboat discovered an unknown device in the South China Sea on Thursday. \n \"In order to prevent this device from posing a danger to the safe navigation of passing ships and personnel, the Chinese lifeboat adopted a professional and responsible attitude in investigating and verifying the device,\" Yang said. \n The statement said that after confirming that the device was an American unmanned submerged device, \"China decided to transfer it to the U.S. through appropriate means.\" \n The U.S. said that \"through direct engagement with Chinese authorities, we have secured an understanding that the Chinese will return\" the unmanned underwater vehicle, according to a statement from Peter Cook, spokesman for U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter. \n But Trump, after holding a rally to thank supporters for his election, took to Twitter to criticize the deal. \"We should tell China that we don't want the drone they stole back.- let them keep it!\" the president-elect tweeted Saturday evening. \n Earlier in the day, he had blasted the seizure. \n Misspelling \"unprecedented,\" he tweeted: \"China steals United States Navy research drone in international waters \u2013 rips it out of water and takes it to China in unpresidented act.\" He later reissued the tweet, correcting the spelling. \n The U.S. said China's \"unlawful seizure\" came in international waters. Yet China pointedly accused the U.S. of long sending ships \"in China's presence\" to conduct \"military surveying.\" \n \"China is resolutely opposed to this and requests the U.S. stop such activities,\" Yang, the Defense Ministry spokesman, said in the statement. \"China will continue to maintain vigilance against the relevant U.S. activities and will take necessary measures to deal with them.\" \n Earlier Saturday, China's Foreign Ministry said the nation's military was in contact with its American counterparts on \"appropriately handling\" the incident, though it offered no details on what discussions were underway. \n Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Sunday on CNN's \"State of the Union\" that the seizure of the drone was a \"gross violation of international law.\" \n The drone was seized while collecting unclassified scientific data about 92 kilometers (57 miles) northwest of Subic Bay near the Philippines in the South China Sea, which China claims virtually in its entirety, Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said Friday. \n \"It is ours. It's clearly marked as ours. We would like it back, and we would like this not to happen again,\" Davis told reporters. He said the drone costs about $150,000 and is largely commercial, off-the-shelf technology. \n The USNS Bowditch, which is not a combat ship, was stopped in international waters Thursday afternoon and recovering two of the gliders when the Chinese ship approached, Davis said. The two vessels were within some 450 meters (500 yards) of each other. He said the USNS Bowditch carries some small arms, but that no shots were fired. \n According to the Pentagon, as the Chinese ship left with the drone, which is about 3 meters (10 feet) long, its only radio response to the U.S. vessel was, \"We are returning to normal operations.\" \n Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the seizure of the glider occurred inside the exclusive economic zone of the Philippines, not China, and appeared to be a violation of international law. \n China delineates its South China Sea claims with a roughly drawn sea border known as the \"nine-dash line\" that runs along the west coast of the Philippines. However, it hasn't explicitly said whether it considers those waters as sovereign territory, and says it doesn't disrupt the passage of other nations' shipping through the area. The U.S. doesn't take a position on sovereignty claims, but insists on freedom of navigation, including the right of its naval vessels to conduct training and other operations in the sea. \n Davis said that the incident could be the first time in recent history that China has taken a U.S. naval vessel. Some observers have called it the most significant dispute between the sides' militaries since the April 2001 midair collision between a U.S. Navy surveillance aircraft and a Chinese fighter jet about 110 kilometers (70 miles) from China's Hainan island that led to the death of a Chinese pilot. \n The drone seizure seemed likely to fray the already tense relations between U.S. and China. Beijing was angered by Trump's decision to talk by phone with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen on Dec. 2, and by his later comments that he did not feel \"bound by a one-China policy\" regarding the status of Taiwan, unless the U.S. could gain trade or other benefits from China. China considers the self-governing island its own territory to be recovered by force if it deems necessary. \n There also have been increased tensions over Beijing's ongoing military buildup in the South China Sea, mainly the development and militarization of man-made shoals and islands aimed at extending China's reach in the strategically vital area, through which about $5 trillion in global trade passes annually. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China says it will give drone back, but Trump says 'keep it'"}

{"date": "December 18, 2016", "text": "Oahu Auctions has launched an online \"flash auction\" to clear contents of Magnolia Caf\u00e9 & Bakery at the Ala Moana Center in Honolulu. The prominent New York City eatery will serve its patrons for the last time today, after being open just a little over a year. \n Magnolia Caf\u00e9 & Bakery products are baked on-site daily. Its cupcakes and banana pudding were in high demand all week as regular customers learned of the caf\u00e9's closure. Customers were often told to come back the following day for popular items that sold out earlier in the day. \n \"Everything that can be removed safely and quickly without causing damage to the building is available,\" says David Brandt of Oahu Auctions. \"All the equipment was purchased just a year ago so everything still looks shiny and new. Most of the large equipment is still under warranty.\" \n The restaurant's sizeable kitchen is filled with multiple ranges, ovens, undercounter refrigerators, freezers, ice machines, sheet pan racks, mobile cabinets, sinks and prep stations, which are all up for auction. An extensive assortment of foodservice equipment including deli cases, mixers, food slicers, bakeware, glassware and dishware will be up for grabs. All contents of the kiosk, wall art, fixtures and props will be among the odds and ends offered. \n \"We're calling this a flash auction because this has to move along quickly. We typically have a couple of weeks just to organize an auction of this size. This time we have just a few days from start to finish,\" commented Alicia Brandt of Oahu Auctions. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Magnolia Cafe & Bakery auction at Ala Moana Center"}

