{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Frank Gehrke, chief of the California Cooperative Snow Surveys Program for the Department of Water Resources, crosses a snow covered meadow on Feb. 2 after conducting the second manual snow survey of the season at at Phillips Station near Echo Summit, Calif. \n FRESNO, Calif. >> The massive snowdrifts in the Sierra Nevada could finally bring the California drought to its knees and keep skiers on the slopes long enough to celebrate the Fourth of July. \n Winter snowfall on California's 400-mile mountain range provides roughly one-third of the water used in the nation's most populous state as the snow melts over the spring and summer and fills reservoirs supplying farmers and city dwellers. \n The California Department of Water Resources will once again manually measure the snowpack on Wednesday, saying the state is on track for one of the wettest winters on record after five years of drought. \n On Tuesday, electronic monitors showed the snowpack was at 186 percent of normal for this time of year. \n Doug Carlson of the state agency says the winter's historic snow and rainfall has not been seen in California for decades. \n At the southern end of the Sierra Nevada \u2014 with the highest mountain peaks \u2014 more than double the normal amount of snow has piled up. \n The deluge follows five years of drought, including two of the driest in the state's recorded history. \n In April 2015, Gov. Jerry Brown attended the monthly snowpack survey near Lake Tahoe, standing in a field that was barren of any measureable snow. \n Brown later ordered residents to use less water at home \u2014 a first for California. In the state that leads the nation in producing fruits, vegetables and nuts, some farmers drew down wells to grow their crops; others left fields unplanted. \n The bleak scenario began to ease last year. In recent weeks, heavy storms flooded some areas of California. For a time, officials feared Oroville Dam, the nation's tallest, could burst. Tens of thousands of people were evacuated. \n Flood damage statewide reached an estimated $1 billion, officials said. \n The snow, however, has been good news for skiers. \n At Mammoth Mountain, a popular destination in Southern California, more than 43 feet of snow has fallen. Resort spokeswoman Lauren Burke said the venue plans to stay open through Independence Day. \n Farther north, Lake Tahoe is at its highest level in more than a decade and ski resorts are extending the season to the end of April. \n \"We've had days when we had to take a little extra time to dig out we've had so much snow,\" said Marcie Bradley, a spokeswoman for Northstar California. \"It's been an incredible snow year.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California snowpack could bring 5-year drought to its knees"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "DEARBORN HEIGHTS, Mich. >> An ex-convict faces sentencing in the slayings of his two young children and two stepchildren at his suburban Detroit home. \n Gregory Green is due Wednesday in Wayne County Circuit Court. \n He pleaded guilty Feb. 15 to second-degree murder in September's carbon monoxide poisonings of Koi and Kaleigh Green \u2014 ages 5 and 4 \u2014 and the shooting deaths of Chadney and Kara Allen \u2014 19 and 17 \u2014 in his Dearborn Heights home. \n His wife, Faith Green, was shot and slashed but survived. She was mother to all four children. Gregory Green was biological father to Koi and Kaleigh. \n A sentence agreement calls for him to serve 45 to 100 years in prison. \n Gregory Green previously spent 16 in prison for killing his first wife, who was pregnant. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michigan man to be sentenced in the slayings of 4 children"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer speaks Monday during a daily press briefing at the White House in Washington. \n NEW YORK >> When White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer wanted to crack down on leaks last week, he collected his aides' cell phones to check for communication with reporters. The crackdown quickly leaked. \n Spicer's losing round in Washington's perpetual game of information whack-a-mole was hardly a surprise. In trying to plug leaks from anonymous sources, President Donald Trump and his aides are going after one of the most entrenched practices in Washington politics and journalism, an exercise that has exposed corruption, fueled scandals and spread gossip for decades. \n But the practice has created several headaches for the new president, leading Trump, just weeks into his presidency, to publicly vow to try to punish \"low-life leakers\" in his own administration. \n \"Let their name be put out there,' Trump said before the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, accusing reporters of making up anonymous sources and stories. He declared reporters shouldn't be allowed to use sources \"unless they use somebody's name.\" \n \"'A source says that Donald Trump is a horrible, horrible human being.' Let 'em say it to my face.\" \n But Trump's administration has not been practicing what the boss preached. Despite the president's anger about unnamed sources, White House budget officials insisted on anonymity Monday as they outlined details of Trump's spending plans to reporters on a conference call. The budget officials ignored requests to put the briefing on the record. \n Several anonymously sourced stories have driven Trump coverage: revelations that former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had lied about conversations with Russians about sanctions; details of private phone calls Trump had with leaders of Australia and Mexico; draft memos of policy plans for actions like rounding up undocumented aliens. \n Trump isn't the first president to be frustrated by leaks. \n From the release of the Pentagon Papers on Vietnam policy, the Watergate scandal that brought down President Richard Nixon to Edward Snowden's data dump of national security files, American history is filled with stories of government misconduct that came to light through information passed privately into the hands of journalists. \n \"Leaking is gigantically important in modern presidential coverage and Washington history,\" said Frank Sesno, a former CNN Washington bureau chief and now a journalism professor at George Washington University. \n Sources have countless reasons for leaking, Sesno said. Maybe they're raising a trial balloon, or shooting one down. Maybe they don't like a policy being considered or want to report wrongdoing. Maybe they just want to talk back to the boss. \n Journalists prefer sources go on the record; it lends more credibility to the stories. But on important areas of national security, it's understandable when people insist upon anonymity, said Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times, on CNN's \"Reliable Sources\" Sunday. \n \"These are not people who pull us aside because they want to screw Donald Trump,\" Baquet said. \"These are people who are worried about the direction of the government. These are people who are taking risks to talk to the media because they think these things need to be exposed. And I have to say, in an administration that has expressed so much distaste for the press and so much distaste for our role, are you surprised that some of the people who want to criticize the administration want to do it without their names attached? I'm not.\" \n Leaks have progressed beyond the days of clandestine meetings in darkened parking garages \u2014 although that still happens. Since leakers can be tracked if they use government-issued phones, journalists and sources have increasingly turned to encrypted messaging services, such as Signal, that aren't logged by phone companies, with messages that can be programmed to self-destruct after they are viewed. \n Spicer called the White House communications staff into his office to express his frustration with unauthorized leaks to reporters, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting but not authorized to discuss it publicly. He asked the aides to provide him with both their government-issued and personal cell phones so he could check communications with journalists. \n He also told them that use of encrypted texting apps was a violation of the Federal Records Act and had representatives from the White House counsel's office in the meeting, according to one person with knowledge of the meeting. That person said Monday that Trump was not aware of the inquiry. \n Spicer also requested that details of the meeting not be shared with the press. Politico first reported the meeting Sunday. \n Trump said he probably would have handled the situation differently than his press secretary, meeting with staff one-on-one instead, but perhaps still demanding to look at their phones. \n In an interview with Fox News Channel's \"Fox & Friends\" that aired today, the president denied there was a \"major leak process\" at the White House. \n So who leaked this story? \n \"We have sort of ideas,\" Trump said. \"But don't forget, we have people from other campaigns, we have people from other governments. We've got a lot of people here.\" \n Sesno said the Trump White House's battle against leakers is likely fueled by a combination of being new to Washington and a genuine desire to control the message. But to some who knew Trump from a different era, it's a little jarring. \n In the 1990s, Trump was a frequent anonymous source of information about his social life and television series, \"The Apprentice,\" said newspaper columnist Linda Stasi, who covered Trump at the New York Daily News and New York Post. Once Trump called and pretended to be someone else delivering information about him; Stasi said she could easily recognize his voice. \n \"I think he was surprised to find out that it's not the same when you're talking about the most important things in the world, as opposed to when your mistress is saying she was having good sex with him,\" Stasi said. \n Stasi said she got along well with Trump, even though she felt the relationship was more beneficial for her than it was for him. \n \"When it comes to politics, it's a different game,\" she said. \"He's turned into someone I don't know.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump takes on entrenched practice of Washington leaks"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tulip Magnolia trees bloom in Washington today. Crocuses, cherry trees, magnolia trees are blooming several weeks early because of an unusually warm February. Some climate experts say it looks like, because of an assist from global warming, spring has sprung what may be record early this year in about half the nation. \n WASHINGTON >> Spring has sprung early \u2014 potentially record early \u2014 in much of the United States, bringing celebrations of shorts weather mixed with unease about a climate gone askew. \n Crocuses, tulips and other plants are popping up earlier than usual from Arizona to New Jersey and down to Florida. Washington is dotted with premature pink blossoming trees. Grackles, red-winged blackbirds and woodpeckers are just plain early birds this year. \n The unseasonably warm weather has the natural world getting ahead of \u2014 even defying \u2014 the calendar, scientists said Tuesday. \n In cities like Indianapolis, Pittsburgh and Columbus, Ohio, spring has arrived about a month earlier than the 30-year average and about 20 days earlier than in 2012, which was the earliest spring on record. \n Scientists at the U.S. Geological Survey's National Phenology Network, which studies seasonal signs, have calculated local and a national spring index based on observations of lilacs, honeysuckles and temperature records that are fed into a computer model. \n The spring leaf index goes back to 1900 and 2012 has been the earliest on record . But preliminary records show this year ahead of 2012 in a good chunk of the nation . It's still too early to draw a conclusion for the country, said University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee scientist Mark D. Schwartz and phenology network director Jake Weltzin. \n As the world warms, spring is arriving earlier, but not everywhere. For a broad swath of the U.S., 2017 sticks out like a crocus in early February. Nashville, St. Louis, Washington, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Columbus and Indianapolis are at least three weeks early on the spring index, but Phoenix and Los Angeles are running a bit late. \n \"It's weird,\" Weltzin said Tuesday. \n The latest early spring isn't supposed to show up for decades based on computer simulations that model springs of the future, said Jeff Masters, meteorology director of the private Weather Underground. \n \"This is basically a year 2100 sort of spring that we're seeing this year,\" Masters said. \"Way surprising.\" \n Fox butterflies are already out in Massachusetts and New York. Beetles are scurrying around Martha's Vineyard. Crocuses and snowdrops are in full flower in suburban Boston \u2014 all exceptionally early because of warm temperatures and little snow cover, said Boston University biology professor Richard Primack. \n \"I am already hearing woodpeckers knocking on tree trunks\" when these sounds usually occur in March or April, said Primack, editor of the journal Biological Conservation. \n The northern shoveler duck is usually the next to last duck to make it to upstate New York, arriving sometime in April, but it's already here, said Kevin McGowan, an ornithologist at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology \n These wildlife sightings stem from warm weather in February that Masters called \"off-the-charts weird\" that included upper 90s in Oklahoma and a first-of-its-kind February tornado in Massachusetts. \n Masters and Penn State University climate scientist Michael Mann, who photographed flowers sprouting outside his central Pennsylvania house in mid-February, said this is a combination of natural weather variation and man-made warming of the climate. \n Warm weather can lead to crop damage if there is a freeze in March or April after plants have already bloomed. It can also worsen droughts, which happened in 2012, Schwartz said. \n Georgia Tech climate scientist Kim Cobb said what's happening is disconcerting, no matter how nice it is for people. \n \"Sure we can't wait to shed our wool coats and hats each spring, but such warm temperatures are wreaking havoc, sight unseen on key crops,\" Cobb said in an email. \"Here in Georgia peach buds have been robbed of necessary 'chill hours' this winter.\" \n The early spring is even changing language with some calling recent weeks \"alt-spring\" and \"March-uary.\" \n Penn State meteorology professor David Titley, said it feels like being on one of the recently discovered Earth-size planets around a nearby star. \n \"Everything is kind of familiar (weather-wise) but different. I was walking around \u2026 in my shirt sleeves and I was almost hot. In February. That's not supposed to happen,\" said the retired admiral. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spring pops up super early in much of U.S."}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pedestrians walk through a skybridge at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport near the international arrivals area today. \n SEATTLE >> Airport officials and civil rights lawyers around the country are getting ready for President Donald Trump's new travel ban \u2014 mindful of the chaos that accompanied his initial executive order but hopeful the forthcoming version will be rolled out in a more orderly way. \n The new order was expected as soon as Wednesday. A draft suggested it would target people from the same seven predominantly Muslim countries but would exempt travelers who already have visas to come to the U.S. \n Since last month's ban, which courts have put on hold, a section of the international arrivals area at Dulles International Airport outside the nation's capital has been transformed into a virtual law firm, with legal volunteers ready to greet travelers from affected countries and ask if they saw anyone being detained. \n Similar efforts are underway at other airports, including Seattle-Tacoma International, where officials have drawn up plans for crowd control after thousands crammed the baggage claim area to protest the original ban. \n \"The plan is to be as ready as possible,\" said Lindsay Nash, an immigration law professor at Cardozo School of Law in New York who has been helping prepare emergency petitions on behalf of those who might be detained. \n Trump's initial action, issued Jan. 27, temporarily barred citizens of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Sudan and Libya from coming to the U.S. and halted acceptance of all refugees. The president said his administration would review vetting procedures amid concerns about terrorism in those seven nations. \n Protesters flooded U.S. airports that weekend, seeking to free travelers detained by customs officials amid confusion about who could enter the country, including U.S. permanent residents known as green-card holders. \n Attorneys also challenged the order in court, including officials from Washington state. That lawsuit, which Minnesota joined, resulted in a federal judge temporarily blocking the government from enforcing the travel ban, a decision unanimously upheld by a panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. \n Many civil rights lawyers and activists have said they don't believe a new order would cure all the constitutional problems of the original, including the claim that it was motivated by anti-Muslim discrimination. \n Trump has said he singled out the seven countries because they had already been deemed a security concern by the Obama administration. \n In his first address to Congress tonight, Trump said his administration \"is taking strong measures to protect our nation from radical Islamic terrorism\" and is working on improved vetting procedures. \n \"And we will shortly take new steps to keep our nation safe \u2014 and to keep out those who would do us harm,\" Trump said. \n Last week, analysts at the Homeland Security Department's intelligence arm found insufficient evidence that citizens of the seven Muslim-majority countries pose a terror threat to the United States. \n \"It's not enough to just tweak an order and not change the nature of why it was issued in the first place,\" said Rula Aoun, director of the Arab American Civil Rights League in Dearborn, Michigan, which sued over the initial ban and is prepared to do the same with the rewrite if necessary. \n In New York, American Civil Liberties Union attorney Lee Gelernt said the organization was ready to go to court if the administration tries to immediately enforce its new order. \n \"The primary focus is being able to respond immediately to any request by the government to lift any of the injunctions, before the courts have had a chance to examine the new order,\" he said. \n Activists and airport officials alike said they hoped it would be phased in to give travelers fair warning, which might preclude any detentions from arriving flights. \n \"We are prepared and willing,\" said Rebecca Sharpless, who runs the immigration clinic at the University of Miami School of Law. \"But it's unlikely to cause the same kind of chaos of last time.\" \n At Dulles, Sea-Tac, Minneapolis-St. Paul and other airports, legal volunteers have greeted arriving travelers in shifts every day since the initial ban, wearing name tags or posting signs in different languages to identify themselves. \n The legal-services nonprofit OneJustice was ready to send email alerts to 3,000 volunteers in California if needed, deploying them to San Francisco and Los Angeles airports for people affected by any new order, chief executive Julia Wilson said. \n In Chicago, travelers have been signing up for an assistance program started by the local Council on American-Islamic Relations office to ensure swift legal help if they're detained. \n Groups urged those arriving at 17 other airports, including Miami, Atlanta and San Diego, to register with Airport Lawyer , a secure website and free mobile app that alerts volunteer lawyers to ensure travelers make it through customs without trouble. \n Asti Gallina, a third-year student at the University of Washington Law School, volunteered at Sea-Tac for the first time today. It was quiet, she said. \n \"An essential part of the American narrative is the ability to come to America,\" Gallina said. \"Any infringement of that is something that needs to be resisted.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Airports, legal volunteers prepare for new Trump travel ban"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A family member performs rituals over the body of Srinivas Kuchibhotla, a 32-year-old engineer who was killed in an apparently racially motivated shooting in a crowded Kansas bar, at a crematorium in Hyderabad, India today. \n HYDERABAD, India >> The mother of an Indian engineer who was killed in an apparently racially motivated shooting in an American bar said she asked her son to come back to India if he felt threatened in the United States, but he said he was not in any danger. \n Srinivas Kuchibhotla's mother wailed today as her son's body was cremated in his hometown of Hyderabad. \n \"I had asked him to return to India if he was feeling insecure there. But he used to say he was safe and secure,\" Parvatha Vardhini said. \n Now she wants her younger son and his family to come home from the U.S. \"I will not allow them to go back,\" she said. \"My son had gone there in search of a better future. What crime did he commit?\" \n Hundreds of grieving relatives and friends tearfully mourned the 32-year-old who arrived in the U.S. in 2005 to pursue a master's degree at the University of Texas at El Paso. \n \"It is so cruel. He was such a kind soul, very friendly. He was so excited that he and his wife were going to start a family soon. Now this has happened,\" said P. L. Narayana, his uncle. \n His father, Madhusudhan Rao, was philosophical: \"I believe in destiny. Whatever was destined has happened.\" \n He added, \"Now I want the U.S. government to take care of the security of our Indians who are working there.\" \n A statement issued today by the Indian External Affairs Ministry said American authorities \"are engaged with us on the larger concern regarding safety of Indians in the U.S., a matter which continues to receive the government's top priority.\" \n Meanwhile in the United States, the FBI said for the first time today that it is investigating the Feb. 22 attack as a hate crime. The agency said it is working with federal prosecutors and local authorities but declined to elaborate. \n Kuchibhotla's body was flown Monday from Newark, New Jersey. His widow, Sunaina Dumala, looking dazed, and his brother, Sai Kiran, who studies in the United States, arrived on the same flight. \n Hours later, the flower-laden body was taken in an open carriage from his home to a crematorium in the Jubilee Hills area, where it was placed on a wooden pyre and lit as part of Hindu last rites. \n According to witnesses, the gunman yelled \"get out of my country\" at Kuchibhotla and a colleague named Alok Madasani before opening fire at Austins Bar and Grill in Olathe, Kansas, a suburb of Kansas City. Both men worked as engineers at GPS device-maker Garmin. \n Madasani and another bar patron were wounded. \n Adam Purinton of Olathe was arrested at a bar in Missouri after telling a bartender that he shot two people he described as Iranian. He remains jailed on murder and attempted murder charges. \n A message left today by The Associated Press for Michael McCulloch, the chief public defender in Johnson County, Kansas, was not immediately returned. McCulloch's office is representing Purinton. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mother of slain Indian man told him to leave U.S. if in danger"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Australian national Sara Connor, center, sits in a court room during her trial in Bali, Indonesia, today. \n BALI, Indonesia >> An Australian woman on trial with her British boyfriend in the death of a police officer on the Indonesian tourist island of Bali expressed deep regret today and apologized, but said she did not personally kill the victim. \n Prosecutors are seeking eight-year prison terms for Sara Connor and David James Taylor, who were arrested last August in the death of traffic police officer Wayan Sudarsa, whose bloodied body was found on the beach outside the Pullman Hotel in the popular tourist area of Kuta. \n They are charged with committing violence leading to death, which carries a maximum 12-year prison term under Indonesia's criminal code. \n \"If this is what God had planned for my life, to punish me so harshly and deprive my children of their mother, I hope he will give my children the strength to cope,\" Connor, weeping, told Denpasar District Court in her defense plea. \n Connor, 46, said she believed her boyfriend when he told her the assault was not serious. \n Taylor has admitted hitting the Indonesian repeatedly with a cellphone, binoculars and a broken beer bottle, leaving him face down and unconscious. But he said he didn't realize Sudarsa would die. \n Connor and Taylor had been drinking beer on the beach in the hours before the late-night incident. Taylor has said he got into a fight with Sudarsa, who was on duty, after Connor realized she had lost her handbag and accused Sudarsa of being a fake police officer and stealing it. \n Connor said she never tried to escape, even though she said she could have fled using her Italian passport which has a different surname. \n \"I deeply regret and I apologize for any mistakes made unknowingly and unintentionally by me but none of my actions caused the death of the victim,\" she said. \"I feel terribly sorry for all the pain that this situation has created.\" \n She expressed deep condolences and sadness to the victim's family, to the Balinese people, to Indonesia, and to her family, especially her children. \n The trial is to resume Thursday for the prosecutors' response. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Australian woman apologizes over death of policeman on Bali"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Opposition journalist Zoya Svetova speaks to the media at the entrance of her apartment after a search of her flat in Moscow, Russia, today. \n MOSCOW >> Russia's top investigative agency searched the apartment of a prominent opposition journalist today in what Amnesty International said was a \"deeply alarming\" development. \n Zoya Svetova wrote on her blog that investigators deceived her by saying they came to give her a summons and then elbowed their way into her Moscow apartment. Several officers of the Federal Security Service, the main KGB successor agency known as the FSB, accompanied workers of the Investigative Committee, she said. \n \"I had to let them in or they would have simply beaten me up,\" Svetova added. \n The Investigative Committee said its workers searched the apartment as part of a probe into alleged fraud and money-laundering by exiled oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky. \n Once Russia's richest man, Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003 in a tax evasion and money-laundering case that was widely seen as revenge for challenging President Vladimir Putin's authority. He served 10 years in prison before being pardoned and moving abroad, and he has used some of his remaining wealth to support independent media, political prisoners and opposition activists. \n Sergei Nikitin, director of Amnesty International Russia, said the search of Svetova's home \"seems like a blatant attempt by the authorities to interfere with her legitimate work as a journalist and perhaps a warning for her and others of the risks of human rights work and independent journalism in Russia.\" \n The search came two days after protesters marked the second anniversary of the killing of opposition leader Boris Nemtsov. Thousands turned out Sunday for a march in Moscow and other Russian cities to mourn Nemtsov, who was gunned down on a bridge near the Kremlin on Feb. 27, 2015. \n Svetova writes for various publications, focusing on human rights and defense of political prisoners. She previously worked for Reporters without Borders and the Soros Foundation in Russia. \n She said the FSB officers saw a document from a KGB search of her dissident parents' apartment 30 years ago and commented that the KGB officers who conducted it still work for successor agency. \n \"I feel deeply sad,\" Svetova wrote. \"It had seemed that things like that can't happen again in this country.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian investigators search leading journalist's apartment"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear speaks in Louisville, Ky. in December 2015. Beshear took a populist tenor in Democrats' formal response to President Donald Trump's speech to Congress on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON >> Former Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear took a populist tenor in Democrats' formal response to President Donald Trump's speech to Congress today, accusing him of planning to \"rip affordable health insurance\" from Americans and being \"Wall Street's champion.\" \n Seated at a diner in Lexington, Kentucky, Beshear assailed Trump for \"ignoring serious threats to our national security from Russia, who's not our friend, while alienating our allies.\" Democrats have berated Trump for his repeated warm remarks about Russian President Vladimir Putin and questioning the value of NATO, the long-time Western alliance. \n Beshear's words and tone seemed a direct Democratic attempt to recapture the loyalties of working-class voters who helped power Trump's election upset last November. Beshear, 72, wore no jacket or tie and spoke of his upbringing in a family of Baptist preachers that owned a funeral home. \n His selection by Democratic party chiefs to deliver their response seemed aimed at the same goal. While far from a national figure, Beshear, whose eight years as governor ended in 2015, is best known for expanding health care coverage in his deep red state under former President Barack Obama's health care law. \n Trump used his first address to Congress to urge lawmakers to kill Obama's 2010 overhaul and replace it with tax credits, health savings accounts and other elements of a plan being pushed by House GOP leaders. Conservatives have rebelled against the developing package, though leaders say they will push ahead with legislation in March. \n \"You and your Republican allies in Congress seem determined to rip affordable health insurance away from millions of Americans who most need it,\" Beshear said. \n Republicans believe lower-income people \"just don't deserve health care, that it's somehow their fault\" they lacked it, Beshear said. Twenty million Americans have gained coverage under Obama's law. \n Trump's initial five weeks in office have seen persistent questions about his campaign's relationship with Russia, a mishandled order barring refugees and the firing of his first national security adviser, Michael Flynn. There have been massive demonstrations against Trump's policies in cities around the country, and GOP lawmakers have been greeted at town hall meetings by activists defending Obama's statute. \n Emboldened by the energy of their party's voters, Democratic lawmakers sat stone-faced during numerous GOP ovations for Trump and flashed other brands of rebelliousness. \n Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., boycotted Trump's speech, and Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., ended his near three-decade streak of snagging an aisle seat to clasp the president's hand as he enters the House chamber for his speech. The visitors' galleries were stuffed with immigrants and recipients of health benefits under Obama's law invited by congressional Democrats, and numerous Democratic women wore white to symbolize support for women's suffrage. \n Beshear said that while Trump campaigned as \"a champion for people struggling to make ends meet,\" he's taken executive action to roll back consumer protections against giant financial institutions and has stocked his Cabinet with wealthy business executives. \n \"That's not being our champion. That's being Wall Street's champion,\" Beshear said. \n Beshear also criticized Trump's verbal assaults on intelligence agencies, federal courts and the press. Such attacks are \"eroding our democracy,\" Beshear said. \n Giving the Democrats' response in Spanish was Astrid Silva, a so-called Dreamer brought to the U.S. illegally as a 4-year-old. \n Silva, now 28, said Trump is \"criminalizing anyone who is different, pitting us against each other, and sending the wrong message to the rest of the world, helping to breed anger and hate from terrorist groups to our country.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In Democrats' reply, ex-governor says Trump would 'rip' away care"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER STAFF / 2015 \n Attorney General Doug Chin \n Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin says he asked President Donald Trump to explain a ban on travel from seven Muslim-majority nations. \n Chin says in a news release that he questioned Trump at the White House today. \n He says Trump asked him if his state had sued him over the travel ban. Chin's lawsuit challenging the ban earlier is on hold. \n Trump's initial travel ban was struck down by a federal court. The president is expected to announce a new, overhauled plan on Wednesday. \n According to Chin's news release, Trump's response was that extreme vetting is part of making America safe again. \n Chin says targeting people based on national origin or religion harms the nation's security. He says the Constitution doesn't allow such discrimination. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii attorney general asks Trump to explain travel ban"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "THE BOSTON GLOBE VIA AP \n The former New England Patriots tight end already is serving a life sentence after being convicted in the 2013 killing of Odin Lloyd, a semi-professional football player who was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee. \n BOSTON >> For the second time, former NFL star Aaron Hernandez will hear a prosecutor ask a jury to convict him of first-degree murder. \n Opening statements are scheduled for Wednesday in Hernandez's double murder trial. The former New England Patriots tight end already is serving a life sentence after being convicted in the 2013 killing of Odin Lloyd, a semi-professional football player who was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee. \n Hernandez is charged in the 2012 fatal shootings of two men he encountered at a Boston nightclub. Prosecutors say Hernandez became enraged when one of the men accidentally bumped into him at the club, causing him to spill his drink. He is accused of following the men, then opening fire on their car as they waited at a stop light. \n Hernandez has pleaded not guilty. His lawyers are expected to challenge the credibility of a former friend who was with Hernandez the night the men were shot and is expected to be the prosecution's star witness. \n Hernandez, now 27, grew up in Connecticut and played for the Patriots from 2010 to 2012. The team released him in June 2013, shortly after he was arrested in Lloyd's killing. \n Prosecutors in the double murder case have said that in the months before the killings, Hernandez had become increasingly convinced that people had been \"testing, trying or otherwise disrespecting him\" when he went to area nightclubs. \n The men who were killed \u2014 Daniel de Abreu, 29, and Safiro Furtado, 28 \u2014 were close friends who attended high school and served in the military together in Cape Verde before coming to the United States and settling in Boston. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Testimony set to begin in ex-NFL star's double murder trial"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chief Business Officer Robert Kuncl, with a graphic showing the many networks that will be carried, spoke during the introduction of YouTube TV at YouTube Space LA in Los Angeles today. People fed up with paying for cable the traditional way will soon be able to subscribe to it from YouTube. \n NEW YORK (AP) >> Fed up with paying for cable the traditional way? You may soon be able to subscribe to it over the internet with \u2026 YouTube. \n The Google-owned site, known for cat videos and do-it-yourself makeup tutorials, is the latest company to offer a version of cable that looks and feels more like Netflix. Dish, Sony and AT&T already have internet cable alternatives, and Hulu has one coming soon. \n None of these have yet been huge hits. YouTube is hoping its expertise in recommendations and search makes it stand out. \n Dubbed YouTube TV, the new service will cost $35 a month for access to about 40 channels when it launches in the next few months, similar to rivals. But it will be initially limited to a few cities where it has deals with broadcasters. And so far, Google doesn't appear to have deals for popular channels such as HBO, AMC and TBS. \n THE ONLINE PROPOSITION \n There are roughly three million fewer traditional TV households in the U.S. then there were four years ago, a decline of about 3 percent. Online alternatives such as Dish's Sling TV, AT&T's DirecTV Now and Sony's PlayStation Vue had about 1.5 million customers combined in 2016. \n But companies like YouTube believe a substantial number of people could be persuaded to pay for TV online. Many of these potential customers are younger people who have never had cable and watch shows and movies primarily through online services such as Netflix. \n But these online cable alternatives have drawbacks of their own. They may not offer substantial savings compared with cable, and offer incomplete channel lineups and inconsistent video quality. \n YOUTUBE'S OFFERING \n YouTube's service will cost $35 a month, similar to the cheapest deals from AT&T's DirecTV Now and Sony's PlayStation Vue, but more expensive than Dish's Sling TV. It comes with unlimited storage in a cloud DVR; only Vue also offers a DVR to all customers. It will allow three people to watch on different devices at the same time. \n The new service underscores how far YouTube has evolved since its early days as a repository for pirated shows and movies. Over the past several years, YouTube has beefed up anti-piracy controls and allowed television producers and networks to share in ad revenue. Those companies are now willing to partner with YouTube on this new endeavor. \n But YouTube still faces challenges making this work. In addition to the no-shows in its channel lineup, it will launch only in cities where it can offer live feeds of the major broadcasters, which tend to be larger metropolitan areas. (YouTube says it will work on expanding to other markets, although that will require cutting deals with the owners of network affiliate stations in those cities.) It will work on a TV only via Google's Chromecast streaming gadget. \n WHAT'S THE PROBLEM? \n In general, internet TV services are an incomplete substitute for cable. \n Many popular programs aren't available because digital rights are a hodgepodge. You can't watch most NFL games on phones using these services \u2014 Verizon has those exclusive rights. DirecTV Now and Sling don't carry CBS, and live feeds for ABC, CBS and NBC are available only in some big cities, as most network stations are owned by third parties. \n Although many cable subscribers say they don't need packages of 500 channels, they don't agree on which channels they actually want. These online services offer cheaper packages with fewer channels, but they are bound to be missing someone's favorites. As with cable, the cost mounts the more channels you add. \n Cable companies also offer discounts when you buy internet and TV services together, which can be cheaper than getting them separately. Prices for the online services start at $20 for Sling's cheapest bundle to $70 and up for the biggest packages from Vue and DirecTV Now. \n Beyond that, these online services also have had quality issues with video freezing or not working at all. And to watch on a TV, you need an extra gadget like an Apple TV, a PlayStation game console, a Roku box or, now, a Chromecast \u2014 and not every service works with every gadget. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "YouTube will offer its own pay-TV service"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carryn Owens, widow of Chief Special Warfare Operator William \"Ryan\" Owens, was applauded on Capitol Hill in Washington today, as she was acknowledged by President Donald Trump during his address to a joint session of Congress. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carryn Owens, widow of Chief Special Warfare Operator William \"Ryan\" Owens, wipes her eyes as she was acknowledged by President Donald Trump during his address to a joint session of Congress today. \n WASHINGTON >> The widow of a U.S. Navy SEAL killed in Yemen stood in the balcony of the House chamber, tears streaming down her face as she looked upward and appeared to whisper to her husband. \n Democrats and Republicans alike stood for minutes to applaud Carryn Owens, giving her the loudest cheers of the night in a rare moment of unity during President Donald Trump's first speech to a joint session of Congress. Her husband, Senior Chief William \"Ryan\" Owens, was killed last month in a raid approved by Trump, a decision that has been sharply criticized by some \u2014 including the slain SEAL's father \u2014 and which Trump continued to defend Tuesday night. \n Trump, near the end of his hour-long speech, paid tribute to Carryn Owens, a surprise guest whose presence in the first lady's box was not announced in advance by the White House. \n \"The challenges we face as a nation are great. But our people are even greater. And none are greater or braver than those who fight for America in uniform,\" said Trump, who said they were \"blessed\" to be joined by Owens. \n The president then turned to the balcony where Owens sat next to Trump's daughter, Ivanka, and said \"Ryan died as he lived: a warrior, and a hero \u2014 battling against terrorism and securing our nation.\" \n The chamber roared with cheers as Owens stood and cried, creating what would likely become the signature moment of Trump's address. \n But Owens' death, as well as the killing of several civilians, has raised questions about the effectiveness of the raid, and Trump took a moment to again litigate the decision. He quoted Defense Secretary Jim Mattis defending the action, saying \"Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies.\" \n \"Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity,\" Trump said. \"For as the Bible teaches us, there is no greater act of love than to lay down one's life for one's friends. Ryan laid down his life for his friends, for his country, and for our freedom \u2014 we will never forget him.\" \n He also struck an awkward note, saying that the prolonged ovation would have made Carryn's slain husband \"very happy, because I think he just broke a record\" for applause. \n Carryn Owens cheered the president's remarks. But Owens' father, Bill, has denounced the raid that took his son's life and refused to meet with Trump when the president greeted the Navy SEAL's remains when they were returned to the United States. He told the Miami Herald last weekend that the raid was a \"stupid mission\" and called for an investigation. \n \"Don't hide behind my son's death to prevent an investigation,\" the elder Owens warned Trump. He did not attend the speech. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Widow of Navy SEAL emotional at Trump speech"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Four officials told The Associated Press that the decision followed pressure from the Pentagon and State Department, which had urged the White House to reconsider Iraq's inclusion given its key role in fighting the Islamic State group. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's new immigration order will remove Iraq from the list of countries whose citizens face a temporary U.S. travel ban, U.S. officials said Tuesday, citing the latest draft in circulation. Trump is expected to sign the executive order in the coming days. \n Four officials told The Associated Press that the decision followed pressure from the Pentagon and State Department, which had urged the White House to reconsider Iraq's inclusion given its key role in fighting the Islamic State group. \n Citizens of six other predominantly Muslim countries \u2014 Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen \u2014 will remain on the travel ban list, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss the order before it is signed. Those bans are effective for 90 days. \n The new order includes other changes as well. The officials said the 12-page document no longer singles out Syrian refugees for an indefinite ban and instead includes them as part of a general, 120-day suspension of new refugee admissions. \n The officials also said the order won't include any explicit exemption for religious minorities in the countries targeted by the travel ban. Critics had accused the administration of adding such language to help Christians get into the United States while excluding Muslims. \n Trump signed his original executive order in late January. It sparked immediate confusion, panic and outrage as some travelers were detained in U.S. airports before being sent back overseas and others were barred from boarding flights at foreign airports. \n The government initially blocked U.S. green card holders before offering those legal residents special permission to come into the country. It finally decided the order didn't apply to them. \n The State Department provisionally revoked roughly 60,000 valid visas in all, before a federal judge in Washington state blocked the government from carrying out the ban. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld that decision. \n Under the revised order, officials said, all existing visas will be honored. \n In his first address to a joint session of Congress, Trump on Tuesday evening defended his effort. \n \"We will shortly take new steps to keep our nation safe and to keep out those who would do us harm,\" he said. \n The changes follow a report by intelligence analysts at the Homeland Security Department, which found insufficient evidence that citizens of the seven Muslim-majority countries posed a terror threat to the United States. A draft of the analysis was obtained last week by the AP. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Trump order drops Iraq from travel ban list"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lady Gaga announced Tuesday night she will be performing at the music festival for both weekends in April. \n INDIO, Calif. >> Attention Little Monsters: Lady Gaga is coming to Coachella. \n The diva announced Tuesday night she will be performing at the music festival for both weekends in April. Gaga will take the headlining spot that had been Beyonce's; pregnant with twins, the superstar announced last week that her doctors recommended she bow out. She rescheduled her performance for next year. \n Gaga is set to launch her \"Joanne\" world tour this summer, so Coachella will be a warm-up for her of sorts. \n She may have given fans a sneak peak of what to expect with her Super Bowl performance in February. \n Besides Gaga, other performers at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California, include Radiohead and Kendrick Lamar. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lady Gaga to headline Coachella in place of Beyonce"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This combination of photos released by Royal Malaysia Police shows detained Indonesian suspect Siti Aisyah, left, and detained Vietnamese suspect Doan Thi Huong. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Indonesian suspect Siti Aisyah, center, in the ongoing assassination investigation, is escorted by police officers as she arrives at Sepang court in Sepang, Malaysia today. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Appearing calm and solemn, two young women accused of smearing VX nerve agent on Kim Jong Nam, the estranged half brother of North Korea's leader, were charged with murder today. \n The women, who arrived at court under the protection of special forces wearing masks and carrying machine guns, are at the center of a bizarre killing at a busy Kuala Lumpur airport terminal. Many speculate the attack was orchestrated by North Korea, but Pyongyang denies any role. \n Wearing a red T-shirt and blue jeans, Indonesian suspect Siti Aisyah nodded as her translator told her: \"You are accused of murdering a North Korean man at the departure hall\" of Kuala Lumpur International Airport. \n The other suspect, Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, wore a yellow shirt and blue jeans and said \"I understand\" in English as the charge was read. She looked briefly at the public gallery as she was led out and bowed her head. \n The women did not enter pleas because the magistrate court where they appeared has no jurisdiction over a murder case. Lead prosecutor Iskander Ahmad told the court he will ask for the case to be transferred to a higher court and for both women to be tried together. \n They face a mandatory death sentence if convicted. \n Kim Jong Nam was attacked as he waited for his flight home to Macau on Feb. 13. He died shortly after two women went up behind him and wiped something onto his face. \n Both women have reportedly said they thought they were part of a prank TV show playing harmless tricks on unsuspecting passengers. Aisyah told authorities that she was paid the equivalent of $90. \n Meanwhile, Kim's corpse is at the center of a growing diplomatic battle between North Korea and Malaysia. \n Speculation is rampant that North Korea was behind the killing, particularly after Malaysia said Friday that VX had killed Kim. Experts say the oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory. \n On Monday, a high-level North Korean delegation arrived in Kuala Lumpur seeking custody of the body. \n North Korea opposed Malaysian officials even conducting an autopsy, while Malaysia has resisted giving up the body without getting DNA samples and confirmation from next of kin. \n The delegation includes Ri Tong Il, a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, who told reporters Monday outside the North Korean Embassy that the diplomats were in Malaysia to retrieve the body and seek the release of a North Korean arrested in the case. He said the delegation also wants \"development of the friendly relationship\" between North Korea and Malaysia. \n Malaysian officials have confirmed that the victim of the attack was Kim Jong Nam. North Korea, however, has identified him only as a North Korean national with a diplomatic passport bearing the name Kim Chol. \n Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said Malaysia will continue to insist that the body be identified by medical examiners through DNA or other means before it can be released. He said the protocol is to release it to the next-of-kin once identification is completed. \n Asked how long Malaysia can keep Kim's body at the morgue, he said \"we can keep as long as we want.\" Police have said that the body will eventually have to be released to the North Korean embassy if there is no claim by Kim's family members. \n The killing of Kim Jong Nam appeared to be a well-planned hit. Malaysian authorities say North Koreans put the deadly nerve agent VX on the hands of two women who then placed the toxin on Kim's face. Kim died on the way to a hospital, within about 20 minutes of the attack, they say. \n Arrmanatha Nasir, the spokesman for Indonesia's Foreign Ministry, said Aisyah's lawyers have already begun preparing her defense. Indonesia expects Malaysia will uphold a legal process based on the presumption of innocence until proven otherwise, he said. \n \"Is she an intelligence agent or not? Let's see the hearing process and what she says through her lawyers,\" Nasir said. \"If there is information like that, of course we would get it either from our own intelligence services or from foreign intelligence services which have cooperation with us, and so far we have no such information.\" \n Malaysia has also detained a 45-year-old North Korean, Ri Jong Chol, whose role in the killing is unclear. Asked if the North Korean will be charged, Apandi said it depends on the outcome of the investigation. \n Authorities are seeking seven other North Korean suspects, four of whom fled the country the day of Kim's death and are believed to be back in North Korea. Others sought include the second secretary of North Korea's embassy and an employee of North Korea's state-owned airline, Air Koryo. \n Malaysia hasn't directly accused North Korea of having masterminded the killing, but South Korea has. It has not provided evidence. \n South Korean lawmakers said Monday that the country's National Intelligence Service told them in a private briefing that four of the North Koreans identified as suspects are from the Ministry of State Security, the North's spy organ. \n Kim Jong Nam was estranged from Kim Jong Un. He reportedly fell out of favor with their father, the late Kim Jong Il, in 2001, when he was caught trying to enter Japan on a false passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland. \n He had been heading to Macau, where he has a home, when he was killed. \n Isolated North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. Kim Jong Nam was not known to be seeking political power; he was best known for his penchants for drinking, gambling and expensive restaurants. But his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since it was founded could have made him appear to be a danger. \n Malaysia continues to seek DNA samples from Kim Jong Nam's immediate family. He is believed to have two sons and a daughter with two women living in Beijing and Macau. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspects charged with murder in airport nerve agent attack"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French President Francois Hollande delivers a speech as he visits the Disneyland Paris theme parks in Marne-la-Vallee, north of Paris, Saturday. \n PARIS >> French President Francois Hollande was unfazed Tuesday when his speech to inaugurate a new railway line was interrupted by an elite police marksman accidentally opening fire. \n Hollande was detailing the history of the Paris-Bordeaux high-speed rail project when what sounded like a rifle shot rang out. \n Video from the scene showed him pausing and looking up, saying, \"I hope it's nothing serious.\" \n After looking off to the side, seemingly for confirmation, for a moment, he added, \"I think not,\" and continued speaking about the railway line. \n The head of the local administration later told reporters that an elite marksman positioned on a roof nearby had fired by accident, causing minor injuries in the legs of two people. \n Hollande had spoken with the victims after ending his speech as scheduled, prefect Pierre N'Gahane said. \n France has been on high alert for terrorist incidents since deadly attacks claimed by the Islamic State extremist group over the last two years in Paris and Nice, among others, cost 238 people their lives. \n ", "author": "Deutsche Presse-Agentur", "title": "Hollande unfazed by accidental police gunfire during speech"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "MANAGUA, Nicaragua >> A 25-year-old woman died today after she was thrown into a fire to drive \"demons\" from her body, Nicaraguan authorities said, quoting witnesses as saying she was stripped naked, burned and thrown into a gully. \n Officials said the woman, Vilma Trujillo Garcia, suffered burns over 80 percent of her body. \n Prosecutors said evangelical pastor Juan Gregorio Rocha Romero and four other people had been arrested. \n Rocha Romero denied wrongdoing, telling the newspaper La Prensa that the woman fell into the fire without anyone pushing her and a demon exited her body. \n The victim's husband, Reynaldo Peralta Rodriguez, said the mother of two was taken inside a church last week when members thought she was possessed after allegedly trying to attack people with a machete. \n \"It's unforgiveable what they did to us. They killed my wife, the mother of my two little ones,\" he said. \"Now what am I going to tell them?\" \n The family lived in the impoverished mining township of Rosita, about 300 miles (480 kilometers) northeast of Managua. \n The Assemblies of God, the church to which Rocha reportedly belonged, issued a statement denying that Rocha Romero was one of its leaders. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nicaraguan woman thrown into fire during exorcism, dies"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan listened as President Donald Trump addressed a joint session of Congress on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> Heralding a \"new chapter of American greatness,\" President Donald Trump stood before Congress for the first time tonight and issued a broad call for overhauling the nation's health care system, significantly boosting military spending and plunging $1 trillion into upgrading crumbling infrastructure. \n Striking an optimistic tone, Trump declared: \"The time for small thinking is over.\" \n Trump's address came at a pivotal moment for a new president elected on pledges to swiftly shake up Washington and follow through on the failed promises of career politicians. His opening weeks in office have been consumed by distractions and self-inflicted wounds, including the bungled rollout of a sweeping immigration and refugee executive order that was blocked by the courts. \n Trump, who typically relishes flouting political convention, embraced the pomp and tradition of a presidential address to Congress. He stuck largely to his script, made occasional overtures to Democrats and skipped the personal insults he so often hurls at his opponents. \n The president was greeted by enthusiastic applause as he entered the House chamber, though it was filled with Democrats who vigorously oppose his policies and many Republicans who never expected him to be elected. Most Republican lawmakers have rallied around him since the election, hopeful that he will act on the domestic priorities they saw blocked during President Barack Obama's eight years in office. \n Topping that list is undoing Obama's signature health care law and replacing the sweeping measure. Trump offered a basic blueprint of his priorities, including ensuring that those with pre-existing conditions have access to coverage, allowing people to buy insurance across state lines and offering tax credits and expanded health savings accounts to help Americans purchase coverage. He suggested he would get rid of the current law's requirement that all Americans carry insurance coverage, saying that \"mandating every American to buy government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for America.\" \n Making a direct appeal for bipartisanship, Trump turned to Democrats and said, \"Why not join forces to finally get the job done and get it done right?\" \n Democrats, now firmly ensconced in the minority, sat silently while Republicans stood and cheered. Some wore blue, pro-health care buttons that read \"Protect our care,\" and dozens of Democratic women wore white in honor of the suffrage movement. \n Trump was vague in his call for tax reform, another Republican priority. He promised \"massive tax relief for the middle class\" and a reduction in corporate tax rates, but glossed over how he would offset the cuts. \n The president also urged Congress to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure package financed through both public and private capital. \n \"The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding,\" he said. \n Trump sent unexpectedly mixed messages on immigration, one of his signature campaign issues. He pledged to vigorously target people living in the U.S. illegally who \"threaten our communities and prey on our citizens.\" But he told news anchors before his speech that he was open to legislation that could provide a pathway to legal status, and he told Congress he believed \"real and positive immigration reform is possible.\" \n First lady Melania Trump sat with special guests who were on hand to amplify the president's agenda, including the family members of people killed by immigrants living in the U.S. illegally. The widow of former Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia also sat alongside Mrs. Trump, a reminder of the president's well-received nomination of federal appeals court Judge Neil Gorsuch to fill Scalia's seat. \n The majority of Trump's address centered on the domestic, economic-focused issues that were at the center of his presidential campaign. His national security message centered largely on a call for significantly boosting military spending and taking strong but unspecified measures to protect the nation from \"radical Islamic terrorism.\" \n Underscoring the human cost of those efforts, Trump honored Chief Special Warrant Officer William \"Ryan\" Owens, who was killed in a raid in Yemen during his first days in office. Owens' widow sat in the guest box with tears streaming down her face as the crowd stood and applauded at length. \n Owens' death, as well as the killing of several civilians, have raised questions about the effectiveness of the raid. Pushing back, the president said Defense Secretary Jim Mattis had assured him that the operation generated \"large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies.\" \n Trump also voiced support for NATO but reiterated his call for partner countries to meet their financial obligations to the military alliance. Trump has previously called NATO \"obsolete,\" setting some allies on edge about his commitment to the partnership. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump declares it's 'time to join forces' to fix U.S. problems"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigate after a fatal traffic incident today in Makiki. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police were investigating a traffic fatality this afternoon on South King Street. \n GOOGLE MAPS \n Police were investigating a traffic fatality near South King and Pensacola streets this afternoon. \n A 29-year-old woman died in a vehicular accident today in Makiki when she exited the side door of a van in motion and struck the road, police said. \n She was taken by Honolulu Emergency Medical Services to a hospital, where she died. \n The accident took place at 1:45 p.m. near the intersection of Pensacola and King streets. \n A 26-year-old woman was driving the van Diamond Head-bound on South King Street when the incident occurred, police said. \n Police said speed, alcohol and drugs did not seem to be factors in the incident. \n It was the sixth traffic fatality this year on Oahu, compared to four for the same period in 2016. \n ", "author": "By Gary Kubota", "title": "Woman falls from moving vehicle on South King Street, dies"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama attended the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's 46th Annual Legislative Conference Phoenix Awards Dinner in Washington on Sept. 17, 2016. \n NEW YORK >> Barack and Michelle Obama have book deals. \n The former president and first lady have signed with Penguin Random House, the publisher announced today. Financial terms were not disclosed, although the deals are likely in the tens of millions of dollars. Both Obamas have published books through Crown, a Penguin Random House imprint. \n \"We are absolutely thrilled to continue our publishing partnership with President and Mrs. Obama,\" Penguin Random House CEO Markus Dohle said in a statement. \n \"With their words and their leadership, they changed the world, and every day, with the books we publish at Penguin Random House, we strive to do the same. Now, we are very much looking forward to working together with President and Mrs. Obama to make each of their books global publishing events of unprecedented scope and significance.\" \n The unique duel arrangement is for books that are among the most anticipated in memory from a former president and first lady. Barack Obama is widely regarded as the one of the finest prose stylists among recent presidents, and has written the million-selling \"Dreams from My Father\" and \"The Audacity of Hope.\" Michelle Obama has given few details about her time as first lady: Her only book is about food and gardening, \"American Grown,\" released in 2012. Both Obamas are widely popular with the public in the U.S. and abroad. \n The publisher did not immediately say which imprint the books would be released through. Titles, publishing dates and other details about the books also were not immediately available. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Barack and Michelle Obama have book deals"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Donald Trump Jr., left, spoke as his brother Eric looked on during speeches at the grand opening of the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Vancouver, B.C., today. \n VANCOUVER, B.C. >> Ignoring protests, claims their newest real estate venture clashes with Canadian values and a no-show mayor who tried to change the tower's name, U.S. President Donald Trump's sons said today that it was \"so fitting\" to see the Trump brand in Vancouver, a city known for its diversity and progressive politics. \n Protesters, some carrying posters proclaiming, \"Love Trumps Hate,\" surrounded the entrance to the Trump hotel and condominium tower while police and security officers in black suits gathered on sidewalks at the soaring edifice, which has drawn praise for its sleek design but has also raised ethical concerns about the business interests of the new U.S. president. \n Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson, who had lobbied for the Trump name to be removed from the tower, refused to attend the ceremony in protest of Trump's policies on immigration and other matters. \"The name Trump has now become synonymous not with luxury and lifestyle, but with racism, sexism and intolerance,\" said city Councilman Kerry Jang, who was among other city officials boycotting the event. \n Despite the protests and controversy, however, the Trump brothers said Vancouver was the perfect location for a new Trump enterprise. \n \"Vancouver is truly one of the great cities of the world. It's truly one of the most beautiful places in the world and it's so fitting for the Trump brand,\" Eric Trump said in a speech before the ribbon-cutting ceremony. \n Calling the building an \"an architectural masterpiece,\" he added: \"That's what our brand is all about. That's what our father's vision was all about, creating one of the most iconic buildings in the world.\" \n In true Trump fashion, Donald Jr. opened his remarks with a light-hearted swipe at the media. \"I'd like to thank the press,\" he said before quickly adding: \"Just kidding. Good to see you here. I'm shocked. I'm absolutely shocked.\" \n Donald Jr. also thanked the tower's Malaysian developer, Joo Kim Tiah, whose father is one of Malaysia's wealthiest businessmen and who, like the U.S. president, made a fortune in real estate. \n \"It's great to be able to do this within a family business. I understand how that dynamic works,\" Donald Jr. said. \"It either works great or it is a total disaster.\" \n The Trump Organization is licensing the name to the building and managing the hotel, but does not own it. \n Joo Kim, the developer, said he found it \"extremely stressful\" when Trump entered politics well after he signed the partnership agreement with the Trump organization. \n \"I was terrified,\" Joo Kim of the Canada-based Holborn Development company told The Associated Press last week. \"The people who ran the city were not happy with me. I was scared, but I think they understand. They understand that I'm trapped into \u2014 not trapped, locked into \u2014 an agreement.\" \n As the opening ceremony took place today inside the gleaming 69-story tower, people carrying anti-Trump signs took part in a raucous demonstration to the sound of reggae music outside. Protesters crowded the building's entrance, including Henry Ho, who brought signs with messages that included \"Dump Trump,\" and \"Is it 2020 yet?\" \n \"I believe a president should be at his core a good person,\" the Vancouver resident said. \"I don't feel like that comes from Donald Trump.\" \n Sue Robertson, a retiree who lives in Vancouver, said the Trump brand is associated with \"evil\" and said a Trump tower \"does not belong in a multicultural, fabulous beautiful city.\" \n While the Trump-branded tower is a source of anger for many, the new hotel and its namesake do have some support in the region. \n \"President and hotel owner are two different things. If he can separate the two, all the power to him,\" said Joe Taylor, a resident of British Columbia. \"At least he's got the nerve to say what's on his mind. If people don't like it, well, they're not used to that.\" \n The Trump brothers did not take questions after the ceremony, though Donald Jr. later said in a tweet that the Trump Organization had received a record number of applications to work at the tower: 10,000 applications for 300 full time jobs. \n A Trump Organization tweet late Monday asserted the tower was \"the first property to open in the city\" in over six years. But the city's former planning director, Brent Toderian, said that wasn't true. \n \"I'm the former chief planner for #Vancouver. That's so far from being true, it's laughable,\" Brent Toderian tweeted. The Trump Organization tweet was later deleted. \n The media was taken on a tour of the hotel, which included stops at Ivanka Trump's spa, a view of the rooms where reporters could take a look at the protest below, and the night club. \n Located along an upscale six-lane downtown thoroughfare, the tower is the second-tallest in Vancouver and offers majestic mountain and ocean views. A one-bedroom apartment, at 699 square feet, starts around $1 million and the average 1,153-square-foot two-bedroom condo went for $1.7 million but has since gone up. Hotel rooms in the slow season start at around $228 ($300 Canadian). \n The chief White House ethics lawyers under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama have criticized Trump's turning over control of his business to his sons, saying it does not eliminate potential conflicts of interest. Legal experts also say Trump's overseas businesses could violate the \"emoluments clause\" of the U.S. constitution, which bars public officials from accepting payments or gifts from foreign governments or companies they control without the consent of Congress. A liberal-funded watchdog group has filed a lawsuit against Trump citing the clause. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press videographer Manuel Valdes reported this story in Vancouver and AP writer Rob Gillies reported from Toronto. AP writer Cara McKenna in Vancouver contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump sons open newest hotel in Vancouver"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "A Honolulu Jewish pre-school was among those targeted in a wave of bomb threats around the country Monday. \n No one was hurt at the pre-school at the Temple Emanu-El synagogue on the Pali Highway, according to a post on the temple's Facebook page. \n Jewish centers and day schools in at least a dozen states received threats Monday. \n The temple posted the following statement on its Facebook page Monday: \n \"We regret to report that a threatening phone call was made to Temple Emanu-El this afternoon. The threat was specifically made against our Temple Pre-school. It happened on a day where seven Jewish pre-schools on the mainland received similar phone calls as well. Thankfully our Temple and Gan Pre-school staff members responded calmly and efficiently in moving the children to another location. \n \"Our Executive Director Richard Field is working with law enforcement at both the local and national level as they investigate this matter. We are extremely thankful that no one was hurt and want to assure the members of our Temple Emanu-El community that we will operate in a way that puts the safety of our staff, visitors and premises first. \n \"Beginning tomorrow at 7:00 a.m., we will have a private security guard stationed in our parking area. We will maintain the security service until further notice.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Honolulu Jewish pre-school target of threatening phone call"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Austin Harrouff was transported, on Oct. 3, by detectives to the Martin County Jail from St. Mary's Hospital in Florida. Harrouff, the Florida college student accused of randomly killing a couple and chewing on the dead man's face, told TV personality Phil McGraw he had been running from a demon-like figure named Daniel before the attack. \n STUART, Fla. >> A Florida college student accused of randomly killing a couple in their garage and chewing on the dead man's face told television psychologist Phil McGraw he was fleeing a demon-like figure named Daniel and only had a vague recollection of the slayings. \n In a 22-minute interview released today by prosecutors, Austin Harrouff said he lost his wits as he walked back to his father's home after storming out of a restaurant where they had an argument. \n McGraw asked about \"the devil talking to you,\" and Harrouff went on to describe a \"dark figure\" he called Daniel. \n \"I got scared out of my mind,\" Harrouff told McGraw, who interviewed him by computer when the former high school wrestler and football player was still hospitalized last fall. \n Harrouff, 20, was arrested upon release from the hospital for the Aug. 15 deaths of John Stevens, a 59-year-old landscaper, and his wife, Michelle Mishcon, 53. Both had been beaten and stabbed. He could face the death penalty if convicted of murder. \n The interview, which is now evidence in the case, was scheduled to air on McGraw's \"Dr. Phil\" show last Oct. 28 but was pulled at the last minute without explanation. Prosecutors released it without comment after NBC affiliate WPTV hired lawyers to seek its release under the state's public information law. \n Harrouff, a bodybuilder who majored in exercise science at Florida State University, said he stripped off most of his clothes as he tried to run away from Daniel. McGraw asked what he was thinking. \n \"I just need to find someone to help me, to figure out where I am,\" said Harrouff, speaking in a steady, even voice as his father, dentist Wade Harrouff, stood just off camera. \"I don't even remember what I said to myself. I just remember being afraid, scared.\" \n He said he doesn't remember how he came face-to-face with Mishcon in the couple's garage. He said she screamed, and \"then it's a blur.\" \n \"I don't remember what she said \u2014 I just remember being yelled at,\" Harrouff said. He said he grabbed a machete he found in their garage, but doesn't remember why he killed her and her husband. \n \"It's like it happened but I wasn't aware of it at the time,\" Harrouff said, crying. \"I don't know, I don't know. If I knew, I would tell you.\" \n Harrouff said he drank something he found in the garage after the attack. He refused to say what it was, but it severely burned his esophagus. He denied ever using steroids or hallucinogenic drugs such as flakka or bath salts. None showed up in his blood tests. \n When sheriff's deputies arrived, they found Harrouff on top of Stevens, chewing his face. It took numerous deputies, jolts from an electric stun gun and bites from a police dog to pull him off. They said they didn't shoot Harrouff because they feared hitting Stevens. \n McGraw ended the interview by promising to work with Harrouff's father to learn why he snapped. \n \"You keep hanging in there and we are going to look for answers,\" McGraw told him. \n Harrouff's family has said he had been acting strange for weeks before the attack. \n His mother, Mina Harrouff, told police he claimed to have superpowers and that he had been sent to help people. She said his bed had been moved to the garage because he thought there were demons in the house, and that a few hours before the attack, she stopped him from drinking cooking oil from the bottle, only to find him eating a bowl of cooking oil and cheese. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Face-biting Florida man said he fled demon-like figure before killings"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dressed in jeans and blue suede loafers, Kim Jong Nam, the eldest son of then North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, waved after his first-ever interview with South Korean media in Macau in June 2010. Nam had spent years in exile, gambling and drinking and arranging the occasional business deal as he traveled across Asia and Europe. \n MACAU >> The heavy-set man got out of a taxi one night last September and headed for the lobby bar of the swank Wynn Macau \u2014 a quiet place, where women are often in evening dresses and gamblers can relax with $300 Cuban cigars. He was dressed casually. There were no bodyguards, no flashy women. \n It wasn't what you'd expect of a man once tipped to be the next dictator of North Korea. \n Kim Jong Nam had spent years in exile, gambling and drinking and arranging the occasional business deal as he traveled across Asia and Europe. In recent years, his fortunes had apparently declined, and he'd moved his family from a luxurious seafront condominium complex in Macau to a more affordable apartment building. He was looking for company when he bumped into a friend outside the Wynn. \n \"He wanted us to join him because he didn't want to drink alone,\" said an insider in Macau's gambling industry who was introduced to Kim that night by a mutual friend. In a city awash in new money and Chinese gamblers flaunting their wealth, Kim was low-key and polite, making no mention of his powerful family. \n \"It just seemed odd that the son of a dictator would just be \u2014 you wouldn't know him from an average dude on the street,\" said the insider, who spoke on condition of anonymity, not wanting to alienate the city-state's gambling fraternity, where privacy is deeply valued. \n Kim may have seemed easygoing, but he had reason to worry. He'd known for years that his younger half-brother, now the ruler of North Korea, had ordered him hunted down, South Korean intelligence officials say. \n On a Monday morning in mid-February, that order apparently was carried out. \n Kim was walking through Kuala Lumpur's cavernous budget airport terminal, a few steps past a Baskin-Robbins ice cream shop, when a pair of women who Malaysian police say were recruited by a team of North Koreans approached. \n At least one of the women suddenly wiped a powerful toxin on Kim's face, smearing him with VX nerve agent before quickly walking away. Minutes later, after walking to the airport's medical clinic, Kim went into convulsions. \n A few minutes after that, as an ambulance rushed him to a hospital, Kim Jong Nam died. He was 45 years old. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Kim's mother was one of North Korea's most famous movie stars. His father was the dictator-prince of North Korea, a deeply isolated country where the same family has been in power since 1948 and the rulers are worshipped in all-encompassing cults of personality. \n But Kim Jong Nam's grandfather, the founding ruler Kim Il Sung, didn't approve of his mother, and refused to allow his parents to marry. So Kim spent his childhood in luxurious isolation, hidden from his grandfather, shuttled among Pyongyang mansions and watched over by platoons of bodyguards. When his mother fell ill, reportedly suffering from depression, she was sent to Moscow for treatment and Kim was raised by his maternal aunt. \n In those days, his father, Kim Jong Il, loved him deeply, almost desperately. He rocked his son to sleep, and cooed to him \"the way a mother calms a crying baby,\" the aunt, So'ng Hye-rang, wrote in a memoir after she defected to South Korea in the 1990s. \n At some point in his childhood, Kim Jong Nam left home, spending years living either with his mother or in boarding schools in Moscow and Geneva. He came back as a worldly teenager, a young man conversant in a string of languages who found himself back in the walled-off mansions and with just a cousin, his aunt's daughter, for company. \n \"They had nothing to do. They had no place to go,\" So'ng wrote in her memoir. They would occasionally be driven around the city, but weren't allowed out of the car. At the seaside, they'd be kept in a sealed-off area where they \"experienced the sorrow of being on the vast empty beach.\" \n By that time, Kim Jong Il also had another family, with a dancer named Ko Yong-hui who gave birth to current ruler Kim Jong Un, and his brother and sister. Kim Jong Il, who succeeded his father in 1994, shifted what So'ng called his \"abnormal, tearful love\" of Kim Jong Nam to his new children. \n It was probably around this point that Kim Jong Nam \u2014 then seen by most analysts as his father's successor-in-waiting \u2014 was pushed aside, almost certainly by his step-mother. \n \"I think Kim Jong Nam was already out\" of the succession race because of the proximity to Kim Jong Il of Ko and her children, said Chang Yong Seok, a senior researcher at Seoul National University's Institute for Peace and Unification studies. \n \"A queen can play a very important role when a crown prince is proclaimed,\" he added. \n Kim Jong Nam began traveling more as he grew into adulthood, setting up homes in Beijing and Macau, where he had children with two women. \n In 2001, he was caught with his family trying to enter Japan using a fake passport. He told Japanese officials they were going to Disneyland and was quickly expelled, a major embarrassment for Kim Jong Il that seemingly ended any chance he could succeed his father. \n Still, most analysts believe he was financially supported by his father, as well as by the Chinese government, North Korea's main ally. He also reportedly worked as a freelance businessman, arranging deals where he could. \n It was not always a lonely life. \n \"He had mistresses abroad, used to meet North Korean diplomats and had a network of friends in North Korea,\" said Nicolas Levi, a researcher with the Polish Center of Asian Studies. For a while, he also traveled back to North Korea, though he did not attend his father's 2011 funeral. \n In Macau, a former Portuguese colony turned Chinese gambling center, Kim's son and daughter joined the Portuguese-language Lusophone Scouts and the family attended Mass, hoping to fit in better. \n \"The family was trying as much as possible\" to live normal lives, said Ricardo Pinto, a Macau magazine publisher who closely watched the family for years. \n There's no evidence Kim ever got involved in his homeland's politics, though he told journalists that he didn't believe in the regime's system of hereditary dictatorship. \n While Kim never fell on hard times, his jet-setting ways appeared to have slowed in recent years. Two years after his father died, his powerful uncle, Jang Song Thaek, was arrested and executed by Kim Jong Un's government. Jang had been close to Kim Jong Nam, and also may have financially supported him, said Chang, the South Korea-based analyst. \n He also knew that his brother wanted him dead, apparently fearing he \u2014 and his illustrious bloodline \u2014 could someday be used against the regime, South Korean intelligence officials have said. \n After a mysterious failed attempt to kill him in 2012, South Korean officials say Kim sent his brother a letter, begging for the assassination order to be lifted. \n \"We have nowhere to go, nowhere to hide, and we know that the only way to escape is to commit suicide,\" he wrote. \n Instead, two women \u2014 one Indonesian and the other Vietnamese \u2014 were recruited to kill him, with the Indonesian woman telling authorities that a group of men had recruited her for what she believed was a harmless prank. \n They paid her $90. \n Associated Press writer Hyung-jin Kim in Seoul, South Korea, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "The strange life, and sudden death, of a North Korean exile"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. \u2014 followed by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise of La. \u2014 left a closed-door strategy session on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, to meet with reporters before President Donald Trump's speech to the nation. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans confronted a conservative rebellion in their own party today over their long-promised plans to repeal and replace the health care law, and beseeched President Donald Trump to settle the dispute in his first speech to a joint session of Congress. \n \"He's the leader on this issue right now; he's the one that's got to hold us together,\" said Rep. Dennis Ross of Florida as he left a morning meeting during which he said Republican leaders urged the rank-and-file to \"'stay strong'\" on the issue and told them: \"'Now is not the time to back down.\" \n The pep talk from leadership came amid signs of serious trouble for the emerging House GOP health care plan even before legislation is officially released. Conservatives are objecting to new tax credits that would help consumers buy health care, arguing they amount to a costly new entitlement. \n Influential House conservatives say there's no way the approach can pass the House. \n The dispute comes a month into Trump's presidency, and seven years after the Affordable Care Act passed a Democratic-controlled Congress with Barack Obama in the White House. Now the Republicans are in charge of the White House and Congress. Yet, having spent all those intervening years promising to uproot the law and replace it with something better, they find themselves flailing and divided at the moment of truth. \n Most Republicans and aides professed to have little insight into what Trump would say tonight, and to what extent he would endorse their plan, though several all but begged him to do so. \n \"What the president can say is that the plan that gets presented to the conference is the one you need to vote 'yes' on,\" said GOP Rep. Bill Flores of Texas. \"That's how he can be helpful.\" \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin sought to put a positive face on the divisions. \n \"You're going to have a lot of churning on any kind of legislative product like this,\" Ryan said. \"This is a plan that we are all working on together, the House, the Senate and the White House, so there aren't rival plans.\" \n \"I feel at the end of the day when we get everything done and right, we're going to be unified,\" Ryan said. \n For now, most evidence is to the contrary. \n After a recess week filled with raucous town hall meetings, lawmakers' return to the Capitol this week immediately put deep divisions on display. The two leading conservative groups in the House both announced their opposition to House leadership health care plans based on a leaked draft and reports that the bill would cost more than expected while covering fewer people than the Affordable Care Act. \n And three key conservative senators, Mike Lee of Utah, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas, added their voices in opposition, too, announcing that they will resist \"Obamacare Lite\" and \"accept nothing less than full repeal of Obamacare.\" \n Amid the high-profile defections, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky summoned Republicans to a meeting Wednesday afternoon to hash things out. \n Health care is far from the only issue dividing Republicans. Plans to overhaul the tax code have them tied in knots, and senior lawmakers are busy throwing cold water on Trump's budget proposal, which was made public in broad outlines on Monday. The budget envisions a huge $54 billion surge in U.S. military spending while slashing domestic programs and foreign aid. \n GOP Rep. Mike Simpson of Idaho, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, said the budget as presented could not possibly pass the House. \n \"No, no. There's a lot of members that have a lot of interest in a lot of these programs,\" Simpson said. \"There's more to our government than just defense.\" \n Yet for defense hawks, Trump's Pentagon spending didn't go far enough. Sen. John McCain of Arizona complained that Trump's plans represented just a small increase over Obama's own Pentagon wish list. \n And, Trump's budget would leave large deficits intact while sparing Social Security and Medicare, the entitlements that make up an enormous and growing share of the federal budget. That puts Trump in direct conflict with Ryan and other leading Republicans who've long advocated adjusting entitlement programs to put them on a more sustainable footing and get deficits under control. \n Ryan himself, pressed on whether he still favored reforming entitlements, something that has been his legislative calling card for years, claimed that repealing and replacing Obamacare actually qualifies as entitlement reform. \n Republicans hope for clarity on all these issues and more from Trump tonight. \n \"More than anyone else the president will drive what happens next,\" said GOP Rep. Mark Sanford of South Carolina. \n Unlike the inauguration, Democrats plan to attend the speech, with women in the House wearing white to honor the suffrage movement and also to \"stand in solidarity with the women of our nation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Conservatives rebel on health care; GOP looks to Trump"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL \n Michael Powers, 48, of Pearl City. \n Two Oahu residents have been charged in separate cases alleging theft of state accounts totaling more than $750,000. \n Michael Powers, a 48-year-old, convicted felon from Pearl City, was charged Friday with attempted first-degree theft and multiple counts of forgery in the second degree after he allegedly wrote 22 forged checks totaling $715,696.92. \n Powers allegedly used state Department of Budget and Finance bank routing numbers and account numbers, state Attorney General Doug Chin said in a statement. \n In the second case, Michael K. Mills, 30, of Kapolei, was charged on Friday with first-degree theft after he allegedly billed the state more than $35,000 in equipment and supplies that were not related to a state contract with Mills' employer. \n \"State dollars are your taxpayer dollars,\" Chin said in a statement. \"People who cheat the state will be prosecuted.\" \n Bail for Mills and Powers was set at $5,000 and bench warrants were issued for their arrests, Chin's office said. \n Conviction of first-degree theft carries a maximum punishment of 10 years in prison and a $25,000. Forgery in the second degree is punishable by five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Pearl City, Kapolei men charged in felony theft cases"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ophthalmologist Dr. Shilpa Rose, left, looked over data collected, Feb. 1, on the health of the eye of Christianne Krupinsky in Washington, before Krumpinsky has a short eye surgery procedure to insert a Raindrop inlay, a disc implanted in the cornea to reshape it for better close-up focus. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dr. Mark Whitten performed a short eye surgery procedure, Feb. 1, on patient Christianne Krupinsky in Washington, to insert a Raindrop inlay, a disc implanted in the cornea to reshape it for better close-up focus. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dr. Mark Whitten performed a short eye surgery procedure, Feb. 1, on patient Christianne Krupinsky in Washington, to insert a Raindrop inlay, a disc implanted in the cornea to reshape it for better close-up focus. \n WASHINGTON >> Squinting while texting? Always losing your reading glasses? An eye implant that takes about 10 minutes to put in place is the newest in a list of surgical repairs for the blurry close-up vision that is a bane of middle age. But who's really a good candidate to toss their specs? \n \"It's not bringing anybody back to being 20 again,\" cautioned Dr. Shilpa Rose, a Washington ophthalmologist who tests whether patients' eyes are healthy enough to qualify. \"But it decreases the need to rush to get that pair of reading glasses every time you want to send a text or read an email.\" \n Nearly everybody will experience presbyopia at some point, usually starting in the mid-40s. At first you may notice yourself holding restaurant menus at arm's length. Eventually, even in good light, reading becomes a blur. \n How well you see has to do with how light is directed through the natural lens to the back of the eye. That lens stiffens with age, losing its ability to shift and bend light so that it becomes more difficult to focus close-up. \n The usual options are magnifying drugstore reading glasses or, for people with other vision problems, bifocals, multifocal contact lenses or what's called monovision, correcting for distance vision in one eye and near vision in the other. \n \"I have glasses everywhere \u2014 the bedroom, the office, the kitchen,\" said Christianne Krupinsky, 51, of Marriottsville, Maryland, who'd never needed them until presbyopia struck. \"Getting ready in the morning, even to put on jewelry I can't see the clasp. It's so frustrating.\" \n And while surgery always carries some risk, corneal inlays that are implanted into the eye's clear front surface are getting attention because they're removable if necessary. \n \"It's not magic. It's surgery. People have to remember this is not one and done,\" but requires post-surgical exams and care, said Dr. Deepinder K. Dhaliwal of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, a corneal specialist who is watching studies of the inlays. \n Krupinsky was a little nervous while lying on the operating table to receive the new Raindrop near-vision inlay. \n \"The most you're going to feel is pressure,\" promised Washington refractive surgeon Dr. Mark Whitten, applying numbing drops to her left eye. \n A gel-like device that looks like a miniature contact lens, the Raindrop is smaller than the eye of a needle. It's the first implant to treat presbyopia by changing the cornea's shape, making it steeper to alter how light passes through. \n It's placed in only one eye; both eyes still see at a distance. Patients can test-wear a single contact lens to be sure they'll like the effect before choosing surgery. \n Rose, the ophthalmologist, checked for dry eye, underlying diseases like glaucoma, and whether the corneas were thick and healthy enough to implant before turning Krupinsky over to her surgical partner. \n \"Just look straight up,\" Whitten said as he used a laser to slice a flap in Krupinsky's cornea. He centered the Raindrop inlay over her pupil and lowered the flap to seal it in place. \n Minutes later, Krupinsky read lines on an eye chart she previously couldn't make out without glasses, albeit still a little blurry. She'll need eye drops for several months as her cornea heals so vision can sharpen. \n Maker ReVision Optics Inc. is gradually training eye surgeons to use the Raindrop properly, after the Food and Drug Administration approved it last summer based on a study of 373 people whose only vision problem was moderate presbyopia. Two years later, 92 percent had good near vision, 20/40 or better without glasses, in the implanted eye. \n Potential side effects include infection, dry eye, glare, or corneal problems such as scarring. About 7 percent of study participants had the implant removed, mostly because they weren't satisfied with their vision or experienced a haze or clouding of the cornea. Most returned to their pre-surgical vision, although one had lingering haze. \n Other surgical options: \n \u2014Another FDA-approved corneal inlay, the Kamra, is a doughnut-shaped device, also used in one eye and removable. It works like a pinhole camera, improving vision by focusing light through the center of the pupil. \n \u2014A more invasive operation replaces the natural lens in each eye with an artificial one, named Symfony, that can focus both near and far. Approved for cataract surgery, it also is being offered as a presbyopia fix for the middle-aged who don't yet have cataracts. Unlike inlays, artificial lenses can't simply be removed. \n Insurance doesn't cover elective presbyopia surgery. Rose said the inlays average about $4,000 to $5,000, while the artificial lens in both eyes can cost twice as much. \n Patients should consult a surgeon experienced with all the options who can determine which best suits their eyes, advised Pittsburgh's Dhaliwal. \n Each has pros, cons and unknowns. For example, elective lens replacement isn't for the very nearsighted because they're at higher risk for a vision-threatening complication, Dhaliwal said. \n And the Raindrop hasn't been studied in people who years ago underwent LASIK surgery to correct nearsightedness. That didn't deter Mike Gray, 52, of Haymarket, Virginia, who lost his reading glasses so often that he bought bulk packs. To implant the inlay, Whitten had to avoid cutting the cornea in the same place as Gray's long-ago LASIK, and advises such patients to pick a surgeon experienced in both procedures. \n \"Everything is very clear and getting better every day,\" Gray said about a month later. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New implant aims to fix blurry close-up vision"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police are looking for two men and a woman who allegedly brandished a \"dangerous instrument\" before robbing a 63-year-old man in Waipahu Monday night, police said. \n Police offered no description of the trio who allegedly robbed the man between 9:30 p.m. and 9:33 p.m. Monday then fled. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for trio in Waipahu robbery"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke, on Feb. 24, at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Oxon Hill, Md. \n President Donald Trump said he believes that predecessor Barack Obama is riling up protesters against his administration and that Obama's \"people\" may be the source of unflattering national-security leaks to the media.  \n \"I think he is behind it. I also think it is politics, that's the way it is,\" Trump said of the protests during an interview with the hosts of \"Fox and Friends\" conducted Monday at the White House and aired today. \n \"I think that President Obama is behind it because his people are certainly behind it,\" Trump continued. \"And some of the leaks possibly come from that group,\" which are \"really very serious leaks because they are very bad in terms of national security.\" \n Trump didn't offer any evidence of Obama's direct involvement. Obama's Organizing for Action, the nonprofit group that was formed after his 2012 campaign, is one of the many organizations supporting protesters who are challenging the new president and congressional Republicans. The organization paused its activities during the 2016 race. \n \"It will probably continue,\" Trump said of Obama being \"behind things.\" \n Asked about Trump's comments, House Speaker Paul Ryan said the former president's policies are behind the protests. \"I believe Obamacare is responsible for it,\" he told NBC's \"Today.\" Pressed on the role of Obama himself, Ryan said he had \"no knowledge of such a thing, I have no clue. There is the white noise that I'm talking about.\" \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told a gathering of broadcasters in Washington today that \"demonstrations in America are about as American as apple pie.\" \n \"Of all the problems that America has, at the bottom of the list in my view is people speaking out,\" the Kentucky Republican said. \"I don't think we'll worry about that. I think people in this wonderful country we have, have a perfect right to do it. And it doesn't bother me in the least.\" \n ROOTING OUT LEAKS \n When it comes to rooting out leaks, Trump said he would have taken a different approach than his White House press secretary, who, according to Politico, held a meeting in which staff members were asked to provide their phones to be checked for evidence of leaking. \n \"Sean Spicer is a fine human being, he's a fine person. I would have done it differently. I would have gone one-on-one with different people,\" Trump said. \"But Sean handles it his way and I'm OK with it.\" \n CNN reported earlier that Trump signed off on Spicer's phone check, citing unnamed sources. Spicer denied that Trump was involved in the decision. \n Trump suggested again that it's likely his political opponents who are leaking information. \"We have sort of ideas\" about who's been leaking, but \"don't forget: we have people from other campaigns, we have people from other governments, we've got a lot of people here.\" \n 'C+' MESSAGING \n Trump was asked to grade himself on his first month in office and was uncharacteristically critical of himself on one front. \"In terms of messaging, I would give myself a C or a C-plus,\" he said, citing his prioritization of dangerous undocumented immigrants for deportation as one example of something his administration hasn't communicated well. \n \"In terms of achievement, I think I'd give myself an A. Because I think I've done great things,\" he said. But \"I don't think we've explained it well enough to the American public.\" \n The task falls to both him and his staff, he said in the same interview where he took a jab at Spicer's approach to the leak probe. \"I think I've done great things but I don't think, I and my people, I don't think we've explained it well enough to the American public.\" \n Trump was the recipient of rare public criticism of a sitting president by a predecessor this week \u2014 from Republican George W. Bush. \n In his first interview since Trump took office, Bush told NBC News \"we all need answers\" about any connection between Trump's campaign and Russia. Asked about Trump's characterizing some of the news media as \"the enemy of the people,\" Bush said, \"I consider the media to be indispensable to democracy.\" \n According to People magazine, to which Bush also spoke as he promotes his new book benefiting veterans, he said of the direction of the country under Trump, \"I don't like the racism and I don't like the name-calling and I don't like the people feeling alienated.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Trump blames Obama for protests: 'I think he's behind it'"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ri Tong Il, former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, speaks to reporters outside the North Korean embassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Tuesday, Feb. 28, 2017. Ri told reporters Tuesday that North Korea has sent a high-level delegation to Malaysia to seek the return of the body of leader's Kim Jong Un's slain half brother and the release of a North Korean arrested in the case. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> A high-level North Korean delegation arrived in Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday seeking the body of leader Kim Jong Un's half brother, the victim of a nerve-agent attack that many suspect the North itself of orchestrating. \n The body of Kim Jong Nam, killed Feb. 13 at Kuala Lumpur's airport, is at the center of a heated diplomatic battle between North Korea and Malaysia. North Korea opposed Malaysian officials even conducting an autopsy, while Malaysia has resisted giving up the body without getting DNA samples and confirmation from next of kin. \n The delegation includes Ri Tong Il, a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, who told reporters Tuesday outside the North Korean Embassy that the diplomats were in Malaysia to retrieve the body and seek the release of a North Korean arrested in the case. He said the delegation also wants \"development of the friendly relationship\" between North Korea and Malaysia. \n Malaysia has confirmed that the victim of the attack was Kim Jong Nam. North Korea, however, has identified the victim only as a North Korean national with a diplomatic passport. \n The killing of Kim Jong Nam took place amid crowds of travelers at Kuala Lumpur's airport and appeared to be a well-planned hit. Malaysian authorities say North Koreans put the deadly nerve agent VX on the hands of two women who then placed the toxin on Kim's face. Kim died on the way to a hospital, within about 20 minutes of the attack, they say. \n Malaysian Attorney General Mohamed Apandi Ali said Tuesday in a text message to The Associated Press that the two women accused of killing Kim Jong Nam \u2014 Indonesian Siti Aisyah and Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong \u2014 will be charged with murder Wednesday and would face a mandatory death sentence if convicted. Both women have been arrested, and authorities must file charges by Wednesday or release them. \n Both women have reportedly said they thought they were part of a prank TV show when they put their hands on Kim. Indonesian officials have said Aisyah told them she was paid the equivalent of $90. \n \"For Aisyah, we will always provide legal assistance and advocacy to ensure her rights in accordance with applicable law,\" said Lalu Muhammad Iqbal, director of citizen protection at Indonesia's Foreign Ministry. \"We have assigned lawyers who would accompany her during the process.\" \n Two other suspects in the killing have been arrested: a Malaysian who is out on bail and a North Korean who remains in custody. Asked if the North Korean will be charged, Apandi said it depends on the outcome of the investigation. \n Authorities are seeking seven other North Korean suspects, four of whom fled the country the day of Kim's death and are believed to be back in North Korea. Others sought include the second secretary of North Korea's embassy and an employee of North Korea's state-owned airline, Air Koryo. \n Malaysia hasn't directly accused North Korea of having masterminded the killing, but South Korea has. It has not provided evidence, but suspicions were heightened over the weekend when Malaysia announced that VX killed Kim. Producing the deadly toxin requires a highly sophisticated lab, and VX is one of many chemical weapons North Korea is believed to possess. \n South Korean lawmakers said Monday that the country's National Intelligence Service told them in a private briefing that four of the North Koreans identified as suspects are from the Ministry of State Security, the North's spy organ. \n Kim Jong Nam was estranged from Kim Jong Un. He reportedly fell out of favor with their father, the late Kim Jong Il, in 2001, when he was caught trying to enter Japan on a false passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland. \n He had been heading to Macau, where he has a home, when he was killed. \n Isolated North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. Kim Jong Nam was not known to be seeking political power; he was best known for his penchants for drinking, gambling and expensive restaurants. But his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since it was founded could have made him appear to be a danger. \n Malaysia continues to seek DNA samples from Kim Jong Nam's immediate family. He is believed to have two sons and a daughter with two women living in Beijing and Macau. \n ___ \n AP video journalist Yves Dam Van in Kuala Lumpur and writer Ali Kotarumalos in Jakarta, Indonesia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N. Korean diplomats in Malaysia to seek Kim's brother's body"}

{"date": "February 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 15, 2013, file photo, Amit Singhal, senior vice president and software engineer at Google Inc., speaks at Google I/O 2013 in San Francisco. Singhal, a top engineering executive at Uber, is out five weeks after his hire was announced. According to a report in the tech blog Recode, he failed to disclose that he'd left his previous job at Google because of a sexual harassment allegation. Singhal denies the allegation. Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday, Feb. 27, 2017. \n NEW YORK >> A top engineering executive at Uber, Amit Singhal, is out five weeks after his hire was announced. According to a report in the tech blog Recode, Singhal failed to disclose that he'd left his previous job at Google because of a sexual harassment allegation. \n Singhal denied the allegation and said he left Google a year ago for his own reasons. \n The dustup is just the latest sign of turmoil at Uber, which last week found itself in an unrelated sexual harassment firestorm . That stemmed from a detailed essay published by a former female Uber engineer, who charged that her prospects at the company evaporated after she complained about sexual advances from her boss. In the post about her year at Uber , Susan Fowler said the company's human resources department ignored her complaints because her boss was a high performer. \n Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has called for an independent investigation of those issues, and the company has hired former Attorney General Eric Holder to help. \n In a statement emailed to The Associated Press, Singhal said: \"Harassment is unacceptable in any setting. I certainly want everyone to know that I do not condone and have not committed such behavior. In my 20-year career, I've never been accused of anything like this before and the decision to leave Google was my own.\" \n According to Recode, Singhal left Google after executives there informed him of a harassment allegation lodged by an employee, one an internal investigation had found \"credible.\" Citing unnamed sources at Uber, Recode said the company did \"extensive background checks of Singhal\" but did not uncover \"any hint of the circumstances of his departure from Google.\" \n Representatives for Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday. Uber declined to comment beyond confirming that Singhal is no longer with the company. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Uber exec out after failing to disclose allegation"}

