{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Aug. 25 photo, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestures with a fist bump during his visit to the Philippine Army's Camp Mateo Capinpin at Tanay township, Rizal province east of Manila. \n MANILA >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte apologized to Jews worldwide after his remarks drawing comparisons between his bloody anti-drug war and Hitler and the Holocaust sparked shock and outrage. \n The tough-talking Duterte said his apology was intended only for the Jewish community. He lashed out again at Western critics and human rights advocates who have raised concerns over his brutal crackdown, which is estimated to have left more than 3,000 suspected drug dealers and users dead in just three months. \n Duterte said in a speech in the central city of Bacolod that he never had any intention \"to derogate the memory of the 6 million Jews murdered by the Germans.\" Historians say 6 million Jews were killed by the Nazis under Hitler before and during World War II. \n \"I apologize profoundly and deeply to the Jewish community,\" Duterte said. \n On Friday, Duterte raised the rhetoric over his anti-drug campaign to a new level by comparing it to Hitler and the Holocaust and saying he would be \"happy to slaughter\" an estimated 3 million addicts in the Philippines. \n In that speech, the brash president said without elaborating that he has been \"portrayed or pictured to be a cousin of Hitler\" by his critics. \n Moments later, he said, \"Hitler massacred 3 million Jews \u2026 there's 3 million drug addicts. There are. I'd be happy to slaughter them.\" \n While Hitler's victims were innocent people, Duterte said his targets are \"all criminals\" and that getting rid of them would \"finish the (drug) problem of my country and save the next generation from perdition.\" \n Germany's government slammed Duterte's comments as unacceptable, and called in the Philippine ambassador to the Foreign Ministry over the matter. \n \"It is impossible to make any comparison to the unique atrocities of the Shoah and Holocaust,\" Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer said in Berlin. \n World Jewish Congress President Ronald Lauder said Duterte's remarks were \"revolting\" and demanded that he retract them and apologize. \n \"Drug abuse is a serious issue. But what President Duterte said is not only profoundly inhumane, but it demonstrates an appalling disrespect for human life that is truly heartbreaking for the democratically elected leader of a great country,\" Lauder said in a statement issued from Jerusalem, where he was attending the funeral of former Israeli leader Shimon Peres. \n The U.S. State Department, which is looking to sustain its long-standing alliance with the Philippines, called the comments \"troubling.\" \n \"Words matter, especially when they are from leaders of sovereign nations, especially sovereign nations with whom we have long and valued relations with,\" spokesman Mark Toner told reporters. He repeated U.S. calls for Philippine authorities to investigate any credible reports of extrajudicial killings. \n Also critical was Phil Robertson, the deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch, who said it was baffling why anyone would want to compare themselves to \"one of the largest mass murderers in human history.\" \n Robertson said that in today's context, Hitler would be accused of crimes against humanity. \n \"Is that what Duterte wants? Does he want to be sent to the international criminal court? Because he's working his way there,\" Robertson said. \n Amnesty International said that Duterte \"has sunk to new depths\" and urged governments around the world to condemn his \"extremely dangerous outburst.\" \n Amid the criticisms, presidential spokesman Ernie Abella defended Duterte, saying his \"reference to the slaughter was an oblique deflection of the way he has been pictured as a mass murderer.\" \n \"He likewise draws an oblique conclusion, that while the Holocaust was an attempt to exterminate the future generations of Jews, drug-related killings as a result of legitimate police operations (as opposed to so-called \"extra-judicial killings\" of criminals, wrongly attributed to him, as these are not state-sanctioned) will nevertheless result in the salvation of the next generation of Filipinos,\" Abella said in a statement. \n Duterte has asked for a six-month extension of his drug crackdown, saying he underestimated the magnitude of the problem. \n His supporters and many Filipinos exasperated with widespread crime have welcomed his tough approach, but a growing number of critics, including U.N. officials, the European Union and the United States, have voiced concerns over the widespread killings and human rights violations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine president apologizes to Jews for Hitler remark"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "RENO, Nev. >> Police in Reno say they've arrested a suspect in the fatal robbery at a casino. \n Police say 63-year-old Frederick Douglas Borden had been gambling at the Eldorado Resort and Casino when he committed a robbery and fled on Friday. \n Sgt. Curtis Lampert said he couldn't say what Borden is suspected of robbing. \n Borden fled the casino, striking an employee who later died. It's unclear how Borden struck the employee. \n Borden faces one count of robbery but that could change depending on the results of an autopsy of the victim. \n The victim hasn't been identified. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police arrest suspect in fatal casino robbery"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "A 22-year-old man was charged Saturday in connection with a robbery last month in Honolulu, police said. \n Jarrin Young, of no local address, was charged with second-degree robbery, and his bail was set at $15,000. \n Police said Young demanded money from a victim while other suspects stood by with dangerous instruments at about 11:30 p.m. Sept. 12. The other suspects remained at large. \n Police arrested Young in the Ala Moana area at about 2:20 a.m. Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged in connection with robbery in Honolulu"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "A 43-year-old man was in police custody Saturday, accused of using an 83-year-old man's checks that were stolen in a burglary. \n Michael Lopes, of no local address, was charged Saturday with identity theft, and his bail was set at $75,000. \n Police said he cashed three stolen personal checks, totaling $1,950 in December and was identified via bank video surveillance footage. He was arrested Saturday in Kakaako. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man in custody for allegedly using stolen checks"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Kurt Lopes was arrested at 11:30 a.m. Sunday and was brought to Oahu Community Correctional Center. \n A missing Waiawa Correctional Facility inmate was captured Saturday and returned to state custody. \n Kurt Lopes, 30, was reported missing during a headcount at the Waiawa facility about 9 p.m. Thursday, a Department of Public Safety spokeswoman said. \n Police arrested Lopes at the Waipahu Walmart on Kupuohi Street at about 6:50 p.m. Saturday for investigation of second-degree escape. A 29-year-old Kapolei women was arrested with Lopes for investigation of hindering prosecution. \n Lopes was taken to Oahu Community Correctional Center this morning and will be transferred to Halawa Correctional Center, the DPS spokeswoman said. \n State officials are investigating how Lopes escaped. He was classified as a minimum-custody inmate, serving time for first-degree burglary and unauthorized entry into a motor vehicle. \n Waiawa Correctional Facility consists of dorm-style housing for minimum custody male inmates, DPS said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Missing inmate returned to custody"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n According to eyewitness reports, several people at the annual festival in Bishoftu Sunday were crushed to death after police used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse protesters chanting anti-government slogans as they pushed toward a stage where leaders were speaking. \n BISHOFTU, Ethiopia >> Dozens of people were crushed to death Sunday in a stampede after police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse an anti-government protest that grew out of a massive religious festival, witnesses said. The Oromia regional government confirmed the death toll at 52. \n \"I almost died in that place today,\" said one shaken protester who gave his name only as Elias. Mud-covered and shoeless, he said he had been dragged out of a deep ditch that many people fell into as they tried to flee. \n The first to fall in had suffocated, he said. \n \"Many people have managed to get out alive, but I'm sure many more others were down there,\" he said. \"It is really shocking.\" \n The stampede occurred in one of the East African country's most politically sensitive regions, Oromia, which has seen months of sometimes deadly demonstrations demanding wider freedoms. \n An estimated 2 million people were attending the annual Irrecha thanksgiving festival in the town of Bishoftu, southeast of the capital, Addis Ababa, when people began chanting slogans against the government, according to witnesses. \n The chanting crowds pressed toward a stage where religious leaders were speaking, the witnesses said, and some threw rocks and plastic bottles. \n Police responded with tear gas and rubber bullets, and people tried to flee. Some were crushed in nearby ditches, witnesses said. \n Ethiopia's government initially acknowledged that deaths had occurred, but it didn't say how many were killed and injured. Through a spokesman, it blamed \"people that prepared to cause trouble.\" \n Many people were taken to hospitals, the spokesman's office said. \n Mulatu Gemechu with the opposition Oromo Federalist Congress told The Associated Press that his sources at hospitals said at least 52 people were dead as of Sunday evening, and he thought the figure would rise. \n The protesters were peaceful and carry anything to harm police, Gemechu said. \n Before the stampede, an AP reporter saw small groups of people walking in the crowd and holding up their crossed wrists in a popular gesture of protest. \n The reporter also saw police firing tear gas and, later, several injured people. \n The crossed-wrists gesture has been used widely as a sign of peaceful resistance and is meant to symbolize being handcuffed by security forces. \n It was in the spotlight at the Rio Olympics, when Ethiopian marathoner Feyisa Lilesa, who is from the Oromia region, crossed his wrists while finishing in second place. He hasn't returned to the country since, saying his life could be in danger. \n Ethiopia's government, a close security ally of the West, has been accused often of silencing dissent, at times blocking internet access. \n The months of anti-government protests and the sometimes harsh government response have raised international concern. \n The U.S. recently spoke out against what it called the excessive use of force against protesters, describing the situation in Ethiopia as \"extremely serious.\" \n On Sunday, many people in Ethiopia turned their Twitter and Facebook profiles to solid black and expressed anger at the government over the deaths. \n The regional government declared three days of national mourning. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "52 confirmed dead in stampede at Ethiopia religious event"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "SANTA ANA, Calif. >> Southern California residents should remain on heightened alert until Tuesday for the increased possibility of a major earthquake, officials said. \n The warning by the Governor's Office of Emergency Services follows a series of small temblors deep under the Salton Sea, which is located on the 800-mile-long San Andreas fault, the Orange County Register reported Saturday. \n Such warnings are typically issued once or twice a year, said Kelly Huston, the deputy director of crisis communications for the Governor's Office of Emergency Services. \n The latest alert was issued after 142 temblors hit starting Monday near Bombay Beach at the southern end of the fault. Those quakes ranged from a magnitude of 1.4 to 4.3, the U.S. Geological Survey said. \n Scientists estimate the probability of a quake with a magnitude of 7.0 or higher on the southern San Andreas fault being triggered is as high as 1 in 100 and as low as 1 in 3,000. The average chance for such an earthquake striking on any given week is 1 in 6,000. That heightened probability will last through Tuesday. \n Earthquakes along the San Andreas typically occur every 300 years, said Morgan Page, a geophysicist with the USGS. Earthquake Science Center, but the southernmost end of the fault hasn't ruptured since 1690. \n \"There is significant stress stored on the southern end,\" Page said. \n Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday signed legislation to develop a statewide warning system to inform Californians of impending earthquakes through their cellphones, radios and other devices. \n \"California is earthquake country,\" said Mark Ghilarducci, the director of the state's Office of Emergency Services. \"We must always be prepared and not let our guard down.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Heightened earthquake alert issued for Southern California"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a rally, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2016, in Manheim, Pa. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump may or may not have paid federal income taxes for years after losing nearly $916 million. But if he did avoid paying taxes, he's a \"genius\" at taking advantage of a loophole-ridden law, his supporters said Sunday. \n Neither Chris Christie nor Rudy Giuliani disputed a report in the New York Times on Sunday saying Trump's loss was big enough that he could legally have avoided paying taxes for 18 years. On \"Fox News Sunday,\" Christie declared the piece \"a very, very good story for Donald Trump.\" Giuliani called him an \"absolute genius\" on ABC's \"This Week.\" And Trump himself weighed in, saying he was singularly qualified to fix a system he may have exploited. \n \"I know our complex tax laws better than anyone who has ever run for president and am the only one who can fix them,\" Trump tweeted on Sunday, just five weeks ahead of the election. \n Democrats said Trump's nearly $916 million loss in one year pokes holes in his claim to be a champion for working, tax-paying Americans. \n \"He doesn't care about those small businesses he didn't pay. He doesn't care about the people who lost millions of dollars in all of his bankruptcies,\" Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \"Those losses represent real pain to many people who never got paid.\" \n Even as the story was published, the candidate and his surrogates were engrossed in an effort to change the subject from his feud with 1996 Miss Universe Alicia Machado and his middle-of-the-night tweet storm on the subject. On Saturday night in Manheim, Pennsylvania, Trump questioned Hillary Clinton's loyalty to her husband and imitated her near-faint on Sept. 11 after being diagnosed for pneumonia. \n The New York Times report sheds light on some of the billionaire's tax returns after Trump's campaign refused to release any such documents, breaking with 40 years of presidential campaign tradition. Clinton has publicly released nearly 40 years' worth, and Trump's running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, has released 10 years of his tax returns. \n Trump has said his attorneys are advising him to keep his tax returns private until a government audit is completed. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen told a House committee Sept. 21 that people under IRS audit are free to release their returns or IRS letters informing a person they're being audited. \n In a story published online late Saturday, the Times said it anonymously received the first pages of Trump's 1995 state income tax filings in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The filings show a net loss of $915,729,293 in federal taxable income for the year. \n That Trump was losing money during the early to mid-1990s \u2014 a period marked by bankruptcies and poor business decisions \u2014 was already well established. But the records obtained by the Times show losses of such a magnitude that they potentially allowed Trump to avoid paying taxes for years, possibly until the end of the last decade. \n His campaign said that Trump had paid \"hundreds of millions\" of dollars in other kinds of taxes over the years. \n Trump's allies defended him during appearances on the Sunday news shows. \n Giuliani, former New York mayor, said Trump \"had some failures and then he built an empire\" and called the businessman \"a genius at how to take advantage of legal remedies that can help your company survive and grow.\" \n \"Don't you think a man who has this kind of economic genius is a lot better for the United States than a woman, and the only thing she's ever produced is a lot of work for the FBI checking out her emails,\" Giuliani told ABC's \"This Week.\" \n In a separate interview on NBC's \"Meet the Press,\" Giuliani noted that \"poor\" people take advantage of similar \"loopholes,\" referring to the millions of Americans who aren't required to pay federal income taxes each year because their incomes are too low. \n Clinton's primary rival, Sen. Bernie Sanders, who made wealth inequality a top campaign issue, said that assuming Trump's tax strategy was legal, \"what it tells you is you have a corrupt tax system which says to ordinary people, you're supposed to pay your taxes. But if you're a billionaire, there are all kinds of loopholes that you can utilize that enable you \u2026 not to pay anything in taxes.\" \n Clinton's campaign manager, Robby Mook, used the Times story to needle Trump about not releasing his tax returns and contending during his first debate with Clinton that not paying federal income taxes would show he was \"smart.\" \n Mook said in a statement Saturday: \"Now that the gig is up, why doesn't he go ahead and release his returns to show us all how 'smart' he really is?\" \n In its story, the Times said the three pages of documents were mailed last month to a Times reporter who had written about Trump's finances. A postmark indicated they had been sent from New York City and the return address claimed the envelope had been sent from Trump Tower, the newspaper said. \n Trump's campaign did not directly address the authenticity of the excerpts from Trump's tax filings. Former Trump accountant Jack Mitnick, whose name appears as Trump's tax preparer of the filings, confirmed their authenticity, the newspaper reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Christie, Giuliani: If Trump didn't pay taxes, he's 'genius'"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton takes her seat after speaking at the Little Rock AME Zion Church in Charlotte, N.C. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. >> Hillary Clinton said Sunday that the spate of gun violence in the United States should call the nation to do more to protect \"all of God's children.\" \n Clinton addressed congregants at Little Rock AME Zion Church in Charlotte, North Carolina, fewer than two weeks after the shooting death of Keith Lamont Scott touched off two nights of violent protests in the city's downtown. \n \"Protecting all of God's children is America's calling,\" the Democratic presidential nominee said. Clinton said too many black families have been forced to deal with the same tragedy as Scott's family. \n \"Our entire country should take a moment to really look at what's going on here and across America, to imagine what we see on the news and what we hear about, imagine it through our children's eyes,\" she said. \n Clinton had planned to visit the city last week but delayed the trip after city officials said their resources were stretched thin. North Carolina is among the nation's top battleground states and Clinton's campaign has invested heavily in the state won by Republican Mitt Romney in the 2012 election. \n Clinton did not mention Republican Donald Trump by name but referenced her opponent's calls for \"law-and-order\" during the campaign. \n \"There are some out there who see this as a moment to fan the flames of resentment and division. Who want to exploit people's fears even though it means tearing our nation even further apart,\" Clinton said. \"They say that all of our problems would be solved simply by more law and order. As if the systemic racism plaguing our country doesn't exist.\" \n The former secretary of state has made gun control and criminal justice reform a centerpiece of her campaign, speaking after high-profile shootings in Texas, Louisiana and South Carolina. She pointed to the shootings of police officers in Dallas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Philadelphia; and said their families deserved prayers. \n \"It's been a hard year, hasn't it?\" Clinton asked, as people in the congregation responded, \"Yes.\" \"Think about how many times President Obama has had to console our nation about another senseless tragedy, another shattered family, another distressed community and our children are watching and they feel it too.\" \n During the services, Clinton invited 9-year-old Zianna Oliphant to join her at the pulpit, recalling the black child's tearful address to the city council on race relations. Zianna recently told city leaders that she couldn't \"stand how we're treated.\" Clinton later met with community leaders at a downtown soul food restaurant. \n Scott was shot Sept. 20 while standing outside his vehicle. Police say he was armed but video released by Charlotte-Mecklenburg authorities was inconclusive. The officer who shot Scott is also black. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton says wave of shootings show need to protect children"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Missouri Republican gubernatorial candidate Eric Greitens speaks in Jefferson City, Mo. Gubernatorial candidates in some states including Missouri have been staking strategic positions contrary to their party's national norms and presidential nominees. A former Navy SEAL officer, Greitens faces Democratic nominee, Attorney General Chris Koster in the general election. \n JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. >> In West Virginia, the Democrat running for governor has defended the coal industry while decrying his party's presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton. \n In Vermont, the Republican nominee for governor declared his support for transgender bathroom rights and denounced GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n Those types of unconventional strategic calculations are helping to make for close races this year in several states. \n A dozen governor's offices will be up for grabs in the Nov. 8 elections, including at least seven that appear competitive. The national Republican and Democratic governors associations already have spent more than $25 million in those states, according to an Associated Press analysis of financial reports and interviews. \n The number of early TV ads in governor's races is up 40 percent from 2012, according to the Wesleyan Media Project. \n Democrats are trying to hold on to offices forced open by term limits or retirements in Missouri, New Hampshire, Vermont and West Virginia. Indiana Gov. Mike Pence's nomination as Trump's running mate added another open office to the competitive list. \n The Democrat in Montana and the Republican in North Carolina are the top incumbents facing close contests. \n Republicans currently have 31 governorships, three shy of their historic high in the early 1920s. Some of the races to watch: \n INDIANA \n Even before Pence dropped his re-election bid to become Trump's running mate, Indiana Republicans seeking to retain the governor's office were facing a tough rematch from Democrat John Gregg, a former House speaker who narrowly lost to Pence in 2012. \n Pence was replaced on the ballot by Lt. Gov. Eric Holcomb, who was appointed to his post in March. Holcomb has said he is happy to run on Pence's record. That's been turned into an attack ad by Democrats eager to exploit Pence's unpopularity among some voters because of his embrace of conservative social issues such as a religious rights law. \n The Republican governors association already has routed $2.8 million to Holcomb while trying to tie Gregg to Clinton. \n Gregg has distanced himself from Clinton and affirmed his support for the coal industry. He has been aided with $1.3 million so far from the national Democratic governors group. \n MISSOURI \n Republicans view Missouri as perhaps their best chance for a pickup. Democratic Gov. Jay Nixon is leaving office because of term limits, and the state has been trending Republican in legislative and presidential elections even as Democrats have held the governor's office for all but four of the past 24 years. \n The Republican Governors Association has poured more than $4.2 million into the coffers of former Navy SEAL officer Eric Greitens after he won a four-way GOP primary last month. \n But the Democratic nominee, Attorney General Chris Koster, has been running like a Republican on key issues. Koster was a GOP state senator until switching parties in 2007. He's won endorsements this year from the National Rifle Association and Missouri's major agricultural organizations, all of whom typically support Republicans. \n Koster backed the GOP Legislature's hallmark accomplishment \u2014 a 2014 income tax cut enacted by overriding Nixon's veto \u2014 and also sided with Republicans when they overrode Nixon's veto of a gun-rights law this September. \n NEW HAMPSHIRE \n The race to replace Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan will be conducted in the shadow of Hassan's quest to oust Republican U.S. Sen. Kelly Ayotte. \n Democrats have controlled the governor's office for 18 of the past 20 years, and Democratic candidate Colin Van Ostern is pledging to build on Hassan's record. \n Republican Chris Sununu comes with strong name identification as the son of former Gov. John H. Sununu and the brother of former U.S. Sen. John E. Sununu. He's positioned himself a bit to the left by backing abortion rights and supporting funding for Planned Parenthood after rejecting it last year. \n The governor's race could be influenced by the state's status as a presidential battleground. \n The Republican Governors Association already has reserved $3 million of air time in the Boston media market for the final weeks before New Hampshire's election, while Democrats say they reserved more than $4 million of TV ad time. \n VERMONT \n As a Democrat, Sue Minter begins with what would appear to be a natural advantage in a liberal state that is home to independent U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist. \n Minter is a former state lawmaker and transportation secretary for retiring Democratic Gov. Peter Shumlin. \n But Lt. Gov. Phil Scott, the only Republican statewide officeholder, has made this race close by tacking to the left. A part-time race-car driver, Scott has wide name recognition and has denounced Trump as \"someone who exploits fear for political gain\" and \"who is willing to overlook the truth.\" \n Scott supports abortion rights and gay marriage, and said during a debate that transgender students should be allowed to use the bathroom of their choice. \n WEST VIRGINIA \n Republican nominee Bill Cole has linked himself closely to Trump, who is popular in West Virginia because of his pledge to revive the coal industry. The state Senate president is aided by West Virginia's trend toward Republicans in recent legislative and presidential elections. \n Still, Democrats have won the last five elections for governor. Their candidate this year is Jim Justice, a billionaire coal and agricultural businessman who has been leading in the polls to replace term-limited Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin. \n Justice has loaned his campaign more than $2.6 million and, like Trump, casts himself as a political outsider with a record of creating jobs. That includes his purchase and revival of one of the state's biggest tourist draws, The Greenbrier resort. Justice has refused to endorse Clinton. \n MONTANA \n Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock is facing a re-election challenge from Republican businessman Greg Gianforte in a state that has favored Republicans in presidential and state legislative elections. \n Gianforte, who made a fortune selling his cloud-based software firm to Oracle in 2011, has donated $1.6 million toward his campaign while pledging to match all other contributions dollar-for-dollar. The Republican Governors Association has attempted to link Bullock to Clinton, noting in an ad that both used private email accounts. \n The Democratic Governors Association has come to Bullock's defense with more than $2.5 million so far. \n NORTH CAROLINA \n The top target for both Democrats and Republicans, the North Carolina governor's race already has seen millions of dollars in advertising from candidates and outside groups. \n A state law that limits anti-discrimination protections for LGBT people and directs transgender people to use public restrooms matching the gender on their birth certificate has dominated the political discourse since it was signed by GOP Gov. Pat McCrory earlier this year. \n Democratic Attorney General Roy Cooper, who has held the office since 2001, has declined to defend the law and vowed to try repealing it as governor. \n While defeating an incumbent is difficult, the Democratic Governors Association views North Carolina as its best chance to flip an office currently held by a Republican. Cooper has outraised McCrory in four straight reporting periods dating to early 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Governor hopefuls distancing themselves from Clinton, Trump"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jenn Brewer, 13, left, poses for a portrait with her mother Amanda Brewer after the teenager's monthly doctors appointment for monitoring of her treatment at Fort Belvoir Community Hospital in Fort Belvoir, Va. Brewer is transitioning from male to female. Starting Oct. 3, the military's health insurance will cover transgender-related services that include hormone therapy and supportive counseling. \n ALEXANDRIA, Va. >> Like many transgender teens, Jenn Brewer faced bullying when she came out. Some classmates called her \"tranny,\" and a few teachers refused to address the 13-year-old by anything other than her male birth name, she said. \n But she and her family found that the biggest difficulty came from her father's employer: the U.S. military. \n Jenn's father is an Army staff sergeant at Virginia's Fort Belvoir, and his military health insurance refused to cover private counseling to support the changes his daughter was embracing. Several months later, Jenn said, she was so frustrated and distraught that she tried to kill herself. \n \"Nothing was working out for me,\" she told The Associated Press in an interview, sitting in a coffee shop near her family's home on the base with her mom, who encouraged Jenn by placing a hand on her knee. \"And I kind of felt suffocated by all of the rules that had been put in place for people like me.\" \n The military insurance also wouldn't cover the $15,000 hormone blockers that could help Jenn transition to female. But such barriers will disappear Monday, when a number of health services for transgender people will begin to be covered by military insurance. \n The Pentagon announced in June an end to the military's ban on transgender service members. The ripple effect of the new health benefits extends beyond active-duty military to include roughly 7 million retirees and children of service members, like Jenn. \n The change puts support for Jenn's mental and physical wellbeing during her transition within reach, but the new coverage also comes with controversy. \n The National Center for Transgender Equality says the new policy doesn't go far enough, with a key operation \u2014 gender-reassignment surgery \u2014 covered only for active-duty personnel. \n The Center for Military Readiness, a conservative group, also derides the new insurance, arguing that it covers expensive treatments devoid of any military purpose. \n The new policy comes in the wake of other transgender-related mandates from the Obama administration. Driving these changes is the medical community's belief that treatment can be considered medically necessary. \n People who identify as another gender can experience various levels of distress, and studies show there is a higher risk for depression and suicide. Doctors say counseling, hormone therapy or surgery can lessen the anxiety. \n The condition is known as gender dysphoria. Until now, the Pentagon lacked a policy that guaranteed coverage for it, said Eric Pahon, an agency spokesman. \n In Jenn's case, she said her feelings of being born into the wrong body began when she was 3 or 4. She came out at 11, and teachers and students at her middle school mostly supported her, although not everyone, she said. \n Under the Pentagon's previous policy, the family was unable to get counseling for Jenn at a private LGBT youth center. Jenn's only option was a psychologist interning on the base. To the family's relief, the intern supported Jenn's transition, her mother, Amanda Brewer, said. \n But the woman eventually left, leaving Jenn without access to a therapist for months because of staffing shortages, her mother said. \n Fort Belvoir spokeswoman Alexandra Snyder confirmed in an email that a personnel shortage prevented counselors from seeing new patients when Jenn's family requested one. \n After Jenn's suicide attempt, she was referred to another base therapist, who is supportive, her mother said. But the family faced an additional barrier when Jenn decided she wanted to begin to physically transition to female. \n The family was referred to Dr. David Klein, an Air Force major and Fort Belvoir's chief of adolescent medicine. Klein was open to starting treatment for Jenn. The first step would be hormone blockers to suppress male puberty. But the military's insurance wouldn't cover it. \n Klein found a solution. Jenn also qualified for a diagnosis of early onset puberty, a condition that was covered by the insurance and could be treated with the same hormone blockers. Under the new military insurance, Jenn would have been covered without the secondary diagnosis. \n But the new policy stops short of surgery for retirees and dependents. \n A federal statute from the 1980s specifically bans military insurance from covering surgery for \"sex gender changes.\" The law allows the defense secretary to make exceptions for active-duty members but not military dependents or retirees, said Pahon, the Pentagon spokesman. \n Harper Jean Tobin, policy director for the National Center for Transgender Equality, said the Pentagon misinterprets the law. She said cosmetic surgery is banned, not operations that many doctors now consider medically necessary. \n \"They're trying to do the right thing,\" Tobin said. \"But they've gotten the interpretation wrong.\" \n Air Force retiree Shari Zabel of Colorado Springs plans to fight the Pentagon's policy. She has scheduled male-to-female reassignment surgery for February. Her military insurance has already denied covering the $36,000 bill from a private facility, she said. \n \"You have a group of people who can get the surgery, but you're excluding another group of people who are very similar, and that's discriminatory,\" Zabel said. \n The Department of Defense says there is a military reason for the changes in the new policy. \n \"If service members are concerned about their family members' health, they can't possibly be functioning 100 percent to fight a war,\" Pahon said. \n At the coffee shop, as Jenn drank a frozen Irish cream concoction, she hesitated to go into too much detail about the struggles of the past year, instead focusing on the positive \u2014 the girlfriend she met at D.C.'s pride parade and her treatments \u2014 and often defaulting to her dry sense of humor. \n \"Other than being transgender, it was a pretty normal experience,\" she said of the year, cracking a smile. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hope, relief for transgender military families in new policy"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Illinois Rep. Emanuel Chris Welch, D-Westchester, speaks to lawmakers at the Capitol in Springfield, Ill. States have begun passing laws dealing with how online accounts can be accessed after death. \n SPRINGFIELD, Ill. >> When a loved one dies, laws cover how their houses, cars, and other property are passed on to relatives. But the rules are murkier \u2014 and currently far more restrictive \u2014 when it comes to pictures on Facebook, emails to friends or relatives and even financial records stored in online cloud accounts. \n Google, Facebook and other companies have said a federal privacy law approved decades before digital storage became common prevents them from releasing electronic memories or records unless the account owner grants permission \u2014 even if the person is dead. Without an estate plan, families must try to crack their loved one's passwords or take the costly step of litigating the matter to access photos and emails \u2014 and some have, with little success. \n The laws governing how to divide belongings after someone dies have not caught up with the technological advances that have permeated the ways people communicate, but states have begun trying to bridge that gap. This year, Illinois was one of 19 states that passed similar laws to clarify what internet companies can release after someone dies and when information should remain inaccessible. \n \"I post quite a bit on Facebook. I post a lot of photos. If something were to happen to me, maybe my wife would like to have access to those photos,\" said Rep. Emanuel Chris Welch, a state legislator from suburban Chicago who sponsored Illinois' measure on the topic. \n With the new laws, unless a person expresses otherwise, companies will release basic information from a user, such as the person's email contact list, to help find friends or gather an inventory of a person's assets. But to get the actual contents of the emails \u2014 even the subject lines \u2014 or photos and documents stored in a cloud service, people must proactively specify who they want to have their digital belongings. \n The federal Electronic Communications Privacy Act, passed in 1986, doesn't anticipate the release of online information when executing wills. Because probate law is typically left to the states, the laws legislatures are passing could effectively set new rules. \n The Chicago-based Uniform Law Commission wrote the legislation states are passing with the support of internet companies, but that wasn't always the case. Initially, the commission wanted administrators of a person's estate to have access to everything from users' accounts in cases where someone did not leave instructions about what to do with their digital assets. \n Only one state, Delaware, managed to pass that version of the commission's proposal, but 27 legislatures tried and failed in 2014. \n Carl Szabo, senior policy counsel at NetChoice, an industry group that represents the interests of such companies as Facebook, Google and PayPal, said the revised legislation \"balances the needs of the bereaved with the privacy interests of the account holders and the people with whom they corresponded.\" \n West Virginia, Utah, and Iowa are among the dozen other states that have drafted bills seeking to join the 19 that enacted laws. \n Facebook allows users to choose a \"legacy contact\" to access their account, and Gmail has an \"account trustee\" option. In instances where people use those options, the companies' agreements with them will supersede the state laws. \n Even with the new laws, planning is necessary at a time when many still don't think about the contents of their internet accounts as property. \n \"This is one of those many examples where the law really gets its power by giving people the knowledge that it exists,\" said Washington state Sen. Jamie Pederson, the sponsor of the law passed there this year. \n The promise of privacy companies offer users has led to heartache and frustration for the families of account holders who have had to go to court for the right to access their relative's emails and photos. \n In 2005, Yahoo turned over more than 10,000 pages of emails in a CD to the family of Lance Cpl. Justin Ellsworth, a marine from Michigan whose family went to court for the material. But others have not been successful. \n The family of John Ajemain in Massachusetts has been unable to get his emails from Yahoo after his death in 2006. And in 2012, Facebook quashed a subpoena from the family of Sahar Daftary, a model who fell to her death from an apartment building in Manchester, England, in 2008. \n In Virginia, after Ricky Rash's 15-year-old son, Eric, killed himself in 2011, Facebook provided a CD with the contents of his account but not his password. Rash still struggles with the notion that for decades people have stumbled upon mementos while cleaning out a late parents' home, but in the digital age those keepsakes can be out of reach. \n \"What is the difference of the shoebox full of letters and pictures under the bed or in the attic?\" Ricky Rash asked. \"You go in as a child taking care of your parents' estate, you may find something in those memoirs that surprises you.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Who inherits a selfie? States seek to fill privacy law gaps"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n If a medical bill shows up, don't pay it right away. At least that's the advice of some experts who say you should closely review all your medical billing information for any errors first. \n If a medical bill shows up, don't pay it right away. At least that's the advice of some experts who say you should closely review all your medical billing information for any errors first. \n The American Medical Association estimates that 7.1 percent of bills paid by commercial health insurers contain errors, while others estimate errors are far more common than that. \n Are the basics right? Simple clerical issues, such as a misspelled name can wreak havoc. Is your coinsurance reflected? Is the bill for treatments you actually received? Remedy, a company that helps work with clients on medical billing and other advocacy issues, has seen cases of men who were billed for pregnancy tests. \n If you don't understand what you are looking at, ask for help, says Sara Taylor at Aon Hewitt. And she suggests verifying that what you are looking at is actually a bill, as many people cut a check when they receive any statement, even when they don't need to. \n It could happen at any stage \u2014 the patient could have provided incomplete information, the doctor's office may have entered the wrong billing code or the insurer may be working with incomplete data. There's also simple human error. \n Another suggestion is to get an itemized bill. Medical Billing Advocates of America says this allows you to see exactly what you are being charged for, as most facilities only send a summary bill that does not break down charges line by line. Look for duplicate charges and items and services you never received. \n There are also some pre-emptive steps you can take: be aware of your own current plan policies. Sometimes consumers believe there is a mistake but find their plan coverage has changed or they are responsible for a deductible or out-of-network cost. \n Aon Hewitt estimates that about 45 percent of large employers offer health advocate services to employees, typically free of charge. While this has been available for years, it is often underutilized in a billing situation and allows experts to lend a hand, Taylor said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Consider a second opinion on that medical bill"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Environmental activists Karen Savage and Cherri Foytlin wrote an article criticizing a company that published a study finding no connection between chemicals released by the explosion and health problems reported by some cleanup workers. Massachusetts' highest court will hear arguments Oct. 7, 2016, in a bid by Savage and Foytlin to throw out a defamation lawsuit filed by the company, siting a state law that protects citizens exercising their free speech rights. \n BOSTON >> When Karen Savage and Cherri Foytlin wrote an article about the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill of 2010, they thought it might get a few moments of attention and then fade away. \n More than three years later, Savage and Foytlin are still defending their article after being sued by a scientific consulting company. The battle is headed to the highest court in Massachusetts. Arguments are scheduled for Friday, a week after \"Deepwater Horizon,\" a film starring Mark Wahlberg, opens in theaters. \n Their 2013 article, which appeared in The Huffington Post, questioned the independence of ChemRisk, a firm that published a study that found that the Gulf disaster did not expose cleanup workers to harmful levels of several airborne chemical compounds released by the explosion. \n Savage and Foytlin alleged in the article that ChemRisk had strong ties to the oil industry and accused the company of \"using questionable ethics to help their clients avoid legal responsibility for their actions.\" \n The oil spill, one of the largest environmental disasters in history, began on April 10, 2010. Millions of barrels of oil leaked into the Gulf of Mexico for 87 days after the explosion. British Petroleum, which was found primarily responsible for the spill, has paid billions in cleanup costs, settlements and penalties. \n The defamation lawsuit filed by ChemRisk stunned Savage, then a middle school math teacher in Boston, and Foytlin, a single mother from Rayne, Louisiana, who became an environmental advocate after the Deepwater Horizon spill. \n \"I have a 1999 beat-up car, six kids and a mortgage \u2014 that's all I have \u2014 so I thought, there's nothing they want from me except to shut me up,\" said Foytlin. \n The case is expected to explore the scope of a Massachusetts law aimed at discouraging lawsuits intended to silence people who speak out on issues of public interest. Savage and Foytlin claim ChemRisk's lawsuit falls into that category of litigation, known as Strategic Lawsuits against Public Participation. \n Many states, including Massachusetts, have anti-SLAPP laws designed to quickly dispose of such lawsuits if the people being sued can show they were engaged in their constitutional right to petition the government. The state's law defines petitioning activity as written or oral statements made in connection with an issue being considered by a government body or aimed at building public support or influencing government policy. \n Savage and Foytlin say their article was an attempt by them to encourage action and enlist public participation in governmental proceedings and court cases in the oil spill. They say the lawsuit was designed to intimidate them. \n \"This was a spill of national significance \u2026 we were trying to show that there was still some serious impact from this disaster,\" Foytlin said. \n \"As citizens, we should have the right to speak out, to share the story to make sure people know what's really going on,\" she added. \n ChemRisk's lawyers, however, say the article was a \"hit piece\" that contained false information. \n Savage and Foytlin filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit, but a judge rejected that, finding that they were not engaged in petitioning activity when they published the article about ChemRisk. The women appealed that ruling. \n Megan Meier, one of ChemRisk's attorneys, said ChemRisk's parent company decided to move to dismiss the lawsuit in March because continuing the case would have required significant time and resources, and because Savage and Foytlin made it clear \"they would not retract their statements even if a court determined that they were false.\" \n Meier said that before the company could notify the court, the Supreme Judicial Court agreed to hear the women's appeal of the lower court's ruling that the Massachusetts anti-SLAPP law did not apply to their claims. \n The Court will be asked to decide the parameters of the law. \n \"The case is incredibly important from a public policy perspective because it will determine whether bloggers are entitled to the protections of the anti-SLAPP statute,\" said John Reichman, a New York lawyer who represents Savage and Foytlin. \n Meier said the Massachusetts Legislature purposely limited the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute. ChemRisk argues that the law does not apply in this case because Foytlin and Savage were not petitioning to rectify a grievance of their own, but instead were writing on behalf of cleanup workers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Court to hear suit against Deepwater Horizon spill activists"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "Five hikers \u2014 all mainland visitors \u2014 decided to disregard advice from fire rescue personnel to shelter in place near the summit of the Waimanalo Trail and chose to hike down the mountain early this morning. \n Capt. David Jenkins, Honolulu Fire Department spokesman, said the group, made up of three men and two women, called for help via cellphone at about 6:30 p.m Sunday after starting on the trek 90 minutes earlier. \n Firefighters went to the trail head, but suspended rescue efforts due to wind and poor visibility from low cloud cover. \n \"They got very high, up near the summit,\" said Jenkins. \"The hikers are in a safe location and uninjured. They were instructed to shelter in place.\" \n The hikers notified fire officials that they were able to exit the trail at 12 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Five hikers find way back down from Koolaus after call for help"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n JD Farms in central New York harvested the state's first legal hemp this fall under a university research partnership. \n EATON, N.Y. >> \n A lush field of cannabis growing on a secluded hilltop in central New York may look and smell like marijuana, but its myriad uses don't include getting high. \n New York's first legal hemp farm in decades has taken root under a pilot program that's part of a national resurgence of a plant that's prized for making food, clothing and shelter but long banned along with its smokable cousin. \n \"The versatility of this crop is amazing,\" said JD Farms co-owner Mark Justh, who left an international finance career to grow organic hay and pastured beef cattle and pigs on farmland 170 miles northwest of New York City. He added organic hemp to the mix this summer under a research partnership with Morrisville State College. \n Because of its resemblance to marijuana, the hemp field at JD Farms had a prominent \"No Trespassing\" sign that advises \"No THC.\" Even if marijuana plants were hidden among the hemp, cross-pollination would render the pot impotent. \n Hemp has been used for millennia as a source of oil, protein and fiber used in clothing, rope and paper. Modern uses include cosmetics, nutritional supplements, biofuels, building materials and pharmaceuticals. \n Justh was thinking of growing it simply as a cover crop \u2014 a crop grown for soil enrichment \u2014 when he met Dan Dolgin, who was looking to partner with a farmer to grow it for its broad market potential. Dolgin, who had worked in national security in Washington, fell in love with the farm and bought into it. He's now renovating a farmhouse there near the log cabin where Justh and his wife and teenage sons live when they're not at their home in Brooklyn's Park Slope. \n \"Hemp is a triple-value crop, with a multitude of products made from the seeds, stalks and fiber,\" Dolgin said. \"We hope the results of what we're doing here will convince other farmers that this is a great opportunity.\" \n The trade group Vote Hemp estimates the value of hemp products in the U.S. at $600 million. But that's based on imports because U.S. farmers weren't allowed to grow it until now \n Since the \"reefer madness\" war on marijuana in the mid-20th century, the U.S. has been the only industrialized nation where hemp farming was illegal. Industrial hemp and marijuana are both forms of cannabis, but hemp lacks the active ingredient THC. \n The 2014 U.S. Farm Bill, which defined hemp as distinct from marijuana, cleared the way for states to regulate it for research and pilot programs. Since then, 29 states have passed hemp legislation and nine have established pilot programs licensing production, according to the trade group Vote Hemp. About 12,000 acres were planted this year, primarily in Colorado, Kentucky and Tennessee, the group said. \n Under New York hemp regulations finalized earlier this year, farmers must partner with a university to get a license. The 30-acre hemp plot at 1,200-acre JD Farms, the state's only hemp farm so far, is paired with nearby Morrisville State College, which is conducting hemp research. \n The requirement for a university partnership has deterred some farmers from getting into hemp. \n \"I'd love to be able to get into it right away, but the research partnership complicates things,\" said Phil Hodges, a friend of Justh who splits his time between Wall Street bond trading and a crop and cattle farm he's developing upstate. He hopes to plant some hemp next year if the state begins to license farmers directly. \"It's a huge opportunity for farmers, an untouched market.\" \n Some others are more skeptical. \n \"It's a challenging crop to harvest,\" said Luke Gianforte, whose family has been growing organic grain for decades in central New York. Gianforte harvested the crop at JD Farms last week. \"It's a strong-fibered crop, doesn't break or cut easily.\" \n Gianforte said he's interested in exploring the potential but will wait for more crop and market research results. \n \"Farmers are leery about new crops coming along that have the world promised behind them,\" Gianforte said. \"Seems like every 10 years some new thing comes along that's the latest and greatest.\" \n Justh said farms growing corn or soybeans already have the equipment needed for hemp, which could bring at least twice as much income per acre. Hemp seed harvested at JD Farms will be processed for oil and protein powder, and some of the stems will be used by a company that makes building products from biomass. \n \"Hemp can come across as a panacea among its fervent proponents \u2014 everything from curing cancer to solving deforestation,\" Dolgin said. \"Is it going to save humanity? No. But it's a valuable crop anyone can include in their crop rotation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Not pot: U.S. hemp farms take root under state pilot programs"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Opponents to the peace deal signed between the Colombia government and rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, attend an event to promote the \"No\" vote in the upcoming referendum in Bogota, Colombia, Saturday, Oct 1, 2016. Colombians go to the polls on Oct. 2 in a referendum where they will be asked to ratify or reject the accord. \n Bogota, Colombia \u00bb The guns have been silenced, the agreement signed and a historic handshake between former enemies made in front of the entire world. Now it's time for Colombians to decide whether or not to support a peace deal with the country's largest rebel movement. \n Polls taken before Sunday's referendum, in which voters will be asked whether they want to ratify or reject a deal ending a half century of hostilities with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, show the \"yes\" vote favored by an almost two-to-one margin. \n But the government isn't taking victory for granted amid a highly polarized campaign that has exposed how steep a challenge it faces implementing the 297-page accord and bringing about real reconciliation. Colombians overwhelmingly loathe the FARC, who the U.S. considers a terrorist group, and many consider provisions in the accord that would spare the rebels jail time an insult to the 220,000 killed and almost 8 million displaced by the long-running conflict. \n In the past month, ever since the deal was announced in Cuba after four years of grueling negotiations, the government has been spending heavily on television ads and staging concerts and peace rallies around the country to get out the vote. They've even enrolled the help of U2's Bono and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr, and for the first time in an election it's making available in braille thousands of ballots so blind Colombians can vote. \n \"We don't want anyone to be feeling excluded because this is an important decision,\" said Luisa Fernanda Morena, a 30-year-old volunteer preparing the materials at the National Institute for the Blind. \n For the referendum to be ratified at least 13 percent of the electorate, or 4.5 million voters, must cast \"yes\" ballots. Turnout is expected to be low, no higher than the 40 percent seen in recent congressional elections, a sign to some analysts that Colombians enthusiasm for implementing the ambitious accord is lacking. \n The opposition, led by powerful ex-President Alvaro Uribe, argues that the government is appeasing the FARC and setting a bad example that criminal gangs will seize on. \n But the FARC in recent days have made an effort to show their commitment to peace is real. Twice this week leaders of the group traveled to areas hard hit by the violence to apologize for massacres committed by their troops in the course of the conflict and discuss with communities how they can compensate victims. \n \"All of us in life have committed mistakes, some with consequences more serious than others,\" FARC leader Ivan Marquez said Friday at a ceremony in the northern Colombian town where rebels in 1994 disrupted a street party with gunfire, killing 35. \"There's nothing to lose in recognizing it. Speaking the pure and clean truth heals the soul's wounds, no matter how deep they are.\" \n On Saturday, in the presence of United Nations observers, they voluntarily destroyed 620 kilograms of grenades and light explosives. They also said they would compensate victims with financial resources and land holdings accumulated during the war. \n Although Santos wasn't required to call for a vote ratifying the accord \u2014 some of his advisers and the FARC itself opposed the idea \u2014 the outcome will be binding. \n Only if it is ratified will the FARC's roughly 7,000 fighters begin moving to 27 concentration zones where over six months they will gradually turn over their weapons to U.N. observers and prepare for their reintegration into civilian life. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Colombians vote on peace deal after polarized campaign"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a photo provided by William Sun, people examine the wreckage of a New Jersey Transit commuter train that crashed into the train station during the morning rush hour in Hoboken,, N.J., Thursday, Sept. 29, 2016. The crash caused an unknown number of injuries and witnesses reported seeing one woman trapped under concrete and many people bleeding. \n Hoboken, N.J. \u00bb New Jersey Transit trains have been involved in more than 150 accidents that caused more than $4.8 million in damage to tracks or equipment since 2011, and the commuter rail has paid more than $500,000 to settle safety violations, according to federal data. \n Federal Railroad Administration information shows that NJ Transit settled 183 safety violations \u2014 ranging from employee drug and alcohol use to violations of railroad operating rules or practices \u2014 since Jan. 1, 2011. The settlement payments include about $70,000 for more than a dozen safety violations in 2014 and 2015. Statistics for the current year are not yet available. \n Months before Thursday's deadly commuter train crash in Hoboken, New Jersey, federal rail officials found dozens of violations during an audit focusing on NJ Transit's safety and operations, a U.S. official told The Associated Press on Saturday. \n The official, who was familiar with the railroad administration audit, spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because the official wasn't authorized to speak publicly about an ongoing investigation. \n The railroad administration began an audit in June after noticing an uptick in rail incidents and found \"dozens of safety violations\" that needed to be fixed immediately, the official said. The commuter rail agency was fined as a result of the audit, the official said, adding that federal agencies are continuing to work with the railroad to ensure compliance with federal rail safety guidelines. \n There were 25 accidents in 2015 and 10 in the first seven months of 2016, but none caused injuries or death, federal data showed. Most of the incidents occurred at low speeds and more than half were in train yards. \n On Thursday, a commuter train smashed through a steel-and-concrete bumper and hurtled into the station's waiting area, killing a woman on the platform and injuring more than 100 other people. \n The train's engineer, Thomas Gallagher, who was among those injured in the crash, has been interviewed by the National Transportation Safety Board, officials said, but the agency provided no further details about the interview in a news release Saturday. \n The NTSB also retrieved an event recorder from the locomotive at the rear of the train and investigators are waiting to download speed and braking information it contains. Investigators haven't been able to extract a second recorder from the forward-facing video camera in the train's mangled first car because it is under a collapsed section of the train station's roof. \n The signals on the tracks leading to Hoboken Terminal appear to be working normally and officials completed a walking inspection of the track, finding nothing that would have affected the performance of the train, the NTSB said in an update Saturday. Investigators have obtained video from other trains that were inside the train station when the crash occurred. \n Signs posted at a New Jersey Transit maintenance facility in Hoboken, dated February, said there had been 10 incidents involving trains in the prior two months, including five derailments. The sign said the \"serious incidents reflect a dangerous trend\" and that the main cause of the incidents appeared to be caused by human error. \n A spokesman for New Jersey Transit didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. \n ___ \n Associated Press writer Michael R. Sisak in Philadelphia contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Jersey Transit had 150 accidents in 5 years"}

{"date": "October 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Supreme Court is set to begin its new term as it ended the last one, down one justice and ideologically deadlocked on a range of issues. The absence of a ninth justice since Antonin Scalia's death in February has hamstrung the court in several cases and forced the justices to look for less contentious issues on which they are less likely to divide by 4-4 votes. \n WASHINGTON >> The Supreme Court is set to begin its new term as it ended the last one, down one justice and ideologically deadlocked on a range of issues. \n The absence of a ninth justice since Antonin Scalia's death in February has hamstrung the court in several cases and forced the justices to look for less contentious issues on which they are less likely to divide by 4-4 votes. \n It could be several months, at least, before the nation's highest court is again operating at full strength. \n \"It's a very interesting time at the court. That doesn't necessarily translate into interesting cases. In fact, it may translate into the opposite,\" said Paul Clement, the Bush administration's top Supreme Court lawyer and a frequent advocate in front of the court. \n By law, the court convenes on the first Monday in October. But the key date this year is the second Tuesday in November, Election Day on Nov. 8. \n How the presidential election turns out will go a long way toward determining the judicial outlook of the ninth justice, the direction of the court and the outcome of several cases already being heard and others that probably will be at the court soon. \n A victory by Republican Donald Trump means the seat of Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February, would almost certainly be filled with a like-minded conservative. And if any of three justices in their late 70s or early 80s were to leave the court during a Trump presidency, conservative control could be cemented for a generation. \n A win by Democrat Hillary Clinton probably would result in the confirmation of Judge Merrick Garland, whose nomination by President Barack Obama has been blocked by Senate Republicans, or perhaps a more liberal choice. In either case, Democratic appointees would constitute a majority of the Supreme Court for the first time since the early months of the Nixon administration in 1969. \n More significantly, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg would lead a liberal majority that no longer would be dependent on the support of a more conservative justice. That fifth vote has typically come from Justice Anthony Kennedy and, less often, Chief Justice John Roberts. \n Such a shift could affect the court in profound ways, perhaps causing Roberts to moderate his views on some issues in order to retain the power to shape decisions, said George Terwilliger, a lawyer who has served in Republican administrations and worked with Roberts. The senior justice in the majority assigns the opinion-writer in a case. \n Roberts \"will be seeking in as many cases as possible perhaps a middle ground that takes him and perhaps one of his conservative colleagues to a position where they may not want to be,\" Terwilliger said. \"I think that's John's personality.\" \n If the election itself doesn't yield a clear winner, the court could be asked to get involved, as it did 16 years ago in Bush v. Gore, the case about Florida's disputed voting outcome. The big difference is the court in 2000 was fully staffed and able to deliver a final ruling, even if half the country didn't like it. \n The court is starting off a term with eight justices for the first time in 25 years. Clarence Thomas was confirmed in October 1991, a couple of weeks after that term began. \n The court's calendar so far is lacking in the kinds of blockbuster cases seen in recent years dealing with health care, gay marriage and abortion rights. It includes a church's challenge to its exclusion from a Missouri state program to provide rubberized surfaces in playgrounds, a dispute over whether disparaging names can receive trademark protection from the government, two redistricting cases involving the rights of minority voters and two appeals from death row inmates in Texas. \n The Missouri case about the separation of church and state was granted while Scalia was still alive and has yet to be scheduled for argument, possibly because the justices think they may divide 4-4. Tie votes leave the lower court decision in place, but set no national legal rule and essentially waste the justices' time. \n \"The justices are showing obvious caution. They are not eager to resolve big-ticket questions with eight justices,\" said Georgetown University law professor Martin Lederman, a former Justice Department official in the Obama administration. \n Waiting in the wings are cases involving the rights of transgender people, immigration, climate change, voter identification and religious freedom. These are the sorts of issues that have split the court along ideological lines before. Some of those cases could be heard and decided in the spring. \n The other big issue looming over the marble courthouse is when one or more of the older justices might retire. Ginsburg is 83 and has said she will take it a year at a time. She could find herself in a newly powerful role if Clinton is elected, making her less likely to step down, said Thomas Goldstein, who argues regularly at the court. \n The two other older justices are Stephen Breyer, 78, and Kennedy, who turned 80 this summer. He might see his influence diminish on a more liberal court. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court in holding pattern, awaiting ninth justice"}

