{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "NATURE VIA TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n For those taking the highest doses of aducanumab, a year of treatment significantly reduced amyloid plaques, in red on the left, a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. \n In the search for a treatment capable of changing the course of Alzheimer's disease, new findings are offering a rare glimmer of hope: In a preliminary trial of subjects suffering from memory and thinking problems or diagnosed with early Alzheimer's, a bioengineered medication called aducanumab has demonstrated the ability to clear accumulations of beta-amyloid proteins \u2014 a hallmark of Alzheimer's \u2014 from the brain. \n And compared with subjects receiving a placebo medication, those who got monthly infusions of aducanumab in high doses appeared to experience less progressive loss in mental function. \n The results of the early clinical trial, reported Wednesday in the journal Nature, offer new evidence that clearing amyloid plaques might be an effective strategy for preventing, halting or even reversing Alzheimer's dementia, especially if the degenerative brain disorder is detected and treated early. \n \"It is a hopeful sign,\" said Dr. James A. Hendrix, director of global science initiatives for the Alzheimer's Association. \"This is a small trial, but it still is exciting for a number of reasons. \n \"I am cautiously optimistic,\" he said. \n The new study reflects the findings of a trial designed primarily to test the safety of aducanumab at a range of doses. The drug's developer, Washington, D.C.-based Biogen Inc., is soon to launch a pair of much larger trials designed to test aducanumab's effectiveness as a treatment for Alzheimer's. \n \"We hope to see these findings confirmed,\" Hendrix said. \n Although aducanumab holds promise as a potential Alzheimer's drug, it is for now an early answer to a more basic question about Alzheimer's disease: What role do clumps of beta-amyloid protein play in the disease? \n As long as 25 years ago, scientists suspected a role for amyloid plaques \u2014 accumulations in the brain of beta-amyloid proteins \u2014 in Alzheimer's disease. When they examined the brains of people who died after suffering a progressive loss of memory and reasoning skills, scientists typically found clumps of beta-amyloid surrounded by destroyed synapses and brain cells that had long since died. \n But whether those clumps were a cause of Alzheimer's dementia or just another symptom of the mysterious disease process wasn't clear. \n If a cure to this scourge were to be found, that unanswered question was important: If accumulating amyloid plaques in the brain precipitated a patient's decline in memory and thinking, developing or discovering drugs that cleared those aggregations \u2014 or prevented them in the first place \u2014 could be key. But if amyloid plaques were incidental to some other process causing memory loss, then fighting them was probably a distraction. \n Over the last decade or so, the \"amyloid hypothesis\" has been put to the test often, without clear results. Many experimental therapies have sought and failed to prevent or clear amyloid plaques. Where a few therapies have succeeded in doing so, patients beset with dementia symptoms failed to improve, and their loss of memory and function continued unabated. \n In the meantime, improvements in brain-imaging methods have at least made it possible to measure amyloid deposits in living brains. In the current study, subjects were all people who had substantial amyloid brain clumps \u2014 just one factor that put them at risk for a progressive loss of memory. The other factor was that their memory loss was already evident: All had been diagnosed either with mild Alzheimer's or with mild cognitive impairment \u2014 a more subtle level of confusion and forgetfulness that frequently precedes an Alzheimer's diagnosis. \n In these preliminary findings on aducanumab, treatment not only reduced the accumulation of amyloid plaques; it also appeared to slow the inexorable slide into dementia that most subjects were expected to suffer. \n After a year of monthly infusions of aducanumab therapy, the brains of subjects who got the highest dose had significant reductions in their baseline levels of amyloid plaque accumulation. Their scans showed a level of amyloid plaques very near the cutoff point for normal protein accumulation. Those who got a placebo drug showed, on average, no change in amyloid plaque above the levels shown on baseline scans. \n And on a key test of mental function, subjects who got the experimental drug showed less progression toward dementia at the one-year mark than did those who got placebo. How much less progression was proportionate to the dose they got. \n \"The dose-related reduction in brain amyloid with aducanumab is dramatic and convincing,\" said Dr. Paul Aisen, director of the Keck School of Medicine's Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute at the University of Southern California. Aisen, who has consulted extensively with Biogen but was not involved in the newly published clinical trial, said that if confirmed by further trials, the benefits of a therapy like aducanumab \"would represent a true breakthrough\" in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. \n The clinical trial did raise a safety concern. About 41 percent of those getting the highest dose and 37 percent of those getting the second-highest dose developed a complication of brain-fluid accumulation that hampered brain-imaging and was sometimes linked to headaches, visual disturbances and confusion. \n The complication tended to disappear four to 12 weeks into treatment. But it prompted 46 percent of those who developed it to drop out of the clinical trial. \n Increasingly, the most promising experimental therapies appear to be those that target people who are at risk for Alzheimer's, or who have some of the earliest brain changes seen in the disease but who do not yet exhibit any cognitive deficits. In planning clinical trials, that has put a premium on findings subjects who carry gene variants that make Alzheimer's more likely, or who have a family history of the disease.  \n But research on treatments for those already affected by dementia continues as well. For people interested in participating in studies and trials, the Alzheimer's Association has developed a program called Trial Match that can connect potential study participants with researchers exploring all aspects of the disease. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Melissa Healy Los Angeles Times", "title": "Experimental drug reduces protein clumps, slows memory loss in early Alzheimer's"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump delivers an immigration policy speech during a campaign rally at the Phoenix Convention Center today in Phoenix. \n PHOENIX \u00bb Donald Trump is retreating from his vow to deport the nation's entire population of people living in the country illegally, even as he sticks with an aggressive tone on illegal immigration and remains committed to building a physical wall along the U.S. border with Mexico. \n The Republican nominee for president promised today to remove millions of people living in the country illegally if elected president, warning that failure to do so would jeopardize the \"well-being of the American people.\" \n \"Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation,\" Trump said in a highly anticipated speech, which took place mere hours after his surprise meeting with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto in his first trip abroad as the GOP nominee. \n But the billionaire New Yorker also said the effort of a proposed immigration task force in a Trump administration would focus on removing criminals, people who have overstayed their visas and other immediate security threats. \n Left unanswered by Trump: What would happen to those who have not committed crimes beyond their immigration offenses? \n Aimed at ending weeks of confusion over just where he stands on immigration, Trump's fiery speech was filled with applause lines for his loyal supporters. \n Any person living in the country illegally who is arrested \"for any crime whatsoever,\" he said, will immediately be placed into deportation proceedings. \"There will be no amnesty,\" he added, saying immigrants in the country without permission who wish to seek legal status or citizenship must return to their home countries in order to do so. \n But there was no direct mention of a core promise of his primary campaign \u2014 to create a \"deportation force\" that would remove all of the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally. \n Trump instead repeated the standard Republican talking point that only after securing the border can a discussion begin to take place about all such immigrants, ducking the major question that has frustrated past congressional attempts at remaking the nation's immigration laws. \n That omission didn't bother Dan Stein, who leads the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that pushes for stricter immigration policies. He called Trump's speech the outline of \"a coherent and workable strategy.\" \n \"But even more important than the details of the plan itself,\" Stein said, \"Trump laid out the most fundamental principle for true immigration reform: The policy exists to protect and serve 'the well-being of the American people,' and 'protect all aspects of American life.'\" \n Critics, meanwhile, said Trump's glossing over the fate of people who are peacefully living in the U.S. without permission doesn't make up for his overall approach. \n \"It is still the most extreme position of any modern presidential candidate,\" said Frank Sharry, a leading immigration advocate. \"It is deeply unpopular with voters, and profoundly un-American.\" \n Even as he beat a retreat from his earlier pledge to deport all illegal immigrants from the country, Trump's aggressive tone in Phoenix marked a shift from earlier in the day. A much more measured Trump described Mexicans as \"amazing people\" as he appeared alongside Pena Nieto in Mexico's capital city. \n The good feelings from his first meeting with a head of state as his party's presidential nominee lasted only a short time, as a dispute arose in the hours after he left Mexico City over the most contentious part of the billionaire's plans to fight illegal immigration \u2014 his insistence that Mexico must pay to build a physical wall along the roughly 2,000-mile U.S. southern border. \n Trump told reporters during his afternoon appearance with Pena Nieto that the two men didn't discuss who would pay for a cost of construction pegged in the billions. Silent at that moment, Pena Nieto later tweeted, \"I made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall.\" \n With the meeting held behind closed doors, it was impossible to know who was telling the truth. \n Trump told the rowdy Arizona crowd that he respects the Mexican president. \"We agreed on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns and people across our border and to put the cartels out of business,\" he said. \n Yet, standing on American soil, he addressed directly a question he sidestepped when asked in Mexico. \n \"Mexico will pay for the wall, 100 percent,\" the New York businessman said. \"They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for the wall.\" \n The Mexican president, however, said on Twitter that the subject was among the first things the men discussed. \"From there, the conversation addressed other issues, and developed in a respectful manner,\" Pena Nieto wrote. \n Trump was cheered in Arizona, but his appearance in Mexico sparked anger and protests. The candidate is deeply unpopular in Mexico due in large part to his deriding the country as a source of rapists and criminals as he kicked off his campaign. He piled on in the months to come, attacked the country over free trade, illegal immigration and border security. \n Campaigning in Ohio, Democrat Hillary Clinton jabbed at Trump's Mexican appearance as she promoted her own experience working with foreign leaders as the nation's chief diplomat. \n \"People have to get to know that they can count on you, that you won't say one thing one day and something totally different the next,\" she told the American Legion in Cincinnati. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump retreats from vow to deport all living in U.S. illegally"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump points to the audience after delivering an immigration policy speech during a campaign rally at the Phoenix Convention Center. \n PHOENIX >> Donald Trump tried to move past a week of vacillating on immigration, his signature issue, by asserting in a speech Wednesday that the question of what to do with 11 million people in the U.S illegally is not central to the problem. \n \"Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington,\" Trump said to cheers from thousands of supporters here at the Phoenix Convention Center. \n Rather, Trump said that President Barack Obama's and Hillary Clinton's policies are to blame for \"countless American\" deaths at the hands of immigrants in the country illegally. He said the main problem with the immigration system is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, interest groups and politicians. He warned that Clinton was planning to broadly expand her powers if elected, in defiance of the Constitution, to grant increased \"executive amnesty.\" \n Trump's immigration plan mirrored his foreign policy slogan: America first. \n \"We will be fair, just and compassionate to all,\" he said. \"But our greatest compassion must be for our American citizens.\" \n Trump, who has gone back and forth on his prior pledge to use a special force to round up the 11 million immigrants in the country without authorization, tried to reframe the debate with a new plan that includes what he termed a deportation task force, but said it would focus on those who have committed crimes. That's similar to Obama's current policy. \n Other parts of his plan, like adding 5,000 border patrol agents, echoes legislation that passed the U.S. Senate in 2013 that would have added 20,000 border agents, fourfold what Trump suggested. Trump was highly critical of that proposal during the Republican primary, singling out Florida Sen. Marco Rubio for his role in drafting it. The bill eventually died in Congress. \n Other plans included his long-promised border wall. He did not specify whether it would be entirely a physical structure, which would be impractical and prohibitively expensive in many areas marked by natural geographic boundaries. He also reiterated his promise that Mexico would pay for the wall, something Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto and other government officials have called a non-starter. \n Trump's speech capped a whirlwind day in which he made a last-minute stop in Mexico City to meet with Pena Nieto for an hour, intensifying attention on Trump's sharp rhetoric on immigration and Mexican trade. \n Trump's immigration views rocketed him to the top of the GOP field and propelled him to the Republican nomination, but the issue has bedeviled him in the general election campaign. Only about 1 in 5 Latino voters supports him, according to a recent Fox News poll. Some strategists believe his sharp tone and unsparing policy proposals may also be dragging down his support among other groups of voters who recoil at the vision of rounding up 11 million immigrants who entered the country illegally. \n Trump's once-forceful views have grown muddy of late, as he has shifted between maintaining and what he referred to as \"softening\" his policy proposals. \n Not only has Trump sold the issue of border enforcement as paramount to \"having a country,\" but he has also cast himself as an unwavering businessman who takes decisive action without the typical political calculation or waffling. \n Trump delivered his speech in Arizona, the heart of some of the nation's fiercest immigration fights but an unlikely place for a Republican to ease up on strong anti-immigration views. Droves of supporters began lining up outside the convention center in 102-degree heat, hours before Trump arrived. \n Despite the focus on illegal immigration, the numbers are actually down. In fact, more Mexican immigrants and their children went back to Mexico from the U.S. between 2009 and 2014 than came to the U.S., according to the Pew Research Center. \n Arizona is one of many traditionally conservative states in the West that has mainstream Republican strategists concerned about the GOP's hard-line turn on immigration \u2014 both in this election and what it portends for the future. \n Voters in Arizona have supported only one Democrat for president since 1952. But the state's large and growing Latino population has put the state on the map for Democrats. Polls there show a tight race between Trump and Clinton. \n So far, the polling elsewhere suggests that Trump has created doubt in voters' minds about his position, and hasn't reaped any significant benefit. In Wisconsin, for example, often a bellwether for presidential elections, a survey released Wednesday by the state's best-known poll found that 47 percent of voters believed Trump had changed his position on how to handle immigrants in the country without legal authority. That compared with 39 percent who said his position had not changed and 13 percent who said they did not know. \n The poll showed Trump's overall support in the state stuck in the high 30s \u2014 it was 37 percent in the most recent poll, 36 percent in a survey in early August and 37 percent in July. \n That tension \u2014 between pleasing the Republican base and expanding it \u2014 has played out in recent weeks within the Trump campaign. \n Trump has whipsawed over whether he would truly attempt to deport the estimated 11 million immigrants who are here illegally, as he promised during the primary. At times, he has suggested he would focus on those who have committed crimes, a variation of Obama's policy, which has faced harsh criticism from conservative commentators and voters. \n Amid the wavering, Trump has fought charges that he now supports \"amnesty,\" a buzzword for hard-line immigration critics and one Trump used during the Republican primary to malign his rivals' immigration policies. \n Trump has insisted he would not retreat. But the sense of confusion has been magnified by Trump's own actions, including a show of polling the room on the question during a Fox News town hall last week. \n Hillary Clinton's communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, released a statement Wednesday recounting Trump's inflammatory language toward Mexican immigrants and his promise to deport millions \"including children and U.S. citizens.\" \n \"What ultimately matters is what Donald Trump says to voters in Arizona, not Mexico, and whether he remains committed to the splitting up of families and deportation of millions,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says in immigration speech that 11 million in U.S. illegally are not a main issue"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "A 21-year-old military man has been charged with urinating on a burial mound protecting the skeletal remains of 200 Hawaiians outside Waikiki Zoo. \n Cody Pace, of a Camp H.M. Smith address, was charged Tuesday with desecration, violating park closure, and urinating in public. His bail was set at $3,000. \n About 2 a.m. Tuesday, Pace allegedly walked past an officer who warned him that the park was closed and urinated on the burial mound fronting the zoo, a source said. He was arrested at 2:03 a.m. at the zoo. \n The burial mound was dedicated in 2002 and protects the iwi kupuna of 200 Hawaiians displaced by Waikiki construction projects. At the time of its dedication, the memorial still had room for hundreds more iwi kupuna that are displaced by construction projects in Waikiki. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Military man charged with urinating on Hawaiian burial mound at zoo"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "Ocean Safety officials closed Kauai's Haena Beach to swimming this afternoon due to a shark sighting. \n Lifeguards reported seeing a five-to-six-foot Galapagos shark at about 3 p.m. \n Signs have been posted to warn beachgoers of the sighting. Officials advise the public to steer clear of the water. \n Lifeguards will assess the beach Thursday morning. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Shark sighting closes Kauai's Haena Beach"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ZUMA PRESS / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Jennifer Lawrence at the Global Fan Screening of \"X-Men Apocalypse\" on May 10 in London. \n CHICAGO \u00bb Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence broke down at a meeting with federal agents in September 2014 about nude photos of her that had been splashed on the internet as part of a shocking computer hack known as \"Celebgate.\"  \n \"She became very distraught and I had to stop the interview at one point because of her emotional reaction to the information being discussed,\" an FBI agent wrote in a court filing about the meeting with Lawrence in Los Angeles. \"(She) stated she was having an anxiety attack, and was visibly shaken.\" \n Now, two years after Celebgate rocked Hollywood, a Southwest Side Chicago man is scheduled to appear in a federal courtroom in Chicago next week to formally plead guilty to his role in the scandal, court records show. \n Edward Majerczyk, 28, a self-described computer nerd and son of a retired Chicago police officer, was charged in federal court in Los Angeles last month with one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information, records show. \n Majerczyk has already signed a 20-page plea agreement calling for his case to be transferred to Chicago, where prosecutors have agreed to seek a nine-month prison sentence, court records show. An arraignment was set for Sept. 8 when Majerczyk's plea is expected to be formally entered before U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Weisman. \n Majerczyk was accused of using a phishing scheme to illegally gain access to more than 300 Apple iCloud and Gmail accounts from November 2013 to August 2014, including at least 30 belonging to celebrities in the Los Angeles area. \n According to a draft of his plea agreement, Majerczyk's scheme worked this way: First, he sent emails to victims that appeared to be from security accounts of internet service providers seeking the victims' user names and passwords. For those who provided that private information, he then illegally accessed their email accounts and obtained \"personal information including sensitive and private photographs and videos,\" authorities said. \n Majerczyk was not accused of selling the material or posting any of it online himself. The investigation into who leaked the sensitive information is still ongoing, Thom Mrozek, a spokesman with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles, told the Tribune this week. \n In all, as many as 100 celebrities were targeted as part of Celebgate, including Lawrence, Kirsten Dunst and Kate Upton and her boyfriend, Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander. Many had embarrassing and intimate photos posted on web sites such as Reddit.com and 4chan.org. \n In an interview with Vanity Fair in 2014, Lawrence called the breach of her privacy a \"sex crime.\" \n \"I was just so afraid. I didn't know how this would affect my career,\" Lawrence told the magazine. \"Just because I'm a public figure, just because I'm an actress, does not mean that I asked for this. It does not mean that it comes with the territory.\" \n Majercyzk has no criminal history and was given credit by prosecutors for accepting responsibility for his crime, according to his plea agreement. His mother retired from her job as a Chicago police officer in 2012 after 30 years on the force, according to a City Council resolution saluting her career. \n Previously, Majerczyk had lived in Orland Park and attended Moraine Valley Community College part time, records show. In social media posts, he has described himself as an avid \"indoorsman\" and \"functionally nerdy.\" \n Majerczyk's attorney, Thomas Needham, did not return numerous calls seeking comment. \n According to an FBI search warrant affidavit filed in Chicago, Lawrence discovered on Aug. 31, 2014, that numerous photos that she'd taken with her iPhone \u2014 including several nude images \u2014 had been posted on the internet. In an interview the next day, Lawrence told agents she had shot the images over a two- to four-year period and sent them only to her then-boyfriend. She said she \"recalls deleting the photos after they were sent,\" the affidavit said. \n Lawrence said that three weeks before the photos surfaced she'd noticed her Apple iTunes password was not working and that other internet services were \"acting up,\" according to the affidavit. A short time later, she received a message on her phone purporting to be from Apple security notifying her that her account had been logged into from Russia and she needed to confirm it was her or change her password immediately. She forwarded the email to her assistant. \n The day after interviewing Lawrence about the hack, agents talked to Verlander, who said he had taken many of the nude photos of Upton and never shared them with anyone before they were leaked online. Prior to the leak, Verlander had also received a security message that was nearly identical to the one received by Lawrence, according to the affidavit. \n Federal authorities were able to trace the IP addresses of several computers used in the Celebgate hack to a nondescript apartment building in Chicago in the 6400 block of South Narragansett Avenue, where Majerczyk lived with his mother, according to court records \n The affidavit stated that Majerczyk had either accessed or attempted to hack 22 email accounts from his computer, including several \"high-profile actresses in the entertainment industry.\" Computer records also showed that an Apple iPad registered to Majerczyk's address was used to set up one of the phishing accounts later emailed to some of the celebrities, according to the affidavit. \n Records show agents raided Majerczyk's apartment just a few blocks from Midway Airport on Oct. 15, 2014, seizing several desktop and laptop computers, a MacBook and numerous thumb drives and external hard drives. Another Celebgate-related search warrant was executed the same day at a home in the 4600 block of South Washtenaw Avenue, but no charges related to that raid appear to have been filed. \n In May, Ryan Collins, 36, of Lancaster, Pa., pleaded guilty to a similar phishing scheme to hack celebrity accounts that were later linked to Celebgate, but authorities believe he was working independently of Majerczyk. Collins is awaiting sentencing, court records show. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Chicago Tribune  \n ", "author": "By Jason Meisner Chicago Tribune", "title": "Chicago man to plead guilty in celebrity nude photo hack"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "A Wahiawa man was in custody today after switching a diamond with a cubic zirconia in a theft at a Keeaumoku Street jewelry store, authorities said. \n Lucas Miller, 26, was charged Tuesday with second-degree theft and remained at Oahu Community Correctional Center today unable to post $11,000 bail. \n The incident happened at about 11:05 a.m. at J.E.S. Jewelry on the corner of Rycroft and Keeaumoku streets and involved a diamond valued at more than $750, a court document says. \n Police said Miller asked store staff to see the diamond, then swapped out the diamond with the cubic zirconia. \n He was arrested about an hour later, apparently after the staff noticed the deception. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for allegedly switching diamond with cubic zirconia at store"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / JUNE 2015 \n In this file photo, Charleston, S.C., shooting suspect Dylann Storm Roof is escorted from the Cleveland County Courthouse in Shelby, N.C. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. \u00bb Federal Judge Richard Gergel has ordered that a pretrial hearing to be held Thursday on potentially explosive evidence in the upcoming Dylann Roof death penalty trial be closed to the public and media. \n \"This instance is one of those rare cases where Defendant's Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial outweighs the public's and the press' First Amendment right of access,\" wrote Gergel in a 10-page order released late Wednesday afternoon. \n Gergel ruled after an earlier public hearing in which he indicated evidence to be discussed Thursday is so controversial, it could taint prospective jurors' ability to be fair far more than any other information already made public in Roof's widely publicized and sensational church shooting case. \n The evidence concerns information that federal prosecutors want to introduce at trial, and that defense lawyers want to suppress, or exclude, according to court filings. However, the court filings do not reveal the nature of that evidence. \n Roof, 22, of Columbia, faces the death penalty in a federal trial that begins in November in Charleston. He is charged with killing nine parishioners at the Charleston AME \"Mother\" Emanuel church in downtown Charleston in June 2015. \n A 33-count federal indictment charges Roof with 12 counts of committing a federal hate crime (nine counts of murder and three attempted murders) against black victims, 12 counts of obstructing the exercise of religion resulting in death and nine counts of the use of a firearm to commit murder. \n Earlier Wednesday, two attorneys representing Charleston media outlets argued to Gergel that he should keep Thursday's hearing open. They said later they expected Gergel to rule against the public and media, but they had no regrets. \n \"These are important Constitution issues that need to be raised to keep the awareness of the public and the court that we have public courts in this county \u2014 and if you are going to close a court proceeding, it ought to be drastic and rare,\" said Jay Bender, who represented the Post and Courier. Carl Muller represented WCBD-TV. \n Bender added that Gergel obviously \"thinks there is something that if it were made public, it would prejudice beyond repair all potential jurors.\"! \n Keeping Thursday's hearing about potential evidence closed will protect the jury pool and help ensure a fair trial, Gergel told the media lawyers on Wednesday as they argued that Thursday's hearing should be open to the public and press. \n Gergel repeatedly told Bender and Muller that if the evidence can be admitted to trial, he will make it public as soon as possible after Thursday's hearing. He will also release a transcript of Thursday's hearing at the appropriate time, he said. \n Closing a court is extremely rare, Gergel acknowledged, but the evidence to be discussed at Thursday's hearing is uniquely sensitive and \"has not yet been publicly disclosed,\" the judge said. \"This is one of those matters that \u2026 leaves us no choice.\" \n In a written argument to Gergel, Muller argued that \"closing the courtroom\" also could undermine Roof's right to a fair trial \"by creating widespread suspicion that a blanket is being thrown over truth, and justice is being pushed aside by canny lawyers and the court.\" \n Gergel told Bender in court that as much as he values the public's right to attend trials and hearings, \"I am equally committed to the rights of the parties and the defendant to a fair trial.\" \n Already, Gergel said, he is allowing three weeks to question prospective jurors before Roof's Nov. 7 death penalty trial. \n Questioning will focus on whether jurors can be fair-minded, he said. \n Repeating that any evidence he reviews and decides can be admitted to trial will be made public, Gergel said, \"The whole community has a right to know \u2014 it's a question of when.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The State (Columbia, S.C.)  \n ", "author": "By John Monk The State (Columbia, S.C.)", "title": "U.S. judge orders rare secret hearing on explosive evidence in Dylann Roof case"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An employee arranges glass display containers of marijuana on shelves at a retail and medical cannabis dispensary in Boulder, Colo., on Aug. 11. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Marijuana use is becoming more accepted among U.S. adults as states loosen pot laws, new national survey data shows. \n More are using marijuana, using it more often and far fewer think it's risky, the government survey found. \n That's understandable, experts say, as dozens of states now allow medical marijuana and four states have recently legalized pot for recreational use. \n More than a half million U.S. adults participated in the survey over a dozen years, and the responses show a shift in attitude. Only a third of adults in 2014 said they thought weekly marijuana use was dangerous, down from half of adults in 2002. \n That runs counter to scientific research about pot, said Dr. Wilson Compton, lead author of the study published online Wednesday by the journal Lancet Psychiatry. \n \"If anything, science has shown an increasing risk that we weren't as aware of years ago,\" said Compton, deputy director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse. \n Other research has increasingly linked marijuana use to mental impairment, and early, heavy use by people with certain genes to increased risk of developing psychosis, he noted. \n Some highlights of the report, which compared 2002 to 2014: \n \u2014 About 1 in 8 adults said they used marijuana in the past year, up from 1 in 10. The number of marijuana users grew to about 32 million. \n \u2014 Daily use doubled, to 3.5 percent or about 8.4 million U.S. adults \n \u2014 Changes in marijuana use and perception began to really climb in 2006-2007. \n \u2014 No increase was seen in reported marijuana use disorders, like impaired memory, difficulty thinking and withdrawal symptoms like cravings, sleeplessness and depression. \n That's surprising since law enforcement officials say marijuana is more potent than in the past, wrote Australian researcher Wayne Hall in an editorial in the journal. \n More use should mean more reports of marijuana-related disorders. Another U.S. survey did find such an increase in recent years, Hall noted. \n \"I agree that this is a puzzle,\" and needs to be researched further, Compton said. \n Marijuana use remains illegal under federal law. Twenty-five states and the District of Columbia have medical marijuana laws, and starting in 2014, Colorado and Washington began allowing recreational sales. Alaska and Oregon now also allow sales without a doctor's note. \n Hall said it's likely those changes will increase the use of marijuana and perhaps reports of disorders. \n The study didn't report on kids, only those 18 and older. But research drawn from another large survey has shown marijuana use among high school students has been falling. Over two decades, it dropped from 25 percent to about 22 percent. \n Why are fewer kids using pot at a time more and more adults are? \n There could be a lag. Youths have said in surveys that it seemed to be getting harder in the last decade to get marijuana. But that may change as more states legalize the drug, more adults use it, and if teens get into less trouble if caught with the drug, experts said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Survey: More U.S. adults use marijuana, don't think it's risky"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "SIPA USA / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Snapchat's explanation for its mysterious billboards is as vague as the ads: \"Fun and awareness.\" Above, one of its billboards in Richfield, Minn., in October. \n NEW YORK >> Snapchat has no proven track record in election advertising. It shares only limited data about its audience, and caters mainly to a demographic that hasn't traditionally turned out in big numbers to vote. That's not stopping political campaigns from devoting more ad dollars to reach the millions of millennials who spend hours every week on the social-media app. \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and her Republican rival Donald Trump have both stepped up their spending on Snapchat in the past month, according to a person familiar with the matter. The Clinton campaign is buying video ads with a targeted number of views by Snapchat's audience, while Trump is running an interactive ad seeking users' email addresses, said the person, who asked not to be named because the details aren't public. Both campaigns have used Snapchat's geographic photo-filter tools in the past at political rallies, but this is their first significant national advertising spend on the platform. \n Though it started as an app for sending silly disappearing selfies, Snapchat has evolved into a legitimate news platform, now counting more than 150 million daily users, some three-fourths of whom fall into the coveted 18-31 age-group demographic. According to Nielsen Ratings, on any given day Snapchat reaches 41 percent of 18- to 34-year-olds in the U.S. More millennials watched the election's early debates on Snapchat than on TV. And some metrics indicate its users are more engaged. A Public Opinion Strategies study released in November said two-thirds of millennials who use Snapchat are likely to vote in the 2016 election, compared with 61 percent of the population overall. \n \"Snapchat has reached a point here in the U.S. where we can't ignore it anymore, and it's definitely earned a line on every campaign budget,\" said Tim Cameron, digital director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. \"We're really using demographics to reach a larger audience. It's not as specific as other tools but it works.\" The NRSC says it now spends more than 30 percent of its ad budget on digital messages, which include Snapchat. \n Over the past few years, the startup started creating what it calls Live Stories, which get tens of millions of views by curating user-submitted photos and video from events, like the Super Bowl and the Republican National Convention. Snapchat also has deals with media companies like CNN and The Wall Street Journal to create mobile magazines for the app's Discover news section. \n In May 2015, Los Angeles-based Snapchat introduced its political ad program, and quickly made several high-profile hires: Rob Saliterman, who previously led Google's political ad campaign, was brought on to run ad sales; and former CNN political reporter Peter Hamby joined to head news. While ad sales and news are kept separate at Snapchat, the two used their connections in the capital to bring Snapchat to Washington and promote it as a prime venue for political advertising. Snapchat has become the \"MTV of Mobile,\" according to Zac Moffatt, who co-founded Targeted Victory, an ad agency that works with Republican candidates. \"I would treat it like a cable network channel and say, I want to reach young people.\" \n Just as MTV became a legitimate forum for political, youth-oriented debate in 1992 when, on one of its election-themed shows, an audience member queried another Clinton running for office whether he preferred \"boxers or briefs,\" Snapchat is capitalizing on its young and engaged users to be taken seriously as a force in election advertising. \n The first Democratic presidential candidate to take advantage of the platform for advertising was Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who ran a nine-day campaign on the site early in 2016 during the Iowa caucuses, after an appearance in a Live Story feature. \n \"We agreed to that because they showed us all the users that they have,\" said Hector Sigala, who ran social media for the campaign. \"A lot of folks on Snapchat are voting. It was a staggeringly large amount.\" \n As the election moved past the primaries, both the Clinton and Trump campaigns have paid for geofilters, images or text that appear over pictures captured within a limited geographic area, and Snap Ads, 10-second full-screen videos that play between other content. \n \"Most political professionals probably would not have predicted it even a year ago, but Snapchat has become a very effective strategy,\" said Dan Schnur, a professor at the University of Southern California and former political strategist. \"Given the audiences' increased preferences for video rather than text-based (content) and given the increased competition, Snapchat is very well-positioned to inject the voter message into the voters' window of opportunity.\" \n With younger consumers spending less time watching traditional television programming \u2014 an average U.S. TV network reaches only 6 percent of the 18-to-34 demographic, according to Nielsen \u2014 the candidates seem game for the opportunity to engage with these voters in a tongue-in-cheek and often quirky way. Clinton crashed the Republican National Convention without even being there, using a set of anti-Trump geofilters: one was criscrossed with yellow police tape emblazoned with \"Stop Trump,\" and another featured a quote from Trump praising Clinton in 2008. Earlier in the race, Ohio Gov. John Kasich paid for a Snapchat filter that featured an American flag made of bacon, after his campaign logo drew online comparisons to the breakfast delicacy.  \n \"More so than with maybe any other platform, people are using Snapchat to communicate with their friends \u2014 they're not there to hear about politics,\" said Teddy Goff, chief digital strategist for Hillary for America. \"So it's incumbent upon us as a campaign to find ways to be authentically fun and interesting if we want to have any hope of earning their attention on Snapchat.\" \n Snapchat declined to comment on its political strategy, and the Trump campaign didn't respond to multiple requests for comment. \n While new technologies have been quickly adopted by election campaigns for decades \u2014 from email to blogs to Twitter \u2014 with varying levels of success, some people think Snapchat has staying power, even if another hot new platform or app emerges by 2020. \n \"There have been a lot of things we've tried that are no longer around,\" said Ward Baker, an executive director at the NRSC. \"We've grown with Snapchat. I think in the next election more people will be using it, more campaign staffers are going to be using it, more college students will have jobs and will be thinking about college debt. And every year people cut the cord. It's only going to grow.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n (Bloomberg News staff writer Sarah Frier, writing from San Francisco, contributed to this report.)  \n \u2014\u2014  \n \u00a92016 Bloomberg News  \n ", "author": "By Nicole Piper Bloomberg News", "title": "Snapchat lures more campaign spending as candidates court young voters"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mexico President Enrique Pena Nieto and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump shake hands after a joint statement at Los Pinos, the presidential official residence, in Mexico City today. \n MEXICO CITY \u00bb Mexico's president was savaged on social media and in political circles following his joint press conference today with Donald Trump, with many seeing a national humiliation in his welcoming of a man who has derided migrants as rapists and criminals. \n President Enrique Pena Nieto said Mexicans felt \"aggrieved\" and had disagreements with the Republican presidential candidate, but he never did what people here wanted most: demand that Trump apologize. Adding to the anger, in the press conference Trump repeated his promise to build a border wall between the countries. \n \"Trump can leave at ease now. The humiliation was complete,\" Televisa news anchor Carlos Loret de Mola tweeted, after lamenting that Trump would dare to reiterate his intention to build a wall \"in our face and home.\" \n And writer Angeles Mastretta wrote on her Twitter account that Mexicans saw \"what was expected: a president who isn't capable of demanding apologies \u2026 how sad.\" \n While Trump tried to mend fences by calling Mexican-Americans \"spectacular\" and \"amazing,\" and arguing that illegal immigration and the flight of manufacturing jobs were hurting Mexicans as well as Americans, his words did little to win hearts and minds south of the border. \n Mexico security analyst Alejandro Hope called the meeting \"a disaster.\" \n \"Trump didn't alter his positions one little bit,\" Hope said. \"He just dressed them up a little in less incendiary language.\" Of Pena Nieto, Hope said \"in the end, he gave Trump an opportunity to show off, while getting nothing in return. Good work, guys.\" \n Pena Nieto later appeared to contradict Trump when he said in a tweet that during their private meeting he told the Republican candidate clearly that Mexico would not pay for the wall. In their joint press conference, Trump had said they did not discuss who would pay for the wall's construction at which point Pena Nieto said nothing. \n Many Mexicans were disappointed and disgusted that Trump was invited at all. After all, Mexicans have already made \u2014 and beaten to pulp \u2014 pinatas of Trump. They created a video game in which players can throw soccer balls, cactus leaves and tequila bottles at a cartoon image of Trump. \n But when the man himself came to Mexico, he was treated with kid gloves and given a warm reception at the presidential residence. The meeting could end up hurting Pena Nieto, whose popularity is already at an all-time low near 20 percent, according to recent polls. \n Former President Vicente Fox said that Trump was trying to boost his sagging campaign. \"He fooled him (Pena Nieto) \u2026 he's using him to try to recover lost votes.\" \n Artist Arturo Meade joined one of the few small protests prior to the meeting with his 2 \u00bd-year old son Mariano, and shook his head in disgust. \n \"This is an insult and a betrayal,\" he said. \"What can this meeting bring us, except surrealism in all its splendor?\" \n Many Mexicans felt the Republican candidate had left Pena Nieto flat-footed by accepting an invitation that Pena Nieto had made simply for appearances' sake. \n El Universal newspaper wrote in an editorial that Trump \"caught Mexican diplomats off guard\" by accepting the invitation. \n \"They wanted to invite Hillary (Clinton), but that meant inviting both of them and nobody thought Trump would accept first,\" said Hope. \"What's in it for Mexico? Here there's nothing to gain. The upside is all for Trump.\" \n Historically, the golden rule of Mexico's foreign policy has been to avoid being seen as taking sides in U.S. politics; hence the two invitations, even though Mexico favors Hillary Clinton's position on a path to citizenship for migrants. \n Pena Nieto acknowledged he had invited both candidates, and said he did it because \"I believe in dialogue to promote Mexico's interests and above all to protect Mexicans everywhere.\" \n Abraham Garnica, 31, who works as an engineer in Mexico City, was left scratching his head trying to think of a reason why Pena Nieto might have agreed to the meeting. \n \"They must be afraid he might win, and so they're saying, 'Just in case, we'll shake his hand,'\" Garnica said. \n Yolanda Herrera, a 66-year-old Mexico City housewife, sought to put the best light on what, to many, felt like a national humiliation. \n \"Let's hope that \u2026 he sees that he was really wrong about what he said,\" Herrera said of Trump. \"I think this is a display of the fact that we Mexicans are a very sympathetic people.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mexico angry at president's 'humiliating' meeting with Trump"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "Parking will again be banned on all Lanikai streets during the three-day Labor Day weekend beginning Saturday morning. \n The ban on parking on Lanikai streets and shoulders will run from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. \n Those wishing to access Lanikai beach or the Lanikai Pillboxes Trail over the three-day Labor Day weekend may walk, bike, take TheBus Route 70 Lanikai Shuttle, or get dropped off in Lanikai. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Parking ban returns to Lanikai for holiday weekend"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH \n The Department of Health showed a box of the Sea Port Bay Scallops that tested positive for the hepatitis A virus. \n The number of hepatitis A cases in Hawaii has reached 241, up 13, nearly 6 percent, over the past week, state officials said today. \n The outbreak appears to have passed its peak, with the pace of infection slowing since the source was identified this month as contaminated scallops and they were pulled from the market. \n The Health Department releases the total number of cases each Wednesday. Last week's total of 228 cases was nearly an 11 percent increase over the previous week. \n So far, 64 people have been hospitalized as a result of the infectious liver disease. \n The hepatitis A virus has a long incubation period, from 15 to 50 days after exposure. So cases will continue to appear even thought people are no longer consuming the tainted product. \n Health Department officials traced the outbreak to frozen scallops contaminated with hepatitis A that were imported frozen from the Philippines and served raw at Genki Sushi restaurants on Oahu and Kauai. Those restaurants were closed on Aug. 15 and the scallops were recalled by their importer, Sea Port Products Corp., of Kirkland, Wash., shortly afterward. \n Hepatitis A is usually spread when a person ingests even microscopic amounts of human fecal matter through food, drink or other objects. A vaccine is effective in preventing the disease, and thorough hand-washing after using the toilet and before eating can help stem its spread. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hepatitis A cases in Hawaii climb to 241"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "HOLLYN JOHNSON / TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Crispin Nakoa, left, Kaeo Awana, Aimee Sato, Vanessa Aguirre and Devin Horswill watch the waves roll in as Hurricane Madeline approaches the Big Island today at Honolii Beach Park. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers boarded up the windows of a store in Hilo as Hurricane Madeline approached the Big Island today. The National Weather Service discontinued its hurricane warning for the island as the weakening Madeline approached the southern portion of the Big Island this morning. \n HILO >> Big Island residents mostly seemed to be laying low and making final arrangements to secure their homes as they watched news bulletins to try to calculate the risks ahead from the twin impacts from Tropical Storm Madeline and Hurricane Lester. \n Sporadic power outages have been reported as Madeline started its brush south of the island. \n The National Weather Service discontinued its hurricane warning for the island this morning as the weakening Madeline approached the southern portion of the Big Island, but at 2 p.m. Madeline was still packing sustained winds of 70 mph, with some higher gusts. The center of the storm was about 80 miles southeast of South Point. \n Interim Hawaii County Civil Defense Administrator Ed Teixeira cautioned residents that Madeline is still a powerful storm. \n \"The winds will continue to pick up. If we're lucky, if Madeline stays on its current track right now, which puts the track right off of our coastline heading out toward South Point we're going to be seeing the effects of strong tropical storm force winds like we saw in (Tropical Storm) Iselle two years ago,\" he said. \"We're also subjected to high surf on east-facing shores up to about 25 feet, which can cause coastal flooding.\" \n Parts of the island can also expect \"hard, hard rain\" of up to 10 inches in a 24-hour period, and that means the risk of flooding, mudslides and potentially dangerous ponding on roadways, he said. \n \"We are far from out of the woods,\" Teixeira said. The county is encouraging people to \"shelter in place\" as much as possible to minimize traffic on the roads. \"We want to urge our residents to please kokua, take care of one another and stay safe, and let's get through this thing as fast as we can, because from this we've got to then switch our attention to Lester and what Lester may do.\" \n Hurricane Lester, a Category 4 storm, entered the Central Pacific today on a path that could take it just north of the island chain, starting with the Big Island, late this week as a weak hurricane. \n In Kapoho, Madeline's storm surge combined with the 3 p.m. high tide sent waves of water across the road around the Vacationland subdivision, temporarily blocking access to about 50 homes, said Jim Lehner, who is a member of the community neighborhood watch. Anyone wanting to get to those homes would need to wade through water or use a kayak, he said. \n 'The whole waterfront is flooded by four or five feet of water anyway, and all the houses down there are inaccessible,\" said Lehner, adding that most residents have left the area. \"It's not a real good thing.\" \n Most of the homes were built on stilts to protect them from flooding, but \"there's going to be damage such as fences and walls and things like that torn down because of water rushing through and carrying all the fences out again,\" he said. The surge also dumped boulders in the roadway, Lehner said. \n County Department of Public Works officials closed Kamehameha Highway because of flooding from rain runoff, and also planned to close Bayfront Highway because of dangerously high surf conditions. The state Department of Transportation also closed the Umauma Bridge under construction on the Hamakua Coast as a precaution. \n Hawaii Electric Light Co. had power outages throughout the day because of downed lines and some tree branches that interfered with power lines. An electrical transmission line between Pahala and Discovery Harbor in Kau was also knocked out at about 3 p.m. \n As of 1:30 p.m., about 235 customers in Honoka'a, Kohala, South Hilo, Mountain View, Kurtistown, and Hawaiian Paradise Park were without power, according to Helco spokeswoman Rhea Lee-Moku. \n Lee-Moku said an estimated 3,600 customers had power interruptions earlier today but crews were able to restore service. However further power restoration will be delayed until daylight to ensure the safety of our crews, she said. \n \"We won't send employees into areas where trees are falling or when lightning, wind, heavy rain or darkness make it unsafe to work,\" Lee-Moku said. \"The large albizia trees, which are prone to breaking and falling especially during storm conditions, pose a serious threat to our personnel. It is much safer to manage this hazard during daylight hours especially during inclement weather.\" \n Some Downtown Hilo businesses boarded up their windows, and about 175 residents around the island checked in at public emergency shelters that opened Tuesday night. The busiest shelters were at the neighborhood high schools in Pahoa and Keaau, where about 140 people had sought refuge by mid-afternoon. \n With public schools and most state and county offices closed, traffic in East Hawaii was unusually light. The county bus system shut down Wednesday morning in anticipation of Madeline's anticipated passage just south of the Big Island this afternoon or evening. \n Pahala resident Michael Worthington said shortly before 3 p.m. the weather in his neighborhood had been windy for the previous four hours, but there was little rain. \n \"A few gusts coming through, a little bit scary, but just get away from the tall trees,\" he said. \"I lost a tree limb in my neighbor's yard, so I have to go clean that up.\" \n \"It's getting a little bit darker right now, a little more overcast,\" he said shortly before 3 p.m. \n Aaron Bryant, 29, decided he was better off taking shelter at the Hilo High School Gymnasium today than trying to ride out the impacts from Madeline in his one-room cabin in Kalapana. \n Bryant said he had never been through a hurricane warning before. When he put his girlfriend on a flight for a mainland trip last night, she advised him to \"find somewhere safe.\" He decided not to return to Puna with Madeline rapidly approaching, in part because his Kalapana cabin has screens but no windows. \n \"You just roll to the next moment, it's kind of a lot of things at once,\" Bryant said. He checked into the Hilo shelter with snacks to watch and wait. \n Madeline also complicated Ed Miner's plans to travel to Kahului on Thursday for a stock car race called \"King of the Dirt\" on Friday and Saturday night. As the hurricane approached the Big Island, Miner worried he had chosen a bad time to fly interisland. \n Miner's travel plans had him leaving right after Madeline passed by, and returning Sunday as Lester was expected to reach the Big Island. Those didn't seem like good times for air travel, and Miner also worried about his pets and his rented Puna home a few blocks from the ocean. \n \"It was pretty nasty here this morning when I got up at 4:30 or 5 o'clock in the morning, and we're close enough to the ocean that we can actually hear the waves crashing on the rocks,\" said Miner, 60. \"We must have had 30 or 40 mph gusts this morning with the rain coming down sideways.\" \n Miner lived in Hawaiian Paradise Park in 2014 when Tropical Storm Iselle knocked over albizia trees and downed power lines across Puna, leaving Miner with no electricity for 10 days and no telephone service for a month. \n \"Just like everybody else, we're on pins and needles, just knowing that anything's possible,\" he said. \"I guess we'll find out tonight.\" \n Fire officials said there were isolated reports of downed power lines across the island throughout the day, and the rain gauge at Miner's house measured two inches of rainfall in the eight hours that ended at about 2 p.m. However, in the end Miner opted to take his Maui trip after all because was too expensive to change his travel plans. \n \"I've got no choice,\" he said \"We're all in.\" \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Big Island 'far from out of the woods' despite weakening Madeline"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "Police are investing a report of a car that caught on fire and rolled down Wilhelima Rise early this morning and ended up hitting a utility pole. \n Firefighters were summoned to the 1700 block of Wilhelmina Rise at 2:20 a.m. because of a report of a burning car. \n No one was in the car, a fire official said. \n The case was reported as a suspicious fire and turned over to the police. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Burning car hits utility pole in Kaimuki; no sign of driver"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Plants grew at the home of Jeremy Nickle, owner of Hawaiian Holy Smokes, in Honolulu on Feb. 17. A federal government ban on the sale of guns to medical marijuana card holders does not violate the Second Amendment, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said today. \n SAN FRANCISCO \u00bb A federal government ban on the sale of guns to medical marijuana card holders does not violate the Second Amendment, a federal appeals court said today. \n The ruling by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals applies to the nine Western states that fall under the court's jurisdiction, including California, Washington and Oregon. \n It came in a lawsuit filed by S. Rowan Wilson, a Nevada woman who tried to buy a firearm in 2011 after obtaining a medical marijuana card. \n The gun store refused, citing the federal rule on the sale of firearms to illegal drug users. \n Marijuana remains illegal under federal law, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has told gun sellers they can assume a person with a medical marijuana card uses the drug. \n The 9th Circuit in its 3-0 decision agreed that it's reasonable for federal regulators to assume a medical marijuana card holder is more likely to use the drug. \n In addition, a ban on the sale of guns to marijuana and other drug users is reasonable because the use of such drugs \"raises the risk of irrational or unpredictable behavior with which gun use should not be associated,\" Senior District Judge Jed Rakoff said. \n The 9th Circuit also rejected other constitutional challenges to the ban that were raised by Wilson. \n An email to Wilson's attorney was not immediately returned. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Appeals court upholds ban on gun sales to marijuana card holders"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rylee, a 10-month old Belgian Malinois, sat with his owner Kristin Casas. \n BEULAH, Mich. \u00bb A dog swam more than 6 miles and walked a dozen more to find its family after falling overboard into Lake Michigan during the weekend. \n Casas says he sent out a mayday call on the radio and was connected to a volunteer group that searches for lost dogs. \n The next morning someone spotted Rylee going into a nearby campground. Edward Casas says there was a lot of sobbing and hugging when the family was reunited with him. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dog swims over 6 miles, walks 12 more to find family"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "A 73-year-old woman was treated by paramedics and taken to the hospital in serious condition after being hit by a car this morning in the Liliha area. \n Emergency Medical Services said the pedestrian accident occurred at 6:28 a.m. at the intersections of North Kuakini and Liliha streets. \n No other details were immediately available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman seriously injured in Liliha pedestrian accident"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Lester as of 5 a.m. \n Update 5 a.m. \n Hurricane Lester weakened slightly overnight but continued on a track toward Hawaii, prompting hurricane watches for Hawaii and Maui counties. \n With its center located about 750 miles east of Hilo and 945 miles east of Honolulu, Lester was packing maximum sustained winds of 105 mph this morning and was moving west at 14 mph. \n Forecasters with the National Weather Service expect Lester to continue to weaken through early Saturday, and pass north of the islands as a hurricane over the Labor Day weekend. While the hurricane is forecast to move north of the state, all islands except the Big Island are in the so-called \"cone of uncertainty,\" meaning a direct hit is possible from Maui to Kauai. \n Hurricane-force winds extend up to 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 105 miles. \n Hurricane watches are usually issued 48 hours before the onset of tropical storm-force winds in an area. The Central Pacific Hurricane Center said today that hurricane wind conditions are possible over Hawaii and Maui counties Saturday. \n Swells generated by Lester will build over eastern shores today and Friday, peaking this weekend, forecasters said. Heavy rains from Lester may reach Hawaii and Maui counties on Saturday, and the other islands later in the weekend. \n Lester approaches the islands just as Tropical Storm Madeline moves west away from the islands after a close brush past the Big Island Wednesday. All islands are under a wind advisory today because of high winds associated with the former hurricane as it moves well south of the rest of the state. \n Update 11:02 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester continues to weaken and move west toward Hawaii at 14 mph. \n At 11 p.m. Lester was located about 835 miles east of Hilo and 1,030 miles east of Honolulu with maximum sustained winds of 110 mph. \n There are no watches or warnings in effect. \n Previous Coverage \n Hurricane Lester, now in the Central Pacific on a path toward Hawaii, weakened to a still-powerful Category 3 storm this afternoon. \n At 5 p.m., Lester was packing maximum sustained winds of 120 mph, moving west at 14 mph, 915 miles east of Hilo and 1,105 miles east of Honolulu, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center in Honolulu. \n Forecasters expect Lester to weaken to below major hurricane status over the next 48 hours as it turns to the northwest, but it is likely to remain a hurricane as it nears Hawaii by the weekend. \n Hurricane-force winds, of 74 mph or more, extend out 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds, of 39 mph or more, extend up to 105 miles. \n Forecasters say large and potentially damaging swells generated by Lester will start to build over east-facing shores Thursday and Friday, peaking this weekend. \n Lester could also bring strong winds and more rain to Hawaii Friday into Sunday. The forecast track has it moving just north of the islands, but it is still too far away to predict its exact path and potential effects on the islands. \n \"All interests in the Hawaiian Islands should continue to monitor the progress of Lester, as it is too early to determine what impacts there could be along the island chain given the track forecast uncertainty in the 3 to 5 day period,\" forecasters said earlier today. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hurricane watches issued ahead of Lester's approach to Hawaii"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Madeline as of 5 a.m. \n Update 5 a.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline continued moving away from the Big Island this morning, with maximum sustained winds decreasing to 50 mph. \n At 5 a.m., the storm was 120 miles south-southwest of South Point and 325 miles south of Honolulu, moving west at 14 mph. Tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles from the center. \n A flash flood watch remains in effect for Hawaii island and the state is under a wind advisory, with the the forecast calling for east to northeast winds up to 35 mph and higher gusts to 50 mph. \n High surf and heavy rains associated with Madeline are expected to diminish for the islands, forecasters said. The storm, which brushed by the Big Island Wednesday bringing heavy rains and strong winds, is expected to dissipate as it moves west over the next five days, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center. \n As Madeline moves south of the islands, however, Hurricane Lester approaches the islands from the east. It is expected to pass just north of the island chain starting this weekend. A hurricane watch has been issued for Maui and Hawaii counties. \n Update 2:30 a.m. \n The tropical storm warning issued for Hawaii County and Maui County was discontinued as Tropical Storm Madeline continues to move away from Hawaii. \n At 2 a.m., Madeline was about 155 miles south-southwest of South Point and about 325 miles south-southeast of Honolulu. \n Maximum sustained winds remained at 50 mph and Madeline continues to move west-southwest at 14 mph, weather officials said. \n Tropical storm gusts are still possible over portions of Hawaii County and Maui County for the next few hours. \n Surf swells and rainfall associated with Madeline will diminish over the Big Island and Maui throughout the day. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline continued to weaken and travel south of the Big Island. \n At 11 p.m. Madeline was located about 150 miles south-southwest of South Point and about 320 miles south-southeast of Honolulu, according to the National Weather Service. \n Maximum sustained winds weakened to 50 mph and will steadily weaken over the next 48 hours. \n Weather officials expect Madeline to weaken to a tropical depression by Friday. \n A tropical storm warning is still in effect for Hawaii County and Maui County. \n Update 8:15 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline weakened as it moved farther south of the Big Island. \n At 8 p.m., Madeline was 175 miles south of Hilo and 305 miles southeast of Honolulu, moving southwest at 15 mph, the National Weather Service said. \n The storm's maximum sustained winds neared 65 mph, with tropical storm-force winds extending up to 105 miles from the center. \n Officials warn that rainfall could still lead to flash floods and mudslides. \n Update 6:30 p.m. \n The National Weather Service extended a flood advisory for Hawaii island as rains spread into the Kau District with rates of up to an inch an hour. \n Moderate to heavy rain is also falling over North Hilo, South Hilo and the Puna districts. \n The rain is expected to continue over east and southeast slopes for several hours. \n Locations in the advisory include Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Keaau, Naalehu, Pahoa, Pepeekeo, Pahala, Glenwood, Hawaiian Acres, Kawa Flats and Mountain View. \n The advisory is in effect until 9:15 p.m. \n Update 5:05 p.m. \n The National Weather Service posted a flood advisory for the east side of Hawaii island after radar and rain gauges showed heavy rainfall from Tropical Storm Madeline falling on eastern slopes. \n Rain rates of 1 to 2 inches per hour were falling on North Hilo, South Hilo and the Puna districts. \n The rains will continue for several hours, forecasters said. \n The advisory is in effect until 8 p.m. \n Locations in the advisory include Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Keaau, Pahoa, Pepeekeo, Pahala, Glenwood, Hawaiian Acres, Mountain View, Volcano and Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline continued to weaken on a path to pass south of the Big Island tonight. \n At 5 p.m., Madeline's sustained winds dropped to 65 mph, with tropical storm-force winds extending 105 miles from the center. \n The storm was 115 miles south of Hilo and 290 miles southeast of Honolulu. It's track has shifted from due west to west-southwest at 12 mph. \n The storm is expected to continue to weaken and should gradually turn back to a westerly direction Thursday and Friday. \n Tropical storm conditions are expected to continue over Hawaii island and Maui county tonight with winds strongest over mountains and downslope. \n Surf could be damaging in Hawaii County, especially in the Puna and Kau districts. \n Rain of 5 to 10 inches, with isolated areas getting up to 15 inches is possible on the Big Island. Maui could see 1 to 4 inches of rain in spots. \n Update 2 p.m. \n Madeline weakened to a strong tropical storm as it moved within 85 miles of South Point on the Big Island. \n Winds decreased to 70 mph, from 75 mph late this morning. \n The storm was 105 miles south-southeast of Hilo and 300 miles southeast of Honolulu, moving west-southwest at 12 mph at 2 p.m. \n Tropical storm-force winds extend 125 miles from the center. \n Strong winds, clocked at 60 mph, were recorded in North Kohala this morning. \n The Big Island has also been getting high surf and rains ahead of Madeline's center. \n Madeline's center is expected to pass south of South Point today and tonight. But thunderstorms and winds northeast of the center are expected to move over the island through Thursday. \n Tropical storm conditions are also expected to develop over Maui County later today and tonight. \n Forecasters said winds will be strongest over mountains and where winds blow down slope from higher terrain. \n \"Swells generated by Madeline will peak across Hawaiian waters this afternoon and early evening, possibly becoming damaging along east-facing shores of Hawaii County,\" forecasters said. \n Hawaii island should see rainfall of 5 to 10 inches as the storm passes. Rain totals as high as 15 inches are possible, especially over windward areas and the Kau District. \n Maui County can see up to 4 inches of rain, mainly over windward areas. \n Both Hawaii and Maui counties are under tropical storm warnings. \n Hawaii island is also under a flash flood watch. \n A high surf warning is posted for East Maui and Kauai, Oahu, Molokai and West Maui are under high surf advisories. \n Update 11 a.m. \n The National Weather Service dropped a hurricane warning for Hawaii island as Hurricane Madeline continued to weaken as it moved to within 95 miles southeast of Hilo, with winds of 75 mph, just barely above category 1 hurricane strength of 74 mph. \n Tropical Storm warnings remain in effect for Hawaii and Maui counties. \n \"Under a Tropical Storm Warning, people on the Big Island can still expect damaging winds, very large and dangerous surf, and the continued threat of flash flooding,\" forecasters said. \n The storm, about 305 miles southeast of Honolulu, is moving west at 12 mph and was expected to become a tropical storm this afternoon. \n Hurricane-force winds extend 10 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend 125 miles from the center. \n Tropical storm-force winds of 43 mph, gusting to 51 mph were recorded at Kamuela Airport this morning. \n Heavy rains, winds and surf ahead of the center began arriving on Hawaii island this morning. The center is expected to pass close to South Point tonight. \n Previous coverage: \n Hurricane Madeline is rapidly weakening and speeding up as outer rain bands and high surf from the storm reach Hawaii island this morning. \n Behind Madeline, Lester remained a powerful Category 4 hurricane that could bring more waves, wind and rain to Hawaii this weekend. \n At 8 a.m., Madeline was barely hanging on as a Category 1 hurricane with winds of 75 mph, about 120 miles east-southeast of Hilo and 335 miles east-southeast of Honolulu, moving west at 14 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend 10 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds go out 125 miles from the center. \n Forecasters said wind shear is starting to tear the storm apart, but it is still expected to be at hurricane strength when it passes over or near South Point tonight. Madeline is expected to weaken to a tropical storm with winds below 74 mph as it moves south of Oahu and other islands Thursday. \n Hawaii island and Maui County are expected to take brunt of the storm tonight and Thursday. \n Satellite images showed stormy conditions in the northeast corner of Madeline, so the rains and strong winds on Hawaii island and Maui County are likely to continue into Thursday, after the center of the storm passes the island. \n A hurricane warning is posted for the Big Island, and the National Weather Service put Maui county under a tropical storm warning this morning. The warnings mean hurricane or tropical storm conditions are possible within 36 hours. \n A flash flood watch is posted for Hawaii island. \n Forecasters said Hawaii island could get 5 to 10 inches of rain from Madeline with isolated areas, especially in windward sections, getting up to 15 inches. Maui could see 1 to 3 inches, with some areas getting up to 5 inches. Thunderstorms are possible. \n \"This rainfall may lead to dangerous flash floods and mudslides,\" forecasters said. \n The National Weather Service lifted a flood advisory for South Hilo and Puna after heavy rains this morning eased. \n A high surf warning is also east shores of Maui, where surf could peak at 12 to 18 feet today. The surf is starting to arrive on east shores of Hawaii island. \n Oahu, Kauai and Molokai's east shores are under a high surf advisory as waves generated by Madeline's winds come ashore. \n Winds are also a threat. Forecasters said tropical storm force-winds are expected on Hawaii island and Maui County. Some areas of Hawaii island could also see hurricane-force winds. \n The forecast calls for winds of 30 to 50 mph with higher gusts on Hawaii island and winds greater than 39 mph on Maui. \n Leeward areas could see locally stronger gusts as winds go downslope and funnel down canyons. \n Other islands will also see stronger tradewinds of 15 to 35 mph with higher gusts as Madeline passes because of the difference between the high pressure to the north and the low pressue at Madeline's center. \n Forecasters expect a slight increase in humidity and tradewind showers for Oahu and Kauai. Some of the rains are likely to blow over to leeward sides. \n About 1,085 miles East of Hilo, Lester maintained its major hurricane status with sustained winds of 130 mph, moving west at 12 mph at 5 a.m. \n Lester is expected to take a turn to the northwest and pass near Hawaii this weekend, potentially bringing more muggy weather, big waves, strong winds and rains Friday through Sunday. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State under wind advisory as Madeline weakens, moves away from Big Isle"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Abu Muhammed al-Adnani, the Islamic State militant group's spokesman who IS say was \"martyred\" in northern Syria. The IS-run Aamaq news agency said Tuesday that al-Adnani was \"martyred while surveying the operations to repel the military campaigns against Aleppo,\" without providing further details. \n BEIRUT \u00bb The Islamic State group's spokesman and chief strategist, who laid out the blueprint for the extremist group's attacks against the West, has been killed while overseeing operations in northern Syria, the group has announced. \n The IS-run Aamaq news agency said Abu Mohammed al-Adnani was \"martyred while surveying the operations to repel the military campaigns in Aleppo.\" It did not provide any further details on when or how he died. A later statement issued by the Islamic State group in Aleppo province vowed to avenge his death. Both statements were released late Tuesday evening. \n Russia's Defense Ministry said today that its airstrike killed al-Adnani. In a statement, the Defense Ministry said its intelligence had confirmed that a Russian airstrike in Aleppo province had killed 40 IS militants, including the group's spokesman. \n However, Pentagon Press Secretary Peter Cook said on Tuesday that a U.S. airstrike targeted al-Adnani in the Syrian city of al-Bab, which is northeast of the city of Aleppo, the provincial capital. He said the U.S. was \"still assessing the results of the strike.\" \n The Sunni militant group did not say whom it blamed for the airstrike. \n Al-Adnani's death is a major blow to the extremist group, which has been on the retreat in Syria and Iraq. \n Al-Adnani, whose real name is Taha Sobhi Falaha, persistently called for attacks against the West, which paid off in bloody notoriety with the Nov. 13 coordinated attacks in Paris that hit a concert hall, a stadium and restaurants and bars, leaving 130 people dead and hundreds wounded. \n He was a Syrian who was born in the northern province of Idlib and is believed to have been in his late 30s. He crossed the border and joined al-Qaida in Iraq, a precursor to IS, after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. \n In late June 2014, he formally declared the establishment of a caliphate, or Islamic state, stretching across parts of Syria and Iraq, under the leadership of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and demanded allegiance from Muslims worldwide. \n A powerful orator, he went on to become the voice of IS. He released numerous audio files online in which he delivered fiery sermons urging followers to kill civilians in nations that supported the U.S.-led coalition against the group. \n Earlier this year, he called for massive attacks during Ramadan \u2014 a call that translated into the bloodiest Muslim holy month in recent memory. Followers of IS carried out attacks on several continents, including the Orlando shooting, the Nice truck attack in France and a massive suicide bombing in downtown Baghdad. \n Aleppo is a current focal point of the civil war in Syria, where IS, Syrian Kurdish forces, Turkey-backed rebels and President Bashar Assad's forces are vying for control. The province is frequently struck by both U.S.-led coalition airstrikes and Russian air raids. \n The Islamic State group has suffered a string of defeats in recent weeks, including in Aleppo province, where Turkish troops and allied Syrian rebels drove IS out of the border town of Jarablus last week. \n In Iraq, the group has lost its strongholds in Fallujah and Ramadi, in the western Anbar province. It still controls Mosul, but Iraqi forces are gearing up for a long-awaited operation to retake the country's second largest city. \n It has also lost some of its most senior commanders and founding members over the past year, including its \"minister of war\" Omar al-Shishani, feared Iraqi militant Shaker Wuhayeb, also known as Abu Wahib, and a top finance official known by several names, including Abu Ali Al-Anbari. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia claims killing major IS Syria figure; group not confirming"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "A 22-year-old Kapaa man remains hospitalized Wednesday after he was struck while riding a bicycle on Kuamoo Road in Wailua Tuesday evening. \n The 22-year-old bicyclist suffered serious but non-life threatening injuries. He was taken to Wilcox Hospital where he remains. \n The bicyclist was not wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. \n The female driver of the Ford sedan and her 20-year-old male passenger did not report any injuries. \n Kuamoo Road was closed in both directions from approximately 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. while officers conducted an on-scene investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist seriously injured in wrong-way crash on Kauai"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ivory carvings and elephant tusks were placed in a pyre just before the first Cameroon ivory burn on April 19, attended by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power at the Palais des Congres in Yaounde, Cameroon to highlight the need to halt the Ivory trade in order to save Africa's elephants. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Scientists with Great Elephant Census flew over Botswana, Africa during a July 2014 survey of savanna elephants on the continent. The number of savanna elephants in Africa is rapidly declining and the animals are in danger of being wiped out as international and domestic ivory trades continue to drive poaching across the continent, according to a study released today. \n The number of savanna elephants in Africa is rapidly declining and the animals are in danger of being wiped out as international and domestic ivory trades drive poaching across the continent, according to a study released today. \n Africa's savanna elephant population plummeted by about 30 percent from 2007 to 2014 and is declining at about 8 percent a year, said a survey funded by Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Paul Allen. \n \"If we can't save the African elephant, what is the hope of conserving the rest of Africa's wildlife?\" elephant ecologist Mike Chase, the lead researcher, said in a statement. \"I am hopeful that, with the right tools, research, conservation efforts and political will, we can help conserve elephants for decades to come.\" \n The aerial survey covered 18 countries using dozens of airplanes to fly the equivalent of going to the moon and partway back. The study, known as the Great Elephant Census and involving 90 scientists, estimated a population of 352,271 savanna elephants. \n Overall, researchers spotted about 12 carcasses for every 100 live elephants, indicating poaching at a high enough level to cause population decline. But the rates were much higher than that in some countries. \n Angola, Mozambique and Tanzania experienced greater population declines than previously known, and elephants face local extinction in parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon and Zambia, the study said. It also says numbers of elephants in South Africa, Uganda and parts of Malawi and Kenya were stable or partly increasing. \n Results of the study were announced ahead of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature World Conservation Congress in Honolulu. \n Allen, who provided $7 million for the effort, said he decided to launch the census after hearing three years ago that there had not been a comprehensive count of African elephants in decades. \n \"I took my first trip to Africa in 2006 and have been fascinated by elephants ever since,\" he said. \"They are intelligent, expressive and dignified \u2014 but not to be underestimated. So, as this latest poaching crisis began escalating, I felt compelled to do something about it.\" \n The research team used the limited existing data as a baseline for the study. But this survey is more comprehensive and will serve as a more reliable baseline for future observations, the team said. \n Its methodology involves manually counting animals while maintaining a specific altitude and following calibrated strips of land below the plane. The method is widely used for surveying animals on large plots of land and was the most accurate method of three tested on a known population in Africa, Chase said. The team also used video surveillance when counting big herds. \n Elephants are threatened by ivory trading, which is banned internationally. But the domestic trade of ivory within countries is legal nearly everywhere. \n A motion being considered at the Hawaii conference seeks to change that by gaining international consensus to close all domestic ivory markets, noting that illegal killing of elephants for their tusks threatens national security, hinders economic development and endangers those tasked with protecting the animals. \n U.S. President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping announced their commitment last year to combatting wildlife trafficking. The leaders promised to work toward a nearly complete ban on ivory imports and exports and an end to the domestic ivory trade. \n The decline in savanna elephants, like the dwindling numbers of African forest elephants, is directly tied to criminal poaching activities, some with ties to terrorist groups, according to Washington's nonprofit Environmental Investigation Agency. \n \"Trade in ivory has been a driver of destabilization wherever it occurs in Africa,\" agency President Allan Thornton said. \n Thornton said one-time auctions of stockpiled ivory to China and Japan in 2008 resulted in a spike in illegal poaching, and the rate of decline among Africa's elephants has been accelerating since. \n In areas with a high rate of population decline, the savanna turns into an overgrown thicket devoid of grasslands that sustain other wildlife and becomes overrun by disease-carrying tsetse flies, said James Deutsch, director of Allen's Vulcan Inc. Wildlife Conservation. \n Furthermore, that land becomes useless for tourism when the elephants are removed, he said. \n \"Once you remove elephants from parks, it becomes very hard to gain the political will to maintain those parks,\" Deutsch said. \"So, often the parks end up being neglected.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Africa's elephants rapidly declining as poaching thrives"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Yasuhide Mizobata, a murder suspect, held his guns while he sat on scaffoldings, holed up at an apartment in a standoff after he fired at a police car and escaped, in Wakayama, central Japan, Wednesday. \n TOKYO \u00bb A suspect in a rare fatal shooting in Japan ended an 18-hour standoff with police Wednesday by shooting himself in the stomach, and was taken to a hospital where he reportedly died. \n Police said Yasuhide Mizobata was the main suspect in a shooting Monday at a small construction company in Wakayama in western Japan in which one employee was killed and three others were injured, one seriously. The motive for the attack is not known. \n Police said Mizobata, 45, was spotted near the murder site on Tuesday night but when officers approached him, he fired four shots at their police car, shattering its windows, and escaped. No one was injured. \n He holed up in an apartment early Wednesday with two handguns, beginning a standoff that received widespread media coverage in a country where gun crime is rare. Television reports showed riot police in bulletproof vests and helmets standing downstairs while police tried unsuccessfully to persuade him to surrender. \n All residents of the apartment building were safely evacuated by police. \n Mizobata shot himself in the stomach shortly before riot police stormed in to capture him, Wakayama police said. \n He was hospitalized and died about two hours later, media reports said. \n In his exchanges with a police negotiator, the suspect asked police to bring him food and beer and deliver 2 million yen ($19,400) in cash to his mother, Kyodo News reported. \n A bag he left behind in the apartment contained the cash and a letter, Kyodo said. It said police also found a knife, syringes and small plastic bags, in a possible sign of drug use. \n National Police Agency statistics show there have been fewer than 10 shooting deaths each year in Japan in recent years, a number that dropped to just one case in 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fatal shooting suspect in Japan shoots himself during police standoff"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The mileage scandal at Mitsubishi Motors Corp. is widening after the Japanese government ordered sales halted on eight more models after finding mileage was falsely inflated. \n TOKYO >> The mileage scandal at Mitsubishi Motors Corp. is widening after the Japanese government ordered sales of eight more models halted after finding their mileage ratings were falsely inflated. \n The Japanese automaker had acknowledged in April it systematically falsified mileage data on its eK wagon and eK Space minicars, also produced for Nissan Motor Co. \n At that time, it said no other models were affected. But the transport ministry carried out its own tests and said Tuesday that it found other models, including the Pajero sport utility vehicle, had inflated their mileage by as much as 8.8 percent, and on average 4.2 percent. \n The ministry said the cruise range on the i-MiEV electric car was also overstated. \n The company had claimed the car traveled 180 kilometers (112 miles) on a single charge, but it actually went just 172 kilometers (107 miles) under government testing, company spokesman Shinji Akiyama said Wednesday. \n \"Of several data we came up with on mileage for the models, we used the best ones, not the average,\" he said. \"We are sorry for the trouble we have caused our customers.\" \n No overseas models are affected. \n The company has already submitted documents to the government with the corrected mileage and when the procedure is completed, it can again start selling the vehicles, Akiyama said. Sales of the minicars were also initially halted until proper documents could be submitted. \n Mitsubishi's vehicle sales in Japan has nosedived, falling 35 percent last month compared to the same month last year. \n Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors is promising to compensate the more than 76,000 vehicle owners in Japan with 30,000 yen ($290) to 100,000 yen ($970) in cash. It has announced similar compensation for those who bought the minicars. \n Such costs are expected to add 150 billion yen ($1.5 billion) in extraordinary losses, and the automaker said the new compensation will add another 7 billion yen ($68 million). \n Nissan has said it is taking a 34 percent stake in Mitsubishi to help its turnaround, although Chief Executive Carlos Ghosn has stressed the deal is not final until \"due diligence\" is completed. \n Nissan has said it expects to close the deal before the end of the year and is confident of its merits, although it declined comment on Mitsubishi's latest mileage scandal. \n \"We are not in a position to comment, since due diligence is ongoing, and the deal is pending regulatory approval,\" Nissan spokesman Nick Maxfield said. \n Mitsubishi's reputation has been hammered by a massive, systematic and decades-long cover-up of defects that surfaced in the early 2000s. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More Mitsubishi models in Japan found with inflated mileage"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May, center, holds a cabinet meeting at her country retreat Chequers in Wendover, England, Wednesday Aug. 31, 2016. May is discussing specific plans for the country to leave the European Union in a session meant to underscore Conservative party unity. \n LONDON >> British Prime Minister Theresa May has firmly rejected the notion of a second referendum on the country's membership in the European Union, insisting Wednesday that the U.K. wouldn't attempt a back-handed effort to remain in the bloc. \n May underscored her position before chairing a Cabinet meeting at her country retreat, Chequers. She seemed intent before the session \u2014her first since returning from summer vacation \u2014 to squelch rumors that the government might be seeking a retreat from the results of the June 23 referendum. \n \"We must continue to be very clear that 'Brexit means Brexit,' that we're going to make a success of it,\" she said. \"That means there's no second referendum; no attempts to sort of stay in the EU by the back door; that we're actually going to deliver on this.\" \n The meeting at the Chequers retreat comes amid reports of feuding among the three ministers tasked with making the break from the EU a reality. \n \"This really is a very significant moment for the country, as we look ahead to the next steps that we need to take,\" May said before the meeting. \"We have the opportunity to forge a new positive role for the U.K. in the world.\" \n The session also comes after her office sidestepped questions on whether Parliament will be given a formal vote on triggering Article 50, the EU treaty clause that sets up Britain's departure from the 28-nation bloc. \n Downing Street has said lawmakers will be given \"a say,\" but adds there's \"no legal obligation\" to consult Parliament. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "British leader chairs Cabinet session to discuss Brexit"}

{"date": "August 31, 2016", "text": "A 59-year-old Oregon woman died today after becoming distressed while scuba diving off Poipu, Kauai police said. \n The woman, who has not been identified, was diving with a tour group at about 9:30 a.m., police said. She was brought to the tour boat unresponsive and others performed CPR as the boat returned to Kukuiula Small Boat Harbor. \n Firefighters continued CPR and paramedics took her to Wilcox Hospital where she died. \n An autopsy was pending. This was Kauai's ninth drowning this year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Oregon woman apparently drowns while scuba diving off Kauai"}

