{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks during a news briefing ahead of the draw for the soccer Confederations Cup 2017, in Kazan, Russia. Infantino has suggested having 16 three-team groups if the World Cup expands to 48 countries. \n SINGAPORE >> FIFA president Gianni Infantino said a proposal to expand the World Cup finals to 48 teams, with 16 groups of three teams, received enthusiastic backing at a meeting of national federations on Thursday. \n That model, along with an alternative 48-team format and a 40-team event, were three proposals put forward for discussion this week by FIFA as it considers expansion of the World Cup from 2026 onward. \n A select meeting of national federations from Asia, Europe and Oceania met with Infantino on Thursday, and welcomed a change from the current eight-group, 32-team event. \n \"They are very supportive of expanding; everyone, unanimously \u2014 all those who were here,\" Infantino said after the meeting. \n \"The big, big, big majority is in favor of the 48 teams with the 16 groups of three.\" \n Under that format, the top two teams from each of the 16 groups would advance immediately into knockout stages, eliminating the existing problem of some group games in which one or both teams had nothing to play for. \n While some had voiced concerns that an expansion of the World Cup will dilute its quality and standing as an event for elite national teams, Infantino said those concerns were outweighed by the benefits. \n \"There is a big upside for football because it allows eight or 16 more teams and more countries and regions in the world to participate,\" Infantino said. \n He also stressed that all the expansionary models would increase the number of teams without stretching the length of the event, which would remain capped at 32 days, with the finalists playing seven games in that period. \n \"There is no downside for the players, and there is no downside for the clubs because the calendar isn't impacted.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "48-team World Cup proposal gets thumbs up at FIFA meeting"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana, center, answers questions from reporters after attending a conference in Makati, south of Manila, Philippines on Thursday, Dec. 8, 2016. \n MANILA \u00bb The Philippine defense secretary said Thursday it's highly unlikely his country will allow the U.S. military to use it as a springboard for freedom of navigation patrols in the disputed South China Sea to avoid antagonizing China. \n Delfin Lorenzana said U.S. ships and aircraft could use bases in Guam, Okinawa or fly from aircraft carriers to patrol the disputed waters. \n Under President Rodrigo Duterte's predecessor, Benigno Aquino III, some U.S. aircraft and ships stopped in the Philippines on the way to patrolling the disputed waters to challenge China's territorial claims. \n Duterte, who took office in June, has taken steps to mend ties with China and became hostile toward the Obama administration, after it raised concerns over Duterte's deadly crackdown on illegal drugs. \n Asked if the Philippines will continue to host U.S. ships and aircraft patrolling the disputed waters, Lorenzana said that Duterte will not likely allow that to happen \"to avoid any provocative actions that can escalate tensions in the South China Sea. It's unlikely.\" \n \"We'll avoid that for the meantime,\" Lorenzana said. \"Anyway, the U.S. can fly over there coming from other bases.\" \n U.S. officials did not comment immediately. The commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific, Adm. Harry Harris, said last month that despite Duterte's rhetoric, military cooperation with Manila has not changed. \n Duterte has publicly threatened to scale back the Philippines' military engagements with the U.S., including scuttling a plan to carry out joint patrols with the U.S. Navy in the disputed waters, which he said China opposes. \n U.S.-Philippine annual combat exercises have been reduced and will be redesigned to focus on disaster-response and humanitarian missions. Among the maneuvers to be dropped starting next year are amphibious landing exercises and beach raids, aimed at enhancing the country's territorial defense. \n Duterte's actions have become a hindrance to U.S. efforts to reassert its presence in Asia, although the U.S. military has vowed to continue patrolling one of the world's busiest commercial waterways. \n After Duterte met Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing in October, China allowed Filipinos to fish at the disputed Scarborough Shoal. China took control of the rich fishing area in 2012 after a tense standoff with Philippine government ships. \n Philippine coast guard ships have also resumed patrols at the shoal. \n Aside from the easing of tensions at Scarborough, Chinese coast guard ships are no longer blocking Philippine resupply ships from Second Thomas Shoal, farther south in the Spratlys, Lorenzana said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines says it won't help U.S. patrols in South China Sea"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Edgar Maddison Welch, 28 of Salisbury, N.C., surrenders to police Sunday, Dec. 4, 2016, in Washington. Welch, who said he was investigating a conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton running a child sex ring out of a pizza place, fired an assault rifle inside the restaurant on Sunday injuring no one, police and news reports said. \n SALISBURY, N.C. >> The man accused of firing an assault rifle inside a restaurant appears to have lived an aimless life that became turbulent in the weeks before he was drawn to Washington by an online hoax. \n Friends and family call Edgar Maddison Welch a well-meaning father of two girls. But he also unnerved some with his religious fervor and sometimes had trouble detaching himself from the internet. \n Police say he came to the pizza restaurant Sunday on a self-imposed mission to investigate a false account of a child sex ring that had spread through fake internet news stories. He's due in court Thursday. \n In October, Edgar Maddison Welch struck a teenage pedestrian with his car, a police report said. More recently, he was dropped from the rolls of a volunteer fire department. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pizza shop gunman's life showed recent signs of turbulence"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "Bench warrants were issued for the arrest of five registered sex offenders who have failed to comply with registration requirements, Attorney General Doug Chin announced today. \n The Department of the Attorney General charged Calvin Kuahiwinui, Jarvis Pilago II, Robert Caspino, Travis Baqui and Troy Pacheco with failure to comply with covered offender registration requirements, the department said in a news release. \n The men allegedly failed to report information such as change of address. \n The men were charged between August and November. \n The charge is a Class C felony, punishable by up to five years' imprisonment. \n Anyone with information on their whereabouts should call the Investigations Division of the Department of the Attorney General at 586-1240. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "5 registered sex offenders sought for not reporting"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "Honolulu police said today they have released the 26-year-old Waimanalo woman who was arrested late Monday night in a hit-and-run collision that killed an 8-month-old boy. \n The infant's 3-year-old brother and his 24-year-old mother were also seriously injured. \n Police released Annie Akau on Tuesday night. She initially was arrested on suspicion of negligent injury, operating a vehicle under the influence of an intoxicant, driving without a license, endangering the welfare of a minor and other offenses. \n The negligent injury offense was changed to first-degree negligent homicide upon the death of the baby on Tuesday. \n Police said speed and alcohol appear to be factors. \n Akau was driving a Chevy S10 pickup truck, heading toward Makapuu on Kalanianaole Highway at about 6:46 p.m. Monday when the truck hit the family in a marked crosswalk near Oluolu Street in Waimanalo, police said. \n The mother was pushing a stroller with the baby, Donovan Naleieha, inside. The truck stopped roughly 60 feet past the crosswalk with the stroller underneath. The baby's father was behind them. \n Police said Akau had her young child with her in the truck, and fled the scene on foot. Her husband, 38, arrived at the scene and was arrested on suspicion of hindering prosecution. \n The truck also sideswiped a car, whose driver had stopped for the family to cross, police said. \n Police said they identified Akau from video surveillance obtained from the 7-Eleven. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police release Waimanalo woman accused in fatal hit-and-run"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man salvages printed materials from under the rubble of a shop flattened in Wednesday's earthquake at a market in Meureudu, Aceh province, Indonesia. \n MEUREUDU, Indonesia >> Humanitarian organizations descended on Indonesia's Aceh province Thursday as the government in Jakarta promised tons of emergency aid and officials raced to assess the full extent of damage from an earthquake that killed more than 100 people. \n Search efforts involving volunteers and nearly 1,500 rescue personnel were concentrated on the hard-hit town of Meureudu in Pidie Jaya district near the epicenter of the magnitude 6.5 quake that hit before dawn Wednesday. Humanitarian assessment teams were fanning out to other areas of the district. \n National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said the death toll had risen to 102 and warned it could increase. Search teams were using devices that detect mobile phone signals with a 100-meter (yard) radius to help guide their efforts, he said. Aceh's disaster mitigation agency said more than 600 people were injured. \n Thousands are people are homeless or afraid to return to their homes. Aceh officials said more than 8,000 people spent Wednesday night in shelters in Pidie Jaya district alone. \n Killer quakes occur regularly in the region, where many live with the terrifying memory of a giant Dec. 26, 2004, earthquake that struck off Sumatra. The magnitude 9.1 quake triggered a devastating tsunami that killed more than 100,000 Acehnese. \n The Indonesian government said its urgent aid would be flown out of Jakarta early Thursday afternoon and will include 10 generators, tents, folding beds, baby supplies and body bags. The Red Cross deployed aid such as water trucks on Wednesday and humanitarian group CARE said it is leading an assessment team of four different international aid groups to avoid duplication of efforts. \n \"Every aid and civil society organization is piling into the area with as many boxes of rice, instant noodles, blankets and other aid as they can shift,\" said Paul Dillon, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, which has an assessment team in northern Aceh. \n It will take at least two more days before there's a fuller picture of how many people are displaced and the relief effort required, he said. \n The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was centered about 19 kilometers (12 miles) southeast of Sigli, a town near the northern tip of Sumatra, at a depth of 17 kilometers (11 miles). The agency had initially placed the epicenter undersea. It did not generate a tsunami. As of 9 a.m. Thursday, some 36 aftershocks had rattled the area. \n The world's largest archipelago, Indonesia is prone to earthquakes due to its location on the Pacific \"Ring of Fire,\" an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific Basin. The 2004 quake and tsunami killed a total of 230,000 people in a dozen countries, most of them in Aceh. \n John Ebel, professor of earth and environmental sciences at Boston College, said there is a risk that even weak aftershocks could cause further damage to buildings, particularly because modern building codes aren't consistently enforced in Indonesia. \n Scores of rescuers were crawling over a market in Meureudu, the hard-hit town, where many shop houses collapsed. \n One shop owner, Hajj Yusri Abdullah, didn't hold out much hope of finding survivors. He said nearly two dozen bodies were pulled from the market debris the day before. They included a group of eight made up of a newlywed couple and family members holding an ornate celebration known as Antar Dara Baro. \n Siti Rukiah, a mother of four, was among the many people who took refuge for the night in local mosques. She and about 100 other people from Pante Raja, a seaside village, fled to Nur Abdullah Mosque located on higher ground in a nearby hamlet. \n She said the quake felt so powerful she had to grab onto a table to keep from falling down. She was sure a tsunami was coming. \n \"I'm really scared about a tsunami,\" said Rukiah, whose brother and neighbors died in the 2004 disaster. She said she didn't want to return home \"not only because my house is damaged, but I am still afraid an aftershock could cause a tsunami.\" \n The national disaster agency said about 245 buildings were seriously damaged or destroyed in Pidie Jaya and neighboring Bireuen district, including 14 mosques. The rest were mainly dwellings and shop houses. Roads also cracked and power poles toppled over. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Niniek Karmini, Stephen Wright and Ali Kotarumalos in Jakarta, Indonesia contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lawmakers and members of opposition Justice Party with banners march during a rally demanding the impeachment of South Korean President Park Geun-hye at the National Assembly in Seoul, South Korea, Thursday, Dec. 8, 2016. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korea's opposition-controlled parliament introduced an impeachment motion Thursday on President Park Geun-hye, setting up a likely vote Friday on whether to suspend her powers over a huge political scandal. \n A parliamentary official reported the motion to a plenary session, which means an impeachment vote must take place between 24 and 72 hours. Friday is the final day of the current parliamentary regular session. \n The motion needs two-thirds approval in the 300-seat parliament to pass. Political observers say the opposition and anti-Park independents have 172 seats. They appear to have secured enough support from ruling party dissenters to get an impeachment. \n If impeached, the country's Constitutional Court will have up to 180 days to determine whether to formally end Park's presidency. During the court deliberation, Park would be suspended as president but not removed, with her duties temporarily transferred to the prime minister until the court reaches a decision on whether her impeachment is constitutional. \n Prosecutors say Park colluded in the criminal activities of a longtime confidante to manipulate government affairs and extort businesses. The confidante, Choi Soon-sil, and two of Park's former aides allegedly linked to the scandal have been indicted. Park, who has immunity from prosecution while in office, has refused to meet with prosecutors investigating the scandal. \n Park, South Korea's first female president, would be the country's second leader to face an impeachment vote. In 2004, lawmakers impeached then President Roh Moo-hyun on allegations of incompetence and election law violations. But the impeachment led to a big public backlash, and the Constitutional Court reinstated Roh two months later. Roh left office in early 2008 after serving out his single five-year term. In 2009, he killed himself amid a high-profile corruption investigation of his family. \n Park has publicly apologized over the scandal three times and acknowledged that she received help from Choi in editing her speeches and with unspecified \"public relations\" matters. Park denies involvement in Choi's alleged criminal activities. \n Hundreds of thousands of people calling for Park's ouster rallied near her presidential place of Blue House for six straight Saturdays, and her approval ratings plunged to 4 percent, the lowest among South Korean leaders since democracy came in the late 1980s. An opinion survey released Thursday showed about 78 percent of respondents supported Park's impeachment. \n Park is a daughter of late dictator Park Chung-hee, who ruled the country for 18 years until his 1979 assassination. Choi is a daughter of Choi Tae-min, a purported cult leader who served as a mentor for Park Geun-hye until his death in 1994. Park, whose mother was assassinated in 1974, described Choi Soon-sil as someone \"who helped me when I had difficulties\" in the past. \n Park's ties with Choi Tae-min, who faced a slew of corruption scandals, have long dogged her political career. Many here criticize her for maintaining ties with the Choi family and lacking transparency on key decisions. \n Park, whose term is to end in early 2018, has said she would stand down if parliament arranges a stable power transfer. Her liberal opponents have called the overture a stalling tactic to buy time and find ways to survive the scandal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea's parliament sets up presidential impeachment vote"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump spoke to supporters during a rally in Fayetteville, N.C., on Tuesday. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> The leader of the California Senate wants to bar police from sharing information with federal deportation agents about immigrants being released from custody to protect them from President-elect Donald Trump's plans to boost deportations. \n The bill introduced by Democratic Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon would prevent law enforcement from heeding requests by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to be notified when immigrants are being released from local jails. It would also ban federal agents from interviewing inmates for deportation purposes and prohibit immigration enforcement in public schools, hospitals and courthouses. \n \"I cannot wait and allow federal ICE agents to use state and local dollars, data, personnel, and facilities to help deport the very families who contribute so much to our economy and community,\" de Leon said in a statement on Wednesday. \n Since Trump's election, Democratic lawmakers have proposed a series of bills aimed at protecting California's more than 10 million foreign-born residents. \n De Leon's bill goes to the heart of ICE's latest effort to get local police to help them take immigrants into custody from jails for deportation. \n Immigration agents last year began asking police to notify them when immigrant inmates were slated for release so they could pick them up. The move came after many jurisdictions \u2014 including California \u2014 started refusing to honor agents' requests to detain inmates for deportation. \n It also came amid an uproar following last year's shooting death of Kate Steinle in San Francisco allegedly by a man who had been repeatedly deported and was released by local law enforcement even though immigration agents wanted him for deportation. \n California law bans police from detaining immigrants for ICE in some cases, but many jurisdictions refuse to detain anyone for deportation, citing community and legal concerns. \n Under de Leon's bill, police could continue to share information about people's criminal convictions with ICE. Authorities could also transfer immigrants to ICE provided the agency has a judicial warrant. \n Senate Republican leader Jean Fuller, R-Bakersfield, said the proposal needs scrutiny. \n \"Passions are still high after the last election, and I hope we can all agree to take a deep breath and avoid a rush to introduce legislation like this,\" Fuller said in a statement. \"We need to support our law enforcement and make sure that the Legislature is not passing bills that would limit their ability to keep all Californians safe. We will carefully consider this proposal to make sure there are no unintended consequences that could put California's safety in jeopardy.\" \n State Sen. John Moorlach, a Republican from Costa Mesa, said he'd like de Leon to form a team to work with, not against, the federal government on immigration. \n \"Collaboration would be a better approach from a leadership standpoint than just trying to poke a stick in the new president's eye,\" he said. \n An ICE spokeswoman said the agency does not comment on pending legislation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill aims to ban police from notifying feds about immigrants"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jill Stein, the presidential Green Party candidate, spearheading recount efforts in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin. \n DETROIT >> A federal judge who ordered Michigan to begin its recount effectively ended it on today, tying his decision to a state court ruling that found Green Party candidate Jill Stein had no legal standing to request another look at ballots.  \n The ruling seals Republican Donald Trump's narrow electoral victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton in Michigan. \n U.S. District Judge Mark Goldsmith agreed with Republicans who argued that the three-day recount must end a day after the state appeals court dealt a blow to the effort. Stein, who finished fourth in Michigan on Nov. 8, didn't have a chance of winning even after a recount and therefore isn't an \"aggrieved\" candidate, the appeals court said. \n \"Because there is no basis for this court to ignore the Michigan court's ruling and make an independent judgment regarding what the Michigan Legislature intended by the term 'aggrieved,' plaintiffs have not shown an entitlement to a recount,\" Goldsmith said of Stein and allies. \n It was Goldsmith's midnight ruling Monday that started the recount in Michigan. But his order dealt with timing \u2014 not whether a recount was appropriate. More than 20 counties so far are recounting ballots, and some are finished. \n Earlier today, the Michigan elections board said the recount would end if Goldsmith extinguished his earlier order. \n Stein got about 1 percent of the vote in three states where she's pushed for recounts \u2014 Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Trump narrowly won all three. \n Stein insists she's more concerned about the accuracy of the election. She alleges, without evidence, that the elections may have been susceptible to hacking. \n \"They present speculative claims going to the vulnerability of the voting machinery \u2014 but not actual injury,\" Goldsmith said. \n A court hearing will be held Friday on a possible recount in Pennsylvania. Wisconsin's recount, which started last week, has increased Trump's margin of victory over Clinton thus far. \n Clinton needed all three states to flip in order to take enough electoral votes to win the election. Trump has 306 electoral votes to Clinton's 232; 270 are needed to win. Michigan has 16 electoral votes, Pennsylvania has 20 and Wisconsin has 10. Electors convene Dec. 19 across the country to vote for president. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal judge halts Michigan recount"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence wave as they visit to Carrier factory, in Indianapolis, Ind. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump took to Twitter to slam a union leader who criticized his deal to discourage air conditioner manufacturer Carrier Corp. from closing an Indiana factory and moving its jobs to Mexico. \n Trump tweeted Wednesday evening: \"Chuck Jones, who is President of United Steelworkers 1999, has done a terrible job representing workers.\" \n That local union branch represents workers at Carrier's Indianapolis plant. \n In a second tweet, Trump suggested Jones should \"Spend more time working \u2014 less time talking\" and the union should \"Reduce dues.\" \n About 30 minutes after Trump tweeted about Jones the union leader started getting harassing phone calls, he told MSNBC Wednesday. \n One caller asked: What kind of car do you drive? Another said: We're coming for you. \n He told the cable news outlet he wasn't sure how the callers found his number. \n \"Nothing that says they're gonna kill me, but, you know, you better keep your eye on your kids,\" Jones told MSNBC. \"I've been doing this job for 30 years, and I've heard everything from people who want to burn my house down or shoot me. So I take it with a grain of salt and I don't put a lot of faith in that, and I'm not concerned about it and I'm not getting anybody involved. I can deal with people that make stupid statements and move on.\" \n Jones told The Washington Post in a story published Tuesday that Trump lied about how many jobs were saved by the deal, which included $7 million in state tax incentives. \n He accused Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence of staging \"a dog and pony show\" around the deal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump criticizes union leader critical of Indiana deal"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / ckojima@staradvertiser.com \n Adm. Harry B. Harris, Jr., Commander of the U.S Pacific Command, gives the keynote speech at today's Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day ceremony at Pearl Harbor's Kilo Pier. \n U.S. Pacific Command Commander Adm. Harry Harris says those who served during the attack on Pearl Harbor never failed to stand for the national anthem. \n His remarks at today's ceremony marking the 75th anniversary of the Japanese attack generated a lengthy standing ovation from the crowd, with people whistling and hooting. Thousands gathered for the event, held on a pier across the harbor from where the USS Arizona sank during the 1941 attack. \n \"You can bet that the men and women we honor today \u2014 and those who died that fateful morning 75 years ago \u2014 never took a knee and never failed to stand whenever they heard our national anthem being played,\" Harris said to nearly a minute of clapping, whistles and whoops. \n \"Hearing the words 'the land of the free and the home of the brave' means something special for every American, every day,\" Harris added. \"But today, on Dec. 7th, it takes on extraordinary significance, as we're joined here in this hallowed place by World War II veterans and survivors of the attacks on military bases all across Oahu, including right here at Pearl Harbor.\" \n In recent months, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick and others have knelt through the national anthem to protest police brutality and the treatment of minorities, drawing criticism and acclaim alike. Athletes from many sports, from youth to professional levels, have followed Kaepernick's lead. \n Reached later, Pacific Command spokesman Robert Shuford said Harris' comments \"speak for themselves.\" \n Harris has been the top U.S. military officer in the Asia-Pacific region since he took over the command in May 2015. He had moved over from the U.S. Pacific Fleet, which he led since October 2013. \n In February, Harris described China's militarization of the South China Sea as being \"as certain as a traffic jam\" in Washington, D.C. At the time he told senators that to believe otherwise, \"you have to believe in a flat Earth.\" U.S. and Chinese diplomats generally cushion their barbs over who is to blame for militarizing the region. \n More than 300,000 troops are assigned to the Pacific Command's area, which stretches from the U.S. West Coast to the western border of India. \n ", "author": "By Audrey McAvoy Associated Press", "title": "Admiral's national anthem remark scores with Pearl Harbor audience"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A petition is circulating to keep the doors open at Mission Social Hall and Cafe. \n A customer of Mission Social Hall and Cafe, the food vendor at the Mission Houses Historic Site and Archives, is circulating a petition to keep the cafe's doors open. It is slated to close Dec. 14 due to an increase in operating costs. \n Joshua Laguana, a Kaimuki resident who works several blocks away, says he visits the cafe regularly with friends and family, and even has a farmer friend who takes his food there. \n Much of the higher cost is due to an increase in the cafe's share of property taxes. Laguana's petition, however, refers to a rent increase and urges the Mission Houses board of directors to keep rent affordable for the cafe. \n \"Over the last two years, this cafe has sustained hundreds, if not thousands of people in the area of South + King which is a food desert for affordable, healthy options,\" the petition states. \"The cafe is helping local farmers bring their produce to market, making Hawaii more food solvent. The cafe has sponsored Family Pau Hana night and other meaningful activities for our community. The cafe has breathed life into the Mission House like never before.\" \n ", "author": "By Joleen Oshiro joshiro@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Petition drive aims to save Mission cafe"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "HONOLULU CRIMESTOPPERS \n Suspects in two separate bank robberies \u2014 at the First Hawaiian Bank branch at 1580 Kapiolani Blvd., left, and the American Savings Bank branch at the Keeaumoku Street Walmart \u2014 as seen in screenshots of surveillance video. \n Police are looking for a man in his 50s who robbed a Waikiki bank on Tuesday afternoon, the fourth bank robbery on Oahu in less than a week. \n Police said the man entered the Waikiki branch of First Hawaiian Bank on Kalakaua Avenue at about 3 p.m. and handed the teller a demand note. He also threatened to physically harm the teller, police said. He fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. \n He is described as 5 feet 3 inches, 198 pounds, and between 50 and 60 years old. \n Police are also searching for suspects in three other bank robberies since Friday, when the First Hawaiian Bank, 1580 Kapiolani Blvd., was robbed at about 2:30 p.m. Police said the man handed a teller a note demanding money and indicating he had a weapon. He fled on foot on Kapiolani with an undisclosed amount of cash. The suspect is described Caucasian and of stocky build, in his 50s. He has white hair and a white mustache, and walks with a \"distinct waddle,\" police said. \n On Saturday the Bank of Hawaii Chinatown branch at 101 North King Street was robbed at 10:15 a.m.; and the American Savings Bank, Walmart Branch, at 700 Keeaumoku St. at 11:05 a.m. Both may have been committed by the same suspect. \n In Chinatown, a male handed a teller a demand note and stated that he had a weapon and fled with an undisclosed amount of money. He is described as Caucasian, medium build, short gray hair, brown eyes and he was wearing a dark Polo shirt and aviator sunglasses. An American Savings teller at Walmart was handed a demand note, and the robber fled on foot also with an undisclosed amount of money. Similar to the earlier robbery suspect, he was described as a Caucasian male of medium build with thinning black hair, brown eyes and wearing a dark colored Polo shirt and aviator glasses on his head. \n Anyone with information on his whereabouts is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on a cell phone. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bank robbery in Waikiki is fourth on Oahu since Friday"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Linda McMahon talked with reporters after a Nov. 30 meeting with President-elect Donald Trump at Trump Tower in New York. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump is adding former wrestling executive Linda McMahon to his Cabinet as leader of the Small Business Administration. \n McMahon and her husband, Vince, founded and built World Wrestling Entertainment Inc., now a publicly traded sports entertainment company. She stepped down as the company's chief executive officer in 2009 and in recent years began a start-up to encourage more women business owners. \n She also poured $100 million of her fortune into two unsuccessful bids for a U.S. Senate seat in Connecticut and has become an influential Republican donor. \n \"Linda is going to be a phenomenal leader and champion for small businesses and unleash America's entrepreneurial spirit all across the country,\" Trump said in a statement today. \n Trump said she shares his vision of decreasing \"burdensome regulations that are hurting our middle-class workers and small businesses.\" \n \"As an entrepreneur myself, I have shared the experiences of our nation's small business owners and will do my best to advocate on their behalf,\" McMahon said in a statement. \"My husband and I built our business from scratch, building it to a publicly traded global enterprise with more than 800 employees.\" \n McMahon has known Trump for three decades and contributed $5 million to his family charity, almost all of it in 2007. Trump has participated in WWE events, including a 2007 \"Battle of the Billionaires,\" during which he shaved Vince McMahon's head. \n Trump wasn't McMahon's first choice for president. She first backed New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. But McMahon told The Associated Press in September that she was confident Trump would be a good president and said the two were on good terms. \n \"Once you're his friend, he is loyal to the end,\" she said. \"He's an incredibly loyal, loyal friend.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump taps former WWE exec McMahon for small business"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President-elect Mike Pence and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., take part in a wreath laying ceremony with WWII veteran William Flatters during the Pearl Harbor 75th anniversary commemoration, today at the National World War II Memorial in Washington, in honor of the 2,403 men and women killed and the 1,178 wounded at Pearl Harbor 75 years ago. (AP Photo/Molly Riley) \n President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence separately paid tribute to the fallen, wounded and veterans of Dec. 7, 1941. \n \"Their shared sacrifice reminds us of the great costs paid by those who came before us to secure the liberties we enjoy, and inspires us to rise to meet the new challenges that stand before us today,\" Trump said in a Facebook post today. \n Pence, meanwhile, joined Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., at a wreath-laying ceremony as part of a Pearl Harbor 75th anniversary commemoration, today at the National World War II Memorial in Washington. \n Pence, the governor of Indiana, also ordered state flags to be flown at half-staff in honor of those who died in the attack. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Full Donald Trump statement \n \"We pause today to remember the 2,403 American heroes who selflessly gave their lives at Pearl Harbor 75 years ago, on a date that will forever live in infamy. We also honor the 1,178 Americans who were wounded, and the countless others who instinctively did their duty, rushing to their posts in the midst of the chaos. Their shared sacrifice reminds us of the great costs paid by those who came before us to secure the liberties we enjoy, and inspires us to rise to meet the new challenges that stand before us today. \n \"America's enemies have changed over the past 75 years. But the fact remains, as President Reagan said when first proclaiming National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, 'there can be no substitute for victory' in the pursuit of peace. Today we are the bearers of the torch of freedom these brave Americans passed on to us. \n \"In honor of their faithfulness, and for the sake of generations to come, we will never allow that flame to be extinguished.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Trump, Pence pay tribute on Pearl Harbor Day"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "A Federal Transit Administration has agreed to give the city until April 30 to submit a financial recovery plan for its increasingly expensive rail project, allowing Mayor Kirk Caldwell, the Honolulu City Council and the Honolulu Authority for Rail Transportation an additional five months to convince state lawmakers to extend the 0.5 percent general excise tax surcharge on Oahu that they say is necessary to complete the project. \n In a letter to Caldwell Tuesday, FTA Region IX Deputy Administrator Edward Carranza Jr. said that while the city should continue with its \"Plan A\" to build the entire East Kapolei to Ala Moana Center line, it should also simultaneously work on a \"Plan B\" based on a \"build to budget\" scenario using an anticipated $6.8 billion in revenues as its price ceiling. \n The most recent cost estimates released by HART this week now anticipate the project could cost as much as $9.5 billion for all 20 miles and 21 stations. \n \"The city has developed a more clear-eyed, realistic plan to get the rail project back on track,\" U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, said in a statement. \"More must be done in the coming months to ensure we can complete the project, but this extension is welcome news \u200efor Honolulu and is further indication of the FTA's commitment to the rail project.\" \n A Full Funding Grant Agreement gave the city $1.55 billion in federal transit dollars for the rail project. During the summer, amid concerns of rising costs, the FTA asked the city to submit a financial recovery plan by Dec. 31. The city had asked for the deadline to be extended until next summer, giving it extra time to secure from state lawmakers the OK for an extension of the tax surcharge. \n Carranza, in his letter, said the FTA is obligated to protect \"the public's very substantial investment\" in the Honolulu project. \n \"Although the FTA recognizes that Plan A is the City and County's preferred option, the City and County must continue to advance Plan B sufficiently in the event that they are unable to obtain additional financial resources,\" Carranza said. \"This includes undertaking a detailed cost and schedule analysis of the proposed Plan B alignment that would end at the Downtown Station; completing ridership studies on the feasibility of de-scoping options; and implementing cost containment and cost reduction measures as appropriate.\" \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "FTA sets April 30 deadline for new rail financial plan"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "Repairs are under way on a broken water line in the Kula area on Maui, where consumers may be experiencing service interruptions and low water pressure, officials said today. \n The Maui Department of Water Supply is expected to be working until about 3 p.m. to fix the problem. Consumers on Copp Road to the Keokea area are asked to conserve water and avoid any unnecessary usage until the waterline is repaired. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews work to repair broken water line in Kula on Maui"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Tony Esquivel, left, got Armando \"Chick\" Galella's signature in the early morning before the 75th Remembrance of the Hickam Field attack. From left: Esquivel, Michael Galella (Armando's son), Johny Cisneros and Armando \"Chick\" Galella. \n Ten Army Air Corps veterans who survived the Japanese attack on Hickam Field and Wheeler Army Airfield 75 years ago today were honored at Hickam while a much larger ceremony took place next door at Pearl Harbor. \n While the nation focused its attention at the dock-side service at Pearl Harbor's Kilo Pier, Air Force Col. Kevin Gordon, commander of the 15th Wing at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, told a crowd gathered at Hickam's Atterbury Circle flag pole that, \"This very ground shook from enemy bombs \u2026 Our citizens stepped up and fought back in defense of our nation.\" \n At Hickam, 492 Americans were killed or wounded, along with another 108 at Wheeler, Gordon said. \n As he looked at the 10 survivors of the attack who were seated in the front row, Gordon said, \"No other generation has sacrificed more for our nation.\" \n The flag that hung from Hickam's flag pole and survived the attack 75 years ago is now in the Pacific Air Force headquarters which had been used as enlisted barracks in 1941, Gordon said. \n While much of Hickam has changed over the years, Gordon said 1941 landmarks remain, including the flag pole, water tower and officers' club. \n These reminders of the attack on Dec. 7, 1941, Gordon said, \"help preserve our heritage.\" \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hickam ceremony honors Army Air Corps veterans"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "Big Island firefighters responded to an early morning fire that fully engulfed a single-family home in Keaau. \n The fire at the wooden home located on 29th Avenue started at about 4:47 a.m. Firefighters brought the blaze under control shortly after 5 a.m. and extinguished it at 5:38 a.m., according to a news release from the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n No injuries were reported. The American Red Cross has been contacted to assist a 35-year-0ld resident. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation. Damage to the structure is estimated at $40,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire chars Keaau home"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump talked to the media on Nov. 20 as he stood with retired Marine Gen. John Kelly, at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Gen. John Kelly spoke to reporters during a Jan. 8 briefing at the Pentagon. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump has chosen retired Marine Gen. John Kelly, whose last command included oversight of the Guantanamo Bay detention center, to run the Department of Homeland Security, people close to the transition team said today. \n Kelly, who joined the Marine Corps in 1970, retired earlier this year, wrapping up a final, three-year post as head of U.S. Southern Command, which spanned some of the more fractious debate over the Obama administration's ultimately failed pledge to close Guantanamo. \n He served three tours in Iraq, and holds the somber distinction of being the most senior military officer to lose a child in combat in Iraq or Afghanistan. His son, Marine 2nd Lt. Robert Kelly was killed in November, 2010, in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. \n Highly respected, often outspoken, and known as a fierce, loyal commander, Kelly will take over the nation's newest federal agency, with responsibilities from airport security and terrorism to immigration and the Coast Guard. The department was formed after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in an effort to get the U.S. government better-positioned to prevent and respond to future attacks. \n If confirmed by the Senate, Kelly would be the fifth person to lead the department, which is comprised of agencies that protect the president, respond to disasters, enforce immigration laws, protect the nation's coastlines and secure air travel. \n His selection, however, also bolsters concerns about an increase in military influence in U.S. policy in a Trump White House. And it raises the scepter of militarization along the border, as Trump moves forward on his signature issue of immigration and his promise to build a wall along the southern border and go after people living in the country illegally. \n Transition officials confirmed Trump's pick of Kelly on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to speak publicly before any official announcement. \n In Kelly, Trump would have another four-star military officer for his administration. James Mattis, a retired four-star Marine general, is Trump's pick for defense secretary. \n Immigration enforcement is a familiar issue for Kelly. Southern Command, which is based in South Florida, regularly works with DHS on missions to identify and dismantle immigrant smuggling networks. And it has partnered with Immigration and Customs Enforcement in an operation targeting human smuggling into the U.S. and helped with the rescue of children arriving alone at U.S. borders. \n The department has struggled with its identity, trying to balance its ties with the military and maintain its role as a civilian law enforcement agency. Customs and Border Protection \u2014 which includes the Border Patrol \u2014 and the Coast Guard routinely partner with Southern Command to coordinate drug smuggling investigations in the Caribbean. \n If immigration enforcement is prioritized the way Trump promised during his presidential campaign, the department will be challenged with beefing up the screening of immigrants allowed to come into the U.S., and finding additional resources to track down and deport people living in America illegally. It will also need to find a place to house these immigrants while they're waiting for deportation. \n Scraping for federal funds and equipment to battle such problems will not be a new challenge for Kelly. As the head of Southern Command, he was often blunt about his need for more resources to fight the drug trade that sweeps into the U.S. from South America. \n During a 2014 hearing, he told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he didn't have the ships or surveillance assets to get more than 20 percent of the drugs leaving Colombia for the U.S. He said he often had \"very good clarity\" on the drug traffickers, but much of the time \"\"I simply sit and watch it go by.\" \n The most contentious issue Kelly faced, however, was the Obama push to close the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, detention center, and proposals to bring detainees to a facility in the U.S. if they could not be returned to other nations. Members of Congress stridently opposed any move to close Guantanamo, arguing that it is the ideal location for terror suspects gathered up in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. \n The Pentagon faced criticism for not moving more quickly to release detainees to other countries. Those decisions largely rested with the defense secretary, but Kelly absorbed some of that anger even though his job was simply to carry out the transportation of the detainee after the decision was made. He also raised concerns about the costs of moving the detention center to the U.S., including for the expanse of security that would be needed for the facility. \n By the time he left the Southern Command job, there were fewer than 100 detainees at the center, compared with 680 at its peak in 2003, and 245 when Obama took office. \n In his final Pentagon press conference in January, Kelly waded into a number of hotbed issues, including the Marine Corps' initial opposition to putting women in combat jobs. He said his biggest concern was that there would be pressure to lower standards because that may be the only way it could work in the years ahead. \n He then spoke openly about the loss of his son \u2014 a topic he didn't often raise in a public setting. \n \"To lose a child is \u2014 I can't imagine anything worse than that. I used to think, when I'd go to all of my trips up to Bethesda, Walter Reed, I'll go to the funerals with the secretaries of defense, that I could somehow imagine what it would be like,\" said Kelly. \"I lost a father, I lost a mother. So you kind of think it's something like that, but it's not. It's nothing like that.\" \n But, he added, \"when you lose one in combat, there's a \u2014 in my opinion \u2014 there's a pride that goes with it, that he didn't have to be there doing what he was doing. He wanted to be there. He volunteered.\" \n Kelly said he gets \"occasional letters from gold star families who are asking, 'Was it worth it?' And I always go back with this: It doesn't matter. That's not our question to ask as parents. That young person thought it was worth it, and that's the only opinion that counts.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump taps retired Marine general John Kelly for Homeland Security"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy sailors saluted the USS Utah from aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The USS Halsey passed by the Arizona Memorial this morning during the moment of silence at the Pearl Harbor 75th Commemoration. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Lou Conter, who was a USS Arizona crewman on Dec. 7, 1941, was at the Pearl Harbor 75th Commemoration today. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A U.S. Navy sailor manned the rails while on parade rest as the USS Arizona memorial was seen in the background on a pass and review aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy sailors saluted the USS Arizona on a pass and review aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy sailors saluted the USS Arizona on a pass and review aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy sailors saluted the USS Arizona on a pass and review aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Air Force F-22 Raptors with the 199th and 19th Squadron Hawaiian Raptors performed a missing-man formation flyover above the USS Arizona, as seen from aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy sailors saluted the USS Utah from aboard the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today at Pearl Harbor. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A patrol boat sailed past the Arizona Memorial this morning. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Pearl Harbor 75th Commemoration, at Kilo Pier. Pearl Harbor survivor Delton Walling, right, posed for a photo. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Navy Seaman Benjamin J. Pourchot manned the rails of the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey as it got underway for ceremonies to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor today, in Pearl Harbor. \n Update 9:15 a.m. \n The roughly 90-minute Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day ceremony at Kilo Pier ends with the playing of \"Echo Taps.\" \n Update 9 a.m. \n Adm. Harry B. Harris, Jr., in closing his remarks, says tells the veterans, \"We owe you an immeasurable debt and we can't thank you enough.\" \n Update 8:45 a.m. \n In his keynote speech, Adm. Harry B. Harris, Jr., commander of U.S. Pacific Command, elicits a standing ovation as he honored the Pearl Harbor veterans, saying they \"never took a knee\" when they heard the national anthem. \n Update 8:40 a.m. \n Rear Adm. John Fuller, commander of Navy Region Hawaii, thanks the assembled veterans, telling them, \"You changed the world forever.\" \n Update: 8:25 a.m. \n The Rev. Tsuneko Tanaka of the Japan Religious Committee for World Federation tells the thousands gathered at Pearl Harbor, \"We are living proof that time heals.\" \n Update: 8:05 a.m. \n The Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day ceremony got underway with a moment of silence at 7:55 a.m. to mark the time, 75 years ago, when the Japanese attack began. The moment of silence was followed by an F-22 missing-man formation flyover and the singing of the National Anthem and Hawaii Pono'i. The missile destroyer USS Halsey then rendered \"pass-in-review honors\" to the Arizona Memorial. From Kilo Pier overlooking the USS Arizona Memorial, Donald Stratton \u2014 one of four of the five Arizona survivors attending today's ceremony \u2014 returned the salute of the Halsey's sailors. \n Previous coverage \n In the tragedy that was Pearl Harbor, about 2,455 men, women and children were killed in the attacks on Oahu. \n The total includes 2,390 American service members and Oahu civilians, 56 Japanese aviators, and up to nine Japanese submariners. \n This morning at Pearl Harbor, the nation remembers the date that lives in infamy 75 years later. \n Thousands of people, including hundreds of attack survivors and World War II veterans \u2014 most in their 90s and older, have gathered at Kilo Pier overlooking the Arizona Memorial and at the Pearl Harbor Visitor Center to pay tribute to the fallen. \n As every year on this date, there will be speeches, taps will be played, a missing-man formation flyover and at 7:55 a.m. \u2014 the time the attack began \u2014 a moment of silence. \n But this 75th anniversary is different with many more of the Greatest Generation making the pilgrimage to pay one final salute to their comrades. The guests today include four of the five remaining USS Arizona survivors. \n USS Arizona dead would total 1,177 \u2014 the single greatest loss of life in U.S. Navy history. \n Hawaii's service members and civilians paid the initial price, but Japan would face a much greater one as America's economic might and fighting spirit eventually brought victory in the Pacific. \n \"Pearl Harbor is a saga of swift action, stark tragedy and great heroism,\" author Gordon W. Prange wrote in \"At Dawn We Slept.\" \n Stories abound of U.S. military men, unprepared for what had come, standing up to fight back in the face of the onslaught. \n On Tuesday, at a ceremony at Ewa Field, retired Marine Maj. John Hughes, 97, who returned fire on Dec. 7, 1941, with a Springfield bolt-action rifle, said he has no ill feelings toward the Japanese. \n \"On this 75th anniversary,\" said Daniel Martinez, chief historian at the USS Arizona Memorial, \"as we pause here to remember Pearl Harbor and also now to celebrate 70 years of peace between the United States and Japan, we can look at the words that Mr. Hughes said \u2014 that he has no ill feelings toward (the Japanese) \u2014 and we can move forward.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Thousands honor Pearl Harbor heroes who 'never took a knee'"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "President Barack Obama today remembered those who died in the attack on Pearl Harbor 75 years ago, while thanking the veterans and survivors from that day of infamy. \n Obama, who plans to meet with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at the Arizona Memorial on Dec. 27, issued a statement today in honor of the 75th anniversary of the attack that brought the United States into World War II. \n \"We give thanks to the veterans and survivors of Pearl Harbor who faced down fear itself, met infamy with intrepidity, freed captive peoples from fascism and whose example inspires us still. For out of the horrors of war, this Greatest Generation forged an enduring international order, became the backbone of the middle class and powered America's prosperity. Their courage and resolve remind us of that fundamental American truth\u2014that out of many we are one; and that when we stand together, no undertaking is too great,\" the president said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The text of Obama's full statement: \n \"Seventy-five years ago today, a sudden and unprovoked attack turned a tranquil harbor into a sea of flames. Over 2,400 American patriots lost their lives in the attack on Pearl Harbor\u2014military and civilian, men, women and children. Their sacrifice galvanized millions of GIs and Rosie the Riveters who answered the call to defend liberty at its moment of maximum peril. In the hours after the attack, President Roosevelt promised that 'the American people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory.' Thanks to the heroism of a generation, we did. \n \"Today, Michelle and I join the American people in remembering those who gave their lives at Pearl Harbor\u2014many of them not much older than boys\u2014and in honoring their families\u2014spouses, siblings, sons and daughters who still carry the memories of their loved ones in their hearts. We give thanks to the veterans and survivors of Pearl Harbor who faced down fear itself, met infamy with intrepidity, freed captive peoples from fascism and whose example inspires us still. For out of the horrors of war, this Greatest Generation forged an enduring international order, became the backbone of the middle class and powered America's prosperity. Their courage and resolve remind us of that fundamental American truth\u2014that out of many we are one; and that when we stand together, no undertaking is too great. \n \"On this National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, we also reaffirm that the work of securing and strengthening our nation goes on. While we can never repay the profound debt of gratitude we owe to those who served on our behalf, we can embrace our commitment to care for and support veterans of America's wars from every generation. \n \"As a testament that even the most bitter of adversaries can become the closest of allies, I look forward to visiting the USS Arizona Memorial later this month along with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. This historic visit will stand as a tribute to the power of reconciliation and to the truth that the United States and Japan\u2014bound by an alliance unimaginable 75 years ago\u2014will continue to work hand-in-hand for a more peaceful and secure world.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Obama thanks veterans, survivors of Pearl Harbor attack"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alexandria Duval walked into Albany County Court on Nov. 18 in Albany, N.Y. Duval is accused of killing her twin sister by driving their SUV off a cliff on Maui. \n ALBANY, N.Y. \u00bb A woman accused of killing her twin sister by driving their SUV off a cliff on Maui won't fight extradition from upstate New York, her lawyer said today. \n Alexandria Duval intends to waive her right to an extradition hearing during a court appearance Friday, clearing the way for her to return to Hawaii this month and fight a second-degree murder charge. \n \"She's just anxious to get back in order to be able to defend herself on the case,\" lawyer Kevin K. O'Brien said. \"Her big fight is not here, it's in Hawaii.\" \n Authorities say Alexandria Duval, 38, was driving an SUV in May with her sister, Anastasia, in the passenger seat when the vehicle crashed into a rock wall and plunged about 200 feet. Authorities have described a hair-pulling fight over the steering wheel. \n She traveled to upstate New York after an initial indictment stemming from the fatal crash was dismissed by a judge earlier this year. After Duval was arrested in Albany last month, her lawyer at the time said did not even know there was a second indictment against her. \n \"She never thought she was fleeing,\" O'Brien said. \n The sisters were born Alison and Ann Dadow in the Utica, New York, area, about 80 miles west of Albany. \n They operated popular yoga studios in Palm Beach County, Florida, from 2008 to 2014 before they changed their names. They moved to Maui in December 2015 from Utah. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman accused of killing twin on Maui will OK extradition"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump shaded his eyes while looking at supporters during a rally in Fayetteville, N.C. on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Time magazine today named Donald Trump its Person of the Year, bestowing what the president-elect called an \"honor\" even as he derided the idea that he'll lead \"the Divided States of America.\" \n That was a reference to Time's cover line \u2014 \"Donald Trump: President of the Divided States of America\" \u2014 that was positioned next to the cover photograph of the president-elect sitting in his private residence at Trump Tower. \n \"I didn't divide 'em,\" Trump said on NBC's \"Today\" show. \"We're going to put it back together and we're going to have a country that's very well-healed.\" \n Time editor Nancy Gibbs said the publication's choice was a \"straightforward\" choice of the person who has had the greatest influence on events \"for better or worse.\" \n Trump climbed from fiery underdog in the race for the GOP presidential nomination to winning the White House and defeating Democrat Hillary Clinton in the Nov. 8 election. Trump won 306 electoral votes, easily enough to make him president when the electors meet on Dec. 19. Clinton won the popular vote. \n He won in part by articulating in blunt, populist terms the racial, economic and other factors that divide Americans, many of whom have not felt the nation's recovery from recession. Trump stomped campaign traditions and social norms, including by insulting women, Muslims, Republican leaders, a reporter with disabilities and more. He also praised Russian President Vladimir Putin and last week irritated China and broke diplomatic norms by speaking by phone with the leader of Taiwan. \n \"When have we ever seen a single individual who has so defied expectations, broken the rules, violated norms, beaten not one but two political parties on the way to winning an election that he entered with 100-to-1 odds against him?\" Gibbs said. \n Clinton was the No. 2 finalist, Gibbs said. She said Clinton \"came closer than any woman ever has to winning the White House, and in the process revealed, I think, both the opportunities and the obstacles that women face in the public square.\" \n \"The Hackers,\" ranked after Clinton. Gibbs said that referred to \"a new cyber security threat we saw this year of state-sponsored hackers looking to delegitimize an American election.\" She said this was \"something new this year and something very disturbing.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump is Time magazine's Person of the Year"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Dec. 7, 1941 file photo, part of the hull of the capsized USS Oklahoma is seen at right as the battleship USS West Virginia, center, begins to sink after suffering heavy damage, while the USS Maryland, left, is still afloat in Pearl Harbor. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Dec. 7, 1941 photo made available by the U.S. Navy, a small boat rescues a seaman from the USS West Virginia burning in the foreground in Pearl Harbor, after Japanese aircraft attacked the military installation. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jim Downing, 103, posed in a Navy uniform in Honolulu on Dec. 5, with a photo of himself taken when he was about 20 years old. Downing is among a few dozen survivors of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor who plan to gather at the Hawaii naval base today, to remember those killed 75 years ago. \n Surprise, fear, anger and pride overcame Jim Downing as Japanese planes bombed Pearl Harbor. \n Then a newlywed sailor, he recalled a Japanese plane flying low and slow in his direction as he rushed to his battleship from his home after hearing explosions and learning of the attack on the radio. \n \"When he got the right angle, he banked over, turned his machine guns lose,\" Downing, now 103, said in an interview at a Waikiki hotel, \"But fortunately he didn't bank far enough so it went right over my head.\" \n The next aviator might have better aim, Downing remembers thinking. And with nowhere to hide, \"I was afraid,\" he said. \n Downing plans to return to Pearl Harbor today with a few dozen other survivors to mark the 75th anniversary of the attack that plunged the United States into World War II and left more than 2,300 service people dead. \n Those who gather at the ceremony on a pier overlooking the harbor are expected to observe a moment of silence at 7:55 a.m. \u2014 the same moment Japanese planes began their assault. \n Thousands of other servicemen and women and members of the public are expected to attend and watch via a livestream feed. \n Downing said he comes back to Hawaii for the anniversary commemorations to be with his shipmates. \n \"We get together and have a great time and compare our stories,\" said Downing, a resident of Colorado Springs, Colorado. \n His ship, the USS West Virginia, was hit by nine torpedoes. \n \"We were sinking and everything above the water line was on fire,\" he said. \n Downing said he felt proud while watching sailors balance the capsizing ship by allowing water to seep in. The tactic let the giant battleship slide into mud below. \n \"They just instinctively did the right thing at the right time without any thought about their own lives or safety,\" he said. \n The West Virginia lost 106 men. Downing spent two hours fighting fires and checking the name tags of the dead so he could write their families personal notes about how they died. \n \"I thought that would give them more closure that just a cold note, 'your son was killed in action,'\" said Downing, who also served as the ship's postmaster. \n Ray Chavez was out on a minesweeper, the USS Condor, in the early hours before the attack. He remembers noticing with his shipmates that a mysterious submarine was lurking off the harbor. \n \"At 3:45 a.m. on Dec. 7, I look out and spotted a submarine that wasn't supposed to be in that area,\" the 104-year-old Chavez said. \n The sailors reported the sighting and Chavez went home to sleep. He told his wife not to wake him because he hadn't gotten any rest during the busy night. \n \"It seemed like I only slept about 10 minutes when she called me and said 'we're being attacked.' And I said 'who is going to attack us?' She said 'the Japanese are here and they're attacking everything,'\" Chavez said. \n These days, many people treat Chavez and other Pearl Harbor survivors like celebrities, asking them for autographs and photos. But Chavez said it's about the people who were lost. \n \"I'm honoring them, not myself,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Survivor recalls fear, anger on day of Pearl Harbor attack"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n K.T. McFarland, Deputy National Security Adviser for President-elect Donald Trump, right, watched as Michael Flynn, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for National Security adviser, center, took a selfie with Sukhwinder Sangha of Vancouver, Canada, left, at Trump Tower, Monday, in New York. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb On issues of national security and intelligence, no one is likely to have more influence in Donald Trump's White House than retired Gen. Michael T. Flynn. \n Yet Flynn, Trump's incoming national security adviser, has gained prominence in Republican politics by fueling conspiracy theories and Islamophobic rhetoric that critics warn could create serious distractions \u2014 or alienate allies and embolden enemies \u2014 if it continues. \n \"His job is to ensure that the White House is focused at all times on all of the threats that the United States faces abroad,\" said Julianne Smith, a former deputy national security adviser to Vice President Joe Biden. She said she was \"deeply troubled\" by a Flynn tendency to promote fake news stories on his Twitter feed. \n \"You don't want to have a distracted national security adviser,\" said Smith, who now directs the strategy and statecraft program at the Center for a New American Security. \n She was among several national security experts who raised concerns Tuesday about Flynn's willingness to share bad intelligence on a social media feed as he prepares to move to the West Wing. \n Flynn served until 2014 as the head of U.S. military intelligence. Although he left that job over disputes with the Obama administration over policy and his management of the Defense Intelligence Agency, he is widely regarded as a top intelligence officer, a job that requires an understanding of the power of disinformation. \n The issue of sharing fake news was highlighted when Flynn's son, Michael G. Flynn, tweeted about the false idea that prompted a shooting at a Washington pizza parlor. He had been promoting a conspiracy theory that Hillary Clinton's allies had been operating a secret pedophilia ring in the restaurant and noted it would remain a story until \"proven to be false.\" \n Vice President-elect Mike Pence acknowledged Tuesday that the younger Flynn was helping his father with scheduling and administrative items during the presidential transition but told CNN \"that's no longer the case.\" \n Asked repeatedly whether a security clearance was requested, Pence refused to answer directly. \"Whatever the appropriate paperwork was to assist him in that regard, Jake, I'm sure was taking place,\" he said. \n Trump's team did not clarify whether Michael Flynn Jr.'s departure from Trump's transition team was related to the tweets. \n Less than a week before the election, the elder Flynn tweeted a link to a story that falsely claimed Clinton emails contained proof of money laundering and sex crimes with children, among other illegal activities. The incoming national security adviser called the baseless story a \"must read\" and instructed his followers: \"U decide.\" \n Flynn also promoted conspiracy theorists, some of them white supremacists, throughout the campaign even as he emerged as Trump's highest profile national security adviser. \n He encouraged his followers to read a book by Mike Cernovich, whose website has suggested Clinton's campaign chairman was part of a \"sex cult with connections to human trafficking.\" Flynn also tagged white nationalist Jared Wyand, whose website is popular with \"alt-right\" followers. \n Flynn's appointment is not subject to Senate confirmation. \n Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, said Tuesday that Flynn's willingness to promote fake news \"raises profound questions about his suitability for this important position.\" \n Trump's team did not respond to questions about Flynn's social media activity. Pence praised Flynn more broadly on Tuesday, even as he distanced the incoming administration from Flynn's son. \n \"We are so grateful and honored to have Gen. Flynn as our nominee for national security adviser. He brings an extraordinary wealth of experience,\" Pence said. \n The role of national security adviser has varied by administration, but usually centers on coordinating the policy positions of the secretaries of state and defense, the attorney general and other members of a president's team. \n It is an especially important position because of the national security adviser's access to the president in the West Wing of the White House. Flynn's office will be steps away from the Oval Office, proximity that allows him to act as a gatekeeper on a wide range of issues, including matters of war and peace as well as diplomacy and intelligence. \n He is expected to have more direct access to the president than national security officials in the Cabinet. Aside from attending Trump's daily intelligence briefings and senior staff meetings, Flynn will also oversee the National Security Council, a White House department that has grown to about 400 people involved in making policy recommendations. \n Flynn, who turns 58 in December, served for more than three decades in the Army. \n \"If the national security adviser is going to be the direct conduit between the president and the national security world, of course it's a concern that that adviser is being taken in by conspiracy theories and fake news,\" said Tom Nichols, a professor at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, where Flynn obtained a master's in national security and strategic studies in 2001. \n Whoever has the president's ear on international affairs, Nichols said, should have \"a firm grip on what's true and what's false.\" \n AP writers Julie Pace and Lolita C. Baldor in Washington and Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Critics worry after Trump security chief fuels conspiracies"}

{"date": "December 7, 2016", "text": "Huntsville, Ala. >> A \"mannequin challenge\" video of people staging a shootout has led to the arrests of two men in Alabama and the seizure of several guns and marijuana. \n Madison County Sheriff's Office Capt. Mike Salomonsky tells local news outlets the video led investigators to serve a search warrant Tuesday morning at a Huntsville home. \n The search turned up two handguns, a shotgun, a rifle and marijuana that appeared to be packaged for sale. \n Officers arrested 23-year-old Terry Martez Brown and charged him with drug paraphernalia possession, loitering and promoting prison contraband. \n Also arrested was 49-year-old Kenneth Fennell White, who's charged with first-degree marijuana possession and being a felon in possession of a firearm. \n The video has been shared 86,000 times since it was posted to Facebook on Nov. 9. \n It's unclear if Brown or White have attorneys. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Mannequin challenge' video leads to arrests in Alabama"}

