{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama, center, chats with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, left, as they and other leaders arrive for a family photo at the Xizi hotel in Hangzhou in eastern China's Zhejiang province on Sunday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Despite formidable opposition across the political spectrum, President Barack Obama is using his final months in office to fight for congressional approval of a 12-nation free trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  \n Administration officials say Obama would speak about the trade agreement at each stop during his trip to China and Laos. \n Back home, presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump bash it and public opinion polls indicate voters are closely divided on the agreement's merits. \n A survey conducted by the Pew Research Center estimated that 39 percent of registered voters view TPP as a bad thing for the United States and 37 percent consider it a good thing, hardly the kind of numbers that would inspire Congress to heed the president's call. \n Where things stand on the agreement and Obama's effort: \n WILL CONGRESS VOTE ON TPP?  \n It's hard to argue with House Speaker Paul Ryan's assessment that TPP doesn't have the votes to pass. Throw in Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's statement that the Senate would not take up the agreement this year and TPP's prospects look dismal. \n Last year, the House barely passed legislation establishing a streamlined process for approving TPP, called \"fast-track,\" but the details of the actual agreement were not made public until November. Since then, about a dozen Republicans who voted for the fast-track process have switched and said they oppose the deal, seemingly eliminating a narrow cushion of support. \n That leaves the administration and other TPP supporters with a tough task. The ripest recruiting grounds: 50 GOP lawmakers who voted against fast-track. Many consider themselves free-traders but voted no for separate reasons. \n The fight in the Senate could be easier since supporters only need a simple majority for passage rather than the 60 votes usually needed for advancing legislation. \n Business groups want to see the agreement approved and used the August recess to lobby lawmakers and their staffs. \n Foes of TPP have been heartened by the dire talk from congressional leaders. But many suspect a vote is looming. Witness the fundraising pitch from the politically active nonprofit launched by Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent who tells potential donors that \"we will have a very, very narrow window\" to defeat TPP in the lame-duck session after the elections. \n WHAT'S THE PATHWAY FOR PASSAGE?  \n The top concern of lawmakers is that the protection of clinical testing data for certain drugs made from living organisms, called biologics, falls short of the 12 years required by U.S. law. \n TPP requires countries to provide eight years of data protection, and possibly only five if they take other steps. \n Led by Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, lawmakers want the U.S. standards to prevail. The Obama administration will try to work out some language during September and October that satisfy Hatch's concerns, though any insistence that countries accept a baseline closer to the U.S. standard could prompt other nations to walk. \n Hatch also insists that participating countries provide the U.S. with roadmaps for how they intend to implement the trade agreement. The Obama administration has sent out negotiators to begin that work. \n Eventually, the administration will send draft legislation to Congress with the changes in U.S. law needed to enact the trade deal. Given the political winds, it probably won't happen until after the election. \n HOW DOES OBAMA SEAL THE DEAL?  \n The president's case for TPP emphasizes two points: First, he says it's good for the economy because it eliminates thousands of tariffs that will lower the price for American-made goods and services. \n Second, it's good for U.S. national security because it demonstrates America's commitment to being a Pacific power. While the administration has been making both cases from the get-go, the closing argument for TPP increasingly has taken a national security emphasis. \n Deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said TPP is a \"litmus test for whether or not the U.S. has staying power in this region.\" \n WILL TPP SURVIVE UNDER NEXT PRESIDENT?  \n It's not obvious how it could survive, given both candidates say they oppose TPP, but history has shown that opposition during the heat of a campaign can turn to support if the right changes are made. \n In his first presidential campaign, Obama said he opposed a free trade agreement with South Korea. He said the agreement didn't do enough to require Korea to open its markets to American-made cars, rice and beef. But nearly three years later, Congress passed a trade agreement with South Korea and Obama called it \"a win for both our countries.\" \n Trump has made his opposition to TPP a hallmark of his campaign. Clinton supported TPP efforts as secretary of state but announced her opposition last October, saying the final agreement failed to meet her test of providing good jobs, raising wages and protecting national security. \n Influential advocacy groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Farm Bureau and others will try to find a way to pick up the pieces if TPP doesn't make it this year. They've seen the long, winding road that most trade agreements take. \n \"The interests will persist regardless of who is in the office,\" said Scott Miller, a former director for global trade policy at Procter & Gamble, now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama makes trade deal top priority in remaining months"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine police officers stand beside bodies of victims after an explosion at a night market that has left 14 people dead and wounded 67 in southern Davao city, Philippines late Friday. \n MANILA \u00bb Security forces are searching for three \"persons of interest\" suspected to be behind last week's powerful blast that killed 14 people and injured 67 at a busy night market in the southern Philippine city of Davao, police said Monday. \n Police have artist sketches of the three people being sought, including a man who left a backpack containing the powerful improvised bomb before it exploded on Friday, said the national police chief, Ronald dela Rosa. The other two being sought are women. \n Abu Sayyaf Muslim militants claimed responsibility for the blast, but dela Rosa said officials were not discounting the possibility that it could be the handiwork of drug traffickers or drug lords in collusion with the militants. \n According to witnesses, the man who left the backpack at the open-air market hurriedly walked away from the scene, pretending not to hear those calling his attention, said the regional police chief, Chief Superintendent Manuel R. Gaerlan. A few seconds later, the bomb went off, he said. \n Davao Mayor Sara Duterte has offered a 2 million peso ($42,900) reward for the perpetrators' arrest. She said the heads of the police and military in the city would be replaced for failing to avert the bombing. \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte declared a nationwide \"state of lawlessness\" Saturday after the blast in his hometown, where he was the longtime mayor. The current mayor is his daughter. \n The president said his declaration did not amount to an imposition of martial law. It allows troops to be deployed in urban centers to back up the police in setting up checkpoints and increasing patrols, he said. \n Duterte is pushing ahead with a trip to Laos this week for a summit of Asian leaders. He's also expected to meet with President Barack Obama. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines says 3 people being sought for deadly blast"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / AUG. 2014 \n In this file photo, two of the one-month-old panda triplets receive a body check at the Chimelong Safari Park in Guangzhou in south China's Guangdong province. The giant panda, one of the symbols of China, is off the endangered list thanks to aggressive conservation efforts. \n BEIJING \u00bb The giant panda, one of the symbols of China, is off the endangered list thanks to aggressive conservation efforts. \n The International Union for Conservation of Nature said in a report released Sunday that the panda is now classified as a \"vulnerable\" instead of \"endangered\" species, reflecting its growing numbers in the wild in southern China. It said the wild panda population jumped to 1,864 in 2014 from 1,596 in 2004, the result of work by Chinese agencies to enforce poaching bans and expand forest reserves. \n The IUCN report warned that although better forest protection has helped increase panda numbers, climate change is predicted to eliminate more than 35 percent of its natural bamboo habitat in the next 80 years, potentially leading to another decline. \n Still, animal groups hailed the recovery of the bamboo-gobbling, black-and-white bear that has long been a symbol of China and the global conservation movement. \n The panda population reached an estimated low of less than 1,000 in the 1980s due to poaching and deforestation until Beijing threw its full weight behind preserving the animal, which has been sent to zoos around the world as a gesture of Chinese diplomatic goodwill. \n The Chinese government and the World Wildlife Fund first established the Wolong National Nature Reserve in Sichuan province in 1980. Wild panda numbers have slowly rebounded as China cracked down on the skin trade and gradually expanded its protected forest areas to now cover 1.4 million hectares (5,400 square miles). \n International groups and the Chinese government have worked to save wild pandas and breed them at enormous cost, attracting criticism that money could be better spent saving other animals facing extinction. \n But the WWF, whose logo has been a panda since 1961, celebrated the panda's re-classification, saying it proved that aggressive investment does pay off \"when science, political will and engagement of local communities come together.\" \n China's State Forestry Administration did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Giant panda is no longer endangered, experts say"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People watch a TV news program reporting about North Korea's missile launch, at the Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea on Monday. The letters on the screen read: \"North Korea, ballistic missiles to east coast.\" \n SEOUL \u00bb North Korea on Monday fired three suspected medium-range Rodong missiles that travelled about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) and landed near Japan in an apparent show of force timed to the G-20 economic summit in China, Seoul officials said. \n North Korea has staged a series of recent missile tests with increasing range, part of a program that aims to eventually build long-range nuclear missiles capable of striking the U.S. mainland. \n Such tests are fairly common when international attention is turned to Northeast Asia, and this one comes as world leaders are gathering for the G-20 summit of advanced and emerging economies in the city of Hangzhou in eastern China. Beijing is the North's only major ally, but ties between the neighbors have frayed amid a string of nuclear and missile tests and what many outsiders see as other provocations in recent years. \n South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said that the three missiles, all believed to be Rodongs, were launched from the western North Korean town of Hwangju and flew across the country before splashing in the sea. \n A Joint Chiefs of Staff statement described the launches as an \"armed protest\" meant to demonstrate North Korea's military capability on the occasion of the G-20 summit and days before the North Korean government's 68th anniversary. \n In early August, another Rodong missile fired by North Korea also travelled about 1,000 kilometers, the longest-ever flight distance by that missile. \n Japan's Kyodo news agency said all three missiles Monday fell in Japan's exclusive economic zone in the Sea of Japan, which the Koreas call the East Sea. \n Japan's Foreign Ministry says Prime Minister Shinzo Abe approached South Korean President Park Gewn-hye during a coffee break at the G-20 and agreed to cooperate closely. \n The White House said the United States was closely monitoring what it described as the latest provocation by North Korea. President Barack Obama was in China meeting with the leaders of France and Germany around the time of the launch. \n Before Monday's launch, on the sidelines of the G-20 summit, Park criticized the North for what she called provocations that are hurting Seoul-Beijing ties. \n The latest firing won't help the push by Chinese President Xi Jinping to get Park to scrap the planned deployment of a powerful U.S. anti-missile system in the South. \n During a bilateral meeting on Monday's final day of the G-20, Xi warned Park that \"mishandling the issue is not conducive to strategic stability in the region, and could intensify disputes.\" \n China says the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, system is meant to spy on China, while Seoul and Washington say the system is intended solely to defend against North Korea's missile threat. \n The launch also comes days after South Korean and U.S. troops ended annual joint summertime military drills, which North Korea regularly describes as a dress rehearsal for invasion. \n Last month, worries about the North's weapons programs deepened after a missile from a North Korean submarine flew about 500 kilometers (310 miles), the longest distance achieved by the North for such a weapon. In June, after a string of failures, North Korea sent an intermediate Musudan missile more than 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) high in a test launch that outside analysts said showed progress in efforts to acquire the ability to strike U.S. forces in the region. \n The U.N. Security Council in late August strongly condemned four North Korean ballistic missile launches in July and August. It called them \"grave violations\" of a ban on all ballistic missile activity. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul says North Korea fires 3 ballistic missiles"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "A 34-year-old woman was killed in a single-car crash early this morning on Lanai, Maui police said. \n Police identified the woman as Natasha Jenkins, of Lanai. \n Police said Jenkins was driving a 2009 Toyota Corolla westbound on Keomoku Road near mile-marker 6.8 when she veered off the roadway, hit an embankment, and was ejected as her car rolled several times. \n Police said Jenkins' friends were following her, but did not see the accident and found her under her car. \n Jenkins was taken to Lanai Community Hospital where she died. The crash happened about 3:18 a.m. \n This was Maui's 12th traffic fatality this year compared to 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman, 34, killed in single car crash on Lanai"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "KAISER HEALTH NEWS \n Implicit bias could have consequences for people's health, the paper suggests. \n Racial minorities and lower-income people typically fare far worse when it comes to health outcomes. And figuring out why has long been one of health care's black boxes. Forthcoming research may help shed light on what's driving those inequities \u2014 and how the system can fix them. \n What is needed? Better bedside manner, so patients actually trust their doctors. Communication that is easily understood by everyday people. And transparency about what medical care costs, plus a willingness to discuss how price points fit into consumers' health decisions. \n Those ideas were highlighted in a white paper presented last month at a health communication conference sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The findings, which will be published in full later this fall, are based on interviews with 100 health professionals and 65 \"disadvantaged patients,\" along with a nationally representative survey of 4,000 consumers. The examination is part of a larger project funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a health-focused nonprofit. It was conducted by the Altarum Institute, a research and consulting organization. \n The paper suggests that \"implicit bias\" \u2014 doctors and nurses subtly or subconsciously treating some patients differently than others \u2014 or patients' perception of it could have consequences for people's health. Patients who felt that they had experienced bias based on factors like race, income or insurance were less likely to follow advice about medication, for instance, and ended up sicker in the long run. \n \"We for a long time have neglected the human element,\" said Chris Duke, director of Altarum's Center for Consumer Choice in Health Care, and the white paper's author. \"The number one predictor of patient satisfaction is if your nurse listened to you. We neglect this at our great peril.\" \n Duke stressed that the research isn't enough to draw conclusions about causality \u2014 that feeling disrespected causes worse health. But the study builds on years of investigation that suggests implicit bias and how patients perceive it could contribute to differences in health outcomes. \n Insurance status was the largest predictor of how patients viewed their doctor-patient interaction, Duke said. People on Medicaid, the state-federal health insurance program for low-income people, or who were uninsured, were more likely to perceive disrespect than those with private insurance or Medicare, which provides coverage for senior citizens and some disabled people. Income was the next predictor for how well people felt they were treated. After that came race. \n Meanwhile, racial minorities and low-income people also were more likely to be sensitive to concerns about a doctor's bedside manner, and to seek out someone they thought would treat them well, Duke noted. \n Often, these patients cue in on subtle behaviors, such as the doctor not making eye contact or not asking questions about their symptoms and health conditions, their lifestyle or their preferences on how to manage a disease. But that can be enough, Duke said, to keep people from seeking care, or following through on medical advice. \n He recalled one interviewee: a lower-income black woman with high blood pressure. She said her physician never asked her meaningful questions about her health, instead just writing her a prescription. She was so dissatisfied she ignored the recommendation, meaning her condition only worsened. \n \"There's a huge need for provider training in communication and warmth, and the understanding that how you interact with your patients can have an implication \u2026 on their health,\" he said. \n That interaction could have major consequences for patients with chronic diseases, like diabetes or heart problems, noted Ben Handel, an assistant professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, who has researched health consumer decision-making. These patients need regular follow-up, but they are less likely to seek it out, because they aren't in significant pain. But if they don't get regular treatment, they could develop severe medical complications. \n \"If you feel like your doctor doesn't respect you, you're not going to go the doctor unless you have to \u2014 and preventive care is something you don't get unless you have to,\" he said. \"And that kind of stuff is in some ways the most important.\" \n To address that, both Duke and Handel said it's worth examining how Medicaid pays doctors, so that they see more value in treating low-income patients. Currently, Medicaid reimburses physicians at a lower rate than do other insurance programs. \n Encouraging more diversity in medical professions \u2014 from a racial and a socioeconomic standpoint \u2014 could also help, they said. That idea tracks with other suggestions researchers have made when brainstorming ways to tackle gaps in health care and to make the system more responsive to people who are typically overlooked. \n \"If you are a lower-income racial minority, and you walk into a hospital and none of the pictures of people look like you, and none of the staff looks like you, you may not feel welcome,\" Duke said. \"People need to feel welcome for them to trust information, and trust guidance.\" \n The paper also highlighted consumers' concerns about understanding their medical recommendations and how much their care costs. Expense in particular \"is a big sticking point,\" Duke said, and it's something doctors have long been discouraged from discussing. But for patients, avoiding the subject means they're more likely to go without.  \n That's true across the board, but likely even more so for lower-income people, Handel said. \"That's basic economic theory. If you're low-income and the marginal value of income is higher, you're going to be more price sensitive,\" he said. \n The findings underscore a need for inclusivity, Duke said. \"We heard many patients say, 'The system is for them and not for us,'\" he said. \"The fact that we have large disparities along the lines of income and race \u2014 it shows there's a lot of ground to be covered.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n (Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a national health policy news service. It is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.)  \n \u2014\u2014  \n \u00a92016 Kaiser Health News  \n ", "author": "By Shefali Luthra Kaiser Health News", "title": "Attending to the 'human element' is key to keeping patients healthy"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A tray of Aedes dorsalis and Culex tarsalis mosquitos are shown collected at the Salt Lake City Mosquito Abatement District on July 19 near Salt Lake City. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb West Nile virus landed in the United States in the summer of 1999, arriving in New York City possibly in the blood of a sick bird on a ship or via an infected mosquito on a plane. Soon it had afflicted people in Queens with brain inflammation and killed birds at the Bronx Zoo. \n Four years later, the virus had migrated across the country to California, where it was to become a scourge far from Uganda, where it was first isolated in1937. Since its arrival in California, it's killed 229 people in the Golden State and sickened nearly 5,600. Last year a record 53 people died in California of the virus, and this year has the potential to end up as bad or even worse. \n While the recent arrival in the U.S. of the Zika virus is getting most of the attention, public health experts consider West Nile to be a much more potent threat in California than Zika will ever be. \n The state has tallied 123 human West Nile cases in California so far this year, including a pair of deaths in Sacramento County and Yolo County. But it takes weeks for reporting and verification of West Nile cases to make it through the system. So Gary Goodman, the general manager of the Sacramento-Yolo Mosquito & Vector Control District, expects the real numbers are far higher. \n \"I think in terms of human cases it's going to be equal to or conceivably even worse than what we had last year,\" he said. \n There were 783 cases of West Nile in California last year and 801 the year before that, the most in a decade. \n More infected mosquitoes and birds have been found dead from West Nile this year than at this time last year, with the 398 dead birds found in Sacramento County the largest number in the state. \n West Nile activity in the Sacramento area this summer appears to have peaked and begun its decline. But the peak comes later in Southern California, and the virus remains a threat into October. \n It's not clear why West Nile activity has been so strong this summer. Officials blamed the high numbers in 2014 and 2015 in part on the California drought. Birds carry the virus and mosquitoes spread it through bites. The idea is that with fewer sources of available water, birds and mosquitoes crowded together at remaining water sources and spread the virus. \n Goodman speculated that this year's easing of the drought led to a rebound of the mosquito population as water became more available for the first time in years \u2014 keeping West Nile activity high. \n \"This year we've seen some of the mosquitoes that breed in larger agricultural areas at higher numbers than usual, and I think that's explainable in part to the additional water,\" said Chris Barker, a specialist in the research of mosquito-borne viruses at the University of California, Davis. \n Rice fields are a huge source of mosquitoes in the Sacramento area, according to public health experts. Woodland, Davis, West Sacramento and Natomas are ringed by the fields, which consist of acres of standing water and vegetation, a prime breeding ground for mosquitoes. \n Goodman said the Sacramento-Yolo Mosquito & Vector Control District has sprayed over 600,000 acres for mosquitoes so far this year, mostly in rural stretches but also in Woodland and the Arden Arcade area of Sacramento. Costs for the spraying run more than a million dollars. \n Most people who contract West Nile virus will have no symptoms or possibly mild infections that might include vomiting and fever. But the virus can lead to a serious neurological illness that sometimes includes coma, seizures or paralysis, with recovery taking months. Nearly 44,000 cases of West Nile have been reported in the U.S. and more than 1,900 people have died. \n West Nile is particularly hard to stop because of the role that birds play in its spread. After the virus arrived in New York, migratory birds helped spread it across the country, thwarting efforts to stop it through mosquito eradication. No one was sure which birds were the carriers. \n \"I am not sure there would have been any way that we could have prevented West Nile from taking hold in the state,\" said Desiree LaBeaud, an associate professor of pediatric infectious diseases at Stanford University who specializes in viruses that are spread by mosquitoes. \n The Zika virus is much different. Zika, which recently struck the U.S. with a homegrown outbreak in Florida, is primarily spread by two mosquito species \u2014 Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus \u2014 that have not been detected in Sacramento County. Zika can also be spread by sex.  \n There's no reason to think Aedes mosquitoes won't arrive in Sacramento. They've already been found in other areas of California, including Los Angeles, San Mateo, Madera and Fresno. \n Some research also suggests that the far more common Culex mosquito, which transmits the West Nile virus, might also spread Zika, which Goodman said \"would definitely complicate things.\" \n But he and other mosquito experts don't think Zika has the potential to approach the level of West Nile in California. California is a prime spot for West Nile with a bird population of corvid and jays to host the disease and an abundance of the Culex type of mosquitoes, which spread it. \n The state could experience small Zika outbreaks as Californians infected elsewhere spread the virus when they come home, either through sex or being bitten by Golden State mosquitoes that then go on to bite other Californians, said UC Davis epidemiologist Barker. \n \"But in terms of an endemic pathogen that is going to be with us from now on, West Nile is a much bigger threat in California,\" he said. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 McClatchy Washington Bureau  \n ", "author": "By Sean Cockerham McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "Freaking out about Zika virus? West Nile is the real killer"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Peter Navarro, an economic advisor to Donald Trump, once described this 1996 event where Hillary Clinton campaigned for his failed congressional run as \"heavenly.\" \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The colorful California academic who helped inspire Donald Trump's rants against free trade deals has had an interesting life full of interesting experiences that he details in his many books. \n But one really stands out \u2014 so much so that Peter Navarro, an outspoken member of Trump's economic advisory team, called it \"sweet manna from heaven.\" \n It was the day Hillary Clinton came to San Diego to give his run for Congress a boost. \n Clinton, of course, is now one of Navarro's favorite villains. Navarro, a University of California, Irvine professor, rarely misses an opportunity to tear down her resume. His polished critiques of Clinton are one of the more potent weapons of the Trump campaign, which has struggled to attract credentialed economic thinkers. Navarro can often be found on cable news, on the radio and in the pages of major newspapers warning about how a Clinton administration would lead to more misery for a shrinking middle class. \n But he had a different view of Clinton during his unsuccessful run for Congress in San Diego in 1996. Navarro was a Democrat then, and had then written quite extensively about the virtues of the free trade deals he now reviles. In his 1998 tell-all memoir \"San Diego Confidential,\" Navarro details his encounter with Clinton alongside a large picture of the two standing together with wide grins. \n \"I don't know why so many people in America hate Hillary Clinton,\" Navarro wrote. \"I found her to be one of the most gracious, intelligent, perceptive, and, yes, classy women I have ever met.\" He wrote admiringly of how Clinton lured 3,000 people to come to his rally the Saturday before Election Day, and stirred up an enthusiasm he had not previously experienced. \n \"Walking up to the podium before the cheering crowd, I felt like the pope in Buenos Aires, Larry Bird in the Boston Garden, and Billy Graham in Oklahoma all rolled into one. What a thrill it is to give a speech to a crowd that roars with approval at your every utterance!\" \n Reached by phone, Navarro said he was simply among the many in the 1990s who were seduced by the charm and power of the Clintons. \"I did not know at the time that Bill and Hillary Clinton had already begun what would become the Clinton Foundation corruption scheme even as I was standing there with Hillary that night,\" Navarro said. \"It's fair to say my encounters with the Clintons were the same kind of seduction they have been getting away with for years. \u2026 I didn't have the awareness I probably should have.\" \n Navarro said his \"evolution\" to judging the Clintons to be \"two of the most corrupt political figures in American history\" came only years later, as he focused his research on the trade deals they pursued, their effect on the economy, and the donations from foreign leaders that flowed to their foundation. He now accuses them of running \"an arrogant scam\" that is \"Bernie Madoff-esque.\" \n Now, Navarro may cringe when looking back at what he wrote in 1998. In one passage of the book, he reminisced fondly about the photo of his event with Clinton that ran prominently in the San Diego Union-Tribune. \"Hillary and I stand together applauding the crowd, exuding an almost cherubic warmth that, frankly, tends to elude us both,\" it said. \n Navarro also expressed wonderment then for how Clinton deftly worked donors, charming 10 of them who each paid a thousand dollars to have their photo taken with the then first lady before a background of black velvet and American flags. \"I came in in the middle of the flashbulbs going off and just lay back and let Hillary do her thing with my donors,\" Navarro wrote. \n In this strange election cycle, these sorts of past affiliations are not particularly unusual. Trump himself had Clinton as a guest to his wedding. On his syndicated radio show in 2008, Trump said of Clinton: \"I know her and she'd make a good president or good vice president.\" \n Now he smiles as crowds at Trump rallies chant, \"Lock her up.\" Navarro calls Clinton \"almost like the sociopath who does not know right from wrong.\" \n The economist was more forgiving two decades ago when he pondered whether Clinton inadvertently helped incumbent GOP Rep. Brian Bilbray beat him by more than 21,000 votes. Navarro recalled in his memoir how one of his advisers saw the photo in the Union-Tribune and thought, \"Wow, the only thing better than this would have been a shot of Navarro arm-in-arm with Jesse Jackson or Fidel Castro.\"  \n But the economist also said then he had no regrets, writing, \"The Hillary rally was a heavenly experience.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014  \n \u00a92016 Tribune Co.  \n ", "author": "By Evan Halper Tribune Washington Bureau", "title": "Meet the Trump adviser who was once among Clinton's most emphatic fans"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n Satellite imagery this afternoon showed clouds and showers over the Big Island and parts of central Oahu. \n A flood advisory expired for Oahu and Hawaii island tonight as earlier heavy rain dissipated. \n Earlier today, moisture brought by former Hurricane Lester lingered around the islands and prompted the advisories until 5:30 p.m. for Oahu and 5:45 p.m. for Hawaii island. \n The National Weather Service said to continue to use caution near rivers and streams as they will remain elevated for the next few hours. \n Previous coverage \n The National Weather Service said at 4:18 p.m. radar showed heavy showers over Pearl Harbor, moving west at 10 mph. \n Additional showers extend north from Pearl Harbor to Schofield Barracks and are also moving west at 10 mph. \n Rainfall rates of 1 to 2 inches are possible, the weather service said. \n Locations in the advisory on Oahu include, but are not limited to: Schofield Barracks, Kapolei, Waipahu, Waianae, Mililani, Waialua, Wahiawa, Barbers Point, Aiea, Kunia, Pearl City and Waikele. \n The advisory is set to expire at 5:30 p.m., but could be extended. \n An advisory for the Big Island was in effect until 5:45 p.m. and could also be extended. \n At 2:51 p.m., radar indicted heavy rain and nearly stationary thunderstorms upslope of Kailua-Kona, with rain falling at a rate of 1 to 3 inches per hour. \n Heavy showers were also located along upslope sections between Kona and Milolii and across leeward slopes of Mauna Kea, upslope of Waikii. \n The advisory included, but was not limited to: Kailua-Kona, Captain Cook, Waikoloa Village, Kamuela, Honaunau, Puuanahulu, Pohakuloa Training Area, Kainaliu, Kalaoa, Pohakuloa Camp, Honalo and Hawaiian Ocean View. \n The weather service warned the public to stay away from streams, drainage ditches and low-lying areas prone to flooding. Rainfall and runoff will also cause dangerous driving conditions from ponding and poor visibility. \n Tropical Storm Lester, with winds of 60 mph, is moving away from the state. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Flood advisory expires for Big Isle, parts of Oahu"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "Excessive speed was a factor in a double fatal crash that killed a motorcyclist and a pedestrian Saturday in Hilo, Hawaii island police said. \n Police identified the motorcyclist as 66-year-old Lionel Chartrand, of Hilo. The woman's name was being withheld pending positive identification and notification of next of kin. \n Police said at about 7:25 p.m. the woman had exited a vehicle near the intersection of Railroad Avenue and Makalika Street and was walking in the north-bound lane after the vehicle left when she was struck by the motorcycle. She was taken to Hilo Medical Center where she died at 10:55 p.m. \n Chartrand was heading north-bound on Railroad Avenue and not wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. He was taken to Hilo Medical Center where he died at 10:52 p.m. \n Police ordered autopsies and opened a negligent homicide investigation. \n Officers would like to question the occupants of the vehicle in which the woman had been riding. \n Anyone with information about the case is asked to call Officer Erhard Autrata at 961-8113 or email him at erhard.autrata@hawaiicounty.gov. Anonymous tips can be made by calling Crime Stoppers at 961-8300. \n The traffic fatalities were the Big Island's 18th and 19th this year compared to 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police: Speed was factor in fatal Hilo crash"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Daniel Heinrich, who authorities have called a person of interest in the 1989 kidnapping, denied any involvement and was not charged with that crime. But he has pleaded not guilty to several federal child pornography charges. \n MINNEAPOLIS >> To crack Minnesota's biggest cold case \u2014 the 1989 abduction of 11-year-old Jacob Wetterling \u2014 authorities went back to the early days of the investigation. \n They turned a renewed spotlight last year on a man who was questioned soon after Jacob's disappearance but was never charged. That ultimately led to Saturday's announcement that Jacob's remains finally had been found. \n \"On these kinds of cases it's really a tribute to law enforcement that they simply never give up. \u2026 This is what persistence will reveal,\" Michael Campion, former superintendent of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and former commissioner of the state Department of Public Safety, said Sunday. \n The case has not lain dormant for those 27 years, said Tom Heffelfinger, former U.S. attorney for Minnesota. To the contrary, he said, it's been a top priority for local and federal law enforcement the entire time. \n When authorities last October announced the arrest of Danny Heinrich, now 53, of Annandale, on child pornography charges, they took the unusual step of calling him a \"person of interest\" in the Wetterling case, though they were careful to stop short of calling him a suspect. He has not been charged in Jacob's abduction and death. \n Jacob was riding his bicycle near his home in the central Minnesota community of St. Joseph with his brother and a friend on Oct. 22, 1989, when a masked gunman abducted him and ordered the other boys to run. The case has haunted Minnesota ever since. Jacob's smiling face was burned into the state's collective psyche, appearing on countless posters and billboards seeking clues. \n Jacob's mother, Patty Wetterling, became a nationally recognized advocate for the cause of missing and exploited children. A 1994 federal law named for Jacob requires states to establish sex offender registries. \n As part of the fresh look into Jacob's abduction around its 25th anniversary, investigators took another look at the sexual assault of a 12-year-old boy from Cold Spring nine months before Jacob's disappearance. Investigators had long suspected the two cases were connected. \n Heinrich was arrested in 1990 in the sexual assault case but wasn't charged due to a lack of evidence. While he was questioned extensively about Jacob's kidnapping at the time, he denied any involvement. \n Using technology that wasn't available back in 1989, investigators found Heinrich's DNA on the 12-year-old's sweatshirt, Richard Thornton, special agent in charge of the FBI's Minneapolis office, said when authorities announced Heinrich's arrest last October. They used that evidence to get a search warrant for Heinrich's home. \n While they didn't discover anything to firmly tie Heinrich to either Jacob's kidnapping or the assault on the other boy, they found a large collection of child pornography. Heinrich was charged with 25 child pornography counts. \n At the time of his arrest last year, as he had done since 1989, Heinrich insisted he was innocent in Jacob's disappearance. \n Heinrich, who has been jailed since his arrest, pleaded not guilty to the child pornography charges and is scheduled to go on trial on those counts in October. \n A law enforcement official told The Associated Press on Saturday that a person of interest in Jacob's abduction took authorities to a field in central Minnesota the week before. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the ongoing case, said buried remains and other evidence were recovered. \n \"Once they realized they had a strong, legitimate case against Mr. Heinrich for other crimes, in this case child pornography, they aggressively prosecuted him for anything and everything they could get,\" Heffelfinger said. \n The Stearns County Sheriff's Office released few details over the weekend about the new developments in the Wetterling case, and no fresh information Sunday, but said that authorities expect to be able to provide more details early this week. \n Campion said he spent only a little time on the Wetterling investigation in 1989 but was still \"at a loss for words\" on Sunday, still processing the break in one of Minnesota's most enduring mysteries. \n \"I don't know that I ever thought I'd see that in the headlines,\" he said. \"It's pretty astonishing.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Investigators' persistence leads to break in abduction case"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Banners with a collage of photos of Lane Graves and his family hang on display with blue balloons and ribbons for a Love for Lane Celebration on what would have been his third birthday at Elkhorn South High School in Omaha, Neb. \n OMAHA, Neb. >> The parents of the toddler who was killed by an alligator at Walt Disney World in Florida say they will always remember their sweet little boy. \n Melissa and Matt Graves spoke to a group of several hundred people gathered at a high school football stadium Saturday to remember Lane Graves on what would have been his third birthday, The Omaha World-Herald reported. \n Lane died June 14 after an alligator pulled him into a lagoon at Disney's upscale Grand Floridian Resort. He was gathering sand for a sand castle when the alligator bit his head. The final report on his death said the boy died from a crushing bite and drowning and that his dad reached into the alligator's mouth to try to save the boy. \n After Lane's death, Disney made changes to restrict visitor contact with alligators on the property. Fences and other barriers were built around some of the lakes, and \"No Fishing\" signs were installed around waterfront areas. Disney World also limited fishing to excursions. \n Melissa Graves said the family wanted to celebrate Lane's \"first birthday in heaven.\" \n \"You'll always be Mommy's loving, sweet, baby boy. \u2026 We miss you, buddy, and we miss those hugs and kisses,\" Melissa Graves said. \n Matt Graves said Lane's life brought joy to the family. \n \"My wife will tell you those are the happiest days of her life, and I couldn't agree with her more,\" he said. \"Happy birthday, buddy.\" \n He also said he appreciated all the support the family received from the community after Lane's death. The family also has a 4-year-old daughter. \n The crowd wore blue shirts and released blue balloons into the air. \n Matt and Melissa Graves offered M&M cookies because they were Lane's favorite treat and handed out small silver crosses with blue ribbons attached to a prayer card. \n The Graves have said they don't plan to file a lawsuit against Disney World. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Family remembers boy killed by alligator at Disney World"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n With the arrival of the first commercial flights from the U.S. to Cuba in more than 50 years, the Cuban government is welcoming the wave of new visitors and struggling to update infrastructure that's already overwhelmed. \n SANTA CLARA, Cuba >> The first off JetBlue 387 were the TV cameramen, the U.S. secretary of transportation and the airline executives. \n As the tropical sun beat the tarmac, the VIPs traded congratulations on the arrival of the first commercial flight from the U.S. to Cuba in more than 50 years. Away from the cameras, a small but potentially more important group made its way through Santa Clara's single-terminal airport: a pair of backpackers from Oregon and a book editor from Chicago and his 16-year-old daughter \u2014 the first U.S. tourists on the newly reestablished flights. \n By December, the four will have a lot of company, with some 300 direct flights a week scheduled from the U.S. to 10 cities across Cuba. America's biggest airlines and the Obama administion hope the planes will carry hundreds of thousands of U.S. travelers, both Cuban-Americans visiting family and sightseers who will turn the largest island in the Caribbean back into a major U.S. vacation destination. \n For U.S. airlines it's a chance to move into an untapped market less than an hour's flight from Miami. For Cubans, it means waves of demanding but high-tipping Americans could transform the landscape in cities like Santa Clara that have been off the well-trod tourist track for now. \n \"The best tourist there is, is the American tourist,\" said 25-year-old Liban Bermudez as he sold 16-year-old Sophia Compton a pair of handmade leather sandals from his stand off Santa Clara's main plaza. \"They're the ones that buy the most.\" \n For President Barack Obama, the reestablishment of commercial air links with Cuba is the last major chance to make a key part of his foreign policy legacy irreversible before he leaves office. \n In the year since the U.S. and Cuba re-established diplomatic relations, government ties have grown quickly, generating a string of bilateral agreements on issues from environmental protection to public health. Commerce remains stalled by the 55-year-old U.S. trade embargo on Cuba, and the difficulty of doing business in the island's largely closed and centrally planned economy. \n The restart of commercial flights on Wednesday means 10 U.S. airlines including American Airlines, Delta, United, Southwest and JetBlue suddenly have hundreds of millions of dollars in business due to U.S.-Cuba normalization. \n The Obama administration finalized the last of the new routes, 20 a day to Havana, the same day Flight 387 touched down in Santa Clara. A requirement that the airlines start service within 90 days means all the new Cuba flights will have to be running a month before Obama leaves office. \n Pure tourism remains illegal under U.S. regulations that allow 12 categories of travel to Cuba including religious and sports activities and educational travel promoting \"people-to-people\" contact. For Americans without family ties to Cuba, the most popular form of travel has been on tightly focused educational trips organized in conjunction with the Cuban government. The Obama administration lifted that group requirement in March, leaving Americans free to travel to Cuba as long as they can credibly describe their trips as educational. \n As a result, the ban on tourism has become effectively unenforceable, something that many more Americans are likely to realize now that they can instantly book travel on commercial flights instead of expensive, inconvenient charters. \n The four travelers on Flight 387 without relatives in Cuba paid about $200 each to fly from Fort Lauderdale to Santa Clara. They spent Wednesday seeing Che Guevara's tomb and sites from Cuba' 1959 revolution. Then Stephen Compton and his daughter Sophia headed to Havana. Keane Daly and Taimairie Locke boarded a bus to the colonial city of Trinidad and the waterfalls and beaches of Cuba's central southern coast. \n \"I've traveled to 30-35 countries and this is probably one of the friendliest places I've been to,\" Daly, a 25-year-old University of Oregon geology graduate student, said Saturday evening. \"I was expecting maybe some hostility but it's actually the opposite. People are really excited about Americans coming to Cuba.\" \n Most of the non-official passengers on Flight 387 were Cuban-Americans \u2014 among the nearly 400,000 who already visit family in Cuba each year. \n The number of U.S. travelers without family ties to Cuba is already on track to at least triple to 300,000 this year. \n Strapped for cash as subsidized oil from Venezuela dwindles, the Cuban government is welcoming the wave of visitors and struggling to update infrastructure that's already overwhelmed. It's pushing to build new hotels, but demand will outstrip supply for years to come. The government has also given Aeroports de Paris, the French company that manages Paris' airports, a concession to take over Havana's Jose Marti airport, where passengers can often wait hours to get their checked bags. But renovation of the airport isn't expected to start in earnest until next year, well after commercial flights being arriving there from the U.S. \n Much of the demand is expected to be absorbed by Cuba's growing non-state tourism sector, where tens of thousands of private bed-and-breakfasts and restaurants have emerged across the country in recent years. \n The start of flights to lesser-known destinations like Santa Clara, Holguin and Camaguey is raising hopes among private business people that they will be able to capture a significant share of the US. tourist boom that's been concentrated until now in Havana and a circuit of popular destinations within a few hours' drive. \n \"We have to get ready and raise our standards,\" said Ger Gar manager of a bed-and-breakfast and restaurant in central Santa Clara. \"All of this is above and beyond what everybody was planning.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New air links raise hopes in Washington and Cuba"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The giant panda has been reclassified as vulnerable from endangered on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's list of endangered species, which was released Sunday, Sept. 4, 2016 at the World Conservation Congress in Hawaii. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The eastern gorilla has been listed as critically endangered, making four of the six great ape species only one step away from extinction, according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's Red List of Endangered Species. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The eastern gorilla has been listed as critically endangered, making four of the six great ape species only one step away from extinction, according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature's Red List of Endangered Species. \n The world's largest living primate has been listed as critically endangered, making four of the six great ape species only one step away from extinction, according to a report released Sunday at the World Conservation Congress in Hawaii. \n The International Union for the Conservation of Nature, or IUCN, cited illegal hunting in downgrading the status of the eastern gorilla on its Red List of Endangered Species. The list contains more than 80,000 species, and almost 24,000 of those are threatened with extinction. \n \"To see the eastern gorilla \u2014 one of our closest cousins \u2014 slide toward extinction is truly distressing,\" Inger Andersen, IUCN director general, said in a statement. \"Conservation action does work and we have increasing evidence of it. It is our responsibility to enhance our efforts to turn the tide and protect the future of our planet.\" \n The organization said an estimated 5,000 eastern gorillas remain in the wild, a decline of about 70 percent over the past 20 years. \n Of all the great ape species \u2014 the eastern gorilla, western gorilla, Bornean orangutan, Sumatran orangutan, chimpanzee and bonobo \u2014 only the chimpanzee and bonobo are not considered critically endangered. But they are listed as endangered. \n For the gorillas of the Congo, where the majority of the population lives, conservation will be a struggle because of political instability, said primatologist Russell Mittermeier, executive vice chairman of the Conservation International environmental group and chairman of IUCN's primates specialist group. \n \"There are no simple solutions right now, other than a much greater investment in on-the-ground protection until the region stabilizes, at which time major ecotourism, as is happening in the neighboring countries of Uganda and Rwanda, can take place,\" Mittermeier said in an email to The Associated Press. \n In an interview, Catherine Novelli, U.S. undersecretary of state for economic growth, energy and the environment, called the gorilla numbers a man-made tragedy. \n The research by the Wildlife Conservation Society was accepted by the IUCN, which is made up of private and government entities and is hosting the World Conservation Congress. More than 9,000 delegates from over 180 countries are attending this week's conference in Honolulu, including several heads of state. \n \"Critical endangered status will raise the profile of this gorilla subspecies and bring attention to its plight. It has tended to be the neglected ape in Africa, despite being the largest ape in the world,\" the study's lead scientist, Andrew Plumptre, said in an email. \n The IUCN compiles its peer-reviewed Red List alongside partners such as universities and environmental groups within animals' natural habitat. It is the most comprehensive analysis of endangered species and guides government policy around the world, said Cristian Samper, president and CEO of the Wildlife Conservation Society. \n Other animals on the list fared better than the apes, including the giant panda, which was previously on the endangered list. It is now listed as \"vulnerable\" after conservation efforts helped protect its habitat. \n \"For over 50 years, the giant panda has been the globe's most beloved conservation icon,\" said Marco Lambertini, director general of the environmental group World Wildlife Fund. \"Knowing that the panda is now a step further from extinction is an exciting moment for everyone committed to conserving the world's wildlife.\" \n Hunting and habitat destruction are taking a toll on animals and plants in variety of areas, the report said. \n In Hawaii, about 90 percent of native plants are threatened with extinction because of invasive species like rats, pigs and non-native plants, the IUCN said. \n In Africa, the plains zebra population has declined by a quarter since 2002, according to the group's statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Eastern gorilla added to critically endangered list"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Storm system Hermine spun away from the U.S. East Coast on Sunday, removing the threat of heavy rain but maintaining enough power to churn dangerous waves and currents and keep beaches off-limits to disappointed swimmers and surfers during the holiday weekend. \n NORFOLK, Va. >> Hermine spun away from the East Coast on Sunday, removing the threat of heavy rain but maintaining enough power to churn dangerous waves and rip currents and keep beaches off-limits to disappointed swimmers and surfers during the holiday weekend. \n The system picked up strength in the Atlantic Ocean and could regain hurricane force later Sunday as it travels up the coast. Forecasters expect it to stall over the water before weakening again to a tropical storm by Tuesday. \n Governors all along the Eastern seaboard announced emergency preparations. Tropical storm watches and warnings remained in effect for wide parts of the Mid-Atlantic states and the Northeast, including New Jersey and Delaware, where Rehoboth Beach could experience wind gusts up to 50 mph and life-threatening storm surges during high tide late Sunday and into Monday. \n In Virginia, Norfolk's flood-prone Ghent neighborhood saw many streets flooded, especially during high tide. \n Emily Birknes said she saw a couple of submerged cars and some people kayaked through the streets. But the water did not seep into any homes that she's aware of. \n \"We've seen worse storms,\" she said. \"But whenever severe weather is predicted, there is always an elevated sense of anxiety. People are stressed.\" \n In Virginia Beach, the weather service predicted large waves and rip currents that could endanger anyone who enters the surf. No significant rainfall was expected for the area, although scattered rain may occur in some parts of southern New England and the Mid-Atlantic states. \n On Labor Day, tropical storm-force winds were possible in New Jersey. Gov. Chris Christie warned that minor to moderate flooding was still likely in coastal areas and said the storm will cause major problems, even as it tracks eastward into the Atlantic. \n \"Don't be lulled by the nice weather,\" Christie said, referring to the bright sunny skies along the Jersey Shore on Sunday afternoon. \"Don't think that nothing is going to happen, because something is going to happen.\" \n Storm surges were expected to continue along the coast from Virginia to New Jersey. \n \"The combination of a storm surge and the tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters moving inland from the shoreline,\" the National Hurricane Center said in an advisory. \n Hermine (her-MEEN) rose up over the Gulf of Mexico and hit Florida on Friday as a Category 1 hurricane before weakening to a tropical storm across Georgia. \n It has caused two deaths, inflicted widespread property damage and closed beaches as far north as New York. The system also left hundreds of thousands of people without electricity from Florida to Virginia. \n Dominion Virginia Power said crews were working to restore power to about 5,000 customers in North Carolina and 1,500 in southeast Virginia. \n Nearly 80,000 utility customers in Florida were still without electricity, according to the Florida Division of Emergency Management. \n The Anclote River northwest of Tampa was forecast to go well into major flood stage on Sunday afternoon. Emergency managers issued mandatory evacuations for some low-lying mobile home parks and apartment buildings. \n At 2 p.m. Sunday, the storm's top sustained winds were steady at 70 mph as it moved east-northeast at 6 mph. The storm was centered about 325 miles east-southeast of Ocean City, Maryland. \n Since sea levels have risen up to a foot due to global warming, the storm surges pushed by Hermine could be even more damaging, climate scientists say. \n Michael Mann at Pennsylvania State University noted that this century's 1-foot sea-level rise in New York City meant 25 more square miles flooded during Superstorm Sandy, causing billions in additional damage. \n \"We are already experiencing more and more flooding due to climate change in every storm,\" said Michael Oppenheimer, a geosciences professor at Princeton University. \"And it's only the beginning.\" \n The winds and rain were so strong Saturday in North Carolina that all bridges to the Outer Banks were closed for several hours following a deadly accident over the intracoastal waterway. \n Tyrrell County Sheriff Darryl Liverman told the Virginian-Pilot that high winds tipped over an 18-wheeler, killing its driver and shutting down the U.S. 64 bridge. \n And on Hatteras Island in the Outer Banks, a small tornado spawned by Hermine knocked over two trailers and injured four people, authorities said. \n Earlier in Florida, a homeless man died from a falling tree. \n Todd Solomon, who lives in an area of Virginia Beach that often floods, said water crept up to the foundations of some homes. But he said he did not know of any buildings that were actually flooded. \n \"If you weren't in the flood-prone area, it was like a normal day,\" he said. \"And if your power was out, you kind of bounced around to find a restaurant or grocery store that still had power.\" \n On Sunday afternoon, he said, a few homes still lacked power. But most people were cleaning up trees and branches felled by the storm. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hermine spins away from U.S. East Coast, regains strength"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie laughs at a question from the media after speaking in Trenton, N.J. Donald Trump is pledging that the government he appoints will bring sweeping change to Washington's culture. So far, that promise comes with a heavy New Jersey accent. \n TRENTON, N.J. >> Donald Trump is pledging that the administration he leads will bring sweeping change to Washington. So far, that promise comes with a heavy New Jersey tilt. \n Chris Christie was passed over as Trump's running mate, but the New Jersey governor and some of his closest allies could leave a lasting mark on a Trump administration, should Trump win the presidency in November. \n Christie is chairman of Trump's transition team. He's assembling a team of advisers who would be set to help run federal agencies and put in place Trump's policies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Promising outsiders, Trump team led by Christie insiders"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "COURTESY ALASKA AIRLINES \n Alaska Airlines is no longer transferring shelter animals from Hawaii for free. \n PUHI >> Alaska Airlines is no longer transferring shelter animals from Hawaii for free. \n The Garden Island reports humane societies will be charged $150 for each animal's flight. \n A letter from the airline to Kauai Humane Society leadership cites safety and security concerns. The letter said passengers did not know the animals or take responsibility before takeoff and after landing. \n Kauai Humane Society Executive Director Penny Cistaro says shelter officials were always at airports for transfers. \n She said the new charge is cost prohibitive and also impacts the Maui Humane Society. \n A monthly average of 34 animals flew under the program. \n The Kauai shelter can afford travel for six animals per month. \n Alaska Airlines official Daniel Chun said the program was intended to ease shelter crowding and is being reevaluated. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alaska Airlines ends free humane society animal transfers"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Steve Gibson, of Pawnee, takes photos of damage to a building in downtown Pawnee, Okla., following a 5.6 magnitude earthquake that hit just after 7 a.m., in north-central Oklahoma. \n OKLAHOMA CITY >> The 37 wastewater disposal wells to be shut down in north-central Oklahoma, where a 5.6 magnitude earthquake struck this weekend, are just a fraction of the state's total number.  \n Oklahoma Corporation Commission spokesman Matt Skinner says the wells are among about 4,200 across the state. They're also among the about 700 in a 15,000-square-mile \"Area of Interest\" created by the commission to address earthquakes in the area near Pawnee. \n An increase in magnitude 3.0 or greater earthquakes in Oklahoma has been linked to underground disposal of wastewater from oil and natural gas production. \n Skinner said it isn't clear how many wells under the jurisdiction of the Environmental Protection Agency are in an adjacent county. \n Saturday's earthquake tied for the largest in the state. No major damage was reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wells closing after Oklahoma quake fraction of state's total"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lawmakers return to Washington for an abbreviated election-season session in which they will likely do what they do best: the bare minimum. In this case, that means preventing the government from shutting down and finally providing money for the government's battle against the mosquito-borne Zika virus. \n WASHINGTON >> Lawmakers return to Washington this week for an abbreviated election-season session in which they will likely do what they do best: the bare minimum. \n All Congress must do this month is keep the government from shutting down on Oct. 1 and, with any luck, finally provide money for the fight against the mosquito-borne Zika virus. Republicans controlling Congress promise they won't stumble now, but the weeks ahead could prove tricky. \n A chief motivation for the September session, especially for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., is allowing lawmakers to return to campaigning as soon as possible. Republicans are scrambling to hold onto their Senate edge as GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump lags in the polls. \n The short-term spending measure is sure to pass. The alternative is that Republicans would get the blame for a government shutdown, as they did in 2013. \n But it's a complicated path for the temporary spending bill. Some House conservatives say the measure should last into next year, when there is a new president and a new Congress, and that would block any chance for a session after the Nov. 8 election. Leaders in both parties feel otherwise \u2014 as does President Barack Obama \u2014 and a temporary measure until December seems to be the consensus. \n \"We are not doing anything into next year and every Republican should be aware of that right now,\" said Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev. \n Lawmakers left Washington seven weeks ago without resolving a dispute over money for Zika. The virus can cause severe birth defects and is linked to a host of other maladies. Obama asked Congress in February for $1.9 billion in emergency money, but legislation to partially pay for his proposal collapsed in July amid various fights. Among them was a Republican provision to deny money to Puerto Rican affiliates of Planned Parenthood. \n Because the shutdown-prevention measure simply has to pass, it's a tempting target for lawmakers seeking to use it as a vehicle for their preferences. For instance, Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., is pressing for emergency grants to help communities in his flood-ravaged state to recover. \n \"I hope we can accomplish that in September,\" Cassidy said. \n But GOP leaders probably will try to keep the spending bill as free of unrelated additions as possible, especially now. If GOP leaders were to grant Cassidy's request, it would make it more difficult to say no to others, such as Democrats seeking money for fixing the lead-tainted water system of Flint, Michigan. \n House conservatives are looking to press ahead with impeaching IRS Commissioner John Koskinen over the destruction of agency emails and misleading testimony on whether the tax agency, before his arrival, improperly scrutinized conservative groups seeking nonprofit status. The impeachment drive is a headache for Republicans who believe that Koskinen's conduct isn't serious enough to warrant impeachment, but who may be reluctant to support the Democratic appointee in such a politically charged environment. \n In a recent memo, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said lawmakers will take up legislation regarding the Obama administration's $400 million payment to Iran in January, made immediately after four U.S. prisoners were released. The payment, for undelivered arms to the shah of Iran, was made on the same day of the prisoner release, and Republicans call it \"ransom.\" The as-yet-unreleased legislation is designed to prevent a repeat, but seems like an election-season messaging effort. \n McConnell also wants to advance a popular water projects measure. But the priority is to simply adjourn the chamber to allow embattled incumbents such as Sens. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., Pat Toomey, R-Pa., and Richard Burr, R-N.C., to get back home and campaign for re-election against the political headwinds created by Trump. \n The abbreviated session should give GOP-run committees a final pre-election chance to hold hearings on the Obama administration and other targets such as EpiPen manufacturer Mylan, N.V. That company has come under withering criticism for steep price increases for its life-saving injector, which can stop potentially fatal allergic reactions to insect bites and stings, and foods such as peanuts and eggs. \n House Republicans are promising hearings on Hillary Clinton's emails. FBI Director James Comey criticized Clinton's use of a homebrew email server to handle sensitive work-related emails as \"extremely careless,\" but said his agency's yearlong investigation found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing. \n Republicans now are demanding that the Justice Department open a new investigation into whether Clinton lied during testimony last year before the House Benghazi committee. They claim the FBI note may show Clinton provided inconsistent answers to questions about her handling of emails containing classified information. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawmakers likely to do what they do best: the bare minimum"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lena Dunham is apologizing to New York Giants football player Odell Beckham Jr. for making \"narcissistic assumptions\" about his motivations in an article published Friday her Lenny Letter. \n LOS ANGELES >> Lena Dunham is apologizing to New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. for making \"narcissistic assumptions\" about his motivations in an article published Friday on her website Lenny Letter. \n In a discussion with Amy Schumer about the most recent Met Gala, Dunham said she was seated near Beckham, who she claimed was looking at his cellphone instead of her because he found her sexually unappealing. \n Dunham apologized Saturday on her social media accounts, saying she projected her personal insecurities onto the football star and presented them as facts. She said she and Beckham have never met and, \"after listening to a lot of valid criticism\" understands that it is wrong to ascribe misogynistic thoughts to a stranger. \n Beckham has not acknowledged Dunham's original comments or apology on his social media accounts. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lena Dunham apologizes to NFL star Odell Beckham Jr."}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Polls opened in Hong Kong Sunday for the specially administered Chinese city's most crucial election since the handover from Britain in 1997. The vote for lawmakers in the Legislative Council is also the first since 2014 pro-democracy street protests rocked the Asian financial hub. \n HONG KONG >> Voters turned out in force Sunday for Hong Kong's most crucial election since the handover from Britain in 1997, the outcome of which could pave the way for a fresh round of political confrontations over Beijing's control of the city. \n The vote for Legislative Council lawmakers will test the unity of Hong Kong's pro-democracy camp, with a new generation of radical activists joining the race after emerging in the wake of 2014 pro-democracy street protests. \n They're hoping to ride a rising tide of anti-China sentiment as they challenge formidably resourced pro-Beijing rivals for seats. Many of the newcomers back the previously unthinkable idea of independence for Hong Kong, which has added to divisions with the broader pro-democracy movement and overshadowed the election. Last month, officials disqualified six pro-independence candidates in an attempt to tamp down the debate, though other candidates with similar views made the cut. \n Hong Kongers feel they have few other negotiating tactics left in their battle for genuine democracy as Beijing takes an increasingly hard-line stance. \n \"It's bleak, but I think if China doesn't leave us to do what we want, I think the only way is to fight for independence,\" Aron Yuen, a 34-year-old college lecturer, said as he stood in line with about 100 other people to cast their ballots. \"You can't negotiate with somebody who doesn't keep their promise.\" \n Yuen planned to vote for 23-year-old Nathan Law, who, along with teen activist Joshua Wong, helped lead the 2014 protests. Their party, Demosisto, advocates a referendum on \"self-determination\" of Hong Kong's future. \n Voters were choosing from among 84 lists of candidates to fill 35 seats in a complex system of geographic constituencies that makes results, expected Monday, hard to predict. \n At stake is the power to keep the city's widely unpopular Beijing-backed leader, Leung Chun-ying, and his government in check. \"Pan-democrat\" lawmakers currently control 27 of 70 seats, compared with 43 held by lawmakers friendly to Beijing. The democrats are fighting to keep control of at least a third of the seats, which gives them veto power to block government attempts to enact unpopular legislation, including a renewed attempt to enact Beijing's controversial election revamp that triggered the 2014 street protests. \n The risk is that the pro-democracy vote will be split, allowing pro-Beijing candidates to take more seats and removing a major hurdle for the government's proposals, which in turn could lead to a new round of political confrontations. \n Turnout appeared to be higher than average, with long lines of people still waiting to cast ballots at some polling stations by the time voting was supposed to end. Some 52.6 percent of nearly 3.8 million registered voters had turned out an hour before polls closed, matching the total turnout for the previous election four years ago. Turnout in the 2008 election was 45.2 percent, according to the government's website. \n Earlier Sunday, a small group of protesters demanded Leung step down outside a polling station where he cast his vote. \n \"Our election is a democratic election,\" Leung told reporters. \n \"The democracy in the election is reflected by the free choice of voters, they do not need to be told who to vote (for),\" he said when asked his thoughts on how results would be affected after seven candidates with low support, most of them pro-democracy, suspended their campaigns at the last minute in a bid to consolidate votes for others. \n Hong Kong has been the scene of increasingly bitter political turmoil since the last legislative election in 2012. The growing calls for independence highlight frustration among residents, especially young people, who are chafing under Beijing's tightening hold. A spate of incidents, including the disappearance of five Hong Kong booksellers who later resurfaced in detention in mainland China, has aroused fears that Beijing is reneging on its promise of wide autonomy for Hong Kong under a \"one country, two systems\" framework. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Voters turn out in force for crucial Hong Kong election"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kindergarten school teacher, Shannon Raftery poses for a photograph in her classroom as she prepares it for the upcoming school year in Philadelphia, Wednesday, Aug. 31, 2016. Raftery raised funds through crowdfunding to supplement the money she took out of each paycheck to pay for classroom supplies. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Paper? Pencils? Laptops? Robots? Teachers are increasingly relying on crowdfunding efforts to stock their classrooms with both the mundane and sometimes big-ticket items. \n Contributions to education campaigns have climbed on GoFundMe and DonorsChoose, collectively, from just more than $31.2 million in 2010 to nearly $140 million in 2015, the do-it-yourself fundraising sites report. Both sites are on pace to eclipse that in 2016. \n GoFundMe has collected $58 million in just the last 12 months, and DonorsChoose saw more than 50,000 campaigns live on the site for the first time this back-to-school season. \n In her first year as an elementary school teacher in Kingman, Arizona, Shannon Raftery raised $340 through crowdfunding to supplement the money she took out of each paycheck to pay for classroom supplies. Now in Philadelphia, she's looking to raise $500 for her new kindergarten classroom at Roosevelt Elementary School. \n She has a supportive principal, she said, but there is just not enough money in the notoriously cash-strapped Philadelphia district to equip her classroom the way she'd like. \n In her case, reality is a $200 budget allocated to cover 25 students in a school where at least 40 percent of students live in poverty. She has spent that even before the start of classes after Labor Day. \n \"I'd rather spend my own money than have my kids go without something,\" she said. \"Every dollar helps.\" \n But even as Raftery plans to continue pulling $100 to $150 from each paycheck to meet her classroom needs, she said, she knows it won't be enough. She has bought cleaning supplies, bulletin board paper, and peach and sky blue paint to cover her stark white walls. She hopes to add to seating with beach chairs and bean bags. \n \"I don't want a cold environment to ruin a kid's first impression of school,\" Raftery said. \n Donors can scroll through all education campaigns listed on the sites, resulting in millions of dollars' worth of supplies and equipment infused into both high-poverty schools and more affluent districts. \n \"There still is that group of teachers that has amazing ideas even in the most well-funded districts, like the sixth-grade teacher wanting and currently campaigning for an underwater robot to restore fisheries,\" said Chris Pearsall, DonorsChoose spokesman. \n Teachers create campaigns by writing a story about their needs, often accompanied by classroom pictures. \n Teachers have turned to crowdfunding even in states with high per-pupil spending. But while the numbers are enough to cause pause, they aren't necessarily surprising, said Michael Leachman, director of state fiscal research at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. \n Post-recession local, state and federal revenue has been unable to keep up with states' needs after deep cuts. Now, other economic factors, like low property taxes and inflation, are preventing them from a full recovery, even as most states have seen gradual improvement in education funding, Leachman said. \n \"It's obviously disturbing that teachers are having to raise the money that they need to provide good education to kids,\" he said. \n With crowdfunding, teachers can access funding and supplies within weeks of starting a campaign. \n Allan Rogers teaches third grade at Jackson Elementary School in Jackson, Louisiana, a rural community damaged by recent flooding. He works with students who are already using crowdfunded supplies mere weeks into the school year. \n \"There have been people who have lost everything due to the flooding, and prior to the flooding they already didn't have much,\" Rogers said of students and staff at the school, where there is no technology budget and about 96 percent of students are get free or discounted lunches. \n Teachers at the school have campaigned for basic supplies, like white board markers, but are also trying to buy a functioning computer for each classroom, said Megan Phillips, the school's principal. They've relied exclusively on crowdfunding to purchase computers, iPad and iPods for students to use, she said. \n \"We're always trying to give students what they deserve,\" Rogers said. \"Not only what they need, but what they deserve.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Crowdfunded classrooms: Teachers increasingly solicit online"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "COLUMBIA, Mo. >> A University of Missouri assistant communications professor fired for her conduct during student protests late last year has a new job with a university in Washington state. \n The Kansas City Star reports that Melissa Click has been hired as a lecturer at Gonzaga University in Spokane. \n Click was fired in February after a videotaped confrontation in which she called for \"some muscle\" to remove a student videographer from a protest area in November on the University of Missouri's Columbia campus. The video went viral. \n As dean of Gonzaga's College of Arts and Sciences, Elisabeth Mermann-Jozwiak, says Gonzaga officials knew of Click's recent history and were confident in welcoming her to the university. \n Click was hired for a one-year, non-tenure-track position as a lecturer in Gonzaga's communication studies department. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gonzaga hires Missouri educator fired over protest conduct"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Many colleges and universities let you pay with plastic, and some people do. But it can be a very poor financial decision that may cost you more in the long run. \n If people put everything from groceries to gas on credit cards to earn rewards, why not college tuition? \n Many colleges and universities let you pay with plastic, and some people do. But it can be a very poor financial decision, and it may cost you more in the long run. \n Sallie Mae's report \"How America Pays for College 2016\" found that about 2 percent of families with students used credit cards to pay for college costs, putting an average of $4,443 on the cards for tuition and other expenses to attend school. About 5 percent of students used credit cards, charging about $1,615. But here are some things to think about before you put down the plastic: \n The fees help school cover the cost of processing the cards and vary greatly by location and type of school. \n Creditcards.com found that community colleges are the most fee-friendly \u2014 only 8 percent of those that accept cards charge convenience fees. By contrast, 93 percent of public universities and 77 percent of private institutions that accept credit cards charge convenience fees. \n \"College is expensive enough without having to pay an additional 2 to 3 percent to pay with plastic,\" said Matt Schulz, CreditCards.com's senior industry analyst. \n The fees are not always immediately evident and might not be made clear until you are into the payment processing system, so it may be worth a call to your school to find out if they charge them. \n The interest you pay would greatly outweigh any benefits you'd receive as a cardholder. And it would dwarf any convenience fee you would pay, Schulz said. \n Consider lower-interest means of borrowing to pay for school, such as student loans. \n But it only makes sense to charge your tuition if all these criteria apply: your card issuer offers rewards but doesn't charge a convenience fee, and you're able to pay off the balance within the billing cycle to avoid interest. \n \"If you can do all of those things, it makes sense to charge your tuition, but beyond that, the math just doesn't work in your favor,\" Schulz said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Put it on my card\u2026or not"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama smiles during the opening ceremony of the G20 Summit in Hangzhou in eastern China's Zhejiang province on Sunday. \n HANGZHOU, China >> The United States and Russia came up short Sunday on a deal to end years of brutal fighting between Syria's Russian-backed government and U.S.-supported rebels. Negotiations were to continue Monday, even as a dispirited President Barack Obama doubted the diplomacy would ever pay off. \n Russia and the U.S. have sought for weeks to secure a cease-fire between Syrian President Bashar Assad's government and moderate rebels that would expand access for hundreds of thousands of civilians caught in the crossfire. The strategy has hinged on an unlikely U.S.-Russian militarily partnership against extremist groups operating in Syria. \n But beyond the Islamic State and al-Qaida, the two powers have conflicting views about who fits in that category. \n \"We're not there yet,\" Obama said on the sidelines of an economic summit in China, where across town U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were trying to hash out the deal. \"It's premature for us to say that there is a clear path forward, but there is the possibility at least for us to make some progress on that front.\" \n A senior State Department official said the talks faltered on Saturday when Russia pulled back from agreement on issues the U.S. negotiators believed had been settled. The official, who wasn't authorized to discuss negotiations publicly and requested anonymity, didn't elaborate. Kerry and Lavrov were consulting with their governments before talks resume on Monday. \n The conflict has killed as many as a half-million people since 2011 and caused millions of Syrians to flee their homes, contributing to a global migration crisis. Amid the chaos, IS has emerged as a global terror threat. \n Kerry and Lavrov's talks on the sidelines of the Group of 20 economic summit represent their third significant attempt since July to finalize a new U.S.-Russian military partnership that Moscow has long sought. The package would include provisions so aid can reach besieged areas of Syria and measures to prevent Assad's government from bombing areas where U.S.-backed rebels are operating. \n U.S. officials have said that as part of a deal, Russia would have to halt offensives by Assad's government, something it has failed to do over months of diplomatic efforts. And the U.S. must get rebels to break ranks with the al-Qaida-linked Nusra Front, a task that grew tougher after its fighters last month successfully broke the siege of Aleppo, Syria's largest city and the site of fierce recent fighting. \n Negotiators had been hopeful a deal could come together while world leaders gathered in China, and American officials were optimistic enough that they invited reporters to an expected announcement by Kerry and Lavrov. But officials removed Lavrov's podium just before Kerry came out \u2014 alone \u2014 to announce that no agreement had been finalized. A planned conference call with journalists to discuss the deal was abruptly canceled. \n \"We're not going to rush,\" said Kerry, who has negotiated several failed truces with Russia in recent months. \n He said the two sides had worked through many technical issues but said the U.S. didn't want to enter into an illegitimate agreement. In recent days, the State Department has said it only wants a nationwide cease-fire between Assad's military and the rebels, and not another \"cessation of hostilities\" that is time-limited and only stops fighting in some cities and regions. \n Negotiators on both sides have spent weeks poring over maps of potential areas where opposition groups operate and where Assad's forces would be prohibited from launching airstrikes. The idea is for Russia to use its significant influence over Assad to ensure compliance with the deal. \n But the U.S. has long been wary on the military coordination part of the deal, because it says Russia has mainly targeted moderate, U.S.-backed opposition groups in a bid to prop up Assad. The U.S. wants Russia to focus exclusively on IS and al-Qaida-linked groups. Both Defense Secretary Ash Carter and National Intelligence Director James Clapper have expressed misgivings about sharing intelligence and targeting information with Moscow. \n Neither side explained Sunday in detail what sticking points remain. Kerry said the U.S. wanted a deal with the best chance for survival. Lavrov's deputy, Sergei Ryabkov, said a deal was \"close\" but said Washington had to dissociate itself from Nusra. \n \"Many of the groups considered acceptable by the U.S. have actually affiliated with the Nusra Front, while the Nusra Front is using them to avoid being attacked,\" Ryabkov told Russian media, citing a longstanding complaint of his government. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S., Russia come up short on Syria deal; more talks Monday"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis declared Mother Teresa a saint on Sunday, praising the tiny nun for having taken in society's most unwanted and for having shamed world leaders for the \"crimes of poverty they themselves created.\" \n VATICAN CITY >> Elevating the \"saint of the gutters\" to one of the Catholic Church's highest honors, Pope Francis on Sunday praised Mother Teresa for her radical dedication to society's outcasts and her courage in shaming world leaders for the \"crimes of poverty they themselves created.\" \n An estimated 120,000 people filled St. Peter's Square for the canonization ceremony, less than half the number who turned out for her 2003 beatification. It was nevertheless the highlight of Francis' Holy Year of Mercy and quite possibly one of the defining moments of his mercy-focused papacy. \n Francis has been dedicated to ministering to society's most marginal, from prostitutes to prisoners, refugees to the homeless. In that way, while the canonization of \"St. Teresa of Kolkata\" was a celebration of her life and work, it was also something of an affirmation of Francis' own papal priorities, which have earned him praise and criticism alike. \n \"Let us carry her smile in our hearts and give it to those whom we meet along our journey, especially those who suffer,\" Francis said in his homily. \n Born Agnes Gonxhe Bojaxhiu on Aug. 26, 1910, Teresa came to India in 1929 as a sister of the Loreto order. In 1946, she received what she described as a \"call within a call\" to found a new order dedicated to caring for the most unloved and unwanted, the \"poorest of the poor\" in the slums of her adopted city, Kolkata. \n The Missionaries of Charity order went on to become one of the most well-known in the world, with more than 4,000 sisters in their trademark blue-trimmed white saris doing as Teresa instructed: \"small things with great love.\" \n At the order's Mother House in Kolkata, hundreds of people watched the Mass on TV and clapped with joy when Francis declared her a saint. \n They gathered around Teresa's tomb which was decorated with flowers, a single candle and a photo of the wrinkled saint. \n \"I am so proud to be from Kolkata,\" said Sanjay Sarkar, a high school student on hand for the celebration. \"Mother Teresa belonged to Kolkata, and she has been declared a saint.\" \n For Francis, Teresa put into action his ideal of the church as a \"field hospital\" for those suffering both material and spiritual poverty, living on the physical and existential peripheries of society. \n In his homily, Francis praised her as the merciful saint who defended the lives of the unborn, sick and abandoned, recalling her strong opposition to abortion which often put her at odds with progressives around the world. \n \"She bowed down before those who were spent, left to die on the side of the road, seeing in them their God-given dignity,\" he said. \n Teresa's most famous critic, Christopher Hitchens, has accused her of taking donations from dictators \u2014 charges church authorities deny. Francis chose to emphasize her other dealings with the powerful. \n \"She made her voice heard before the powers of the world, so that they might recognize their guilt for the crimes of poverty they themselves created,\" he said, repeating for emphasis \"the crimes of poverty.\" \n Hundreds of Missionaries of Charity sisters had front-row seats at the Mass, alongside 1,500 homeless people and 13 heads of state or government and even royalty: Queen Sofia of Spain. For the homeless, Francis offered a luncheon afterward in the Vatican auditorium, catered by a Neapolitan pizza maker who brought his own ovens for the event. \n \"Her heart, she gave it to the world,\" said Charlotte Samba, a 52-year-old mother of three who traveled with a church group from Gabon for the Mass. \"Mercy, forgiveness, good works: It is the heart of a mother for the poor.\" \n While big, the crowd attending the canonization wasn't even half of the 300,000 who turned out for Mother Teresa's 2003 beatification celebrated by an ailing St. John Paul II. The low turnout suggested that financial belt-tightening and security fears in the wake of Islamic extremist attacks in Europe may have kept pilgrims away. \n Those fears prompted a huge, 3,000-strong law enforcement presence to secure the area around the Vatican and close the airspace above. Many of those security measures have been in place for the duration of the Jubilee year, which officially ends in November. \n While Francis is clearly keen to hold Teresa up as a model for her joyful dedication to the poor, he was also recognizing holiness in a nun who lived most of her adult life in spiritual agony, sensing that God had abandoned her. \n According to correspondence that came to light after she died in 1997, Teresa experienced what the church calls a \"dark night of the soul\" \u2014 a period of spiritual doubt, despair and loneliness that many of the great mystics experienced. In Teresa's case, it lasted for nearly 50 years \u2014 an almost unheard of trial. \n For the Rev. Brian Kolodiejchuk, the Canadian priest who spearheaded Teresa's saint-making campaign, the revelations were further confirmation of Mother Teresa's heroic saintliness. He said that by canonizing her, Francis is recognizing that she not only shared the material poverty of the poor but the spiritual poverty of those who feel \"unloved, unwanted, uncared for.\" \n \"If I'm going to be a saint, I'm going to be a saint of darkness, and I'll be asking from heaven to be the light of those who are in darkness on Earth,\" she once wrote. \n Francis has never publicly mentioned this \"darkness,\" but he has in many ways modeled his papacy on Teresa and her simple lifestyle and selfless service to the poor: He eschewed the Apostolic Palace for a hotel room, made welcoming migrants and the poor a hallmark and has fiercely denounced today's \"throwaway\" culture that discards the unborn, the sick and the elderly with ease. \n Teresa's Missionaries of Charity went on to become a global order of nuns, priests, brothers and lay co-workers. She was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 and died in 1997. Soon thereafter, John Paul placed her on the fast-track for sainthood. \n Francis has confessed that he was somewhat intimidated by Teresa, knowing well she was as tough as she was tender. He quipped during a 2014 visit to Albania that he would never have wanted her as his superior because she was so firm with her sisters. \n But on Sunday, he admitted that even he would find it hard to call her \"St. Teresa,\" since her tenderness was so maternal. \n \"Spontaneously, we will continue to say 'Mother Teresa,'\" he said to applause. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mother Teresa: 'Saint of the gutters' canonized at Vatican"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n At 5 p.m., Tropical Storm Lester was located 430 miles north-northwest of Honolulu, and 345 miles north-northwest of Lihue, packing maximum sustained winds of 50 mph. \n NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This satellite image shows Tropical Storm Lester north of Kauai. But rain bands behind Lester could bring showers to Hawaii though Monday. \n Update 11:00 p.m. \n Tropical storm Lester weakens as it moves rapidly Northwestward. \n There are no coastal watches or warnings in effect. \n The center of Tropical Storm Lester was located near latitude 27.9 North, longitude 162.6 West. Lester is moving toward the northwest near 18 mph (30 km/h), and this general motion is expected to continue through Monday. Lester is forecast to gradually turn toward the north at a slower forward speed Monday night and Tuesday. \n Maximum sustained winds are near 45 mph (75 km/h) with higher gusts. \n Little change in intensity is forecast through Tuesday. \n Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 130 miles (215 km) from the center. \n The estimated minimum central pressure is 1005 mb (29.68 inches). \n Update 5:30 p.m. \n A flood advisory for Oahu has expired tonight, and the flood advisory for the Big Island will expire at 5:45 p.m. \n Radar and rain gauges showed that the heavy rain, which prompted the advisory, has dissipated. \n The National Weather Service said to continue to use caution near rivers and streams as they will remain elevated for the next few hours. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Lester is slowly weakening as it continues moving away from the islands. \n At 5 p.m., it was located 430 miles north-northwest of Honolulu, and 345 miles north-northwest of Lihue, packing maximum sustained winds of 50 mph. \n Lester was moving northwest at 17 mph, and is forecast to gradually turn toward the north and slow down Monday night and Tuesday. \n Tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 140 miles from Lester's center. \n A flood advisory remains in effect for the Big Island and parts of Oahu. \n The National Weather Service said at 4:18 p.m. radar over Oahu showed heavy showers over Pearl Harbor, moving west at 10 mph. \n Additional showers extend north from Pearl Harbor to Schofield Barracks and are also moving west at 10 mph. \n Rainfall rates of 1 to 2 inches are possible, the weather service said. \n Locations in the advisory include, but are not limited to, Schofield Barracks, Kapolei, Waipahu, Waianae, Mililani, Waialua, Wahiawa, Barbers Point, Aiea, Kunia, Pearl City and Waikele. \n The advisory for Oahu is set to expire at 5:30 p.m., but could be extended. \n Update 3:30 p.m. \n A flood advisory has been issued for parts of Oahu and Hawaii island as moisture brought by former Hurricane Lester lingered around the islands. \n The National Weather Service said at 2:32 p.m. radar showed heavy showers near Mililani and moving northwest at 5 mph. Additional showers were located from Aiea to Mokuleia, moving westward at 5 mph. \n Rainfall rates of 1 to 2 inches are possible, the weather service said. \n Locations in the advisory on Oahu include, but are not limited to: Schofield Barracks, Waipahu, Waialua, Wahiawa, Kunia, Pearl City and Waikele. \n The advisory was set to expire at 5:30 p.m., but could be extended. \n An advisory for the Big Island was in effect until 5:45 p.m. and could also be extended. \n At 2:51 p.m., radar indicted heavy rain and nearly stationary thunderstorms upslope of Kona, with rain falling at a rate of 1 to 3 inches per hour. \n Heavy showers were also located along upslope sections between Kona and Milolii and across leeward slopes of Mauna Kea, upslope of Waikii. \n The advisory included, but was not limited to: Kona, Captain Cook, Waikoloa Village, Kamuela, Honaunau, Puuanahulu, Pohakuloa Training Area, Kainaliu, Kalaoa, Pohakuloa Camp, Honalo and Hawaiian Ocean View. \n The weather service warned the public to stay away from streams, drainage ditches and low-lying areas prone to flooding. Rainfall and runoff will also cause dangerous driving conditions from ponding and poor visibility. \n Tropical Storm Lester, with winds of 60 mph, is moving away from the state. \n Previous coverage \n Heavy rains prompted flood advisories on Oahu and Hawaii island even as Tropical Strom Lester moves away from the state. \n A band of rain trailing behind Lester was moving over the Big Island this morning and is likely to move over other islands before finally passing Kauai on Monday, National Weather Service forecasters said. \n In addition, the humid tropical air over the islands from Lester and Kona winds, combined with daytime heating, could bring afternoon showers. Some of the rain could be local heavy and there is a chance of thunderstorms. \n A flood advisory has been issued for Molokai until 4 p.m. after radar images indicated a thunderstorm producing heavy rainfall near Kepuhi moving west at 5 mph. \n Locations in the advisory include but are not limited to Kepuhi, Hoolehua, Kualapuu, and Maunaloa. \n A high surf warning expired this morning after the dangerous waves generated by Lester on east shores fell below advisory levels. However, surf remained high on north and east shores. On Oahu, waves of 5 to 7 feet on east shores this morning are expected to drop to 4 to 6 feet by Monday. North shore waves of 5 to 8 feet are expected to drop to 3 to 5 feet this afternoon, and 2 to 4 feet Monday. \n At 11 a.m., Lester was 335 miles north-northwest of Honolulu and 260 miles north of Lihue. Lester had maximum sustained winds of 60 mph and was moving northwest at 17 mph. \n Tropical storm force winds extend outward up to 140 miles from Lester's center. \n The forecast for today calls for partly sunny to mostly cloudy skies with showers becoming likely by this afternoon. \n The southeast winds are also bringing vog over the islands. \n Conditions will be muggy with winds coming from the southeast at 10 mph. Highs will be between 84 and 89, but it will feel hotter because of the humidity. Lows tonight are expected to be between 73 and 78 degrees. \n Tradewinds should return after this last bit of rain from Lester passes. \n \"By this time tomorrow, all islands will be under stable, moderate to locally strong trade wind regime. Showers will be present with this flow, favoring the windward and mountain areas. The frequency of the showers will be highest during the nights and mornings. The strength of the trades will be switching between moderate and moderate to locally strong during the new work week,\" forecasters said. \n What's left of Lester will turn towards the northeast and be absorbed into other weather systems heading toward the mainland. Lester will no longer be a named storm, but its remnants may bring heavy rain to the Pacific Northwest next weekend. \n ", "author": "Craig Gima", "title": "Lester weakens, moves away; flood advisories expire as rain dissipates"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "TOM STROMME/THE BISMARCK TRIBUNE VIA AP \n The Seven Councils Camp has a number of tents and teepees with people living at the site walking or riding horses on the sprawling area in Morton County Thursday, Aug. 18, 2016, near the Cannonball River and Missouri River. Developers of a $3.8 billion, four-state oil pipeline have agreed to halt construction near an American Indian reservation in southern North Dakota until a federal court hearing next week in Washington, D.C. \n BISMARCK, N.D. \u00bb A protest of a four-state, $3.8 billion oil pipeline turned violent Saturday after tribal officials say construction crews destroyed American Indian burial and cultural sites on private land in southern North Dakota. \n Morton County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Donnell Preskey said four private security guards and two guard dogs were injured after several hundred protesters confronted construction crews Saturday afternoon at the site just outside the Standing Rock Sioux reservation. One of the security officers was taken to a Bismarck hospital for undisclosed injuries. The two guard dogs were taken to a Bismarck veterinary clinic, Preskey said. \n Tribe spokesman Steve Sitting Bear said protesters reported that six people had been bitten by security dogs, including a young child. At least 30 people were pepper-sprayed, he said. Preskey said law enforcement authorities had no reports of protesters being injured. \n There were no law enforcement personnel at the site when the incident occurred, Preskey said. The crowd disbursed when officers arrived and no one was arrested, she said. \n The incident occurred within half a mile of an encampment where hundreds of people have gathered to join the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe's protest of the oil pipeline that is slated to cross the Missouri River nearby. \n The tribe is challenging the Army Corps of Engineers' decision to grant permits for Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners' Dakota Access pipeline, which crosses the Dakotas and Iowa to Illinois, including near the reservation in southern North Dakota. A federal judge will rule before Sept. 9 whether construction can be halted on the Dakota Access pipeline. \n Energy Transfer Partners did not return phone calls and emails from The Associated Press on Saturday seeking comment. \n The tribe fears it's a project they fear will disturb sacred sites and impact drinking water for thousands of tribal members on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation and millions further downstream. \n The protest Saturday came one day after the tribe filed court papers saying it found several sites of \"significant cultural and historic value\" along the path of the proposed pipeline. \n Tribal preservation officer Tim Mentz said in court documents that the tribe was only recently allowed to survey private land north of the Standing Rock Sioux reservation. Mentz said researchers found burials rock piles called cairns and other sites of historic significance to Native Americans. \n Standing Rock Sioux chairman David Archambault II said in a statement that construction crews removed topsoil across an area about 150 feet wide stretching for 2 miles. \n \"This demolition is devastating,\" Archambault said. \"These grounds are the resting places of our ancestors. The ancient cairns and stone prayer rings there cannot be replaced. In one day, our sacred land has been turned into hollow ground.\" \n Preskey said the company filmed the confrontation by helicopter and turned the video over to authorities. Protesters also have posted some of the confrontation on social media. \n Morton County Sheriff Kyle Kirchmeier said in a statement that \"individuals crossed onto private property and accosted private security officers with wooden posts and flag poles.\" \n \"Any suggestion that today's event was a peaceful protest, is false,\" his statement said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oil pipeline protest turns violent in southern North Dakota"}

{"date": "September 4, 2016", "text": "KIMM ANDERSON/ST. CLOUD TIMES VIA AP \n Pedestrians walk past white ribbons hung along Minnesota Street as residents of St. Joseph, Minn., wait for confirmation that the remains of 1989 abduction victim Jacob Wetterling had been found, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2016. The Stearns County Sheriff's Office says in a statement that Jacob's remains were identified on Saturday. Jacob was 11 when he was kidnapped from a rural road on Oct. 22, 1989, near his home in St. Joseph, about 80 miles northwest of Minneapolis. \n KIMM ANDERSON/ST. CLOUD TIMES VIA AP \n A bouquet of flowers is placed at the end of Jerry and Patty Wetterling's driveway as news has come out that the search for Jacob Wetterling may be over, Saturday afternoon, Sept. 3, 2016, in St. Joseph, Minn. Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton and other officials are offering support to the family of Jacob Wetterling after his mother said the remains of the boy missing for nearly 27 years have been found. In a statement, Dayton says Jacob's story \"has touched the lives and hearts of Minnesotans for a generation.\" \n MINNEAPOLIS \u00bb The remains of Jacob Wetterling, an 11-year-old boy kidnapped from a rural Minnesota road nearly 27 years ago, have been identified, authorities said, providing long-awaited answers to a mystery that has captivated residents and sparked changes in sex offender laws. \n A masked gunman abducted Jacob in October of 1989 near the boy's home in St. Joseph, about 80 miles northwest of Minneapolis. The Stearns County Sheriff's Office confirmed in a statement Saturday that \"Jacob Wetterling's remains have been located\" and that the Ramsey County medical examiner and a forensic odontologist identified them Saturday. \n Additional DNA testing will be conducted and investigators are continuing to evaluate new evidence in the case, the sheriff's office said, adding that authorities expect to be able to provide more details early next week. \n A law enforcement official told The Associated Press earlier Saturday that a person of interest in Jacob's abduction took authorities to a field in central Minnesota last week. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the ongoing case, said remains and other evidence were recovered and that the remains had been buried. \n Jacob's mother, Patty Wetterling, sent a text message to KARE-TV earlier Saturday, saying that Jacob \"has been found and our hearts are broken.\" She did not immediately respond to calls and text messages from The Associated Press. \n Jacob was riding his bicycle with his brother and a friend on Oct. 22, 1989, when a masked gunman abducted him. Authorities said the man held on to Jacob and told the other boys to run. Jacob hadn't been seen since, despite extensive searches, tens of thousands of leads and offers of a monetary reward. \n No one has been arrested or charged in his abduction, which led to changes in sex-offender registration laws. \n But last year, authorities took another look at the case, and were led to Danny Heinrich, a man they called a \"person of interest\" in Jacob's kidnapping. \n Heinrich, 53, of Annandale, denied any involvement in the abduction, and was not charged with that crime. But he has pleaded not guilty to 25 federal child pornography charges and is scheduled to go on trial on those counts in October. \n The FBI has said previously that Heinrich matched the general description of a man who assaulted several boys in Paynesville from 1986 to 1988. Earlier this year, Heinrich's DNA was found on the sweatshirt of a 12-year-old boy who was kidnapped from Cold Spring and sexually assaulted just nine months before Jacob's abduction. \n Heinrich was questioned by authorities shortly after Jacob's disappearance, but he denied involvement. Court documents say his shoes and car tires were \"consistent\" with tracks left near the site of Jacob's abduction, but couldn't be ruled an exact match. Authorities also searched the home where Heinrich lived with his father at the time and found scanners, camouflage clothing and a picture of a boy wearing underwear. \n Heinrich's attorney did not respond to emailed requests for comment Saturday. \n Jacob's abduction shattered childhood innocence for many in rural Minnesota, changing the way parents let their kids roam. His smiling face was burned into Minnesota's psyche, appearing on countless posters and billboards over the years. Each year, Minnesota residents were asked to keep their porch lights on for Jacob's safe return. \n Patty Wetterling always kept hope her son would be found alive. She became a national advocate for children, and with her husband, Jerry Wetterling, founded the Jacob Wetterling Resource Center, which works to help communities and families prevent child exploitation. In 1994, Congress passed a law named after Jacob Wetterling that requires states to establish sex offender registries. \n Officials with the Jacob Wetterling Resource Center posted a statement on its website Saturday, saying they are in \"deep grief.\" \n \"We didn't want Jacob's story to end this way,\" the statement said. \"Our hearts are heavy, but we are being held up by all of the people who have been a part of making Jacob's Hope a light that will never be extinguished. \u2026 Jacob, you are loved.\" \n ___ \n Associated Press writer Jeff Baenen contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Remains of Minnesota boy missing since 1989 found"}

