{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Archer Daniels Midland Company plant is seen in Decatur, Ill. In 2014, Decatur, Ill., lost Archer Daniels Midland to Chicago after 40 years in the town. \n PEORIA, Ill. >> Peoria Mayor Jim Ardis planned to open this year's State of the City speech by thanking Caterpillar Inc. for its longtime commitment to the central Illinois town, declaring \"We wouldn't be Peoria without Caterpillar.\" \n It's been that way for decades in Peoria and in other company towns across the United States. A major employer provided generations of locals with jobs and gave the cities a central identity, while executives helped keep cultural institutions, Rotary clubs and higher-end housing markets healthy. \n Now many of those midsize communities are looking for a new identity as more companies trade their longtime hometowns for major cities with easier access to global markets and to the lifestyle talented young workers want, with public transit, nightlife and trendy restaurants. \n Caterpillar's recent decision to move 300 top headquarters jobs to the Chicago area made Peoria the latest city with a vacuum to fill. In 2014, Decatur, Illinois, lost Archer Daniels Midland to Chicago after 40 years in the town. ConAgra Foods moved 1,000 jobs last year from Omaha to Chicago. \n Some companies also are leaving suburban areas for downtowns, though the suburbs are still a popular choice. General Electric is moving its executives from a suburban campus in Fairfield, Connecticut, to downtown Boston, and McDonald's said last year it will relocate downtown Chicago from a sprawling headquarters in suburban Oak Brook. \n A study by the virtual think tank CityObservatory.org found the number of jobs located within three miles of the city center grew by nearly 2 percent between 2011 and 2014, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. Center city jobs grew slightly faster than those in the periphery in one recent seven-year period, a reversal from much of the past several decades. \n \"I don't know that I'd call it a trend yet but it certainly is becoming one,\" said Tom Murphy, a former Pittsburgh mayor and senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute. \"Maybe for the first time in history, rather than having people follow where jobs are \u2026 we're beginning to see jobs following people instead.\" \n By a 2-to-1 margin, young college graduates are now choosing a place to live first, then finding a job, said Joe Cortright, director of CityObservatory.org. \n For companies recruiting top talent, \"the biggest competitive advantage is to be in the city,\" Cortright said. \n The change is adding to the divide between urban and smaller communities in the U.S., especially in the Midwest, which is beset with sagging manufacturing industries. \n \"We joke about that there's the great state of Chicago, and then there's the rest of Illinois,\" said Bishop Harold Dawson Jr., a lifelong Peoria resident and pastor of New Life Christian Church. \n Like many locals, Dawson can rattle off a list of relatives whose livelihoods in Peoria have depended on Caterpillar. The company known as CAT for short established its first plant in Peoria in 1909 and employs more than 12,000 workers in the area, even after several layoffs. \n The city of about 110,000 has been trying to breathe more life into its downtown and a scenic stretch along the Illinois River. But while new restaurants, coffee shops and apartments are opening, Ardis acknowledged few people would call the area \"dynamic.\" And parts of the city's core are seeing growing poverty. \n The headquarters move has been a blow to the city's collective morale. \n \"There is emotion around\" the decision, said Jeff Griffin, president of the Peoria Area Chamber. \"Peoria is not unique in that tragedy across the country.\" \n Griffin said he and his counterpart in Omaha talked recently about the importance of diversifying the local economy \u2014 relying on small business rather than large corporations. \n \"Part of the big challenge is leadership needs to recognize the rules have changed,\" Murphy said. \"They need to think about how they build their cities and the amenities they offer, and be really clear about what their competitive advantages are today, not what they were 100 years ago.\" \n A city should perhaps think about spending on public transit rather than highways, he said. \n Improving the atmosphere of downtown seems to be helping some midsize cities recoup from the loss of major businesses, urban experts say. \n In Greenville, South Carolina, where the decline of the textile industry left a huge gap in the economy, leadership arranged to remove a four-lane bridge that obstructed the view of a scenic waterfall, and added trees and cafes and sidewalks. A downtown that was once \"dead\" is now \"beautiful and hugely successful,\" Murphy said. In addition to drawing tourists, the city has a booming advanced manufacturing industry, anchored by companies such as BMW. \n But other places, such as Decatur, are struggling to find a new identity. The city has the second-highest unemployment rate in Illinois, and Moody's Analytics warns the lack of jobs could push the city back into recession. \n Across the Midwest and Northeast in particular, a number of midsize cities are facing \"big challenges,\" Cortright said. \n \"What do we do with the Peorias?\" he added. \"I don't' think we know what the answer to that is.\" \n Peoria has a growing health care industry and is home to other companies such as Maui Jim sunglasses and Bump Box, a monthly delivery of skincare and other products for pregnant women. \n Ardis said the city just has to find more. \n \"We're not just going to roll over and play dead,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Plight of company towns: finding a new identity"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "BRIDGEPORT, Conn. >> A New York woman is facing charges after police say she lied about being raped by two football players from a Connecticut university due to fears a third student would lose romantic interest in her. \n Nikki Yovino, of South Setauket (seh-TAW'-kiht), New York, has been charged with falsely reporting an incident and tampering with or fabricating physical evidence. \n The 18-year-old Yovino said two Sacred Heart University football players sexually assaulted her in a bathroom in October during an off-campus party. \n The men said it was consensual. \n Capt. Brian Fitzgerald tells WABC-TV another student informed authorities of explicit text messages between the three. He says one man also recorded some of the incident on his cellphone. \n Yovino's lawyer, Mark Sherman, tells The Connecticut Post his client stands by her original story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman fears losing potential lover, lies about rape"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> For the past eight years, thousands of conservative activists have descended on Washington each spring with dreams of putting a Republican in the White House. \n This year, they're learning reality can be complicated. \n With Donald Trump's presidential victory, the future of the conservative movement has become entwined with an unconventional New York businessman better known for his deal-making than any ideological principles. \n It's an uneasy marriage of political convenience at best. Some conservatives worry whether they can trust their new president to follow decades of orthodoxy on issues like international affairs, small government, abortion and opposition to expanded legal protections for LGBT Americans \u2014 and what it means for their movement if he doesn't. \n \"Donald Trump may have come to the Republican Party in an unconventional and circuitous route, but the fact is that we now need him to succeed lest the larger conservative project fails,\" said evangelical leader Ralph Reed, who mobilized his organization to campaign for Trump during the campaign. \"Our success is inextricably tied to his success.\" \n As conservatives filtered into their convention hall Wednesday for their annual gathering, many said they still have nagging doubts about Trump even as they cheer his early actions. A Wednesday night decision to reverse an Obama-era directive that said transgender students should be allowed to use public school bathrooms and locker rooms matching their chosen gender identity has thrilled social conservatives. \n \"He's said that on multiple occasions that he's not a conservative, especially socially,\" said Zach Weidlich, a junior at the University of South Alabama, \"but my mind-set was, give him a chance, especially now that he's elected.'\" \n \"He was the better of two evils given the choice,\" added Timmy Finn. \"I agree with his policies, however, I think he's moving a little too fast.\" \n Trump has a somewhat tortured history with the Conservative Political Action Conference, an annual convention that's part ideological pep talk, part political boot camp for activists. Over the past six years, he's been both booed and cheered. He's rejected speaking slots and galvanized attendees with big promises of economic growth and electoral victory. \n At times, he has seemed to delight in taunting them. \n \"I'm a conservative, but don't forget: This is called the Republican Party, not the Conservative Party,\" he said in a May interview on ABC's \"This Week.\" \n Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union, which hosts CPAC, said Trump's aggressive style is more important than ideological purity. \n \"Conservatives weren't looking for somebody who knew how to explain all the philosophies. They were actually looking for somebody who would just fight,\" he said. \"Can you think of anybody in America who fits that bill more than Donald Trump?\" \n Trump is to address the group Friday morning. Vice President Mike Pence is to speak Thursday as are White House chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior advisers Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway. \n The tensions between Trump's brand of populist politics and conservative ideology will be on full display at the three-day conference, which features panels like: \"Conservatives: Where we come from, where we are and where we are going\" and \"The Alt-Right Ain't Right At All.\" \n Along with Trump come his supporters, including the populists, party newcomers and nationalists that have long existed on the fringes of conservativism and have gotten new voice during the early days of his administration. \n Pro-Brexit British politician Nigel Farage will speak a few hours after Trump. \n Organizers invited provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos after protesters at the University of California at Berkeley protested to stop his appearance on campus. But the former editor at Breitbart News, the website previously run by Bannon, was disinvited this week after video clips surfaced in which he appeared to defend sexual relationships between men and boys as young as 13. \n Trump \"is giving rise to a conservative voice that for the first time in a long time unabashedly, unapologetically puts America first,\" said Republican strategist Hogan Gidley. \"That 'America First' moniker can very well shape this country, but also the electorate and the Republican Party and conservative movement for decades.\" \n Trump's early moves \u2014 including a flurry of executive orders and his nomination of federal Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court \u2014 have cheered conservatives. They've also applauded his Cabinet picks, which include some of the most conservative members of Congress. The ACU awarded his team a 91.52 percent conservative rating \u2014 28 points higher than Ronald Reagan and well above George H.W. Bush who received a 78.15 rating. \n But key items on the conservative wish list remain shrouded in uncertainty. The effort to repeal President Barack Obama's health care law is not moving as quickly as many hoped, and Republicans also have yet to coalesce around revamping the nation's tax code. \n No proposals have surfaced to pursue Trump's campaign promises to build a border wall with Mexico that could cost $15 billion or more or to buttress the nation's infrastructure with a $1 trillion plan. Conservatives fear that those plans could result in massive amounts of new spending and that Trump's penchant for deal-making could leave them on the wrong side of the transaction. \n \"There is wariness,\" said Tim Phillips, president of Koch-brothers-backed Americans for Prosperity. \n But with a Republican-controlled Congress, others believe there's no way to lose. \n \"He sits in a room with Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan. Is there a bad a deal to made with those three in the room?\" asked veteran anti-tax activist Grover Norquist. \"A deal between those three will, I think, always make me happy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Conservatives welcome Trump with delight and wariness"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dylann Storm Roof is escorted from the Cleveland County Courthouse in Shelby, N.C. in 2015. In court documents unsealed Tuesday, Roof, convicted of killing nine worshippers during Bible study at a black church, drove toward a second black church after the shootings. \n COLUMBIA, S.C. >> The man convicted of killing nine worshippers during Bible study at a black church in 2015 drove toward a second black parish afterward, according to federal court documents unsealed Tuesday, but no one was there because that sanctuary's class had been canceled. \n According to the documents, federal prosecutors said they had GPS evidence showing that after the fatal shootings at Charleston's Emanuel AME church on June 17, 2015, Dylann Roof exited the interstate and drove approximately 30 miles northwest toward the Branch AME Church in Summerville. The Branch church also had a sign advertising Bible study, the prosecutors said, and Roof shut off his GPS device, which they said indicated he stopped the car. \n Branch AME pastor the Rev. Rufus Berry told The Associated Press that he called off Bible study that night because he was going to be late leaving his job at a cement company. He said he was shocked when he learned through news reports that his church, which has 70 members, was a second target. \n \"I would hate to know what the outcome would be. I dread to even think about that,\" Berry said Wednesday, moments before heading to the very Bible class that was canceled the night of the shootings. \"I thank God that he had us protected\" from a second attack, he said. \n In December, a jury convicted Roof on 33 federal charges for gunning down nine people as they prayed at the end of a Bible study at the historic Charleston church known as Mother Emanuel. \n During trial, prosecutors presented evidence showing that the self-taught white supremacist, now 22, had lists of other black churches in his car when he was arrested in Shelby, North Carolina. The details about the Branch AME church were not mentioned, however. \n During a lengthy confession the day after the shootings, Roof told FBI agents he was too tired after the Emanuel killings to carry out any other violence. \n State prosecutors are pursuing the death penalty against Roof on murder charges. No date has been set for his trial, which had been indefinitely postponed during the federal proceedings. Roof is also seeking a new federal trial, saying prosecutors didn't have jurisdiction to bring their case against him. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "After shooting, Roof went toward 2nd black church"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A boy joins others participating in a protest and marching aimed at President Donald Trump's nationwide efforts to crack down on immigration in Chicago on Feb. 16. \n CHICAGO >> As educators around the United States wonder whether a crackdown on immigrants will reach their schoolhouse doors, principals in Chicago have been given a simple order: Do not let federal immigration agents in without a criminal warrant. \n The stand taken by Chicago Public Schools, the country's third-largest school system, is among the boldest of the districts that have announced measures to protect those who may be living in the country illegally. \n It remains unknown how much interest U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement will show in schools under President Donald Trump, and there is little schools can do to thwart agents who show up with warrants, but they are acting at least in part to ease concerns of skittish immigrant communities. In districts like Chicago, where nearly half of the 381,000 students are Hispanic, there is concern that immigration authorities could grab parents outside the schools and their children inside. \n \"My 9-year-old son gets upset because he knows some of his friends in school and his father are undocumented and he is scared, and asks 'Am I going to see them again,'\" said Gabriela Barajas, who was brought to this country illegally as a child but is allowed to stay as part of a federal program launched in 2012. \"When I told him about (what CPS was doing) he was clapping, he was so happy.\" \n Alma Sigala, an immigrant who has a daughter in district, said the relief is not just for the children but for the parents. \"Once the parents are inside the schools they'll feel more secure, that in some form they are protected,\" said Sigala. \n Trump's decision to target more people for deportation than had been targeted during the Obama administration has ratcheted up worries about families being torn apart all over the country. \n In the note Tuesday to Chicago's principals, Public Schools Chief Education Officer Janice Jackson urged them to not only keep immigration agents outside and to avoid sharing any student records with the agents, but to also put plans in place for the possibility of parents being detained while their children are in school. \n \"To be very clear, CPS does not provide assistance to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the enforcement of federal civil immigration law,\" Jackson wrote. \n Principals around the country have been stepping up efforts to make students feel supported, said JoAnn Bartoletti, executive director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals. \n In Syracuse, New York, the school board approved a policy this month requiring schools to deny access to ICE officials until they consult with the superintendent. In Salt Lake City, Utah, on Tuesday the school district discussed a resolution. Connecticut's governor on Wednesday advised school districts in that state to refer any ICE agents to the superintendent. And in New York City, principals there have been told that immigration officers many not be granted access without legal authority. \n The latest Trump administration guidance leaves in place Obama-era policies limiting enforcement actions at \"sensitive locations,\" including schools. While those policies say agents should generally avoid apprehending anyone inside those designated areas, they do not stop agents from obtaining records or serving subpoenas. \n Jim Bever, an Indiana principal on the board of the National Association of Secondary School Principals, said he would try to discourage immigration officials from accessing students and records, but school administrators around the country are \"a bit in the dark\" and any agents would likely see a wide range of responses. \n Some experts say it's unlikely administrators will be tested. \n Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., which supports tighter immigration policies, said schools do not seem to have reason for alarm and Chicago Public Schools and others implementing similar policies mostly appear to be \"showing off.\" \n Among those prioritized for arrest under the new guidelines are immigrants who abuse public benefits, which Krikorian said could include free and reduced school lunches. \n \"It could well affect them, but again that has nothing to do with the school grounds,\" he said. \"It's not like ICE goes in there and says, 'Drop that tater tot, kid.'\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago schools take a stand on immigration enforcement"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 2016 photo, Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum poses for a photo at her office in Portland, Ore. Rosenblum has staffers strategizing how to fight back if the federal government tries to withhold funds to force compliance with conservative policies, like on abortion. \n SALEM, Ore. >> Oregon asked a federal court late Wednesday to join a lawsuit filed by Washington state against an immigration ban imposed by President Donald Trump. \n Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said in the motion that Oregon also needs protection from the ban on immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, which she said would harm Oregon's businesses, residents, universities, health care and economy. \n The lawsuit filed by Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson on Jan. 30 resulted in a judge suspending Trump's temporary ban. Minnesota previously joined the lawsuit. \n Rosenblum wrote in the motion filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington that if Washington and Minnesota prevail, the court might craft a limited remedy instead of a nationwide injunction, which would not address the harm caused to Oregon. \n Both Rosenblum and Ferguson said in recent interviews with The Associated Press that they are increasingly sharing information and consulting with each other and with other Democratic counterparts, as the White House and Congress try to roll back former President Barack Obama's policies and steer a conservative course for the nation. \n At stake are health care, the environment, immigrant rights, marijuana legalization and many other issues. \n \"What I am very proud of is that state attorneys general are stepping up to the plate,\" Rosenblum said, citing efforts by her counterparts, including in Virginia, Massachusetts, New York and Hawaii. \n Rosenblum told AP that Oregon is also readying for a court battle in case the federal government tries to curtail abortion rights. \n In particular, Rosenblum worries that the federal government will try to force states to restrict abortion rights by cutting funding for Planned Parenthood. The Hyde Amendment already prevents federal dollars from funding abortions, she said, but Planned Parenthood also offers treatment for sexually transmitted diseases and preventive health care. She said she already has staffers researching a possible response. \n \"The penalizing of an organization that provides abortions but that does a huge amount of other very, very important health care, to treat our citizens, absolutely, we're going to push back against that to the greatest extent possible,\" Rosenblum said. \n Attorneys general, particularly from more liberal states, are coordinating more via informal phone calls and emails, and in meetings such as those of the Democratic Attorneys General Association, which Rosenblum co-chairs. \n Trump has promised to issue a revised travel ban, saying it's needed to keep America safe. Ferguson said in a telephone interview late Tuesday that his team is ready to take further action. \n \"When it comes out, we will scrutinize it to see if it is constitutional and lawful,\" Ferguson said. \"If it is not, you can be sure we'll be following up.\" \n The events before and after Trump's signing of the executive order highlight the new level of communication among liberal states' attorneys general. The Democratic Attorneys General Association had just finished holding a meeting in Florida when Trump signed the order, on Jan. 27, a Friday. \n Ferguson was flying back to Seattle but already had lined up a team of five attorneys and support staff ready to pounce. As travelers from the banned countries were detained at airports across America and were prevented from boarding U.S.-bound flights, Ferguson's team worked through the weekend. \n \"The pace for those 72 hours, to say it was intense would be significant understatement,\" Ferguson said. \"We felt every hour mattered.\" \n On Jan. 30, they asked a federal court for a temporary restraining order to prevent enforcement of Trump's order, claiming it was unconstitutional. Rosenblum said she helped organize a statement from 18 attorneys general supporting Ferguson's lawsuit. \n Eric Schneiderman, attorney general for New York, which was one of those 18 states and which also filed a lawsuit, said attorneys general are having an \"awakening\" regarding the Trump administration. \n Rosenblum said Ferguson deserves praise for being \"first out of the gate\" and that she feels no rivalry about being first to stand up against White House orders that are seen as illegal or unconstitutional. \n \"There's going to be plenty to go around,\" Rosenblum said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon joins suit against President Trump's travel ban"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 22, 2016 photo, people protest to demand a recall referendum against Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas, Venezuela. A pervasive sense of hopelessness has settled over what was once among the richest nations in South America. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jineth Frias poses for a photo this month in a T-shirt featuring her slain son, Bassil da Costa, at an anti-government protest marking the third anniversary of his killing by security forces during weeks of unrest in Caracas, Venezuela. \n CARACAS, Venezuela >> Venezuela is so short on food that tens of thousands are going hungry or even starving. Its murder rate is among the highest in the world. Its economy is so crippled that the average shopper spends 35 hours a month waiting in line \u2014 three times more than in 2014. \n Yet even as the country becomes increasingly unlivable, the socialist government is more entrenched than it has been in years. A sense of hopelessness has settled over what was once among the richest nations in South America, a belief that nothing will really change. \n To understand why people have given up, look at Jhorman Valero and his family. \n Three years ago, Valero dragged his 24-year-old cousin, Bassil da Costa, to join thousands of others in a nationwide protest against the administration of President Nicolas Maduro. Hours later, Bassil was bleeding in his arms, the first of more than 40 people to be killed during weeks of unrest. Staring numbly at the floor, Jhorman recounts how he watched his cousin's skull come apart under his baseball cap from a bullet shot by security forces. \n Now Valero and Bassil's sister, Yenicer da Costa, no longer bother to protest, even on the anniversary of the 2014 protest. \n \"What's the point of protesting if they just kill you in the streets and, three years later, everything is even worse?\" she said. \n The fear inspired by the 2014 crackdown weighs heavily on the present, with a government that is selectively repressive. Many of more than 100 political prisoners were arrested that year and remain in jail, according to human rights groups. Most are being held incommunicado in the dungeons of El Helicoide, a spiral-shaped modernist landmark built as a shopping mall during the 1950s oil boom, which is now the headquarters of the all-powerful Sebin intelligence police. \n The creation last month of an \"anti-coup commando unit\" headed by the vice president has stoked fears of more roundups. The unit already has arrested three members of the party of Leopoldo Lopez, the highest-profile prisoner, who led the protest at which Bassil was killed. \n As the price of oil has fallen and laid bare years of mismanagement, Maduro's administration has responded by becoming more repressive. It has purged state institutions of potential traitors, kept out foreign reporters, detained prominent businessmen and declared null all decisions by the opposition-controlled congress. \n As a result, the young people who would be the natural fuel for any street protest movement are not turning out. At demonstrations these days, there are more grandparents than youths. \n One reason is that so many young people have simply fled the country. \n The protest this month got off to an inauspicious start, with an older man shouting, \"Where are all the students?\" \"They didn't come!\" called back Diego Cerboni, student union president at the private Santa Maria University. \n Many of the friends Cerboni used to rely upon to demonstrate have left Venezuela. Cerboni estimates 100 students are leaving Santa Maria each week, forcing professors to consolidate sections and cancel under-enrolled classes at the 12,000-student campus. \n One recent survey found 88 percent of young Venezuelans want to emigrate. Venezuelans accounted for more U.S. asylum requests than any other country last year \u2014 more than 18,000, compared to a few hundred in 2013. So many people are applying for passports that the government has run short of supplies and all but stopped issuing them. \n \"The government has a smart strategy. They keep us looking over our shoulder, keep us busy looking for food and medicine. You're working on how to get out of the country, and you don't have time to march,\" Cerboni said. \n Protester Marcello Gonzalez, 69, said all his 15 grandkids and seven of his 10 children have left the country. \n \"There's a terror campaign here,\" he said. \"The government is using tear gas and arrests to intimidate the young people and make them stay home. We older people don't have to worry as much. We know we're not the target.\" \n To be sure, the streets are not always calm. Twice last year, the opposition rallied hundreds of thousands of people to protest the Maduro administration. But while popular movements have helped topple governments in places like Egypt and Ukraine, Venezuela's protests seem to have had little effect on the political calculus of those in power. \n \"Ever since the fall of the Berlin Wall, a lot of people are walking around with this myth in our heads that if you get enough people into the streets, the government will fall. And that's just not true,\" said Steven Levitsky, a professor at Harvard University who specializes in Latin American politics. \n The loss of hope is also tied to the opposition's failure to present a clear alternative to the government. It is perennially divided and absorbed by its own internal ego battles. \n The government has successfully made use of legal loopholes to hobble the opposition without much international protest. For much of last spring and summer, the opposition appeared to be getting back on track, collecting some 2 million signatures \u2014 10 times the required minimum \u2014 to force a recall referendum against Maduro. Polls suggest 80 percent of the country want to vote him out. But after a mass demonstration with a million people in September grabbed international headlines, the government suspended the recall drive. \n The Obama administration then dispatched a top diplomat to walk back the opposition leaders and tempt them with a Vatican-sponsored dialogue, which has since collapsed. In hindsight, to many it felt like capitulation, with the only result being that Maduro was never punished for trampling on the constitution. Now, there is an effort underway to block opposition parties from competing in future elections altogether. \n The opposition may have found a more willing partner in U.S. President Donald Trump, who abruptly broke with the Obama administration's policy of relative restraint toward Venezuela. Trump met with protester Lopez's wife in the White House and slapped drug sanctions on Maduro's vice president within 30 days of taking office. \n But while such a display of bravado is red meat to opposition hardliners, it could alienate the vast majority of Venezuelans who still revere the late President Hugo Chavez. And it only increases the odds that corrupt officials will close ranks for fear of being hunted down themselves should they ever lose power. \n \"It's the exact wrong thing. The opposition needs to convince the ruling elite that there's life after Maduro; that if they allow a transition, they're not going to end up in jail or exile. If the regime elite remains united, there's nothing in a protest movement that forces them to leave,\" Levitsky said. \n The protest to commemorate the 2014 deaths eventually grew to a few hundred people. Bassil's mother, Jineth Frias, showed up, somewhat reluctantly, and marched with other parents in front of a sign that said, \"We remember our young.\" \n For the most part, she sees little point in taking to the streets, and turns to prayer instead. At her modest home on the outskirts of Caracas, she has built a tiny altar with a framed picture of Bassil in the black and yellow jersey of his favorite soccer team, hung alongside a statue of the Virgin Mary. \n In the three years since his death, her family's predicament, like that of Venezuela, has only worsened. Her refrigerator is almost always empty and as a result she's lost 10 kilograms (22 pounds), in what Venezuelans call the \"Maduro Diet.\" \n \"I know it sounds terrible,\" she confides between tears, \"but I thank God he's not here to see this.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Why Venezuelans have lost hope life will change"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President George W. Bush presents the National Medal of Science to Kenneth J. Arrow during a ceremony at White House in 2006. Arrow, the youngest ever winner of a Nobel prize for economics, has died. \n PALO ALTO, Calif. >> Kenneth J. Arrow, the youngest-ever winner of a Nobel prize for economics, whose theories on risk, innovation and the basic mathematics of markets have influenced thinking on everything from voting to health insurance to high finance, has died. He was 95. \n Arrow died Tuesday at his home in Palo Alto, in the San Francisco Bay Area, according to his son, David Arrow. \n \"He was a very loving, caring father and a very, very humble man. He'd do the dishes every night and cared about people very much,\" David Arrow said. \"I think in his academic career, when people talk about it, it often sounds like numbers and probabilities. But a large focus of his work was how people matter.\" \n \"The fact that people often don't behave rationally \u2026 that was one aspect that he often looked at, how it affected the lives of the people,\" he said. \n Arrow and British economist Sir John R. Hicks shared the 1972 Nobel memorial prize in economic science for their pioneering mathematical work on general equilibrium theory, which says that there is an overall balance between supply and demand in an economy as a whole. Their mathematical models dealt with the factors involved, such as when and where a product is sold. \n Arrow spent most of his career at Stanford University but also taught for 11 years at Harvard University. He also was known as a mentor. Five of his former students went on to become Nobel winners. \n Arrow came to prominence in 1951 with a book, \"Social Choice and Individual Values,\" which used mathematical logic to discuss collective decision-making. He put forward a theorem that it was impossible for a majority-rule voting system with three candidates to be free of certain flaws. \n \"You can say, 'There's no really good way to run an election,' but it is something else to prove it. It's like proving a bicycle cannot be stable,\" a fellow economics laureate, Robert Aumann, told the Washington Post. \n Arrow's impossibility theorem \"fundamentally altered economic and political theory and practice,\" Aumann said. \n Arrow had a broad intellectual curiosity that covered subjects as diverse as music, Chinese art and even whales. \n \"He was interested in everything,\" his son said. \n In economics, he looked at how risk aversion, innovation and information affected the economy. \n In a 1963 paper, he confronted problems with the economics of medical care and health insurance, arguing that it is not a truly price-competitive situation because among other things the buyer \u2014 the patient \u2014 has much less information than the doctor \u2014 the seller \u2014 about necessary treatment and options. The issue is known in economics as \"asymmetric information.\" \n If Arrow's worked seemed dry and abstract, it had real-world applications in many fields. \n \"The economics of insurance, medical care, prescription drug testing \u2014 to say nothing of bingo and the stock market \u2014 will never be the same after Arrow,\" Paul A. Samuelson, the first American to win the economics prize, said in 1972 after Arrow won the prize. \n Arrow also was awarded the 2004 National Medal of Science \u2014 the nation's highest scientific honor \u2014 by President George W. Bush. \n Arrow was born on Aug. 23, 1921 in New York City to Jewish immigrants from Romania. Several other members of the family became economics professors and his nephew, Lawrence Summers, is a former Harvard University economics professor, Harvard president, Treasury secretary under President Clinton and adviser to President Obama. \n In addition to his son, Arrow is survived by another son, Andrew; a sister, Anita Summers, and a grandson. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nobel-winning economist Kenneth J. Arrow dies at 95"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is welcome by U.S. ambassador Roberta Jacobson, left,as he arrives at Benito Juarez international Airport in Mexico City, today. \n MEXICO CITY >> President Donald Trump dispatched his top diplomat and homeland security chief to Mexico today on a fence-mending mission complicated by the actual fence he wants to build on the southern border. Mexico's government signaled it was in no mood to be lectured by the new U.S. administration. \n Ties between the countries have plunged since Trump took office a month ago, punctuated by Trump's insistence that Mexico pay for a border wall and other demands on illegal immigration and trade. During their brief visit, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly will face a Mexican government anxiously rethinking its relationship with its bigger, richer and more powerful neighbor. \n Tillerson arrived in Mexico City late today, while Mexico was still reeling from the Trump administration's announcement a day earlier of a deportation crackdown that envisions sending people to Mexico who cross the border illegally \u2014 even if they're not Mexican citizens. \n Kelly, whose department is in charge of implementing Trump's immigration crackdown, was arriving separately after a visit to Guatemala. The two plan to meet with President Enrique Pena Nieto and with Mexico's top defense, finance and diplomatic officials. \n Yet Tillerson's counterpart in Mexico, Luis Videgaray, insisted that his country would not \"accept unilateral decisions imposed by one government on another.\" \n \"We don't have to, and it is not in the interest of Mexico,\" Videgaray said. He hinted that Mexico might seek to challenge Trump's move at the United Nations or in other international bodies. \n Still, senior Trump administration officials sought to play down the disagreements between the countries, describing close cooperation between the two countries on economic prosperity, law enforcement, drug trafficking and trade. Reporters were given an official briefing ahead of the trip on condition that officials weren't quoted by name. \n At the White House, press secretary Sean Spicer said the U.S.-Mexican relationship is \"phenomenal.\" \n \"I think there's an unbelievable and robust dialogue between the two nations,\" Spicer said. \n On Tuesday, the U.S. changed immigration enforcement policies that could subject millions of people living in the U.S. illegally \u2014 including many Mexicans\u2014 to deportation. Whereas President Barack Obama focused on deporting immigrants convicted of serious crimes, new memos signed by Kelly prioritize deportation for anyone convicted of a crime or charged with any offense. That includes crossing the border illegally. \n The memos also call for sending some people who enter the U.S. illegally back to Mexico, even if they're from Central America or elsewhere and only used Mexico as a transit point. Detention center capacity will expand; planning for Trump's much touted wall will begin. \n Trump was in office barely a week when Pena Nieto canceled a planned visit to the U.S. The American leader had suggested their meeting would be ill-advised if Mexico wasn't willing to pay for the wall, expected to cost billions of dollars. Mexico remained unwilling. A meeting between the two presidents hasn't been rescheduled. \n The visit by Tillerson and Kelly forms part of a Trump administration trend: top Cabinet and other officials seeking to calm nervous nations that their U.S. partnerships are secure in the new era of \"America First.\" Vice President Mike Pence and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis have previously filled the role, facing foreign leaders who've struggled to reconcile their rhetoric of reassurance with the declarations of disruption from Trump and some of his senior envoys. \n Tillerson, the former Exxon Mobil CEO, and Kelly, a retired Marine general, have taken a more diplomatic tack toward Mexico than Trump, even as they both assume key roles in executing policy that has stirred widespread resentment in America's southern neighbor. \n Anti-Trump protests have erupted. Earlier this month, some 20,000 people marched through Mexico's capital demanding respect from the U.S. While Pena Nieto has struggled with plummeting approval ratings, his opposition to Trump has rallied many Mexicans around him. \n Beyond the wall, Tillerson is likely to face questions about Trump's pledge to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. \n Eighty percent of Mexico's exports are to the U.S. The Trump administration also has floated the idea of a border tax on Mexican products. \n A trio of Democratic senators visited Mexico in advance of Tillerson and Kelly's trip. Putting the blame on Trump, Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's top Democrat, said he was confident the relationship could withstand \"140-character broadsides or unrealistic demands\" \u2014 referring to the president's frequent Twitter missives. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump sends top aides to Mexico amid deep strains with U.S."}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Yao's appointment is considered as a reform step for an association which until now has typically been led by government sports officials. \n BEIJING >> The Chinese Basketball Association has voted unanimously to appoint NBA Hall of Famer Yao Ming as its president. \n The CBA's social media account quoted Yao as saying at a ceremony on Thursday that he hoped to reform the domestic league's draft system and push more Chinese players into the international arena. \n Yao's appointment is considered as a reform step for an association which until now has typically been led by government sports officials. \n Yao, 36, was one of the first Chinese athletes to become an international household name when the Houston Rockets drafted him with the first pick in 2002. The 2.29-meter (7-foot-6) center played for eight seasons before retiring in 2011, citing chronic injuries. \n The Shanghai-born Yao was elected to the NBA Hall of Fame in 2016. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese Basketball Association elects Yao Ming as president"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "SALT LAKE CITY >> Residents of a small town in northern Utah struggled to comprehend today why two teenage boys plotted to rob and kill a 14-year-old girl before shooting her in the head and leaving her critically wounded in a ditch, according to prosecutors. \n The 16-year-old suspects do not have any serious criminal history, and both had no known problems at Smithfield's only high school, court and school officials say. Police have not provided a motive for hurting Deserae Turner, who was in a medically induced coma, but one of the boys said they were driven by greed. \n They told police they lured Turner to the ditch last week by promising to sell her a knife. Instead, they shot her and then took her cellphone, iPod and $55, prosecutors said in charging documents. \n \"What's hard for the community to process is why something like this would happen,\" said Tim Smith, spokesman for the Cache County School District, where all the teens went to school. \"These types of events aren't typical for our valley.\" \n Smithfield, with a population of nearly 11,000, is one of several small bedroom communities around Logan, the largest city in the northern part of the heavily Mormon state. Deserae attends the area's only middle school. \n The teenage suspects have been charged with attempted aggravated murder, robbery and other counts. \n Lawyer Shannon Demler, who represents one of the suspects, said he's still trying to understand what happened but that the allegations caught the boy's parents off-guard and has been very hard on them. \n \"This case has torn apart three families,\" Demler said. \"And the community is shaken up that something like this could happen here.\" \n The Associated Press is not naming the boys because they are juveniles. \n Demler said he will argue to keep his client in juvenile court, after Cache County Attorney James Swink said he wants to try the teens as adults. \n Deserae was reported missing Thursday evening when she didn't return home from school. She was found early Friday in a dry canal about 90 miles north of Salt Lake City with a gunshot to the back of her head. \n \"She was a typical 14-year-old,\" Smith said of Deserae, adding that her family has asked for background about the ninth-grader to be kept private. \"A good student. Great family. Very supportive family.\" \n Smith said he was not aware of any past problems with the two boys at school. \n Charging documents say the boys originally planned to stab Deserae with knives of their own. After they arrived, one boy decided instead to use a gun he had brought, prosecutors said Tuesday. \n They took money, tossed her backpack in a trash bin and destroyed her cellphone and iPod, prosecutors said. \n The teen who brought the gun gave the spent shell casing to the other boy when he asked to keep it \"as a memento,\" the charges state. Officers later found it displayed on his bedroom windowsill. \n The teen who took the casing home told police that he saw his friend shoot a girl he didn't know, though investigators say text messages between the boys indicate they planned the robbery and shooting together. \n The teen accused of pulling the trigger gave police a written note for Deserae's family that said, \"I am so so so sorry,\" authorities said. \n Jill Parker, a county employee who is acting as a spokeswoman for Deserae's family, said they are doing the best they can. She declined to say why the family might believe their daughter was targeted. \n Friends have set up a fundraising webpage that had brought in more than $30,000 as of today afternoon. The GoFundMe page says Turner is \"fighting as hard as she can!\" and adds that \"every little bit will help their poor family with their ongoing family expenses as they go through this tough battle.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah town struggles after teens charged in girl's shooting"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, center, arrives at the Senate chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington on Feb. 7. Collins said today that she's open to using a subpoena to investigate Republican President Donald Trump's tax returns for potential connections to Russia. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> U.S. Sen. Susan Collins said on Wednesday she's open to using a subpoena to investigate President Donald Trump's tax returns for potential connections to Russia. \n Collins, a Republican who has served as a U.S. senator from Maine since 1997, sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. She appeared on Maine Public radio to talk about issues including the investigation. \n Collins was asked if the committee would subpoena Trump, who's also a Republican. She said she hopes for \"voluntary cooperation\" but is open to using a subpoena if necessary. \n \"This is a counter-intelligence operation in many ways. That's what our committee specializes in,\" she said during the radio appearance. \"We are used to probing in depth in this area.\" \n Trump's refusal to disclose his tax returns is a break with presidential tradition. He has said he would be happy to release them after the completion of an Internal Revenue Service audit. \n Using a subpoena to get access to the tax returns would be a more aggressive move than members of Congress have taken on the subject so far. House and Senate leaders have thus far shown no interest in taking such a step. \n Last week, House Republicans blocked an attempt by Democrats to use an obscure law to obtain the tax returns from the IRS. Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee tried to frame the issue as a matter of national security, questioning whether Trump has any investments in Russia. \n Collins also said during the radio appearance that she and other intelligence committee members will call for former national security adviser Michael Flynn to testify before the committee. Flynn resigned following reports that he had misled officials about his contacts with Russia. \n Collins said the committee is in the midst of a \"broad investigation\" about Russian interference and it's too early to speculate about the results. \n She touted the \"bipartisan\" nature of the committee's probe and pledged: \"We will get to the bottom of this.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republican U.S. senator says she's open to subpoena of Trump's taxes"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Facebook page of Doan Thi Huong, the Vietnamese suspect in the death of the North Korean leader's estranged half brother Kim Jong Nam, is shown on a computer screen in Bangkok, Thailand, Tuesday. A photo of Huong wearing an \"LOL\" shirt like the attacker's was posted under the name Ruby Ruby. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Malaysia's Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar, center left, speaks in front of the details of one of the suspects Hyon Kwang Song as Selangor Police Chief Abdul Samah Mat, center right, listens during a press conference at the Bukit Aman national police headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Tuesday. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> North Korea denied today that its agents masterminded the assassination of the half brother of leader Kim Jong Un, saying a Malaysian investigation into the death of one of its nationals is full of \"holes and contradictions.\" \n The North's response came a day after Malaysian police said they were seeking two more North Koreans, including the second secretary of North Korea's embassy in Kuala Lumpur, in connection with the Feb. 13 killing of Kim Jong Nam at a Malaysian airport. \n Malaysia police have not directly pinpointed North Korea as being behind the death of Kim Jong Nam, but have already arrested a North Korean man working at a Malaysian company along with three other people. They are searching for several more North Koreans. \n The Korean Jurists Committee, a legal body affiliated with North Korea's rubber-stamp parliament, said in a statement today that the Malaysian investigation lacks fairness and was influenced by the South Korean government, which blames Pyongyang for the death. \n The North has not acknowledged that the dead man is Kim Jong Nam. Today's statement described the man only as a North Korean citizen bearing a diplomatic passport. \n It said that South Korea had \"kicked up a fuss\" and had plotted to have North Korea blamed for the killing. \n \"The biggest responsibility for his death rests with the government of Malaysia as the citizen of the DPRK died in its land,\" the statement said. The DPRK refers to the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea, the country's official name. \n Malaysian police said Tuesday that the two women suspected of fatally poisoning Kim Jong Nam were trained to coat their hands with toxic chemicals and then wipe them on his face. \n Police say the substance used remains unknown, but it was potent enough to kill Kim before he could make it to a hospital. Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar told reporters that the women, one Vietnamese and the other Indonesian, knew they were handling poisonous materials and \"were warned to take precautions.\" The women have been arrested. \n Surveillance video showed both keeping their hands away from their bodies after the attack, he said, then going to restrooms to wash. Those details are not clear in video obtained by media outlets. \n But the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur has already ridiculed the police account and demanded the immediate release of the two \"innocent women.\" \n An embassy statement asked how the women were able to survive if they also had the deadly toxins on their hands. \n Malaysian police said the women washed their hands soon after poisoning Kim. \n Khalid said the women had practiced the attack at two Kuala Lumpur malls. \"We strongly believe it is a planned thing and that they have been trained,\" he said. \n Khalid couldn't confirm whether North Korea's government was behind Kim's death but added, \"What is clear is that those involved are North Koreans.\" \n The North Korean Embassy's statement also questioned the fairness of the Malaysian investigation, which it said was based on lies and biased presumptions and has been tainted by South Korean influence. \n At least one of the women has said she was tricked into attacking Kim Jong Nam, believing she was taking part in a comedy prank TV show. \n The case has perplexed toxicologists, who question how the two women could have walked away unscathed after handling a powerful poison. \n Kim had spent most of the past 15 years living in China and Southeast Asia. He is believed to have had at least three children with two women. No family members have come forward to claim the body. \n South Korea's spy agency believes North Korea was behind the killing, but has produced no evidence. \n North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. While Kim Jong Nam was not thought to be seeking influence, his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since its founding could have made him appear to be a danger. \n He was at the airport to fly to Macau, where he had a home. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea criticizes Malaysia death investigation as full of 'holes and contradictions'"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KAUAI POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Michael Terui was indicted last week on two counts of sexual assault. \n A 37-year-old Lihue man was arrested today on suspicion of sexually assaulting a minor and could have more victims, Kauai police said. \n Michael Terui was indicted by a grand jury Thursday on two counts of sexual assault. \n A warrant was subsequently issued for his arrest and police found him at his home this morning. Terui was arrested and released after posting $100,000 bail. \n Police said the investigation is ongoing and detectives have reason to believe there could be more victims involved in separate incidents. \n Anyone with information is urged to call Kauai police at 241-1711 or CrimeStoppers at 246-8300 to leave tips anonymously. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai man accused of sexual assault may have multiple victims, police say"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "COURTESY IMDb.com \n IMDb said in court documents it shared the goal of preventing age discrimination, but the law wouldn't achieve that goal and would instead \"chill free speech and undermine public access to factual information.\" \n SAN FRANCISCO (AP) >> A California law that restricts a popular Hollywood website from posting actors' ages raises First Amendment concerns and does not appear likely to combat age discrimination in the entertainment industry in any meaningful way, a federal judge said Wednesday. \n U.S. District Court Judge Vince Chhabria granted IMDb.com's request to block AB 1687 while the website's lawsuit challenging it winds through the courts. \n Chhabria said the law prevented IMDb from publishing factual information on its public website, and the state had not shown it was necessary to combat age discrimination in Hollywood. \n \"It's not clear how preventing one mere website from publishing age information could meaningfully combat discrimination at all,\" the judge said. \n The law \u2014 authored by Assemblyman Ian Calderon, D-Whittier \u2014 took effect in January and allows actors and other industry professionals to force IMDb to take down their ages. \n IMDb said in court documents it shared the goal of preventing age discrimination, but the law wouldn't achieve that goal and would instead \"chill free speech and undermine public access to factual information.\" \n The state attorney general's office has said the Legislature had determined that existing anti-discrimination laws were not enough to eliminate age discrimination in Hollywood. It cited comments by Calderon that actors were concerned that they would be shut out from parts based on age bias. \n The state attorney general's office did not immediately have comment on the ruling. \n Calderon has said the bill was aimed at protecting lesser-known actors and actresses whose ages are not as readily available as bigger Hollywood stars. \n The law was supported by the Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, which said in a statement the ruling simply represented an early skirmish in the legal fight. \n \"SAG-AFTRA will continue to fight until we achieve for actors and other entertainment industry professionals the same rights to freedom from age discrimination in hiring enjoyed by other workers in other industries,\" said Duncan Crabtree-Ireland, the union's chief operating officer and general counsel. \n Chhabria said there are likely \"more direct, more effective, and less speech-restrictive ways\" of fighting discrimination in Hollywood. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge blocks California law on posting actors' ages"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amy Kuiken, 34, of Dallas, Pa., holds her sign, as she listens to a person's story during a town hall meeting regarding health care at the United Neighborhood Center in Scranton, Pa., Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017. Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., was invited to speak at the town hall, but did not attend. \n DENVER >> Republicans who benefited from rowdy town halls six years ago and harnessed a wave of discontent with Democrats to win seats in Congress are learning a hard lesson this week as they return home: The left is happy to return the favor. \n Across the U.S., Democrats and their allies are spending this short congressional recess protesting elected Republican politicians who are avoiding the events that often turn into shouting matches. \n Just like the tea party sympathizers who vented against Democrats and President Barack Obama, the new left and left-leaning protesters are taking out their ire on Republicans and their links to President Donald Trump. \n In Denver this week, the activists targeted Republican Sen. Cory Gardner \u2014 denouncing him as inaccessible and beaming a picture of him fashioned into a \"Missing\" poster to a wall of the Denver Art Museum while protesting Trump's plans to boost energy production on public lands. \n Gardner \"is supposed to represent us, but where is he?\" said Emma Spett, a 22-year-old environmental activist from Denver who says she's \"terrified\" of environmental policy changes backed by Trump. \n Gardner defeated a Democrat in 2010, and used impromptu town hall meetings heavily attended by tea party members in his campaign to rail against Obama's Affordable Care Act and incumbent congressional representatives he labeled as out of touch with voters. \n Now an incumbent who doesn't face re-election until 2020, Gardner has no town halls scheduled and was met Wednesday at an agricultural forum in Denver by protesters yelling \"We want a town hall!\" \n He dodged questions from reporters about why he did not plan any, saying that he supports \"people who are expressing differing points of views\" and that his staff meets with protesters. \n Experts say that avoiding town halls is a tactic used by incumbents to dodge being berated in widely publicized local events. \n \"If you're there at a town hall meeting and there's hundreds of people there yelling at you, it's going to be a media event,\" said Seth Masket, a political scientist at the University of Denver \"They're calculating that the bad press they're going to get from not having a town hall is not going to be as bad as that.\" \n In Montana, Republican Sen. Steve Daines got waylaid with boos and jeers from hundreds of protesters just for rescheduling an appearance before state lawmakers Helena from Tuesday to Wednesday. \n \"What a coward!\" said Katherine Haque-Hausrath, a protest organizer who demanded he meet with constituents. \"If he doesn't listen to us now, he can listen to us in 2020 in the election.\" \n Daines was met inside the Capitol Wednesday by dozens of protesters who yelled \"Do your job!\" Asked why he rescheduled, Daines said he decided to hold multiple events Wednesday and nothing on Tuesday. \n He also reminded reporters about the result of last November's election: \"While every voice must be heard in Montana, the reality is the people of Montana rejected Hillary Clinton and voted for Donald Trump.\" \n About 200 protesters clamored Wednesday outside a Carson City, Nevada, casino where Sen. Dean Heller and Rep. Mark Amodei, both Republicans, spoke behind closed doors in a session for business leaders \u2014 and ended getting booed and heckled inside the private luncheon. \n Amodei defended himself, saying he was there doing his job and meeting with constituents. And Heller said he would hold a town hall meeting if rules were put in place similar to those for debates in Congress. \n \"No applauding, no booing and we will have a one-on-one dialogue,\" he proposed. \n In Nebraska, Republican Rep. Don Bacon said in an interview that he plans no town meetings for now because he sees no point in them turning into forums for people who want to disrupt the events. \n \"What about the average person, whether or not they agree with me, that's in the audience? They want to have a dialogue,\" he said. \"What I'm seeing, and I'm seeing it all over the country, is people grab the microphone, and don't give it back.\" \n Suburban Chicago Republican Rep. Peter Roskam decided to interact last week with voters in a conference call with 18,000 callers, saying town halls are not productive. \n \"People come in, and they get angry and they hold placards and they shout at one another and they feel bad and they escalate and they end up being a disaster,\" Roskam told The Chicago Tribune (http://trib.in/2kTkCvH). \n And Texas Rep. Louie Gohmert announced he opted for telephone town halls because groups from what he called \"violent strains of the leftist ideology\u2026are preying on public town halls to wreak havoc and threaten public safety.\" \n Republicans accused of going into hiding are getting some sympathy \u2014 from Democrats they defeated, including former Colorado Rep. Betsy Markey. \n Back in 2010, she held town hall meetings focusing on health care only to be greeted by a deluge of conservative protesters who showed up waving yellow \"Don't Tread on Me\" flags. \n \"They were pretty rowdy,\" Markey recalled with a chuckle. \n Republicans who managed their campaigns to take advantage of the tea party movement's populist appeal must learn to take what was dished out before to the Democrats, she said. \n \"That's why you were elected, to represent the people. You come back on weekends, you come back on breaks, and you talk to people \u2014 even if they don't like what you're doing,\" Markey said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republicans who won after rowdy town halls now avoiding them"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A U.S. Customs and Border Protection boat carrying U.S. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan travels down the Rio Grande Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2017 south of Mission, Texas. \n MCALLEN, Texas >> U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan visited the Rio Grande valley on Wednesday for a firsthand look at the U.S.-Mexico border as the Trump administration steps up immigration enforcement and prepares to ask Congress to pay for a border wall. \n It was the first time the Wisconsin Republican had visited the border, and protesters gathered to meet his arrival in McAllen, Texas, with hand-painted signs protesting Trump policies. Ryan led a small group of fellow Republicans on the trip, including Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, who chairs the Homeland Security Committee in the House. \n In McAllen, Ryan came face to face with some of the challenges that arise in building a wall along the entire 2,000-mile border, which includes much remote and inhospitable terrain as well as the Rio Grande, the river between Texas and Mexico. He met with local officials and toured the area by boat and helicopter, and even briefly rode on a horse. \n \"When you see with your own eyes the many challenges facing our law enforcement professionals along the border, it gives you even greater respect for the work that they do day-in and day-out. But more tools and more support are needed for them to do their jobs effectively,\" Ryan said in a statement after the visit. \"Congress is committed to securing the border and enforcing our laws, and together with the Trump administration, we will get this done.\" \n President Donald Trump has not yet formalized his request to Congress to pay for the wall he promised during his campaign. It's expected to cost $15 billion or more, making it uncertain whether Congress would go along. Trump has promised Mexico will pay, but Mexico says it won't, and Trump has never spelled out how that would happen, anyway. \n The administration is rolling out new policies to fight illegal immigration and subjecting millions of people who are in this country to deportation, even for minor infractions. A group called La Union del Pueblo Entero announced it was protesting Ryan's visit \"in order to show the opposition of border residents to the current presidential administration's immigration and border policies.\" \n According to The Monitor newspaper, protesters were asking to meet with Ryan, but he did not meet with them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House speaker gets firsthand look at U.S.-Mexico border"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A new sticker is placed on the door at the ceremonial opening of a gender neutral bathroom at Nathan Hale High School in Seattle. \n WASHINGTON >> Transgender students today lost federal protections that allowed them to use school bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identities, as the Trump administration stepped into a long-simmering national debate. \n The administration came down on the side of states' rights, lifting Obama-era federal guidelines that had been characterized by Republicans as an example of overreach. \n Without the Obama directive, it will be up to states and school districts to interpret federal anti-discrimination law and determine whether students should have access to restrooms in accordance with their expressed gender identity and not just their biological sex. \n \"This is an issue best solved at the state and local level,\" Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said. \"Schools, communities and families can find \u2014 and in many cases have found \u2014 solutions that protect all students.\" \n In a letter to the nation's schools, the Justice and Education departments said the earlier guidance \"has given rise to significant litigation regarding school restrooms and locker rooms.\" \n The agencies withdrew the guidance to \"in order to further and more completely consider the legal issues involved.\" \n Anti-bullying safeguards would not be affected by the change, according to the letter. \"All schools must ensure that all students, including LGBT students, are able to learn and thrive in a safe environment,\" it said. \n It was not clear what immediate impact the change would have on schools, as a federal judge in Texas put a temporary hold on the Obama guidance soon after it was issued \u2014 after 13 states sued. \n Even without that hold, the guidance carried no force of law. But transgender rights advocates say it was useful and necessary to protect students from discrimination. Opponents argued it was federal overreach and violated the safety and privacy of other students. \n The White House said \"returning power to the states paves the way for an open and inclusive process to take place at the local level with input from parents, students, teachers and administrators.\" \n The reversal is a setback for transgender rights groups, which had been urging Trump to keep the guidelines in place. Advocates say federal law will still prohibit discrimination against students based on their gender or sexual orientation. \n Still, they say lifting the Obama directive puts children in harm's way. \n \"Reversing this guidance tells trans kids that it's OK with the Trump administration and the Department of Education for them to be abused and harassed at school for being trans,\" said American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten. \n Activists protested the move outside the White House. \"Respect existence or expect resistance,\" read one placard. \n Conservatives hailed the change, saying the Obama directives were illegal and violated the rights of fixed-gender students, especially girls who did not feel safe changing clothes or using restrooms next to anatomical males. \n \"Our daughters should never be forced to share private, intimate spaces with male classmates, even if those young men are struggling with these issues,\" said Vicki Wilson, a member of Students and Parents for Privacy. \"It violates their right to privacy and harms their dignity.\" \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer denied media reports that DeVos, who has been criticized for her stance on LGBT issues, had opposed the change but was overruled by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Spicer said any disagreement was merely over wording and timing. \n \"There is no daylight between anybody,\" Spicer said, adding that DeVos was \"100 percent\" on board with the decision. \n The Obama administration's guidance was based on its determination that Title IX, the federal law prohibiting sex discrimination in education, also applies to gender identity. \n The guidance did not sufficiently explain its interpretation of that law, Sessions said in a statement. \n \"Congress, state legislatures and local governments are in a position to adopt appropriate policies or laws addressing this issue,\" he said. \n Legal experts said the change in position could impact pending court cases involving the federal sex discrimination law, including a case to be heard by the Supreme Court in March involving Gavin Grimm, a transgender teen who was denied bathroom access in Virginia. \n The justices could decide not to hear the case and direct lower courts to decide that issue. \n In a phone interview with the AP, Grimm said of the Trump action: \"It's not positive. It has the possibility of hurting transgender students and transgender people. We're going to keep fighting like we have been and keep fighting for the right thing.\" \n A patchwork of state laws could continue to emerge as a result of the change. Fifteen states have explicit protections for transgender students in their state laws, and many individual school districts in other states have adopted policies that cover such students on the basis of their gender identity, said Sarah Warbelow, legal director of the Human Rights Campaign. Just one state, North Carolina, has enacted a law restricting access to bathrooms in government-owned buildings to the sex that appears on a person's birth certificate. Lawmakers in more than 10 states are considering similar legislation, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump administration lifts transgender bathroom guidance"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Of the 600 registered voters interviewed for the Middle Tennessee State University poll, 51 percent said they approved of the job President Donald Trump is doing. He won the state with 61 percent of the popular vote. \n NASHVILLE, Tenn. >> A poll released Wednesday shows that President Donald Trump's approval rating in Tennessee is around 50 percent three months after he won the state by a wide margin in the general election. \n Of the 600 registered voters interviewed for the Middle Tennessee State University poll, 51 percent said they approved of the job Trump is doing. He won the state with 61 percent of the popular vote. \n The poll was conducted between Feb. 12 and Feb. 16, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. The results were released at the annual Associated Press-Tennessee Press Association legislative preview session. \n The results show that Trump is experiencing a hangover, while former president Barack Obama got somewhat of a honeymoon \u2014 at least initially \u2014 in the state after being first elected in 2008, said Jason Reineke, associate director of the poll. That's because Trump won the state solidly, he said, but barely has a majority of support now. Obama lost badly in Tennessee, with only 42 percent of people voting for the former president. But in a poll conducted in late February 2009, 53 percent of respondents said they approved of the job Obama was doing. That was the highest rating he ever got in the state, Reineke said. \n In the poll released Wednesday, 32 percent of those interviewed said they disapproved of Trump's performance and 17 percent said they didn't know or didn't answer. Reineke cautioned that the polling was early in Trump's presidency and opinions could easily change. \n The poll also found mixed support for Gov. Bill Haslam's proposal to hike gasoline taxes to fund road projects while cutting grocery and other taxes. The poll showed that 38 percent of voters approved of the gas tax and 28 percent disapproved. Thirty-three percent of voters said they weren't sure and 1 percent declined to answer. \n The survey found that Haslam continues to get approval ratings from a solid majority of voters. \"Even close to a majority of the Democrats in this state say they think he is doing a good job,\" Reineke said. \n The poll showed that 57 percent of voters approve of the way Haslam is doing his job. The poll found less support for the Legislature, with 50 percent approving of the way the General Assembly does its job. \n The poll also found that about half the state's voters want to see a Republican governor elected to replace Haslam, who is term-limited. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Poll: Trump approval rating at 51 percent in Tennessee"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "UNIVERSITY CITY, Mo. >> A suburban St. Louis Jewish cemetery badly damaged by vandals is getting a show of support from cleanup volunteers, well-wishers and financial contributors from across many faiths. \n Muslim groups have launched a crowdfunding campaign for the Chesed Shel Emeth Society cemetery in University City, Missouri, with a goal of $20,000. It has raised nearly $75,000. \n The cemetery posted on Facebook that 154 headstones were vandalized in the damage discovered Monday. Many were tipped over. Gov. Eric Greitens, who is Jewish, organized a volunteer effort to help in the cleanup Wednesday, and an interfaith service was planned for the afternoon. A large crowd attended a candlelight vigil at the cemetery Tuesday night. \n Investigators have been reviewing surveillance video to determine who was responsible. The Anti-Defamation League offered a $10,000 reward for the vandals' arrest and conviction. Police said there is no evidence of a hate crime, but haven't ruled out the possibility. \n Vice President Mike Pence, speaking to small business owners at a business Wednesday in the St. Louis suburb of Fenton, Missouri, condemned \"this vile act of vandalism and those who perpetrate it in the strongest possible terms.\" But he lauded people from across Missouri who have \"rallied with compassion and support.\" \n \"You have inspired this nation,\" Pence said, not long before making unannounced visit to the cemetery. With Greitens by his side, Pence told volunteers, many of them clutching yard rakes they used to beautify the graveyard, that \"there's no place in America for hatred or acts of prejudice or violence or anti-Semitism.\" \n \"I must tell you the people in Missouri are inspiring the nation by your love and care for this place, for the Jewish community in Missouri,\" he told the crowd, using a bullhorn. \"And I want to thank you for that inspiration, for showing the world what America is all about.\" \n Karen Aroesty, St. Louis regional director of the Anti-Defamation League, said the show of support from Christians, Muslims and other religions has been \"extraordinary\" but not surprising. \n \"That's always been true in this region,\" Aroesty said. \"When things happen, the interfaith community comes together.\" \n Aroesty said the Jewish community was reeling. \n \"The emotional impact on this community is something different than I've seen before, and it's really striking,\" she said. \"It's especially hard for those folks who have several generations at the cemetery.\" \n Rosenbloom Monument Co. workers volunteered to put the toppled headstones back in place and by late Wednesday morning all but a few were restored. \n Rosenbloom Monument owner Phil Weiss said eight to 10 headstones were broken, all of them made of marble. Most of the others were made of granite and sustained little or no damage, he said. \n \"Granite is pretty tough,\" Weiss said. \n The University City Council released a statement saying the city \"is and always has been a community of inclusion\u2014 the people of University City will not tolerate hateful and hurtful acts.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Support pours in for damaged Jewish cemetery near St. Louis"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A TSA employee being trained in behavioral pattern recognition watches passengers in line at a security checkpoint at Logan International Airport in Boston. \n BOSTON >> A breach that allowed 11 people to walk through an unattended security checkpoint lane at one of the nation's busiest airports has some travelers scratching their heads about how this could happen even with the enhanced security measures put in place after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. \n The incident Monday at New York's Kennedy Airport is being investigated by the Transportation Security Administration, the agency that was created to protect the nation's airports after the 2001 attacks. The TSA said three passengers did not receive required secondary screening after they set off the metal detector at the unmanned checkpoint lane. \n At Boston's Logan International Airport \u2014 a staging point for two of the jetliners used in the 9/11 attacks \u2014 some travelers said they were surprised that a checkpoint lane could be left unattended at any airport. \n \"Mistakes happen, but (they're (TSA workers) supposed to be there to protect our lives,\" said Kylie Welsh, who returned to Boston from a trip to Pittsburgh on Wednesday. \n The TSA said in Monday's incident that all carry-on bags received required screening and that it was confident the incident presented \"minimal risk to the aviation transportation system.\" \n Post-9/11 security procedures include body scans, pat-downs, fortified cockpit doors, screening of checked luggage for explosives and a ban on large containers of liquids to prevent anyone from making an improvised explosive device during flight. \n This isn't the first time travelers who weren't properly screened slipped through airport security. \n \u2014 In 2002, hundreds of passengers were evacuated at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in Florida after a metal detector was found unplugged. About 300 passengers were rescreened and allowed back into the concourse. \n \u2014 In 2014, a woman who had been arrested multiple times for trying to sneak onto planes managed to slip onto a flight from San Jose to Los Angeles without a ticket. \n \u2014 In 2015, a Texas man walked through a security checkpoint without a ticket or identification at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and ran onto an American Airlines flight bound for Guatemala. He was arrested on a criminal trespassing charge. \n \"Unfortunately, it's not as rare as it sounds,\" said Jeffrey Price, a professor of aerospace management at Metropolitan State University in Denver and author of the 2008 book, \"Practical Aviation Security: Predicting and Preventing Future Thefts.\" \n \"The biggest thing I don't understand is why would everybody just walk away? What went wrong that that last person figured they could just wander off and leave the checkpoint abandoned?\" Price said. \"I'm sure every TSA person there knows you just don't walk off and leave an access point open.\" \n A TSA spokesman declined to say whether any employees have been disciplined, but said the investigation into the incident is ongoing. \n Bennet Waters, a former deputy assistant administrator of TSA, said the incident at JFK should not cause a crisis of confidence in airport security. \n \"I think it's fair for the flying public to be concerned any time a (security) layer is breached, but I think that concern has to be bound with the realization that there are multiple layers in the TSA security regime in use at all times,\" Waters said. \"In fact, the system is designed so that a failure in any one layer does not constitute a failure in the system at large.\" \n Douglas Kidd, executive director of the National Association of Airline Passengers, said any kind of security breach at airports should not be tolerated. \n \"A properly run organization would not have security breaches. It's as simple as that,\" Kidd said. \n Colleen Furber, who was waiting in Boston to board a plane to Florida on Wednesday, said she gets concerned when she reads about people and items \u2014 including weapons \u2014 making it through airport security without being detected. \n \"I think it happens more than you know. Obviously, a lot of things get through on a regular basis,\" she said. \"It creates anxiety for the traveling public.\" \n But Furber said she said it won't stop her from flying. \n \"I wouldn't put my life on hold,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Security breach at Kennedy Airport unnerves some travelers"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R-Ky., speaks to a gathering of the Jeffersontown Chamber of Commerce luncheon. \n LOUISVILLE, Ky. >> Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is speaking up for obstructionism. \n Addressing a chamber of commerce meeting in his home state of Kentucky, the Republican said Wednesday that obstruction can be OK \u2014 as long as it has a purpose. \n That's different from futile obstruction, which he argues Senate Democrats are practicing to stall the formation of President Donald Trump's Cabinet. \n \"Look, I'm not against obstruction if you have a purpose. And I've from time to time been involved in that myself,\" McConnell said. \n \"Obstruction with a purpose is different from futile gestures. The futile gestures that are going on in the Senate right now are our Democratic friends using every tool available to slow the process down for Cabinet confirmations, but they have no chance for success.\" \n No Democrat would dispute McConnell's acknowledgment that he's been involved in obstructionism himself, particularly regarding former President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, denied a hearing by McConnell for 10 months last year. \n But whether obstructionism is good or bad is in the eye of the beholder, and Democrats believe their obstruction of Trump's Cabinet is not futile. Democrats say they're shedding light on the nominees' records even if they can't ultimately defeat them. \n An occasional look at what Capitol Hill is talking about \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Capitol Hill buzz: Mitch McConnell defends obstructionism \u2014 if it has a purpose"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Schofield Barracks \n The FBI is investigating the death of the infant son of a Schofield Barracks soldier. \n Army spokesman Master Sgt. Mark St. Clair said the baby was transported to Tripler Army Medical Center on Jan. 29 in medical distress. He was subsequently taken off life support and was pronounced dead at 12:20 p.m. on Feb. 1. \n St. Clair declined to provide details on the extent of the baby's injuries or the identity of the soldier. \"All circumstances surrounding the death of this child is under investigation by the FBI,\" he said. \n FBI spokesman Arnold Laanui declined to provide information on the case due to the ongoing investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "FBI investigating death of infant son of Schofield Barracks soldier"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A couple embraced as opponents of the Dakota Access pipeline left their main protest camp, today, near Cannon Ball, N.D., as authorities were preparing to shut down the camp in advance of spring flooding season. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dakota Access pipeline opponents burned structures in their main protest camp in southern North Dakota near Cannon Ball, N.D., today,as authorities prepared to shut down the camp in advance of spring flooding season. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dakota Access pipeline opponents burned structures in their main protest camp in southern North Dakota near Cannon Ball, N.D., today, as authorities prepared to shut down the camp in advance of spring flooding season. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Most of the Dakota Access pipeline opponents abandoned their protest camp today ahead of a government deadline to get off the federal land, and authorities moved to arrest some who defied the order in a final show of dissent. \n The camp has been home to demonstrators for nearly a year as they tried to thwart construction of the pipeline. Many of the protesters left peacefully, but police made some arrests two hours after the deadline. \n Earlier in the day, some of the last remnants of the camp went up in flames when occupants set fire to makeshift wooden housing as part of a leaving ceremony. Authorities later said about 20 fires were set and two people \u2014 a 7-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl \u2014 were taken to a Bismarck hospital to be treated for burns. Their conditions weren't given. \n After the deadline passed, as many as 75 people outside the camp started taunting officers, who brought five large vans to the scene. Police took about 10 people into custody for failing to heed commands to leave, authorities said. \n With darkness falling, Lt. Tom Iverson said police would not enter the camp this evening, and he offered no timetable for doing so. \n Levi Bachmeier, an adviser to Gov. Doug Burgum, said about 50 people remained in the camp at dusk. \n Hours before, about 150 people marched arm-in-arm out of the soggy camp, singing and playing drums as they walked down a highway. It was not clear where they were headed. One man carried an American flag hung upside-down. \n Authorities sent buses to take protesters to Bismarck, where they were offered fresh clothing, bus fares home and food and hotel vouchers. \n The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers set the deadline, citing the threat of spring flooding. \n At the height of the protests, the site known as Oceti Sakowin hosted thousands of people, though its population dwindled to just a couple of hundred as the pipeline battle moved into the courts. \n The camp is on federal land in North Dakota between the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation and the pipeline route that is being finished by Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners. When complete, the project will carry oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n Some of the protesters were focused on moving off federal land and away from the flood plain into other camps, said Phyllis Young, one of the camp leaders. \n \"The camps will continue,\" she said. \"Freedom is in our DNA, and we have no choice but to continue the struggle.\" \n New camps are popping up on private land, including one the Cheyenne River Sioux set up about a mile from the main camp. \n \"A lot of our people want to be here and pray for our future,\" tribal Chairman Harold Frazier said. \n Others, including Dom Cross, an Oglala Sioux from Pine Ridge, South Dakota, said he planned to return home after living at the camp since September. \n \"There's a lot of sadness right now. We have to leave our second home,\" he said. \n Law enforcement officers and first-responders were on hand from several states. \n Charles Whalen, 50, an alcohol and drug counselor from Mille Lacs, Minnesota, said he and a group of about 20 people were not going to leave on their own and were willing to get arrested to prove their point. \n \"Passive resistance,\" Whalen said. \"We are not going to do anything negative. It's about prayer.\" \n Some campers said they were leaving with mixed feelings, both energized by the long protest and saddened to leave new friends. Some people set off fireworks. \n Matthew Bishop, of Ketchikan, Alaska, has been in North Dakota since October. He planned to move to another camp. \n \"People have been surviving here for hundreds and hundreds of years \u2026 so if I back down, what would I look like?\" Bishop said as he tied his possessions to the top of his car. \n Craig Stevens, spokesman for the MAIN Coalition of agriculture, business and labor interests, said the group understands \"the passions that individuals on all sides of the pipeline discussion feel\" and hopes that protesters' voices \"will continue to be heard through other peaceful channels and in court.\" \n A massive effort to clean up the camp has been underway for weeks, first by protesters themselves and now with help from the Army Corps in removing debris. \n Some vehicles and pedestrians were having trouble getting through the muck created by recent rain and snow, and cleanup efforts were suspended in part because camp officials did not want heavy equipment making conditions worse. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Most oil pipeline opponents leave North Dakota protest camp"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hien Nguyen walks through flooded waters on Welch Avenue in San Jose, Calif., Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2017. Rising floodwaters sent thousands of residents fleeing inundated homes in San Jose and forced the shutdown of a major freeway Wednesday. \n SAN JOSE, Calif. >> The mayor of San Jose acknowledged that the city failed to properly notify residents to evacuate during a flood emergency early Wednesday when some people said they got their first notice with a knock on their door from a firefighter. \n City officials ordered more than 14,000 residents to leave their homes as water from swollen Coyote Creek flooded homes and temporarily shut down a portion of a major freeway. \n \"If the first time a resident is aware that they need to get out of their home is when they see a firefighter in a boat, that's a failure,\" Mayor Sam Liccardo said at a news conference. \"We are assessing what happened in that failure.\" \n Liccardo declined to go into detail, saying there would be time for reflection after the emergency was over. \n \"We've got to address the needs of the families who have been displaced first. We'll have a lot of time to analyze what went wrong,\" he said. \n Another 22,000 people near the creek were encouraged but not required to evacuate. \n The floodwaters were receding Wednesday but the mayor said it would be at least another day before residents would be allowed to return home. \n Assistant City Manager Dave Sykes said officials first became aware of the rising water late Tuesday when firefighters began evacuating about 400 people from a low-lying residential area. \n City officials did not believe the waters would spread to other neighborhoods and did not expand the evacuation orders. \n Resident Sandy Moll said she had prepared for about a foot of water, but the flooding spilled over sandbags stacked 3 feet high and broke down her back door. Moll told the Mercury News in San Jose (http://bayareane.ws/2mcmIFD ) she was angry at the lack of warning. \n \"I'm seething,\" she said. \"It's the lack of information and forewarning when they had to have known. They never even said you need to prepare for a major flood.\" \n About 300 people stayed in emergency shelters set up by the city, while many found other accommodations. \n Coyote Creek flooded after Anderson Dam in Santa Clara County reached capacity during heavy weekend rains. \n \"We've been pummeled by a number of storms since Jan. 9. We've been letting out as much water as we possibly could,\" said Rachel Gibson, a spokeswoman for the Santa Clara Valley Water Project, which operates the dam. \n Bob Benjamin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said the water level in Coyote Creek reached a 100-year high during this week's storm. \n Flood warnings were in place until Saturday because waterways were overtaxed. Another storm was forecast Sunday. \n The rains have saturated the once-drought-stricken region and wreaked havoc for residents. At least four people have died in as a result of the storms throughout the state in the past week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "San Jose mayor admits failures in flood evacuation order"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People wave U.S. flags during a naturalization ceremony at the Los Angeles Convention Center, in Los Angeles. \n In Orange County, California, dozens of immigrants have signed powers of attorney authorizing relatives and friends to pick up their children from school and access their bank accounts to pay their bills in the event they are arrested by immigration agents. \n In Philadelphia, immigrants are carrying around wallet-size \"Know Your Rights\" guides in Spanish and English that explain what to do if they're rounded up. \n And in New York, 23-year-old Zuleima Dominguez and other members of her Mexican family are careful about answering the door, and get worried and start making phone calls when someone doesn't come home on time. \n Around the country, President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on the estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S. have spread fear and anxiety and led many people to brace for arrest and to change up their daily routines in hopes of not getting caught. \n In El Paso, Texas, Carmen Ramos and her friends have developed a network to keep each other updated via text messages on where immigration checkpoints have been set up. \n She said she is also making certain everything she does is in order at all times. She checks her tail lights before leaving the house to make sure they are working. She won't speed and keeps a close eye on her surroundings. \n \"We are surprised that even a ticket can get us back to Mexico,\" said the 41-year-old Ramos, who with her husband and three children left Ciudad Juarez because of drug violence and death threats in 2008 and entered the U.S. on tourist visas that have since expired. \"We wouldn't have anywhere to return.\" \n The unease among immigrants in the U.S. illegally has been building for months but intensified in recent weeks with ever-clearer signs that the Trump administration would jettison the Obama-era policy of focusing mostly on deporting those who had committed serious crimes. \n On Tuesday, the administration announced that any immigrant who is in the country illegally and is charged with or convicted of any offense, or even suspected of a crime, will now be an enforcement priority. That could include people arrested for shoplifting or other minor offenses, or those who simply crossed the border illegally. \n Some husbands and wives fear spouses who lack legal papers could be taken away. And many worry that parents will be separated from their U.S.-born children. \n \"People are hunkering down because they are afraid,\" said Roberto G. Gonzales, assistant professor of sociology at Harvard University whose research focuses on immigrant and Latino youth. \n Dozens of immigrants have been turning up at an advocacy group's offices in Philadelphia, asking questions like, \"Who will take care of my children if I am deported?\" They are also coached on how to develop a \"deportation plan\" that includes the name and number of an attorney and other emergency contacts in case of arrest. \n In Los Angeles, immigrants have been attending know-your-rights workshops but also calling in to report they're afraid to pick up their children from school, said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, a spokesman for the Coalition of Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. \n Immigrants in the Chicago area have said they are scared to drive, and some are even wary of taking public transit. When Chicago police and federal authorities conducted regular safety checks on a train line earlier this month, many assumed it was an immigration checkpoint. \n Word spread so quickly on Twitter and among activist groups that Chicago police issued a statement assuring immigrants, \"You are welcome here.\" \n In the Bronx, Dominguez, a college student who is in the U.S. with permission under the Obama administration policy for people who entered illegally as children, is looking into what she needs to do to raise her American-born brother and sister, ages 6 and 11, if their parents are deported. The parents are in the U.S. illegally. \n Now, when Dominguez goes out, she tells the others where she is going, with whom, and when she will be home, and expects the same from her parents and siblings. If someone is late getting home, she said, \"we start calling.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Immigrants change up their routines, brace for arrest"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "NEW YORK TIMES \n In a 10-4 ruling, the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, said the guns banned under Maryland's law aren't protected by the Second Amendment. \n ANNAPOLIS, Md. >> Maryland's ban on 45 kinds of assault weapons and its 10-round limit on gun magazines were upheld Tuesday by a federal appeals court in a decision that met with a strongly worded dissent. \n In a 10-4 ruling, the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, said the guns banned under Maryland's law aren't protected by the Second Amendment. \n \"Put simply, we have no power to extend Second Amendment protections to weapons of war,\" Judge Robert King wrote for the court, adding that the Supreme Court's decision in District of Columbia v. Heller explicitly excluded such coverage. \n Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh, who led the push for the law in 2013 as a state senator, said it's \"unthinkable that these weapons of war, weapons that caused the carnage in Newtown and in other communities across the country, would be protected by the Second Amendment.\" \n \"It's a very strong opinion, and it has national significance, both because it's en-banc and for the strength of its decision,\" Frosh said, noting that all of the court's judges participated. \n Judge William Traxler issued a dissent. By concluding the Second Amendment doesn't even apply, Traxler wrote, the majority \"has gone to greater lengths than any other court to eviscerate the constitutionally guaranteed right to keep and bear arms.\" He also wrote that the court did not apply a strict enough review on the constitutionality of the law. \n \"For a law-abiding citizen who, for whatever reason, chooses to protect his home with a semi-automatic rifle instead of a semi-automatic handgun, Maryland's law clearly imposes a significant burden on the exercise of the right to arm oneself at home, and it should at least be subject to strict scrutiny review before it is allowed to stand,\" Traxler wrote. \n National Rifle Association spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said, \"It is absurd to hold that the most popular rifle in America is not a protected 'arm' under the Second Amendment.\" She added that the majority opinion \"clearly ignores the Supreme Court's guidance from District of Columbia v. Heller that the Second Amendment protects arms that are 'in common use at the time for lawful purposes like self-defense.'\" \n The NRA estimates there are 5 million to 10 million AR-15s \u2014 one of the weapons banned under Maryland's law \u2014 in circulation in the United States for lawful purposes. Asked about an appeal, Baker said the NRA is exploring all options. \n But Elizabeth Banach, executive director of Marylanders to Prevent Gun Violence, said the decision is \"overwhelming proof that reasonable measures to prevent gun violence are constitutional.\" \n \"Maryland's law needs to become a national model of evidence-based policies that will reduce gun violence,\" Banach wrote in a statement. \n U.S. District Judge Catherine Blake upheld the ban in 2015, but a divided three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled last year that she didn't apply the proper legal standard. The panel sent the case back to Blake and ordered her to apply \"strict scrutiny,\" a more rigorous test of a law's constitutionality. The state appealed to the full appeals court. \n Maryland passed the sweeping gun-control measure after the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre that killed 20 children and six educators in Connecticut. King mentioned the massacre at the start of the ruling. \n \"Both before and after Newtown, similar military-style rifles and detachable magazines have been used to perpetrate mass shootings in places whose names have become synonymous with the slaughters that occurred there,\" King wrote. He listed the 2012 shootings at a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado; the December 2015 shootings in San Bernardino, California; and the shootings last year at an Orlando, Florida, nightclub, where 49 people were killed and 53 injured. \n King also noted that enacting the law is \"precisely the type of judgment that legislatures are allowed to make without second-guessing by a court.\" \n \"Simply put, the State has shown all that is required: a reasonable, if not perfect, fit between the (Firearms Safety Act) and Maryland's interest in protecting public safety,\" King wrote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maryland's assault weapons ban upheld by U.S. appeals court"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wilfredo Mendoza, of Boston, left, and Christina Villafranca, of Malden, Mass., right, displays a placards during a rally called \"We Will Persist,\" Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017, in Boston. \n MEXICO CITY >> Mexicans fear deportee and refugee camps could be popping up along their northern border under the Trump administration's plan to start deporting to Mexico all Latin Americans and others who entered the U.S. illegally through this country. \n Previous U.S. policy called for only Mexican citizens to be sent to Mexico. Migrants known as \"OTMs\" \u2014 Other Than Mexicans \u2014 got flown back to their homelands. \n Now, under a sweeping rewrite of enforcement policies announced Tuesday by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, migrants might be dumped over the border into a violence-plagued land where they have no ties while their asylum claims or deportation proceedings are heard in the United States. U.S. officials didn't say what Mexico would be expected to do with them. \n The only consensus so far in Mexico about the new policies of President Donald Trump is that the country isn't remotely prepared. \n \"Not in any way, shape or form,\" said the Rev. Patrick Murphy, a priest who runs the Casa del Migrante shelter in the border city of Tijuana, which currently houses about 55 Haitian immigrants. They were part of wave of thousands who swarmed to the border in the closing months of the Obama administration in hopes of getting asylum in the U.S. \n Tijuana was overwhelmed, and while the government did little, a string of private Christian groups pitched in to open shelters with improvised bedding, tents and sanitary facilities. Donated food kept the Haitians going. \n Mexicans quake at the thought of handling not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of foreigners in a border region already struggling with drug gangs and violence. \n \"Just look at the case of the Haitians in Tijuana, what were they, seven or eight thousand? And the situation was just out of control,\" said Alejandro Hope, a Mexico City-based security analyst. \"Now imagine a situation 10 or 15 times that size. There aren't enough resources to maintain them.\" \n It's unclear whether the United States has the authority to force Mexico to accept third-country nationals. The DHS memo calls for the department to provide an account of U.S. aid to Mexico, a possible signal that Trump plans to use that funding to get Mexico to accept the foreigners. \n Murphy said, \"I hope Mexico has the courage to say no to this.\" \n Mexico's foreign relations secretary, Luis Videgaray, said Wednesday that his country has \"no reason to accept unilateral decisions imposed by one government on another.\" \n \"We are not going to accept that because we don't have to and it is not in the interest of Mexico,\" Videgaray said. \n In apparent reference to broadened definitions of those subject to deportation, he said \"Let there be no doubt, Mexico and the Mexican government will not hesitate in going to international organizations, starting with the United Nations, to defend human rights, liberties and due process for Mexicans abroad according to international law.\" \n Victor Clark, director of Tijuana's Binational Center for Human Rights, said Mexico can simply refuse to accept non-Mexican deportees. \"They come through one by one, and when the Mexican immigration agent sees a person who isn't Mexican, he tells the ICE agent, 'I can't accept this person, he's not Mexican,' and they return him to the United States.\" \n Hope said the new U.S. policy could create an \"explosive situation,\" noting that some anti-foreigner sentiment already exists in Mexico's northern border region and that Central American migrants have been recruited, sometimes by force, into drug gangs like the Zetas and the Gulf cartel. \n The United States could pay to build the needed facilities. There would be precedents for such a deal. Turkey has agreed to house Syrian refugees headed for the European Union in exchange for at least $3 billion in aid. \n \"For this to be politically acceptable in Mexico, it would have to be paid,\" said Hope. \"No Mexican administration could accept this kind of thing unless it were accompanied by billions of dollars.\" \n Mexico's government didn't formally react to the DHS policy statements. \n But in a hearing with Mexican senators, Mexico's new ambassador to the United States, Geronimo Gutierrez, said, \"Obviously, they are a cause for concern for the foreign relations department, for the Mexican government, and for all Mexicans.\" \n But Gutierrez praised the Trump administration's release of the policies before this week's visit to Mexico by U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, calling that \"a position that is much more straightforward and honorable, to make these positions known beforehand \u2026 so they can be discussed.\" \n There are precedents in Mexico for refugee camps. \n In the 1980s and 1990s, Mexico took in about 46,000 Guatemalans fleeing civil war. With help from the United Nations, camps were set up in the southern states of Chiapas, Campeche and Quintana Roo. When peace accords were signed in Guatemala in the mid-1990s, almost 43,000 refugees and their children went home, but more than 30,000 Guatemalans and their children born in Mexico decided to stay. \n The same thing could happen with any migrants housed in Mexico. \n Haitians streamed into Tijuana last year to seek asylum in the U.S., but since January they have stopped applying after hearing that other Haitians' requests were being denied and U.S. authorities were sending them back to Haiti. Murphy estimated the 3,000 Haitians still in Tijuana have mostly decided to seek asylum in Mexico. \n He said a lot of Latin American migrants might do the same. \n \"You know, a lot of Central Americans would rather be deported to Mexico than their own countries,\" Murphy said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mexicans weigh the daunting prospect of deportee camps"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / FEB. 2005 \n \u02bbIolani sophomores took a class from math teacher Dave Masunaga in preparation for the math portion of the PSAT test. The firm that owns the SAT college entrance exam is boosting security worldwide following test-stealing and other cheating in recent years. \n PITTSBURGH >> The firm that owns the SAT college entrance exam is boosting security worldwide following test-stealing and other cheating in recent years.  \n The College Board said it's reducing the number of international testing dates from six per year to four for the 2017-18 and 2018-19 school years. It says the move will reduce opportunities for test content to be stolen. \n The New York-based college entrance exam provider announced today that it is taking steps to prevent past cheaters from retaking tests. In addition, it says it will alert law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and abroad of companies and people it suspects of illegally obtaining test content. \n Other planned reforms include an increase in audits of test centers worldwide and steps to make it easier for students and educators to anonymously report suspected cheating. \n \"We are unwavering in our commitment to SAT test security and we will continue to confront any efforts to undermine it, including the unauthorized disclosure of test questions and test forms,\" Peter Schwartz, the College Board's chief administrative officer and general counsel, said in a written statement. \n A frequent critic of the College Board believes the group isn't doing enough to prevent recycled tests from flooding an online black market where foreign students can buy copies of tests already given in the United States before they're recycled and given to students overseas. \n \"The most important thing is what they did not say,\" said Bob Schaeffer, Public Education Director for FairTest: National Center for Fair & Open Testing Schaeffer. \"They did not say they're going to stop recycling tests, which is the primary tool used in all these international cheating scandals.\" \n But College Board spokesman Zachary Goldberg said, \"We are reducing re-use, it's in the announcement. We recognize that's an issue.\" \n The official announcement says \"the College Board has increased test form development to reduce reuse.\" \n \"With these new policies, the College Board is committed to expose and thwart individuals and organizations who attempt to steal and share test materials for profit and other gain,\" said Jeremiah Quinlan, dean of undergraduate admissions at Yale University. \n The College Board canceled college entrance exams in China and Macau in January 2016 after determining some students may have obtained copies of the tests. Forty-five testing centers were affected, and similar problems have plagued the administration of the test in Asia in recent years, though cheating has occurred elsewhere, too. \n In 2015, federal prosecutors in Pittsburgh charged 15 Chinese citizens in a conspiracy to have impostors take the SAT and other college entrance tests in Pennsylvania as far back as 2011. \n A former University of Pittsburgh student, Han Tong, pleaded guilty and was sentenced to probation for being the go-between for Chinese students who paid up to $6,000 to have impostors take the tests for them. All but two of those defendants, who remain in China, have pleaded guilty. Eleven of the 13 convicted have been sentenced by a federal judge in Pittsburgh, and most were deported. \n The Educational Testing Service, of Princeton, New Jersey, administers the SAT, the Test of English as a Foreign Language and the GRE graduate school entry exam, which were targeted in the Pittsburgh-based scam. \n The College Board oversees registration for the SAT and is tasked with ensuring test results are legitimate for each student. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "College Board to boost SAT security to combat cheating"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korea's \"Pukguksong-2\" missile launch at Seoul Railway station in Seoul, South Korea. Years of failed efforts to stem North Korea's nuclear and missile programs have followed a usual pattern. The United States seeks tougher action from China, the North's traditional ally. Beijing urges U.S. diplomatic engagement. \n WASHINGTON >> China's surprising suspension of North Korean coal imports puts pressure not only on Pyongyang, but also on President Donald Trump. The question for him: Should the U.S. respond with new North Korea negotiations? \n Years of failed efforts to stem North Korea's nuclear and missile programs have followed a usual pattern. The United States seeks tougher action from China, the North's traditional ally. Beijing urges U.S. diplomatic engagement. \n But China's move this weekend appears to change the dynamic, addressing the long-standing American demand, one Trump has vociferously repeated. If enforced, the loss of coal revenue could tighten the screws on leader Kim Jong Un after his government's acceleration of nuclear and missile tests this last year. \n China rarely makes concessions for free, and will want Trump to respond in kind. \n \"If China is squeezing North Korea, it is for one purpose and one purpose only: to offer a cooperative gesture to the incoming Trump administration in return for an initiative on negotiations,\" said Stephan Haggard, a North Korea expert at the University of California, San Diego. \n Beijing indicated such a strategy was in play. \n Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said the country wants parallel negotiations on nuclear matters and a formal peace treaty to replace the armistice ending the 1950-53 Korean War \u2014 a longstanding North Korean request. Washington has said the North's nuclear weapons program must be settled first. \n Meanwhile, the newspaper of China's ruling Communist Party, Global Times, published a pair of editorials Wednesday calling for aid-for-disarmament talks to restart. They've been on ice since 2009. \n Any breakthrough would almost surely require U.S.-Chinese cooperation. Kim has shown little interest in relinquishing his nation's nuclear deterrent as he closes in on a weapon capable of targeting mainland America, and Sino-American disputes over the best approach to dealing with the confounding North Korean leader have hamstrung international diplomatic efforts. \n Trump has vowed to \"deal with\" North Korea, without saying how. His administration is conducting a broad-ranging policy review, including how to make sanctions bite. Negotiations haven't been ruled out, said a U.S. official, who wasn't authorized to discuss internal deliberations and demanded anonymity. \n China's decision on coal could change the U.S. calculus, even if the official said the U.S. was still gauging what the change might mean. Beijing has a mixed track record of policing its trade with North Korea. \n North Korea's coal exports to China totaled $1.2 billion last year, according to Chinese customs, representing more than a third of the North's total export income. \n Geng, the Chinese spokesman, explained China's decision by saying the coal imports this year already \"approximated\" a $400 million annual cap set by the U.N. Security Council. \n But China has exploited loopholes in the past, raising questions about alternative motivations. These could include embarrassment over the apparent assassination of Kim Jong Nam, the North Korean leader's exiled, half-brother who was spending much of his time in China. Or, a pre-emptive effort to forestall a new U.S.-South Korean missile defense system. \n Regardless of motive, \"enforcement will be the key,\" said Joseph DeThomas, a former U.S. diplomat who advised the Obama administration on sanctions. DeThomas, now a professor at Pennsylvania State University, said China's suspension could cost Pyongyang hundreds of millions of dollars in much-needed hard currency. \n But Troy Stangarone, senior director at the Washington-based Korea Economic Institute, questioned how significant the economic impact would be. Official Chinese figures don't account for services and illicit border trade between the countries, he said. \n China has long resisted applying severe economic pressure on North Korea. While it opposes the North's pursuit of nuclear weapons, Beijing fears any policies that might lead to an influx of North Koreans into China or a U.S.-allied, unified Korea emerging on the Chinese border. \n In any case, questions will now be asked of the Trump administration. \n As a presidential candidate, Trump expressed a willingness to speak with Kim \u2014 a politically risky move given North Korea's history of reneging on past agreements. President Barack Obama refused to re-engage without a commitment from the North to pursue denuclearization, cranking up sanctions while waiting. The approach failed to stop Pyongyang's rapid advances in weapons development. \n Trump will need to come up with a strategy soon. A high-profile North Korean defector reported that Kim wants to finish an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of hitting the U.S. mainland in the next year. \n It's unclear what, if anything, Trump can offer Kim to bargain over a nuclear program he likely sees as essential to the survival of his totalitarian regime. \n Stangarone said the question for Kim becomes this: \"Can he weather whatever storm is coming and finish the program and make this fait accompli?\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n EDITOR'S NOTE \u2014 Matthew Pennington has covered Asian affairs for The Associated Press since 1999. \n Associated Press writer Christopher Bodeen in Beijing contributed to this report. \n . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As China ups heat on N. Korea, U.S. faces questions of diplomacy"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An arrest was made during a targeted enforcement operation, Feb. 7, conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) aimed at immigration fugitives, re-entrants and at-large criminal aliens in Los Angeles. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump the presidential candidate made no secret of his desire to crack down on illegal immigration, but once elected, he repeatedly offered varying interpretations of just how tough he would be in the White House. \n Now a pair of enforcement memos from Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly lay bare exactly what the Trump administration plans to do and how many of the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the United States illegally will be targeted for deportation. The short answer: a lot. \n A look at some of what the policy memos say the government will do. \n SEND IMMIGRANTS WHO HAVE CROSSED THE BORDER ILLEGALLY TO MEXICO \u2014 EVEN IF THEY'RE NOT MEXICAN \n A border security memo calls for the use of a long-standing but obscure U.S. law to send some immigrants who have crossed the border illegally back to Mexico even if they are from other countries. The memo and the law it cites don't include details on how or if the U.S. can force the Mexican government to allow foreigners to wait in that country while U.S. officials decide their fate. Historically, the U.S. has jailed and tried to deport foreigners from countries other than Mexico, while Mexican nationals could be easily and quickly sent back over the border. The proposal is likely to come up in discussions this week in Mexico among Kelly, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and the Mexican government. \n UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN \n One of Kelly's memos directs the Homeland Security Department to stop providing some legal protections to child immigrants caught crossing the border alone if they are reunited with their parents or a legal guardian inside the United States. The protections generally allow for those children to have their case decided by a judge, but the new policy would likely subject them to fast-track deportation proceedings that don't require a judge's approval. The memo also calls for the government to investigate the immigration status of those parents or guardians and any possible criminal activity connected to bringing the children into the United States. \n Immigration advocates decried the effort to target parents of child immigrants who they say are largely fleeing violence in Central America. Jen Smyers, director of policy and advocacy for Church World Service's Immigration and Refugee Program, said those parents are focused on getting their children to safety. \n LOCAL POLICE ENFORCING FEDERAL LAWS \n Under the Obama administration, a program allowing local police and jailers to act as immigration agents was curtailed as the government narrowly focused immigration enforcement. Communities also complained that some jurisdictions were overly aggressive in enforcing federal laws. \n The Secure Communities program, which uses fingerprints collected in local jails to identify immigrants in the U.S. illegally, was halted amid complaints and court rulings barring some jurisdictions from detaining immigrants for federal authorities. \n Kelly's memos make clear that the government plans to restart those programs. \n JAIL AND PROSECUTE MORE PEOPLE CROSSING THE BORDER ILLEGALLY \n Kelly's directive calls for more people caught crossing the border illegally to face criminal charges. It is illegal to cross the border without permission, and the government does charge immigrants with crossing the border for the first time or coming back after being deported, a felony. But to do that on a wide scale, as was done along at least one section of the border in Texas under President George W. Bush, is costly and resource intensive. \n One of the Kelly memos also calls for more jails. The government currently has the space and money to jail 34,000 people at a time. Congress will likely have to approve tens of millions of dollars for new construction and staff for the facilities or fund contracts with private prison companies. \n HIRE 15,000 BORDER AND IMMIGRATION AGENTS \n The Trump administration announced plans to hire 5,000 new Border Patrol agents and 10,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. That will be a tall order. Customs and Border Protection, the parent agency of the Border Patrol, is already having trouble hiring new agents, as about 2 out of every 3 job applicants fails the agency's polygraph test. There are already about 2,000 Border Patrol vacancies, a deficit largely attributed to the polygraph fail rate. \n Kelly suggested to lawmakers earlier this month that the hiring would be slow and deliberate, and the agency would not lower its standards. \n PRIORITIZE CRIMINALS AND SUSPECTED CRIMINALS \n One of Kelly's memos outlines that criminal immigrants will be a top priority. But that category is broad and includes anyone convicted, arrested or suspected of a crime. That means anyone arrested for even a minor traffic violation or suspected of crossing the border illegally will now be a priority. \n More than half the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally are believed to have crossed the border illegally. Immigrants who have overstayed a visa have not committed a crime but a civil violation. Still, those immigrants could also face deportation if they are arrested for just about any offense or simply encounter immigration officials looking for someone else. \n YOUNG IMMIGRANTS PROTECTED BY OBAMA \n Kelly's memos do not rescind or change the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program that protects more than 750,000 young immigrants from deportation and allows them to work. \n Trump decried the effort as an \"illegal amnesty\" during the campaign but softened his stance on the issue after winning November's election. The administration has not said how long the program will continue, but White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday those protections will remain in place so long as those immigrants don't commit a crime or otherwise become a security threat. \n Associated Press reporter Amy Taxin in Santa Ana, California, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump lays out tougher approach to illegal immigration"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This illustration provided by NASA/JPL-Caltech shows an artist's conception of what the TRAPPIST-1 planetary system may look like, based on available data about their diameters, masses and distances from the host star. The planets circle tightly around a dim dwarf star called Trappist-1, barely the size of Jupiter. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image provided by NASA/JPL-Caltech shows an artist's conception of what the surface of the exoplanet TRAPPIST-1f may look like, based on available data about its diameter, mass and distances from the host star. The planets circle tightly around a dim dwarf star called Trappist-1, barely the size of Jupiter. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> For the first time, astronomers have discovered seven Earth-size planets orbiting a single nearby star \u2014 and these new worlds could hold life. \n This cluster of planets is less than 40 light-years away in the constellation Aquarius, according to NASA and the Belgian-led research team who announced the discovery Wednesday. \n The planets circle tightly around a dim dwarf star called Trappist-1, barely the size of Jupiter. Three are in the so-called habitable zone, the area around a star where water and, possibly life, might exist. The others are right on the doorstep. \n Scientists said they need to study the atmospheres before determining whether these rocky, terrestrial planets could support some sort of life. But it already shows just how many Earth-size planets could be out there \u2014 especially in a star's sweet spot, ripe for extraterrestrial life. The more planets like this, the greater the potential of finding one that's truly habitable. Until now, only two or three Earth-size planets had been spotted around a star. \n \"We've made a crucial step toward finding if there is life out there,\" said the University of Cambridge's Amaury Triaud, one of the researchers. \n The potential for more Earth-size planets in our Milky Way galaxy is mind-boggling. The history of planet-searching shows \"when there's one, there's more,\" said Massachusetts Institute of Technology astrophysicist Sara Seager. \n \"With this amazing system, we know that there must be many more potentially life-bearing worlds out there just waiting to be found,\" she said. \n NASA's Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator for the science mission, said the discovery \"gives us a hint that finding a second Earth is not just a matter of if, but when,\" and addresses the age-old question of \"Are we alone out there?\" \n \"We're making a step forward with this, a leap forward in fact, toward answering that question,\" Zurbuchen said at a news conference. \n Last spring, the University of Liege's Michael Gillon and his team reported finding three planets around Trappist-1. Now the count is up to seven, and Gillon said there could be more. Their latest findings appear in the journal Nature. \n This crowded yet compact solar system \u2014 235 trillion miles away \u2014 is reminiscent of Jupiter and its Galilean moons, according to the researchers. \n Picture this: If Trappist-1 were our sun, all seven planets would be inside Mercury's orbit. Mercury is the innermost planet of our own solar system. \n The ultracool star at the heart of this system would shine 200 times dimmer than our sun, a perpetual twilight as we know it. And the star would glow red \u2014 maybe salmon-colored, the researchers speculate. \n \"The spectacle would be beautiful because every now and then, you would see another planet, maybe about as big as twice the moon in the sky, depending on which planet you're on and which planet you look at,\" Triaud said Tuesday in a teleconference with reporters. \n Years are exceedingly short in this star system \u2014 the planets take just 1 \u00bd to 20 days to orbit Trappist-1. \n The Leiden Observatory's Ignas Snellen, who was not involved in the study, is excited by the prospect of learning more about what he calls \"the seven sisters of planet Earth.\" In a companion article in Nature, he said Gillon's team could have been lucky in nabbing so many terrestrial planets in one stellar swoop. \n \"But finding seven transiting Earth-sized planets in such a small sample suggests that the solar system with its four (sub-) Earth-sized planets might be nothing out of the ordinary,\" Snellen wrote. \n Gillon and his team used both ground and space telescopes to identify and track the planets, which they label simply by lowercase letters, \"b\" through \"h.\" As is typical in these cases, the letter \"A\" \u2014 in upper case \u2014 is reserved for the star. Planets cast shadows on their star as they pass in front of it; that's how the scientists spotted them. \n Tiny, cold stars like Trappist-1 were long shunned by exoplanet-hunters (exoplanets are those outside our solar system). But the Belgian astronomers decided to seek them out, building a telescope in Chile to observe 60 of the closest ultracool dwarf stars. Their Trappist telescope lent its name to this star. \n While faint, the Trappist-1 star is close by cosmic standards, allowing astronomers to study the atmospheres of its seven temperate planets. All seven look to be solid like Earth \u2014 mostly rocky and possibly icy, too. \n They all appear to be tidally locked, which means the same side continually faces the star, just like the same side of our moon always faces us. Life could still exist at these places, the researchers explained. \n \"Here, if life managed to thrive and releases gases similar to that that we have on Earth, then we will know,\" Triaud said. \n Chemical analyses should indicate life with perhaps 99 percent confidence, Gillon noted. But he added: \"We will never be completely sure\" without going there. \n Online: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "7 Earth-size worlds found orbiting star; could hold life"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu saluted, on May 7, to his soldiers as he was driven along Red Square during a rehearsal for the Victory Day military parade in Moscow, Russia. \n MOSCOW >> Along with a steady flow of new missiles, planes and tanks, Russia's defense minister said today his nation also has built up its muscle by forming a new branch of the military \u2014 information warfare troops. \n Sergei Shoigu's statement \u2014 which came amid Western allegations of Russian hacking \u2014 marked the first official acknowledgement of the existence of such forces. \n Speaking to parliament, Shoigu said that the military received a sweeping array of new weapons last year, including 41 intercontinental ballistic missiles. \n He added that the wide-ranging military modernization will continue this year, with the air force set to receive 170 new aircraft. The army will receive 905 tanks and other armored vehicles, and the navy will receive 17 new ships. \n Also this year, three regiments of Russia's strategic nuclear forces will receive new intercontinental ballistic missiles, Shoigu said. Each regiment has up to 10 launchers. \n The rising number of new weapons has raised demands for new personnel. Shoigu said the military currently needs 1,300 more pilots and will recruit them by 2018. \n Declaring the formation of the dedicated information warfare troops, Shoigu noted that \"propaganda needs to be clever, smart and efficient.\" He wouldn't describe the troops' mission. \n Retired Gen. Vladimir Shamanov, the head of defense affairs committee in the lower house of parliament, was equally vague, saying that the information warfare troops' task is to \"protect the national defense interests and engage in information warfare,\" according to the Interfax news agency. He added that part of their mission is to fend off enemy cyberattacks. \n Viktor Ozerov, the head of the upper house's defense and security committee, also told Interfax that the information troops will protect Russia's data systems from enemy attacks, not wage any hacking attacks abroad. \n U.S. intelligence agencies have accused Russia of hacking Democratic emails to meddle in the U.S. election, a claim Moscow has denied. Some EU officials also voiced concern that the Kremlin could seek to influence this year's elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany. \n Retired Col. Gen. Leonid Ivashov, the former head of the Defense Ministry's international cooperation department, said that Russia should rely on information warfare troops to fight back against what he described as Western propaganda. \n \"We must stop offering excuses and force the West into the defensive by conducting operations to expose its lies,\" Ivashov said in remarks carried by RIA Novosti news agency. \n A severe money crunch after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union left the military in tatters, with most of its planes grounded and ships left rusting at harbor for lack of funds. As part of President Vladimir Putin's military reforms, the armed forces have received new weapons and now engage in regular large-scale drills. \n Russia has used its revived military capability in Syria, where it has launched an air campaign in support of Syrian President Bashar Assad and used the conflict to test its new weapons for the first time in combat. \n The weapons modernization effort has seen the 1-million strong Russian military narrow the technological gap in areas where Russia had fallen behind the West, such as long-range conventional weapons, communications and drone technologies. \n Shoigu said the military now has 2,000 drones compared to just 180 in 2011. He also noted that Russia has now deployed new long-range early warning radars to survey the airspace along the entire length of its borders. \n Shoigu also said the military will complete the formation of three new divisions in the nation's west and southwest, and also deploy a new division on the Pacific Islands, which have been claimed by Japan. \n The dispute over the Kuril Islands just north of Japan, which the former Soviet Union seized in the closing days of World War II, has prevented the two countries from signing a peace treaty. \n Russia previously has deployed new long-range anti-ship missiles on the Kurils to protect the coast. The deployment of a full-fledged Russian army division there appears intended to stake Moscow's claim to the islands, which have strategic importance and are surrounded by fertile fishing grounds. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian military admits to forming info warfare branch"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE / NOAA \n Strong thunderstorms were seen developing southwest of the islands overnight. \n Strong thunderstorms are likely for Kailua-Kona and surrounding areas this afternoon while strong and gusty tradewinds continue to buffet the rest of the islands. \n The National Weather Service issued a special weather statement this morning covering the leeward and interior areas of Hawaii island. \"The primary threats with these thunderstorms will be dangerous cloud to surface lightning strikes, locally gusty winds, small hail, and very low visibility in areas of heavy rain,\" the statement said. \n Weather officials also said the summits of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa could see brief heavy snow showers. \n The rest of the state should expect continued strong tradewinds, diminishing Friday through the weekend. Honolulu is expected to be mostly sunny today with windward and mauka showers. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Strong thunderstorms likely for Kailua-Kona"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amnesty International Philippines' Jose Noel Olano, left, and Wilnor Papa, held copies of the 2016/17 Amnesty International report which they released at a news conference, today, in suburban Quezon city northeast of Manila, Philippines. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary General of Amnesty International, Salil Shetty, showed the 2016/2017 Amnesty International report during a press conference, in Paris on Tuesday. \n PARIS >> Amnesty International says \"toxic\" fear-mongering by anti-establishment politicians, among them President Donald Trump and the leaders of Turkey, Hungary and the Philippines, is contributing to a global pushback against human rights. \n Releasing its 408-page annual report on rights abuses around the world today, the watchdog group described 2016 as \"the year when the cynical use of 'us vs. them' narratives of blame, hate and fear took on a global prominence to a level not seen since the 1930s,\" when Adolf Hitler rose to power in Germany. \n Amnesty named Trump, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte among leaders it said are \"wielding a toxic agenda that hounds, scapegoats and dehumanizes entire groups of people.\" \n \"Poisonous\" rhetoric employed by Trump in his election campaign exemplified \"the global trend of angrier and more divisive politics,\" Amnesty said. \n \"The limits of what is acceptable have shifted. Politicians are shamelessly and actively legitimizing all sorts of hateful rhetoric and policies based on people's identity: misogyny, racism and homophobia. The first target has been refugees and, if this continues in 2017, others will be in the crosshairs.\" \n The White House did not respond to a request for comment on the report. \n In the Philippines, Duterte's spokesman, Ernesto Abella, said the president has recently toned down his rhetoric. Duterte previously said he would be \"happy to slaughter\" 3 million drug addicts and talked of fattening fish in Manila Bay with corpses. \n His crackdown on illegal drugs is feared to have killed more than 7,000 mostly poor drug users and petty drug pushers since he took office last June. \n Abella told the ABS-CBN TV network that Duterte \"does listen and he's not just frothing in the mouth.\" \n \"There is anger coming there, but to refer to it as toxic as if it was a planned thing \u2026 that he wanted to destroy people, I think obviously misses the mark,\" Abella said. \n The Hungarian government, which has come under fire from human rights groups for its treatment of refugees and migrants, also rejected the report. \n \"The pro-migrant Amnesty International does nothing but constantly encourage breaking the law,\" it said in a statement. \n Having built fences in 2015 on the borders of Serbia and Croatia to block migrants, Hungary now plans to keep asylum-seekers in border camps made of shipping containers while their requests are examined instead of reception centers within the country. \n Amnesty's report, \"The State of the World's Human Rights,\" documented what it called \"grave violations of human rights\" in 159 countries in 2016. \n It said governments \"turned a blind eye to war crimes, pushed through deals that undermine the right to claim asylum, passed laws that violate free expression, incited the murder of people simply because they are accused of using drugs, justified torture and mass surveillance, and extended draconian police powers.\" \n The report added that \"the big question in 2017 will be how far the world lets atrocities go before doing something about them.\" \n Exceptionally, London-based Amnesty chose to launch its report in Paris. \n Salil Shetty, the group's secretary-general, said France has used emergency powers introduced in 2015 in the wake of terror attacks in an abusive and \"deeply discriminatory\" manner, confining more than 600 people, mostly Muslins, under house arrest and banning more than 140 protests. \n \"Even states that once claimed to champion rights abroad are now too busy rolling back human rights at home to hold others to account,\" Amnesty said. \"The more countries backtrack on fundamental human rights commitments, the more we risk a domino effect of leaders emboldened to knock back established human rights protections.\" \n France's government has repeatedly defended the emergency powers as a necessary safeguard against the severe terror threat it says is facing the country, and parliament has repeatedly voted to extend those powers. \n Jim Gomez in Manila and Pablo Gorondi in Budapest contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Amnesty blames Trump, others in global rollback of rights"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "DARYL LEE / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Ethan Ferguson appeared in a Hilo courtroom in February 2016 to answer a charge that he had sexually assaulted a teenager. \n A jury has convicted a Hawaii conservation and resources enforcement officer of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. \n Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Michelle West says the jury found Ethan Ferguson guilty today of five counts of sex assault. \n Prosecutors say Ferguson sexually assaulted the teen on a Hilo beach on Jan. 1, 2016. \n West says jurors deliberated for less than three hours. \n She says the victim and her family were in court for the verdict and are pleased with the outcome. \n Sentencing is scheduled for April 24. \n State Department of Land and Natural Resources spokesman Dan Dennison says a decision will be made on Ferguson's job status after his conviction record is received and reviewed. \n Dennison says the Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement has improved how it vets new hires. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii conservation officer convicted of teen's sex assault"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican Rep. Keven Stratton, center, sits on the House floor at the Utah State Capitol Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2017, in Salt Lake City. \n SALT LAKE CITY >> Days after the outdoor recreation industry yanked a lucrative expo from Utah to protest the state's public lands policy, state lawmakers are reaffirming their push to gain control of public lands from the U.S. government. \n Lawmakers are set to consider a resolution this week stipulating that if Congress or the White House do not make major moves to hand over control of public lands to Utah by December, then the state should take the issue directly to the U.S. Supreme Court. \n The resolution was originally scheduled for a Wednesday hearing but Orem Republican Rep. Keven Stratton, who sponsors the legislation, said he's working on an amendment and expects his bill will be debated Friday. Stratton said the amendment would make it clear that the decision to file a lawsuit ultimately rests with the attorney general's office. \n His proposal comes on the heels of a resolution lawmakers passed this month urging President Donald Trump to repeal the newly-named Bears Ears National Monument. Organizers of the lucrative Outdoor Retailer show said last week that it was the final straw, capping years of Utah policies that they said jeopardized the preservation of public lands. They announced that their expo, bringing about $45 million in direct spending to the state each year, would be leaving Utah for a location that matches their values. \n Stratton's resolution makes it clear that Utah lawmakers aren't backing down, said Chris Saeger, the executive director of Western Values Project, a Montana-based environmental group that's been critical of Utah's land demand efforts. \n \"I think the fact that this resolution is coming up right after the trade show left town should be a clear sign that they're willing to shoulder on despite the consequences to Utah's economy,\" Saeger said. \n The new resolution does not specify what steps Congress would need to take before Utah sues for public lands, only calling for \"satisfactory federal legislative and executive progress.\" \n Stratton said progress in Congress would include something like passage or progress on a wide-reaching public lands plan from U.S. Rep. Rob Bishop, which has stalled. \n Gov. Gary Herbert's office in a statement said the office has not reviewed Stratton's most recent draft of the resolution but the governor will not sign anything that lays out a specific date for filing a lawsuit. Herbert, a Republican, has said in the past that he sees a lawsuit as one possible path to get Utah more control but he'd prefer to see action in Congress. \n Utah has floated the idea of filing a lawsuit against the U.S. government to gain control of federal lands since 2012, when Herbert and the Legislature passed a law demanding control of about 30 million acres. \n Critics contend Utah has no claim to the land and point out that the Legislature's own lawyers warned a lawsuit was unlikely to succeed. A team of lawyers hired by the Legislature to draft potential legal arguments said the state could make a credible argument but it's not a slam dunk and could cost up to $14 million. \n Parker Douglas, the chief federal deputy in the Utah attorney general's office, said Wednesday that the office is waiting for a copy of a draft lawsuit that lawmakers asked their outside legal team to come up with. There's no timeline for when that draft will be finished, but Douglas said the office will decide after that whether they'll take the issue to court. \n The legal theories that the attorneys and others have floated so far include strong arguments and weak ones, Douglas said, \"but I do think that there are legitimate legal bases to advance the case.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah lawmaker's resolution reaffirms push for public lands"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cleone Hermsen, of Carroll, Iowa, expresses her criticism while listening to Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, during a veterans roundtable event at Maquoketa City Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017, in Maquoketa, Iowa. \n FAIRVIEW, Tenn. >> Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn returned to her district Tuesday in Tennessee and was greeted by tough questions on topics from health care reform to President Donald Trump's cabinet appointees. She also was met with protests. \n While 100 people crammed into her town hall gathering about 30 miles from Nashville, another 100 people outside chanted about immigrant rights, Planned Parenthood and other topics in protest against the congresswoman and the president. \n Blackburn's town hall was among several protests lobbed at GOP members of Congress returning home this week on break to their districts around the U.S. Now many Republican lawmakers are opting against holding public town halls, instead organizing conference calls or meeting privately. \n The crowd inside Blackburn's event held up signs that said \"agree\" and \"disagree,\" and at times yelled out \"alternative facts\" and \"shame on you for lying\" after Blackburn's responses. \n \"I have always said, you may not agree with me, but you're always going to know where I stand,\" Blackburn told the protesters outside Fairview City Hall afterward. \"Having a good, solid, respectful debate, that is something that serves our country well.\" \n A month into Trump's presidency, protests continue over his immigration policies, Cabinet selections and the GOP's push to repeal the Affordable Care Act, without all the specifics on how to replace it. At the town halls, protesters are probing their lawmakers to see if they will veer from some of Trump's more controversial decisions, and if they will promise coverage for those currently served by the Affordable Care Act. \n Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday to address the town halls. \n \"The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists. Sad!\" he tweeted. \n In two small Iowa towns, overflow crowds similarly lobbed questions Tuesday at Republican Sens. Charles Grassley and Joni Ernst. \n About 18,000 callers participated in a telephone town hall with suburban Chicago Rep. Peter Roskam, who has been criticized for canceling smaller in-person meetings and declining debates. \n Protesters booed in Montana when Sen. Steve Daines canceled his speech to state lawmakers. And at a protest town hall in Allentown, Pennsylvania, home of Sen. Pat Toomey, the protest group called Tuesdays with Toomey hung an empty suit in place of the senator. \n Similarly, a liberal group in Maine is holding its own town halls against GOP Sen. Susan Collins. \n Also Tuesday, the most powerful member of the U.S. Senate faced jeers from nearly 1,000 as he arrived to address a group of local business leaders. In Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, they chanted as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell entered the American Legion Post 34 Fairgrounds in a black limousine. \n McConnell said he was \"proud\" of the demonstrators for expressing their views but told the mostly friendly audience inside that the protesters \"had their shot,\" adding: \"Winners make policy and the losers go home.\" \n Sandra Brown, 45, said politics shouldn't matter as Congress moves to replace the health care law. She spoke at the Tennessee town hall about how the Affordable Care Act helped cover her pre-existing condition. \n Blackburn said the plan for efforts to repeal and replace the law includes maintaining coverage of pre-existing conditions and young adults on their parents' plans. \n \"Whatever they do, it needs to be affordable for everybody,\" Brown said after the Tennessee town hall. \"Because even the people that voted for a Republican, they're not going to be very happy if they've been promised they're going to repeal this Affordable Care Act and then they replace it with a garbage policy. They're going to be affected as well.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP members of Congress meet with protests at town halls"}

{"date": "February 22, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by Vitoria Londero, a giant banner saying \"Refugees Welcome\" hangs on the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty, Tuesday, Feb. 21, 2017, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> The National Park Service is trying to figure out who unfurled a giant banner at the Statue of Liberty saying \"Refugees Welcome.\" \n Park Service spokesman Jerry Willis says the 3-by-20-foot banner was hung from the public observation deck at the top of the statue's pedestal Tuesday afternoon. The banner was taken down more than an hour later. \n Willis says regulations prohibit anything fixed to the statue. \n The stunt happened the day the Department of Homeland Security announced expanded immigration enforcement policies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Refugees Welcome' banner unfurled at Statue of Liberty"}

