{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "SACRAMENTO BEE / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Alzheimer's patient David Johnson golfs at Cordova Golf Course on July 21 in Rancho Cordova, Calif. Johnson is still golfing and driving four years after his debilitating diagnosis, attributing his longevity to an experimental treatment by the Sutter Neuroscience Institute, which is involved in Alzheimer's research studies. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. \u00bb For decades, Alzheimer's disease has been silently ravaging brains, stealing memories and shortening the lives of millions of Americans. Now, researchers say they may be on the brink of tantalizing treatment breakthroughs that could for the first time at least slow the disease's deadly progression. \n It could help patients such as David Johnson, a 59-year-old former truck driver in Sacramento, who wasn't surprised when he was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's in 2012. The debilitating disease had already taken his father, six aunts and uncles, and a cousin. \n Four years ago, \"I resigned myself to dying. I knew I had three to five years left,\" said Johnson, a trim, goateed grandfather. \n Instead, he was enrolled in a clinical trial at Sacramento's Sutter Neuroscience Institute that Johnson believes has slowed, if not halted, the disease. \n Four years into the five-year clinical trial, it's still too soon for Sutter Health doctors to confirm how well Johnson's treatment, involving infusions of special antibodies, is working. So far, his brain scans have showed the disease has not progressed. \n Johnson's treatment is one of hundreds of clinical trials underway nationwide focused on Alzheimer's and dementia. Amyloid, the sticky protein that attaches to brain cells and causes Alzheimer's, is at the forefront of new therapies. Although none of the clinical therapies are yet FDA-approved, some are in the final phases with promising results, say researchers. \n If so, it could mean the arrival of disease-disrupting treatments that patients, caregivers and researchers have been eagerly anticipating for decades. \n \"We're entering a new era where we are very close to having the first proven disease-modifying therapy. It's taken an awful lot of work for the last decade, but we think it's slowing down the progression of the disease,\" said Dr. John Olichney, neurology professor and director of clinical trials for the University of California, Davis Alzheimer's Disease Center. \n More than 5 million Americans are living with Alzheimer's, a progressive form of dementia that destroys brain cells. It's the sixth leading cause of death among U.S. adults. \n As the median U.S. age rises over the next decades, the number of people with Alzheimer's is estimated to grow to 13.8 million by 2050 in the absence of new treatments. \n \"It's a scary diagnosis,\" said Dr. Shawn Kile, a neurologist who oversees Sutter Health's six Alzheimer's research studies, including the trial involving Johnson. \"It's fairly common, so people often have had a loved one or close friend go through Alzheimer's and have seen the direct effect. (Patients) lose their memory and lose who they are. It leads to continued deterioration and eventually death.\" \n Johnson's trial treatment involved a series of five infusions of a blood product called intravenous immunoglobulin, or IVIG, whose antibodies help clear or remove amyloid, the sticky, abnormal brain protein found in Alzheimer's patients. \n Currently prescribed drugs such as Arricept and Rivastigmine, which help certain brain transmissions involved with memory, are able to temporarily rewind the clock in dementia patients, boosting their short-term memory for a time. But they do nothing to slow down the disease's relentless advancement in the brain. \n Now, new clinical trials in Sacramento and elsewhere may be slowing the rate of decline in Alzheimer's patients. \n An estimated 5,000 researchers here and across the country are conducting trials into Alzheimer's treatments. UC Davis, for instance, is conducting several clinical trials, including looking at the impact of Vitamin D on cognitive function and examining ethnic disparities in Alzheimer's treatments. \n \"Although these (new therapies) may not be a home run and don't cure the disease, if we slow it down by 25 to 33 percent, that'd be a whole extra year of function. That would be better than all the current therapies,\" Olichney said. \n In the last five years, U.S. spending on Alzheimer's research has roughly doubled, climbing to an estimated $991 million in 2016, according to the National Institutes of Health. \n But that's still not nearly enough, say advocates and researchers, who estimate it will take $2 billion over 10 years to reach U.S. goals outlined in the National Alzheimer's Project Act, a law designed to put more muscle into defeating the disease. Those goals include earlier detection, better treatments to prevent or delay the disease and a reduction in long-term care costs. \n Compared with other diseases, Alzheimer's \"gets a lot less funding than cancer, heart disease, AIDS,\" said Michelle Johnston, regional director of the Greater Sacramento office of the national Alzheimer's Association. \"Unlike other diseases, people with Alzheimer's cannot advocate for themselves.\" \n Because it's age-related, the vast majority of Alzheimer's patients are diagnosed at age 65 or older. \n \"If we could find a way to slow the progression by five years, we'd cut the number of cases and the cost almost in half,\" she said, citing research conducted for the national Alzheimer's project. \n Unlike with other diseases, Johnston said, Alzheimer's patients often battle a stigma that makes some patients reluctant to discuss their illness. But that's changing as celebrities, such as country singer Glen Campbell or longtime women's college basketball coach Pat Summitt, have spoken up, she said. \n Campbell, diagnosed in 2011, went on a farewell tour a few years ago and now lives in a Florida care facility, having lost his ability to speak, according to news reports quoting his wife. Summitt, an Olympic medalist who broke NCAA records as a women's college coach, died in June at age 64, five years after being diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's. \n During the past three decades, \"remarkable progress\" has been made in understanding the neurobiology of chronic brain diseases such as Alzheimer's, notes a 2012 report by a national group of Alzheimer's researchers, part of the U.S. plan to defeat the disease. \"Research on the aging brain and dementia has moved from relative obscurity to the forefront of neuroscience,\" the report read. \n One research effort identifies the disease earlier, even before symptoms appear \u2014 partly motivated by previous research showing some treatments were more effective in the disease's early stages. \n \"We used to say you couldn't accurately diagnose Alzheimer's until an autopsy, not with 100 percent certainty,\" said Dr. Kile, who heads a clinical trial on the effectiveness of PET scans for diagnosis. \"Now, we can diagnose it 10 to 15 years before symptoms begin to show. It's a breakthrough.\" \n Sutter is accepting 20 to 50 patients, age 65 and older, who will undergo a PET scan to check for any amyloid plaque deposits in their brains \u2014 part of a national study involving nearly 18,500 Medicare beneficiaries. \n The scans are considered a more accurate, but often more expensive, diagnostic tool, compared with spinal fluid or genetic tests. In the clinical trial, the scans, which can cost as much as $4,000, will be covered by Medicare. \n With an earlier diagnosis, patients could become eligible for earlier treatments such as anti-amyloid therapies. \n Patients will be tracked over 12 months for the number of diagnostic tests, emergency room visits and hospital admissions compared with a non-PET scan group. \n Sutter's Kile said the goal is to continue diagnosing the disease \"earlier and more accurately\" so that patients can get into the right treatment plan and clinical trials, where possible. \n Finding those trials isn't always easy, however.  \n The national Alzheimer's Association has a free matchup service, where an individual's online questionnaire is matched with a database of hundreds of clinical trials worldwide. Participants can include patients, healthy seniors and Alzheimer's caregivers. The trials range from brain imaging to blood work to behavioral modification, either online or in person. \n Although all clinical trials have risks, they offer hope for some patients. \n At the time of Johnson's diagnosis, \"he was going downhill so fast,\" said Joni, his wife of 35 years. The longtime Teamsters trucker was starting to forget how to get through an intersection or make a simple left-hand turn into a shopping center. He also had trouble making change with cash. \n Today, he's not 100 percent better, but everything has improved. Although forced to give up his commercial driver's license, he can still drive a car. He can't follow a novel, but reads a daily newspaper. He no longer balances the family checkbook, but his recall of numbers and short-term memories is clearer. And he easily enjoys socializing with family and golfing buddies, some of whom didn't expect him to make it beyond the first year after his diagnosis. \n For Johnson, living with Alzheimer's at this early stage is still manageable. At 7 a.m. every Saturday, the grandfather of six is a volunteer greeter at the Cordova Golf Course, welcoming golfers and making sure they're stepping onto the first tee at the right time. \n Compared to how quickly the disease accelerated in his father and other now-deceased family members, Johnson said he feels grateful. \n Getting into a clinical trial, he said, \"was the luck of the draw. I got a lucky card.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Sacramento Bee (Sacramento, Calif.)  \n ", "author": "By Claudia Buck The Sacramento Bee", "title": "Alzheimer's researchers see first promising therapies in decades"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police hide behind an armored vehicle as rocks are hurled at them in Milwaukee on Sunday. Police said one person was shot at a Milwaukee protest on Sunday evening and officers used an armored vehicle to retrieve the injured victim during a second night of unrest over the police shooting of a black man. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police move in on a group of protesters throwing rocks at them in Milwaukee on Sunday. Police said one person was shot at a Milwaukee protest on Sunday evening and officers used an armored vehicle to retrieve the injured victim during a second night of unrest over the police shooting of a black man. \n MILWAUKEE \u00bb Following a night of violence that left half a dozen businesses in flames, the Milwaukee police chief expressed surprise at the level of unrest that erupted after the fatal shooting of a black man by a black officer.  \n \"This was, quite frankly, unanticipated,\" Chief Edward Flynn said today, two days after the worst of the rioting hit the Sherman Park neighborhood on the city's economically depressed and largely black north side. \n The city was calmer this evening after two nights of unrest. Six arrests were made after some \"heated confrontations\" but there was no destruction of property or rioting, Flynn said. A 10 p.m. curfew for those under the age of 18 appeared to be honored with the aid of community leaders and parents, Milwaukee Mayer Tom Barrett said. \n The chief's statement raised questions about whether authorities could have taken steps to curb the violence, perhaps by sharing details of the shooting earlier, including the officer's race or footage from his body camera. \n Randolph McLaughlin, a Pace University law professor and a civil rights attorney, questioned how Milwaukee leaders could have expected the streets to stay quiet on Saturday night given the national debate about law enforcement and race. \n \"For a mayor to say everything's fine (and) we just killed somebody, that's turning a blind eye to his town,\" McLaughlin said. \n He said Mayor Tom Barrett should have reached out to residents and community leaders and asked, \"What do we need to do to make sure your community is safe?\" McLaughlin said. \"He needs to stay on the job.\" \n David Klinger, a University of Missouri-St. Louis sociology professor who studies police use of deadly force, said it would not necessarily have helped for police to release the officer's race sooner. He pointed out that the city saw disruptions on Sunday night, after his race had been publicized, though the intensity was less than the previous night. \n He also said the city may have hesitated to give the officer's race sooner for fear it would identify him. \n Remy Cross, a criminologist at Webster University in St. Louis, said the officer's race probably does not matter to many people in the community. \n \"They see the institution as racist, not the individual,\" Cross said. \"Once you put on the uniform, you're blue, and blue sees black as bad.\" \n Flynn said it was \"an error in narrative to assume\" that because police shot someone that the shooting will be controversial \"so let's have a riot.\" \n Cecil Brewer, 67, who owns an apartment house directly across from the intersection where protesters burned a gas station on Saturday night and hurled rocks at police on Sunday night, said the rioting was all but inevitable. \n \"There's so much anger in these kids,\" Brewer said. The shooting \"was like a spark in a powder keg. It doesn't matter to them if what the authorities are saying is true.\" \n The problems began Saturday afternoon when police stopped a rental car that was driving suspiciously, Flynn said. Sylville Smith bolted from the car with a gun, leading an officer on a short foot chase before the officer shot the 23-year-old. Police said the man was fleeing a traffic stop but released few other details. \n The violence erupted later that evening. \n During a news conference around midnight calling for calm, Barrett said people were gathering at the scene when he left at 5 p.m. Saturday, but they were peaceful and he thought everything was under control. \n At another news conference Sunday afternoon, Flynn offered new details, revealing that the officer who opened fire was black, like Smith, and said body-camera video showed Smith had turned toward the officer and refused to drop his weapon. He also said the officer shot Smith in the chest and arm. Some people interviewed on the north side had speculated that Smith was shot in the back. \n The body-camera footage has not been released. It's in the custody of the state Justice Department, which is leading the investigation into the shooting. \n Flynn activated the department's 150-member crowd-control team on Sunday night, and Gov. Scott Walker put the National Guard on standby if needed. Hundreds of people gathered near the scene of the shooting that evening, but remained peaceful. Most of them eventually dispersed. \n Around 10:30 p.m., however, a group of perhaps 100 demonstrators began marching through the streets, eventually blocking an intersection next to a BP gas station that burned down the night before. They threw bottles, chunks of concrete and rocks at officers. Dozens of officers arrived and forced the group down the street. \n Seven officers were injured and 14 people were arrested by the time it was over. An 18-year-old was shot near the intersection. Police had to use an armored vehicle to rescue him. He was taken to a hospital, but Flynn said his life was not in danger. \n Smith's death was just the latest in a string of shootings involving police and black men to spark demonstrations and protests. \n In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where 37-year-old Alton Sterling was fatally shot in July during a struggle with two white police officers, protests largely dissipated after three law enforcement officers were killed in a shooting attack that appeared to target police. Demonstrations also unfolded after 32-year-old Philando Castile was shot and killed in suburban St. Paul, Minnesota, during a traffic stop by a Latino police officer. Those protests dwindled in the ensuing weeks. \n Last year, the state Justice Department agreed to review Milwaukee police procedures after a white officer shot Dontre Hamilton, a mentally ill black man, in a downtown park during a scuffle. \n DeShawn Corprue, 31, who lives behind the burned-out BP station, said nothing that police released about Smith's death would have stopped the weekend's unrest. \n \"People are just so angry,\" he said. \n Flynn blamed a Chicago chapter of the Revolutionary Communist Party for coming to town and inciting Sunday's violence. \n \"There is ample opportunity for second-guessing, I'm sure,\" Flynn said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police chief was surprised by violence after fatal shooting"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thousands gather to pray at caskets of Imam Maulama Akonjee, draped in green top, and Thara Uddin in a municipal parking lot today in New York. Both were shot in the head as they left the Al-Furqan Jame Masjid mosque in the Ozone Park section of Queens as they left afternoon prayers Saturday. \n WABC-TV VIA AP \n In this video image provided by WABC-TV, New York police officers walk with Oscar Morel, center, of Brooklyn, in New York tonight. Police arrested and charged Morel with murder in the brazen daytime shooting deaths of an imam and his friend as they left a New York City mosque. \n NEW YORK \u00bb A man suspected of gunning down an imam and his friend as they left a New York City mosque was arrested and charged with murder late tonight, said police, who have not yet released a motive for the shooting deaths.  \n Police charged Oscar Morel, 35, with two counts of second-degree murder and two counts of criminal possession of a weapon in the Saturday afternoon slayings of Imam Maulana Alauddin Akonjee and Thara Uddin near the Al-Furqan Jame Masjid mosque in the Ozone Park neighborhood of Queens. \n Officers took Morel into custody late Sunday night outside a Brooklyn apartment as he approached a vehicle that police had linked to an unrelated hit-and-run and that matched the description of the shooting suspect's getaway vehicle. \n \"Detectives from the Fugitive Task Force Unit approached the car, and then he rammed the detectives' car several times in an effort to get away,\" said the New York Police Department's chief of detectives, Robert Boyce. \"He was placed under arrest without any further incident and brought back to the precinct for more debriefing.\" \n Boyce said Morel was seen on surveillance video fleeing the area of the shooting in a black GMC Trailblazer. About 10 minutes later, a car matching that description struck a bicyclist nearby in Brooklyn. \n Morel initially was charged in connection with the hit-and-run, but those charges were upgraded tonight after police said they recovered a revolver at his Brooklyn home and clothes similar to those worn by the gunman in the surveillance video. \n Earlier today, about 1,000 people gathered at an Islamic funeral service for Akonjee, 55, and Uddin, 64, where emotions ran high. \n The ceremony featured several speakers who said they believed the victims were targeted because of their religion. Some members of the congregation shouted, \"Justice!\" periodically throughout the service. \n After the ceremony, part of the crowd marched to the spot a few blocks away where the shooting took place. \n Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, told those gathered that the entire city was \"mourning with you.\" \n A motive for the killings remains unclear, though Boyce said the possibility that the murders were a hate crime is \"certainly on the table.\" \n Some in the largely Bangladeshi Muslim community in Queens and Brooklyn have described harassment in recent months by people who shouted anti-Muslim epithets. \n Boyce said Morel may have worked in a warehouse in the East New York neighborhood of Brooklyn, but he wouldn't comment any further on his background or mental state. It was not immediately clear if Morel had an attorney who could comment on the charges. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man charged in slaying of NYC imam, friend; motive unclear"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Genki Sushi restaurant at Ward Village is seen closed tonight. All 10 Genki Sushi restaurants on Oahu and one on Kauai have been ordered to close immediately due to hepatitis A contamination. \n The state Department of Health said this evening that it has ordered all Oahu and Kauai Genki Sushi restaurants to close immediately after identifying the restaurants as the source of the ongoing hepatitis A outbreak. \n \"The Department of Health has determined the Hepatitis A outbreak on Oahu is likely due to imported frozen scallops served raw at Genki Sushi Restaurants on Oahu and Kauai. The restaurants have been closed tonight to prevent any further illness and protect the public,\" health officials said. \n There are 10 Genki Sushi restaurants on Oahu and one on Kauai. \n So far, 168 people have been infected, mostly on Oahu, in the worst hepatitis outbreak in more than two decades in Hawaii. The virus is usually spread through food or drink contaminated with traces of the feces of an infected person. The infectious liver disease can also spread through close personal contact. \n Health officials said late last week that investigators believe the likely source of the outbreak is a food or drink product brought to Oahu and widely distributed here. They plan to hold a news conference on the closures Tuesday morning. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Genki Sushi's scallops are source of hepatitis A outbreak, state says"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "All inbound lanes of Sand Island Access Road have been reopened after a motor vehicle accident prompted a closure, Honolulu police said. \n Inbound lanes at Auiki Street were contraflowed at 8:35 p.m. \n Police closed the inbound lanes at 6:30 p.m. and reopened them just before 9:45 p.m. \n Outbound lanes of Sand Island Access Road remained open. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "All inbound lanes of Sand Island Access Road reopened after accident"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "FOTOLIA VIA TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Research published today found that a woman's use of acetaminophen at 18 and 32 weeks may link to behavioral problems later in the child's life. \n Acetaminophen, long the mainstay of a pregnant woman's pain-relief arsenal, has been linked to behavioral problems in children born to mothers who used it during pregnancy.  \n Research published today by the journal JAMA Pediatrics found that a woman's use of acetaminophen at 18 and 32 weeks of pregnancy was associated with greater odds that when the resulting child was 7 years old, his or her mother would report a range of problematic behaviors. \n Compared to women who reported no acetaminophen use at 18 weeks of pregnancy, those who took the medication at that point of gestation were 42 percent more likely to report hyperactivity and 31 percent more likely to report conduct problems in the children they bore. \n Women who took acetaminophen at 32 weeks of pregnancy were 29 percent more likely than women who did not to report emotional difficulties in their child at age 7. Children born to mothers who took acetaminophen late in their pregnancy were 46 percent more likely to experience a wide range of behavioral difficulties than were children born to moms who took no acetaminophen at that point. \n Finding a link between acetaminophen use during pregnancy and an outcome affecting the child is no proof that acetaminophen is the cause of the outcome. But the authors contend that the study results do heighten concerns that fetal exposure to acetaminophen can give rise to neurodevelopmental problems. \n Several epidemiological studies have linked acetaminophen use during pregnancy to ADHD-like behaviors in the child. Research performed on mice has suggested that the medication alters brain development by disrupting hormonal function in the developing fetus. And several other mechanisms of injury have been suggested. \n The authors of the study took several steps to reduce confusion in interpretation of the study's findings, and to strengthen evidence of a causal link between acetaminophen and poor neurodevelopmental outcomes in children exposed before birth. \n They looked for a link between a child's behavioral problems at age 7 and his or her mother's postnatal acetaminophen use, and found none. They looked for a link between a child's behavioral problems at age 7 and acetaminophen use by the mother's partner during pregnancy. Again, they found no association. \n The emerging picture, then, points more strongly to a developing fetus' exposure to acetaminophen as a possible causative factor. The authors wrote that the new findings add to those of a 2013 study that compared adverse behavioral outcomes in siblings as a function of a mother's acetaminophen use during pregnancy. Collectively, the two suggest that \"unmeasured familial factors\" \u2014 socioeconomic differences, or a mother's attitudes toward medication use \u2014 are not the actual cause of a child's behavioral problems. \n The new research also sought to take account of the possibility that women who passed on a genetic propensity to hyperactivity or impulsive, inattentive behaviors might also be more likely to use acetaminophen during pregnancy. In a subset of participating mothers, researchers looked for a passel of common genetic variations linked to ADHD-like behaviors. They failed to discern a pattern of increased medication-taking by women who were carriers of genetic variations linked to behavioral problems. \n Finally, the authors of the study acted to avoid a common problem with research that links adverse pregnancy outcomes to certain medications: that women whose children have some identifiable problem are more likely to recall taking medications during pregnancy. The current study asked women when they were pregnant about their medication use, and then \u2014 seven years after her child's birth \u2014 asked her to assess her child's emotional and social well-being and report a range of problematic behaviors. \n The new study reflects the experience of 7,796 mothers who gave birth to a baby in 1991 and 1992 in the county once known as Avon, England. \n Acetaminophen has long been seen as safe for use by pregnant women, and more than half of pregnant women in the United States and Europe are thought to use it during pregnancy. In this study population, 53 percent of women reported use of acetaminophen at 18 weeks, and 42 percent reported acetaminophen use at 32 weeks. \n As a fever reducer, acetaminophen is considered a bulwark against a more immediate threat to a developing fetus. The authors cautioned that pregnant women and their physicians should carefully weigh any potential harm to offspring against the risks of not treating fever or pain in the mother. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Melissa Healy Los Angeles Times", "title": "Acetaminophen use in pregnancy linked to kid's behavioral problems"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "COURTESY MAYJAH RAYJAH \n Matisyahu \n MAUI POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This August 2016 photo from the Maui Police Department shows Clint Alama. A judge allowed Alama to fly to California while temporarily released from jail, where he's being held on a probation violation. \n A Maui ukulele player is back behind bars after a brief release to perform in Los Angeles with reggae artist Matisyahu. \n Clint Alama's public defender Danielle Sears says he was late returning to Hawaii because he missed his flight and then caught another one after Friday's concert at the Hollywood Palladium. \n A judge allowed Alama to fly to California while temporarily released from jail, where he's being held on a probation violation. \n Matisyahu and his bassist Stu Brooks were at a Maui coffee shop recently when they heard Alama performing the singer's hit \"One Day.\" Matisyahu sang along, while Alama seemed oblivious to his singing partner's identity. \n Alama \u2014who turned himself in to police last week after a warrant was out for his arrest\u2014 revealed his legal problems when Matisyahu invited him to Hollywood. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui ukulele player back in jail after Matisyahu show in L.A."}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks in Youngstown, Ohio today. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Since Donald Trump called for temporarily banning Muslims from entering the U.S., he has tried to expand, narrow or otherwise redefine the polarizing proposal that helped win him the Republican primary but has posed a greater challenge in the general election campaign.  \n Today, he added a phrase to his policy lexicon: \"extreme vetting.\" \n To Trump, that means ensuring anyone entering the country shares American values. \n The newest addition to Trump's immigration policy came during a major speech on national security in Youngstown, Ohio, that featured an unusually subdued Trump reading uneasily at times from a teleprompter and repeating several false claims, including his assertion that he was early to oppose the Iraq invasion and the unsubstantiated pronouncement that the neighbor of the San Bernardino, Calif., shooters saw bombs in their apartment before the attacks. \n It followed days of criticism over Trump's insistence that President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton founded Islamic State. Those comments, and other unscripted and unforced controversies, have helped distract from Trump's core economic and anti-terrorism messages, push down his standing in polls and lead Republicans to once again urge him to curtail his improvisational style of campaigning. \n Trump did not explicitly back down from his December proposal, still on his campaign website, for \"a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on.\" \n He did not mention it, instead calling on the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security \"to identify a list of regions where adequate screening cannot take place,\" which would then be referred to to temporarily halt visas. \n Trump spent more of his speech defining what he said was a new ideological test for those entering the U.S., comparing his plan to Cold War-era screening. \n \"We should only admit into this country those who share our values and respect our people,\" he said. \"In addition to screening out all members or sympathizers of terrorist groups, we must also screen out any who have hostile attitudes towards our country or its principles \u2014 or who believe that Shariah law should supplant American law. Those who do not believe in our Constitution, or who support bigotry and hatred, will not be admitted.\" \n The newest iteration of Trump's policy, while not specifically demanding a religious test on entering the country, still allows for capricious enforcement, said Steve Yale-Loehr, a Cornell Law School professor who specializes in immigration. \n \"What one president thinks is important for American values, another president may deem not important,\" he said. \"We don't want an immigration policy subject to the vagaries of political opinion.\" \n State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau declined to comment on Trump's immigration proposals but said: \"We stand by the integrity of our visa process.\" \n Trump mostly delivered broad outlines for his ideas on fighting terrorism, many of which he has mentioned before, rather than specific policy proposals. Some of his ideas, like relying on more human intelligence to target terrorists in addition to drone strikes, echo Obama administration policy. The message from Trump, however, was that Obama and Clinton have tiptoed around the threat because they are unwilling to use the phrase \"radical Islamic terrorism\" and are too afraid of offending those who would do harm to effectively target them. \n Though his call to ban Muslims has drawn accusations that he is fomenting bigotry, Trump said his policies were instead geared toward national unity and fighting an ideology that promotes oppression of women and gays. He called on sending home those who preach hate. \n At the same time, he cast suspicion even on second-generation immigrants, saying their status, along with those born in other countries, was a common thread in several terrorist attacks. That group of Americans with foreign-born parents would include Trump, whose mother was born in Scotland, and his youngest child, Barron, whose mother, Melania Trump, was born in the former Yugoslavia. \n Trump, who has vacillated in recent days on his incendiary charge that Obama and Clinton were the founders of Islamic State, also known as ISIS, attempted to modify that assertion today. Instead of again calling them the literal founders, he said that \"the rise of ISIS is the result of policy decisions made by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton.\" He singled out the withdrawal from Iraq. \n Trump also asserted that Libya, Syria, Egypt, Iraq and Iran all posed lesser threats before Obama took office, though Trump failed to mention that he supported the interventions in Libya and Egypt that he now calls disastrous. \n He also hinted at an unfounded claim made in some conservative media that Clinton is physically ill, asserting she \"lacks the mental and physical stamina to take on ISIS and all of the adversaries we face.\" \n Vice President Joe Biden offered the most direct response to date on behalf of the Obama administration to Trump's statement that the president was the \"founder\" of Islamic State, calling it not only \"an outrageous statement,\" but also a \"dangerous one.\" \n Trump's ideas are \"not only profoundly wrong, they're very dangerous and they're very un-American,\" Biden said. \n \"It's a recipe for playing into the hands of terrorists and their propaganda,\" said Biden, joining Clinton in Scranton, Pa., for their first joint rally. \n Trump's speech came amid doubts in his own party, and increasing levels of controversy, surrounding his campaign. \n Trump's campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, denied a New York Times story that told of handwritten ledgers indicating he received $12.7 million in undisclosed cash payments from a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine. \n Manafort's consulting work for former Ukraine President Viktor F. Yanukovych was already public. But the Times reported records of cash payments between 2007 to 2012 that were not previously disclosed. It said the ledgers were discovered by an anti-corruption bureau as \"part of an illegal off-the-books system whose recipients also included election officials.\" \n Trump's supportive comments of Russian President Vladimir Putin had already drawn scrutiny. But he did not back down in Monday's speech, insisting that the U.S. \"could find common ground with Russia in the fight against ISIS.\"  \n \"Wouldn't that be a good thing?\" Trump said, defying policy specialists in his own party who have cast a weary eye on Russia's attempts to build its profile in the Middle East. \"Wouldn't that be a good thing?\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n (Times staff writers Michael A. Memoli in Scranton, Pa., and Joseph Tanfani and Tracy Wilkinson in Washington contributed.)  \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Tribune Co.  \n ", "author": "By Noah Bierman Tribune Washington Bureau", "title": "Trump calls for 'extreme vetting,' ideological test for would-be immigrants"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "Rescues and at sea-boardings of two commercial fishing boats kept the Coast Guard busy over the weekend. \n On Sunday, Coast Guard crews came to the aid of a 43-foot boat taking on water off Maui. \n A 45-foot response boat from Maui responded to the distress call five miles south of Maalaea. \n The crew of the Maka Koa had stemmed the leak by the time the Coast Guard arrived but accepted a tow back to port. \n It was determined the vessel was taking on water around the propeller shaft, which was removed. \n \"The Maka Koa crew was very professional and effective in their casualty response,\" said Petty Officer 2nd Class Rob Lester, a crewman aboard the Maui response boat. \"Upon arrival we confirmed the vessel's installed bilge pumps were keeping up with the leak and provided a standby until they reached port. We applaud the operators quick action identifying the problem and alerting us to what could have become a more severe case.\" \n Coast Guard crews responded to eight search and rescue and marine safety cases between Friday and Sunday. \n On Friday, the crew of the cutter Galveston Island boarded the commercial fishing vessel Blue Sky a mile south of Honolulu. The cutter crew found \"extremely hazardous conditions and safety violations\" aboard the boat and escorted it back to the Galveston Island crew terminated to Pier 38 in Honolulu. \n The violations weren't specified. \n The same thing happened Saturday with the commercial fishing vessel Jennifer Lynn near Honolulu. \n Also, Coast Guard marine investigators in Maui are responding to the reported death of a diver Friday. The operator of a commercial vessel notified the Coast Guard of the incident involving a middle-aged man who became distressed while conducting a night dive off the Big Island. \n The crew of the vessel recovered the man and contacted emergency medical services personnel, who met them at Honokohau Marina. He was transferred to Kona Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. \n On Sunday, the Coast Guard got word of a 60-year-old Japanese citizen who experienced symptoms of a heart attack while snorkeling off a commercial vessel on the west side of Oahu. The man was transferred to shore and met by emergency medical personnel who took him to the Queen's Medical Center. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Rescues, marine inspections keep Coast Guard busy"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Vice President Joe Biden hold hands in the air during a campaign rally today in Scranton, Pa. \n SCRANTON, Pa. \u00bb Though he has cultivated a reputation as unscripted, Vice President Joe Biden can be practiced when needed, with an instinctive feel for his audience. \n And as he joined Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail today for the first time this year, he shirked a conventional political argument on her behalf in favor of an emotional pitch aimed at working-class voters: \"She gets it.\" \n \"What Hillary is all about is making sure that every one of you, every one of you can look your child and your grandchild in the eye and say, 'Honey, I mean this sincerely, everything is going to be OK,'\" Biden told an audience of 3,000 that included his relatives and former neighbors. \n For Biden, campaigning in 2016 looks a lot like 2008 and 2012, as his more than half-hour performance here showed, but with one big difference: He's not on the ticket. \n Biden passed on a run for the White House last year but is reprising a familiar role as a Democratic ambassador to the middle class and serving as the determined critic of Donald Trump. \n \"What bothers me the most about Donald Trump is his cynicism is unbounded,\" Biden, the self-styled \"White House optimist,\" told the audience. \n He used Trump's trademark phrase against him, saying the joy Trump took in saying, \"You're fired,\" was at odds with the values of Scranton residents. \n \"How can there be pleasure in division and 'You're fired'?\" Biden asked. \"He's trying to tell us he cares about the middle class. Give me a break! And to repeat myself, (it) is such a bunch of malarkey.\" \n Biden said Clinton, by contrast, shares his philosophy of public service. The two share Scranton roots, which made this former coal town a natural site for their joint appearance. Biden spent his early days here before his family's economic struggles prompted a move to Claymont, Del.; Clinton's father was born here and worked for a time at a lace mill. \n Among the day's set pieces beyond the rally was a trip to the home Biden grew up in, just blocks from where Clinton's father's family lived. \n \"Hillary understands the hopes and aspirations of the people in Claymont and Scranton and every Scranton and Claymont in the United States,\" Biden said. \n Later, outside the former Biden home, Clinton pledged, \"Nobody will love Scranton more than I will as president,\" sidestepping a reporter's question about the pockets of Trump support evident in the region. \n The scene, Biden surrounded by Clinton campaign banners and with the Democratic nominee seated behind him, was a far cry from his last high-profile appearance here nearly three years ago to the day. \n Then, Obama joined Biden for a campaign-style event here promoting the administration's education policies that was timed to the fifth anniversary of the two joining forces as the Democratic presidential ticket. A Biden presidential candidacy was in play at the time, and the rally almost had the appearance of an early endorsement. Choosing Biden was \"the best decision that I ever made politically\" the president said then. \n Weeks after that joint appearance Biden appeared to take a pre-emptive swipe at Clinton as he declared at a high-profile appearance in the presidential proving ground of Iowa that John Kerry, only months into the job, was \"one of the best secretaries of state\" in the nation's history. \n Biden ultimately ruled out a third presidential bid last fall by citing the continued emotional toll on his family after his eldest son died of brain cancer. Close aides say he stands by the decision even as he marvels at the campaign that has ensued without him, and at times muses about how he might have performed in it. \n But on Clinton's behalf, he gave a determined performance Monday. \n \"If you live in a neighborhood like I grew up in \u2026 if you worry about your job, getting decent pay, if you worry about your children's education, if you're taking care of an elderly parent after losing the other one, then there's only one person in this election who will possibly help you, and that is Hillary Clinton,\" he said. \n When Clinton and Biden were to first appear here in early July, an appearance postponed after the Dallas police massacre, it appeared she would need all the help she could get appealing to Rust Belt voters over Trump. \n Now that Trump's public self-immolations have given Clinton a more comfortable advantage, especially in Pennsylvania, she is increasingly seeking the votes of independents and Republicans uneasy with the former reality TV star. \n But aides say Biden's role will still be crucial. Though Clinton's standing is stronger than it had been among the type of voters Biden has often appealed to, the vice president's role will be to help lock down their support and free up Clinton and others to expand the electoral map. \n Biden will spend considerable time in the coming weeks in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, as well as Florida. Senior aides to the vice president are in regular contact with their counterparts at Clinton's Brooklyn, N.Y., campaign headquarters, and the vice president himself has personally committed to Clinton to do anything she asks of him.  \n Biden will also campaign aggressively on behalf of Democratic Senate candidates as the party looks to regain control of the chamber. The presidential battleground map largely aligns with states where Democrats feel they have the best chance to pick up Republican-held Senate seats, including Pennsylvania, Ohio and Florida. \n Clinton herself has revealed the extent to which she values Biden's grasp on the middle-class psyche, incorporating some of his language as she contrasted Trump's economic vision with hers.  \n And in her speech here, she also made it clear she would continue to call on Biden while embracing his last major fight as her own: the \"moonshot\" effort to find a cure for cancer. \n \"If I'm elected this fall, I'm going to ask Joe to continue the important work he's begun,\" she said. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Tribune Co.  \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Biden makes case for Clinton to working-class voters: 'She gets it'"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hank, a quarter horse from Paris, Ill., stays close to a fan keeping cool inside a barn at the Illinois State Fair grounds in Springfield, Ill. Ouch. on July 21. NASA calculates that just Earth broiled to its hottest month in recorded history: last July. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Earth just broiled to its hottest month in recorded history, according to NASA.  \n Even after the fading of a strong El Nino, which spikes global temperatures on top of man-made climate change, July burst global temperature records. \n NASA calculated that July 2016 was 1.51 degrees Fahrenheit (0.84 degrees Celsius) warmer than the 1950-1980 global average. That's clearly hotter than the previous hotter months, about 0.18 degrees warmer than the previous record of July 2011 and July 2015, which were so close they were said to be in a tie for the hottest month on record, said NASA chief climate scientist Gavin Schmidt. \n Scientists blame mostly man-made climate change from the burning of fossil fuel with an extra jump from the now-gone El Nino , which every few years is a natural warming of parts of the Pacific Ocean that changes weather worldwide. \n Georgia Tech climate scientist Kim Cobb said this is significant \"because global temperatures continue to warm even as a record-breaking El Nino event has finally released its grip.\" \n NASA's five hottest months on record are July 2016, July 2011, July 2015, July 2009 and August 2014. Only July 2015 was during an El Nino. Records go back to 1880. \n This is the 10th record hot month in a row, according to NASA. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which calculates temperatures slightly differently, will come out with its July figures on Wednesday. NOAA has figured there have been 14 monthly heat records broken in a row, before July. \n \"The scary thing is that we are moving into an era where it will be a surprise when each new month or year isn't one of the hottest on record,\" said Chris Field, a climate scientist at the Carnegie Institution and Stanford University. \n This new record and all the records that have been broken recently years tell one cohesive story, said Schmidt, director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies: \"The planet is getting warmer. It's important for what it tells us about the future.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA: Last month was Earth's hottest in recorded history"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2015 \n Joshua Puno, an electrical apprentice, is secured by harness to a \"hitch clip\" at all times while installing solar panels on the roof of a home in Kailua. \n The number of photovoltaic building permits issued in July by the city was the fewest in the last 18 months. \n The City and County of Honolulu issued 336 PV permits last month, a decline of 54 percent from 738 in July 2015, according to data from Marco Mangelsdorf, who tracks rooftop solar permits and is president of Hilo-based ProVision Solar. \n Year to date, the number of solar permits issued was down 27 percent from the same period last year. There were 2,946 PV permits issued from January to the end of July, compared to 4,053 issued during those seven months last year. \n Mangelsdorf said the number of permits issued in 2016 will likely be half of what was issued in 2015. \n The decline is largely attributed to the state discontinuing a solar incentive program last fall. \n In October, the state Public Utilities Commission ended a popular incentive program that offered owners of solar-energy systems a credit equal to the retail rate for the excess energy their systems sent into the grid. The so-called net energy metering program resulted in many solar system owners lowering their electric bill to approximately $17 a month. \n The PUC replaced the former program with two less attractive options. When ending the program, PUC Chairman Randy Iwase said it was fully subscribed and he wanted to save space on the grid for other renewable energy options such as community solar. \n Only one of the two programs, called grid-supply, allows customers to continue exporting excess energy into the grid. Grid-supply credits new solar owners 15 cents a kilowatt-hour for the extra energy their solar systems send into the grid, roughly 8 cents less than the retail rate that had been offered through the net energy metering program. The PUC also put a limit on the total amount of energy generated from the grid-supply program statewide. Oahu's limit is 25 megawatts, and Hawaii island's limit is 5 megawatts. Maui County's limit is 5 megawatts. Maui has reached the limit. Oahu and Hawaii islands are expected to reach it soon. \n The other option, self-supply, encourages the use of solar-plus-battery systems because participants in the program are not allowed to send excess solar energy into the grid. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Oahu solar permits dropped 54% in July, lowest in 18 months"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort walked around the convention floor on July 18 before the opening session of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Hillary Clinton's campaign is questioning Donald Trump's top political aide's ties to a pro-Kremlin political party in Ukraine, claiming it is evidence of the Republican nominee's cozy relationship with Russia. \n The New York Times reported that handwritten ledgers found in Ukraine show $12.7 million in undisclosed payments to Paul Manafort, Trump's campaign manager, from the pro-Russia party founded by the country's former president Viktor Yanukovych. Investigators are probing whether the money was part of an illegal off-the-book system that may have also made payments to election officials, according to the Times story published Sunday night. \n \"Given the pro-Putin policy stances adopted by Donald Trump and the recent Russian government hacking and disclosure of Democratic Party records,\" Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said in statement, \"Donald Trump has a responsibility to disclose campaign chair Paul Manafort's and all other campaign employees' and advisers' ties to Russian or pro-Kremlin entities, including whether any of Trump's employees or advisers are currently representing and or being paid by them.\" \n The campaign stepped up criticism today by suggesting that Manafort pushed for pro-Russia changes to the Republican Party platform and by suggesting that several Trump advisers have links to Moscow. \n Manafort, whose international clients have included one-time Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, denied any wrongdoing. \n \"The simplest answer is the truth: I am a campaign professional,\" Manafort said in a statement today. \"I have never received a single 'off-the-books cash payment' as falsely reported by The New York Times, nor have I ever done work for the governments of Ukraine or Russia.\" \n He added that his five-year stint as a political consultant in Ukraine ended after that country's elections in 2014. A spokeswoman for the Trump campaign did not respond to requests for further comment. \n Svitlana Olifira, a spokeswoman for Ukraine's National Anti-Corruption Bureau, confirmed that documents were recovered, but cautioned that the probe was in early stages. \n \"It's a bit early to say if we really will have a separate investigation related to the name of Manafort, since we are still studying it (the documents),\" said Olifira. \"I want to stress that his name appears there not just once, but we cannot say if he physically received the money assigned to him, as there are other signatures near his name.\" \n Serhiy Leshchenko, a Ukrainian lawmaker, said he believes that the ledger correctly reflected the funneling of what he called \"corrupt money.\" \n \"I'm convinced that this information is accurate and (that these) documents are genuine, because all this content can be confirmed by historical events, evidence and statements by other public figures who are on the list,\" Leshchenko said. \n Trump's relationship with Russia has drawn scrutiny throughout the campaign, most recently when he encouraged hackers from that country to find Clinton's missing emails, an apparent invitation for a foreign power to intervene in a U.S. election. Trump also has frequently praised Russian President Vladimir Putin. \n Trump delivered what was billed as a major foreign policy speech today but did not mention the questions surrounding Manafort. He repeated, however, his belief that the U.S. should set aside its differences with Russia to work together to defeat the Islamic State extremist group. \n Dmytro Vlasov contributed reporting from Kiev, Ukraine. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Top Trump aide received $12.7 million from pro-Russian group, documents say"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "A sex offender with multiple convictions faces up to 20 years in prison for failing to register as a sex offender, according to the Attorney General's office. \n Alexander Aipolani, Jr. has been charged with four counts of failure to comply with sex offender registration requirements after being released from prison. \n Aipolani was convicted of kidnapping with intent to commit a sexual offense and sentenced to five years probation in 1984. He was also convicted of sexual assault in the second degree in 1993 in a case involving a minor under the age of 14. Aipolani was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for that crime. \n Aipolani also failed, as required, to report to the chief of police in person within 30 days of his birthday in 2013, 2014 and 2015; or to report a new address to the attorney general and the Hawaii criminal justice data center within three days of moving, as required by law. \n The charges against Aipolani carry a sentence of up to five years in prison for each offense. \n An online directory of Hawaii registered sex offenders and other covered offenders, and sign-up for email alerts is available through the attorney general's \"Hawaii Sex Offender Search\" mobile app. Those without a mobile device can also view an online directory of Hawaii registered sex offenders and other covered offenders, and sign up for email alerts at http://sexoffenders.ehawaii.gov. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Sex offender charged with not registering"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People arrived to be evacuated by members of the Louisiana Army National Guard near Walker, La., after heavy rains inundating the region, Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the Louisiana Army National Guard unloaded people at a rally point after they were rescued from rising floodwater near Walker, La., after heavy rains inundated the region, Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Danielle Blount kissed her 3-month-old baby Ember as she fed her while they waited to be evacuated by members of the Louisiana Army National Guard near Walker, La., after heavy rains inundating the region, Sunday. \n BATON ROUGE, La. \u00bb Thousands of people in southern Louisiana hunkered down in shelters today, forced out of their homes by intense flooding that took many people by surprise. \n The weather had improved from the torrential downpours, but rivers and creeks in many areas were still way above flood stage, and people downstream eyed the deluge with concern. \n Across southern Louisiana, residents scrambled to get to safety as heavy rain in some areas came close to 2 feet over a 48-hour period. Rescuers evacuated more than 20,000 people since the flooding started Friday and more than 10,000 people were in shelters as of late Sunday, according to Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards. At least six people were killed. \n \"Everybody got caught off-guard,\" said Anthony \"Ace\" Cox, who started a Facebook group to help collect information about where people were stranded. \"It was an absolute act of God. We're talking about places that have literally never flooded before.\" \n Cox lives in New Orleans but his parents live in Central, a town hit hard by the rising water. His parents evacuated to his grandparents' house in Baton Rouge, but that area started taking on water so they evacuated again to a hotel in Baton Rouge. \n He is worried his parent's home may not be habitable for months. \n Meteorologist Ken Graham of the National Weather Service said catastrophic rains are \"extremely tough\" to forecast. \n Forecasts Thursday were for 8 inches of rain with higher totals expected in some areas but again, Graham emphasized that forecasting exactly how much rain is going to fall is nearly impossible \u2014 \"especially for a historic event.\" \n \"It's one thing to say we're getting set up for a lot of rain. It's another thing to say where is this going to be,\" Graham said. \n Some areas such as the town of Zachary received more than 2 feet of rain in a 48-hour period that ended Saturday morning. Another hard hit area \u2014 Livingston \u2014 received nearly 22 inches of rain over the same stretch. \n National Guard soldiers in high-water vehicles, boats and helicopters helped rescue people, as did Good Samaritans. \n Jared Serigne of St. Bernard Parish helped organize volunteer efforts involving roughly 70 experienced boaters who rescued hundreds of people from flooded communities such as Monticello, St. Amant and Port Vincent. \n He criticized the government's response, saying officials were slow clear roadways and to provide access to potential boat launch points that could be used by volunteers. \n \"You've got all of these people who hunt and fish who have more experience than the average first-responder,\" said Serigne, a TV producer of an outdoors show and marketing director for marine equipment business. \n The Louisiana State Police started allowing people to reclaim cars left behind on a portion of Interstate 12 that had to be shut down because of the flooding. Motorists had in some instances been stranded overnight awaiting rescue. \n Vehicles that were out of gas, stalled or unclaimed were being towed today to the shoulder to help clear the interstate. \n From the air, homes looked more like little islands surrounded by flooded fields. Streets descended into impassable pools of water and shopping centers were inundated with only roofs of cars peeking above the water. \n From the ground it was just as bad. \n The slow-moving, low-pressure system moved into Texas, but the National Weather Service warned that there's still a danger of more rain and fresh floods, as swollen rivers drain toward the Gulf of Mexico. \n Rivers in the Baton Rouge area have started to fall, but still remained above flood stage after setting record levels over the weekend, the National Weather Service said today. \n \"The rivers and streams north of Interstate 12 have crested and have started to drop, while those south of the interstate continue to rise,\" meteorologist Mike Efferson said. \n Adding insult to injury, it started raining in Baton Rouge again today and the city could see up to a half-inch of precipitation. \n The Comite River just east of Baton Rouge dropped nearly 2 feet by today from the 34-feet over the weekend. Flood stage is 20 feet. The Amite River at Denham Springs was at 43.5 feet today after reaching 46.2 feet. Flood stage is 29 feet. \n The federal government declared a major disaster, specifically in the parishes of Tangipahoa, St. Helena, East Baton Rouge and Livingston. \n Many of the homeowners who live in areas inundated with floodwaters have no flood insurance, a problem that will leave them draining savings accounts and relying on federal disaster programs to rebuild and repair. \n Insurance Commissioner Jim Donelon said in hard-hit Baton Rouge, only 12 percent of residences are covered by flood insurance. The numbers \"were really shocking,\" he said. \n The evacuees included the governor and his family, who were forced to leave the Governor's Mansion when chest-high water filled the basement and electricity was shut off. \n Noel Michael, a school teacher, and her husband Deryl, a retired Marine, spent Saturday piling sandbags around their home in the Livingston Parish town of Walker but it became fruitless. \n \"It was like a water fall,\" she said. \n They escaped in her husband's pickup \u2014 he was behind the wheel and she was on the hood \u2014 helping navigate. \n They took refuge at her parents' house in Livingston. But they didn't rest long. \n This morning they were at one of a chain of area grocery stores run by family friends \u2014 helping clean up and re-stock shelves while managers called suppliers and warehouses, hoping trucks could get to them to replenish meat, poultry and milk while flood-weary residents lined up outside. \n \"My husband and I just said, you know, we can sit here and cry or we can help cleanup,\" Noel said in a telephone interview, her voice breaking. \"We're able-bodied. This can get our mind off things.\" \n Associated Press writers Rebecca Santana, Kevin McGill and Bill Fuller in New Orleans contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Flooding kills 6, sends thousands fleeing for higher ground in Louisiana"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Larry Wilmore spoke at the Viacom 2015 Winter Television Critics Association (TCA) press tour in Pasadena, Calif. in Jan. 2015. Comedy Central announced today that \"The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore,\" which premiered in January 2015, will conclude its run on Thursday. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Comedy Central's \"The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore\" is coming to an end. \n The late-night humor and talk show, which premiered in January 2015, will conclude its run Thursday, the network announced today. \n The program, which filled the slot vacated by Stephen Colbert when he jumped to CBS, sought to explore current events and larger life issues as presided over by Wilmore, who previously had served as \"senior black correspondent\" on \"The Daily Show.\" \n But audience acceptance of \"The Nightly Show\" never approached its \"Daily Show\" lead-in, neither during the regime of Jon Stewart nor that of his successor, Trevor Noah, who took over last September. \n Comedy Central president Kent Alterman praised Wilmore and his team for \"crafting a platform for underrepresented voices.\" He said the show had steadily improved, \"but unfortunately it hasn't resonated with the audience in a way that it would need to for us to continue.\" \n While this year's second quarter found \"The Daily Show\" beaten only by NBC's \"The Tonight Show\" in adults 18-to-34, logging 278,000 viewers, \"The Nightly Show\" retained little more than half that audience, according to Nielsen. \n The 54-year-old Wilmore wrote for \"In Living Color\" and \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.\" He created \"The Bernie Mac Show\" (for which he shared a Peabody Award) and with Eddie Murphy co-created the animated series \"The PJs.\" He is a creator of the upcoming HBO comedy \"Insecure,\" starring Issa Rae, which premieres in October. \n Two years ago, he was set to be the executive producer of ABC's new sitcom \"black-ish\" before opting instead to host \"The Nightly Show.\" But there, he had big shoes to fill. \n Colbert, who, like Wilmore, began his late-night run on \"The Daily Show,\" won a show of his own in 2005, produced by Stewart, as Comedy Central's late-night franchise expanded into the 11:30 p.m. ET half-hour. His departure in late 2014 to host CBS' \"The Late Show\" was much-mourned by his devoted fans who continue to miss the bloviating commentator he portrayed on \"The Colbert Report.\" \n With the end of \"The Nightly Show,\" which Stewart also produced, Comedy Central's internet-based game show, \"Midnight with Chris Hardwick,\" will air a half-hour earlier. Its current midnight slot will be filled by repeats of other Comedy Central shows. \n \"I'm really grateful to Comedy Central, Jon Stewart, and our fans to have had this opportunity,\" Wilmore said in a statement. \"But I'm also saddened and surprised we won't be covering this crazy election, or 'The Unblackening,' as we've coined it. \u2026 I guess I hadn't counted on 'The Unblackening' happening to my time slot as well.\" \n Though the end of \"The Nightly Show\" eliminates a rare black-hosted program from the mainstream airwaves, Alterman dismissed any suggestion that race played a role in the show's ratings failure or that a minority host might not be considered in the future. \n Said Alterman conclusively, \"We're all in with Trevor Noah,\" who is black. \n \"We feel so solid about Trevor and what 'The Daily Show's' doing,\" he elaborated, and noting that, at 32, Noah is a millennial \"and native to the social media, multi-platform landscape,\" declared that total views of \"The Daily Show\" across all platforms from Noah's premiere until now are up 22 percent from what they were a year ago with Stewart as host. \n As for what will permanently follow \"The Daily Show,\" Alterman said the network would be in no hurry to launch a replacement. \n \"We're just gonna begin development and see where we go,\" he said. \n And in response to past criticism aimed at Comedy Central, as with other networks that have largely stuck with men in hosting roles, Alterman said women, too, would be considered to headline the new show. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Larry Wilmore-hosted 'Nightly Show' axed by Comedy Central"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Ilai Luamanu was charged with second-degree murder in connection with the Aug. 7 stabbing death of Iosua Fiso, also known as Iosua Faipaua. The stabbing happened on Makiki Street after a confrontation with the suspect. \n A 28-year-old Hawaii Kai man was charged in the stabbing death of a 25-year-old man in Makiki last week. \n Ilai Luamanu was charged Sunday for second-degree murder. His bail was set at $500,000. \n Police said Iosua Fiso, also known as Iosua Faipaua, was stabbed on Aug. 7 on Makiki Street after a confrontation with the suspect. He was taken to a hospital where he died. \n The Medical Examiner's Office said the cause of death was a stab wound to the chest. \n Police arrested the Luamanu at 10:40 p.m. Friday in the McCully-Moiliili area on suspicion of second-degree murder. \n The 28-year-old man has a criminal record of second-degree theft, fourth-degree theft and promotion of a dangerous drug in the third degree. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii Kai man charged with murder in fatal Makiki stabbing"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "A 30-year-old visitor from San Diego was hospitalized Sunday after falling 30 feet while hiking with eight people at a waterfall on the Commando Trail near Hana Highway in east Maui. \n Maui fire officials said the incident occurred around 10 a.m. when the male visitor fell while hiking at the top of a waterfall at the third pool above Hana Highway. A hiking companion told firefighters that the victim lost his footing, bounced off of a rocky ledge 20 feet below the falls and then fell another 10 feet into the pond below. \n A fire rescue team from Kahului reached the victim using the department's helicopter and stabilized his injuries before airlifting him to paramedics at a landing zone next to the Hana Highway. Paramedics transported the man to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition. A medevac helicopter also was called in, but was unable to land because of rain and marginal weather conditions. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hiker falls 30 feet from trail in Hana"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "A 14-year-old boy is under investigation for allegedly using a portion of a newspaper to set fire to a jungle gym set at Schofield Barracks. \n A witness told police that three boys were playing by the jungle gym at Schofield Barracks around 5:30 p.m. and saw one of the boys lighting a piece of newspaper on fire that caused a fire to the play set. \n The case has been classified as first-degree arson. The case will be handled by Family Court. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Teen faces arson charge for Schofield Barracks jungle gym fire"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Demarion Keyes \n A 28-year-old Waikiki man was indicted by an Oahu grand jury Friday for allegedly beating a prostitute because she wanted to leave her pimp. \n Demarion Keyes, of a Lewers Street address, will be arraigned next week in Circuit Court on first-degree assault, sex trafficking and kidnapping charges. \n He is being held at Oahu Community Correctional Center, unable to post bond of $500,000. \n Keyes was arrested at the Honolulu Airport Monday trying to flee the islands. \n According to a police affidavit filed in Honolulu District Court last week, the victim suffered fractures and internal bleeding. \n The affidavit said Keyes forced the woman into a taxicab at Kalakaua and Seaside avenues at about 11:10 p.m. Sunday. \n The suspect took the woman to his home and dragged her into his apartment, telling her she was never going to stop working for him and that he would beat her if she tried to leave, the affidavit said. \n Keyes allegedly punched, slapped and choked the woman, and struck her with a belt, the affidavit said. The woman told police she lost consciousness during the beating. \n The victim fled the apartment when the suspect left the room to look for a bat. \n The victim's mother called police the next day, saying Keyes was at the airport, trying to leave the state. \n The victim told police she was a prostitute and had been working for Keyes for 18 months. She said Keyes beat her because she wanted out of prostitution. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Alleged Waikiki pimp indicted by grand jury in beating of prostitute"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An air tanker drops fire retardant at a containment line northeast of Lower Lake, Calif., today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Damin Pashilk, seen here in a poster on display at a press briefing at Twin Pines Casino in Middletown, Calif., was arrested today on arson charges for allegedly sparking a wildfire that exploded over the weekend in the Northern California town of Lower Lake. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A propane tank sat near flames as a home burns near the town of Lower Lake, Calif. on Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A truck burned on Main Street in the town of Lower Lake, Calif. on Sunday. \n LOWER LAKE, Calif. \u00bb A California man was arrested today on arson charges for allegedly sparking a wildfire that exploded over the weekend, destroying more than 175 homes, business and other structures in a Northern California town, authorities said. \n Lake County Sheriff Brian Martin said Damin Anthony Pashilk, 40, of Clearlake was arrested today on 17 counts of arson and is in jail. He is suspected in numerous fires in Lake County over the past year. \n California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Director Ken Pimlott said the blaze in the town of Lower Lake has caused over $10 million in damages and left dozens of families homeless. \n \"Mr. Pashilk committed a horrific crime and we will seek prosecution to the fullest extent of the law. My thoughts continue to be with the people of Lake County during this difficult time,\" Pimlott said. \n The wind-whipped had spread to more than six square miles in the Lower Lake area about 90 miles north of San Francisco. \n It was just 5 percent contained, though late in the day fire officials said no other structures were under direct threat. \n Weather conditions bedeviled firefighters today and the forecast called for temperatures to reach the upper 90s in coming days, with no rain in sight. A heat wave and gusty winds also put Southern California on high fire alert. \n Underlying it all is a five-year drought that has sapped vegetation of moisture. \n For the first time in several generations, wildfire had stalked Lower Lake last year during a devastating period from the end of July through September. Three major blazes blackened towns and mountainous wildland within a few miles to the east and south of town. \n The new reality roared into Lower Lake on Sunday, when wind-driven flames fed by pines in the mountains and oaks that cluster on the rolling hills close to town wiped out whole blocks, authorities said. \n Thousands of people fled the area \u2014 some after ensuring their goats and chickens were safe. \n Lower Lake is home to about 1,300 mostly working class people and retirees who are drawn by its rustic charm and housing prices that are lower than the San Francisco Bay Area. \n Firefighters couldn't protect all of historic Main Street and flames burned a winery, an antiques store, old firehouse and the Habitat for Humanity office. \n The organization was raising money to help rebuild homes in nearby communities torched last year. Between them, the four blazes have destroyed more than 1,400 of the 36,000 housing units in all Lake County. \n The fire in Lower Lake reduced businesses to little more than charred foundations that were still smoldering on Monday. All that remained of many homes was burnt patio furniture and appliances, and burned out cars in the driveways. \n No injuries have been reported and the cause of the fire that broke out Saturday was unknown. \n Last September, one of California's most destructive wildfires ravaged a series of small towns just a half-hour from Lower Lake, whose residents were forced to evacuate. It killed four people, left a fifth missing and destroyed more than 1,300 homes in nearby communities. \n Despite getting some rain last winter and spring, Lake County is tinder dry. Lawns in front of Lower Lake's modest, one-story homes are brown, matching the wildland grasses on the mountains outside town. \n In wetter times, the region was not visited by the kind of wildfires that now batter it. \n Other than a pair of large blazes in the 1960s, which destroyed far fewer homes in a county that had just one-quarter its current 64,000 residents, lifelong resident and county supervisor Jim Comstock can't remember anything approaching the past year. \n Residents have a new view of the wild beauty they've always admired. Comstock said when his wife sees tall grass, she wonders aloud when the property owner will cut it. After 1,500 acres burned last year on the 1,700-acre ranch where Comstock grew up and still lives, he has cleared out brush to make fire breaks \u2014 a ritual familiar to other Californians who live in areas traditionally associated with wildfires. \n \"Everybody is just on edge,\" he said. \"The trees are beautiful, but when they catch fire, they carry fire.\" \n Retirees Denis and Carolyn Quinn evacuated once last year and again this weekend, when they grabbed family photos and fled the house they share just off Main Street with their adult daughter and granddaughter. \n Last time, their property was spared. On Sunday, they were let back in briefly to see that only their home and the one next door still stood among the 15 or so homes on the block. \n For Denis Quinn, it was a sign from God that the couple should not succumb to thoughts of leaving due to the wildfire threat. \n \"It's a poor community,\" he said at a high school opened to evacuees about 20 miles from town. \"There are a lot of people who are down here, down on their luck. I really feel for people and think that we can stay and help them.\" \n In central California, a wildfire near Lake Nacimiento, about 180 miles northwest of Los Angeles, grew to more than 8 square miles. The fire destroyed 12 homes over the weekend and forced authorities to evacuate some residents by boat when it shifted toward the lake. It was only slightly contained. \n A wildfire in Nevada turned deadly when U.S. Forest Service firefighter Justin Beebe, 26, of Vermont, was hit by a tree Saturday, authorities say. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man arrested for arson blaze that decimated California town"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "Police released a 25-year-old Makiki woman this morning after she allegedly tried to run over a 66-year-old man whom she claimed had sexually assaulted her. \n The woman was released after the man withdrew the attempted murder complaint, said Sarah Yoro, Honolulu Police Department spokeswoman. \n Yoro said police are still investigating the second-degree sexual assault complaint. She added the woman and the man know each other. \n The woman was arrested about 4:30 a.m. Sunday for investigation of second-degree attempted murder after she tried to run over the man with her car in front of 1222 S. King St. in Makiki, police said. \n The victim was taken to the Queen's Medical Center in serious condition after the incident, but his condition was later upgraded, police said. \n The woman apparently reported the sex assault when she was apprehended by police. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Makiki woman released in attempted murder case"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "The state Department of Health is warning the public to stay out of Halawa Stream due to the discharge of wastewater washed from pens at Oahu's animal quarantine station. \n According to preliminary findings, a failed well pump is to blame for the discharge into the stream. A Health Department official said an overflow of wastewater containing animal fecal matter washed from pens at the quarantine station. \n The discharge has been stopped, officials said. Water samples were collected today, and warning signs posted along the stream, running through Salt Lake and Foster Village neighborhoods. The public is advised to stay out of the stream's waters until the signs are removed. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Wastewater discharge prompts Halawa Stream closure"}

{"date": "August 15, 2016", "text": "The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, in an opinion issued today, has upheld Hawaii's practice of holding open primary elections. \n The Democratic Party of Hawaii had sued the state Office of Elections in 2013 and sought to limit participation in the Democratic primary election to registered Democrats only. \n The Ninth Circuit ruled that the Democratic Party did not show that the open primary system burdens its \"associational rights\" or impacts candidates or messages, according to a state Department of the Attorney General news release. \n Hawaii's voters may vote in only one party's primary election. \n The lawsuit was initially filed in federal district court, with Judge J. Michael Seabright ruling in the state's favor in November 2013, upholding the open primary. \n Attorney General Doug Chin said in today's news release: \"The open primary is part of Hawaii's commitment to make voting easier and to include more persons in the democratic process.\" He added, \"This ruling keeps Hawaii's primary elections open to all registered voters, regardless of their formal party affiliation.\" \n This ruling has no effect on the 2016 primary or general elections. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Appeals Court upholds Hawaii's open primary elections"}

