{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "Police arrested today a 26-year-old man with no local address for allegedly illegally entering a Kailua home and allegedly attacking a 32-year-old man. \n The man allegedly entered the home unlawfully at about 12:35 a.m. Monday and hit the occupant before fleeing the scene at about 4:30 a.m. today. A 29-year-old woman was also at the home at the time. \n The suspect later returned to the home and was arrested at 4:55 a.m. today on suspicion of first-degree (violent) burglary. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man arrested for illegally entering Kailua home, attacking occupant"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 12, 2016 photo, Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl arrives for a pretrial hearing at Fort Bragg, N.C. Bergdahl and his attorneys will try to convince a military judge that President Donald Trump violated Bergdahl's due process rights. \n FORT BRAGG, N.C. >> President Donald Trump's fiery criticism of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl has put the desertion case against the soldier on uncertain ground as a judge considers whether he can still get a fair trial for walking off his post in Afghanistan in 2009. \n The judge, Army Col. Jeffery Nance, called video of Trump repeatedly calling Bergdahl a traitor during campaign speeches \"disturbing\" at a pre-trial hearing today. He also asked prosecutors pointed questions about whether Trump's criticism has already created a public perception that Bergdahl won't be treated fairly. \n Bergdahl's lawyers argue the comments violate their client's due-process rights and that the charges against him should be dismissed. The judge didn't immediately rule on the defense request, and a written decision was expected later. \n In a video played in court, Trump promised his audience at a December 2015 campaign rally to review the case if Bergdahl got a light punishment. \n Nance asked prosecutors: \"You're not at all concerned about the statement he made, 'If I get in we will review his case' \u2026 after ranting and raving about no jail time?\" \n Legal scholars have said that even if the judge agrees that Trump's comments crossed the line, he could try to salvage the case by giving defense attorneys wide leeway to question and dismiss potential military jurors. \n Prosecutors say Trump's comments amounted to campaign rhetoric against actions taken by the Obama administration to bring Bergdahl home after he was held captive for five years by the Taliban and its allies. \n \"These comments are clearly intended to try to attack a political opponent for political gain,\" said Army Maj. Justin Oshana, a prosecutor. \n The Obama administration's decision in May 2014 to exchange Bergdahl for five Taliban prisoners prompted some Republicans to accuse Obama of jeopardizing the nation's safety. \n Oshana said potential jurors' exposure to Trump's comments could be addressed through questioning during jury selection. \n But Nance asked, \"How does that relate to overcoming the black eye to the military justice system \u2026 the view the public might have?\" \n That question goes to the heart of the defense argument that Trump's comments constitute unlawful command influence by the new commander in chief. Even the appearance of such unfairness can theoretically derail a military case. \n The defense's motion, filed shortly after Trump was sworn in as president, cites more than 40 instances of Trump's criticism at public appearances and media interviews through August 2016. \n Eugene Fidell, Bergdahl's defense attorney, argued today that Trump has kept other campaign promises, so his comments about Bergdahl should be taken seriously. \n A White House spokesman didn't respond to a phone call and email seeking comment today about whether Trump plans to review Bergdahl's case. \n Bergdahl is charged with desertion and misbehavior before the enemy, the latter of which carries a maximum penalty of life in prison. He has been assigned to desk duty at a Texas Army base while awaiting trial. \n Bergdahl, who is from Idaho, has said he walked off his post to cause alarm and draw attention to what he saw as problems with his unit. \n His trial is scheduled for April, but a delay seems likely after the judge set a new time frame for working out problems with the handover of classified information as part of the discovery process. He said he would give lawyers until the beginning of April to prepare a status report that will determine future dates in the case. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's comments put Bergdahl case on uncertain ground"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A model of EHang 184 and the next generation of Dubai Drone Taxi is seen during the second day of the World Government Summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, Monday. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> Up, up and away: Dubai hopes to have a passenger-carrying drone regularly buzzing through the skyline of this futuristic city-state in July. \n The arrival of the Chinese-made EHang 184 \u2014 which already has had its flying debut over Dubai's iconic, sail-shaped Burj al-Arab skyscraper hotel \u2014 comes as the Emirati city also has partnered with other cutting-edge technology companies, including Hyperloop One. \n The question is whether the egg-shaped, four-legged craft will really take off as a transportation alternative in this car-clogged city already home to the world's longest driverless metro line. \n Mattar al-Tayer, the head of Dubai's Roads & Transportation Agency, announced plans to have the craft regularly flying at the World Government Summit. Before his remarks today, most treated the four-legged, eight-propeller craft as just another curiosity at an event that views itself as a desert Davos. \n \"This is not only a model,\" al-Tayer said. \"We have actually experimented with this vehicle flying in Dubai's skies.\" \n The craft can carry a passenger weighing up to 220 pounds and a small suitcase. After buckling into its race-car-style seat, the craft's sole passenger selects a destination on a touch-screen pad in front of the seat and the drone flies there automatically. \n The drone, which has a battery allowing for a half-hour flight time and a range of up to 31 miles, will be monitored remotely by a control room on the ground. It has a top speed of 100 mph, but authorities say it will be operated typically at 62 mph. \n Al-Tayer said the drone would begin regular operations in July. He did not elaborate. \n The Road and Transportation Agency later issued a statement saying the drone had been examined by the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority and was controlled through 4G mobile internet. The agency did not immediately respond to further questions from the Associated Press. \n The United Arab Emirates already requires drone hobbyists to register their aircraft. However, drone intrusions at Dubai International Airport, the world's busiest for international travel, has seen it shut down for hours at a time in recent months. \n EHang did not respond to a request for comment. In May, authorities in Nevada announced they would partner with EHang to test the 184 to possibly be cleared by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. \n The drone may be a techno curiosity for now but Dubai \u2014 the commercial capital of the oil-rich UAE and home to the long-haul carrier Emirates \u2014 has bold visions for the future and the 184 fits right into its plans. \n Dubai's ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, announced in April he wanted 25 percent of all passenger trips in the city to be done by driverless vehicles in 2030. To that end, Dubai already has had the box-shaped driverless EZ10, built by France's EasyMile, cruise nearby the Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building. \n In October, Dubai signed a deal with Los Angeles-based Hyperloop One to study the potential for building a hyperloop line between it and Abu Dhabi, the Emirati capital. \n A hyperloop has levitating pods powered by electricity and magnetism that hurtle through low-friction pipes at a top speed of 760 mph. Elon Musk, the co-founder of Tesla who appeared today at the Dubai conference, first proposed the idea of a hyperloop in 2013. \n Musk, who took no questions from reporters today, later launched his Tesla car brand in Dubai at an event organizers said was not open to international media. Musk has come under criticism for serving on a business council advising U.S. President Donald Trump. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Up, up and away: Passenger-carrying drone to fly in Dubai"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The lava lake at the summit of Kilauea Volcano on Jan. 20. \n JUNEAU, Alaska >> U.S. senators in Alaska, Washington and Hawaii have proposed legislation intended to improve volcano monitoring efforts and early warning capabilities. \n The measure would put the Alaska, Cascades and Hawaiian volcano observatories into a connected system and create a 24-hour Volcano Watch Office to provide ongoing situational awareness of active volcanoes in the U.S. and its territories. \n A Senate energy committee release says the Alaska Volcano Observatory has long been underfunded and is among the busiest observatories in the world. The Cascades observatory, in Washington, monitors volcanoes in that state, Oregon and Idaho, and two of the more active volcanoes, Kilauea and Mauna Loa, are monitored by the Hawaiian observatory. \n The bill is from Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Maria Cantwell of Washington and Mazie Hirono of Hawaii, all energy committee members. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. senators propose bill to improve volcano monitoring"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Raina McCloskey, from Delta, Pa., shows Briar, a borzoi, during the 141st Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show today in New York. \n NEW YORK >> She's no longer a Rumor at America's top dog show. \n A German shepherd called Rumor who just missed winning at the Westminster Kennel Club last year came back to score a big victory Monday night, beating out favored Preston the puli in the herding group. \n To the cheers of the crowd at Madison Square Garden, Rumor joined a miniature poodle, a Pekingese and a Norwegian elkhound in the best-of-seven final ring. She'll face three more group winners still to be picked Tuesday night, right before the champ is chosen. \n Rumor was the nation's No. 1 show dog last year when she came to the Garden. But she fell short when a German shorthaired pointer named CJ won in a surprise, and it was thought that Rumor would retire. \n Asked about the chances of 5-year-old Rumor adding to her 103 career championship ribbons, handler and co-owner Kent Boyles said, \"I have no idea. \u2026 You never know.\" \n \"Really good competition,\" Boyles said, adding that he was \"pretty nervous.\" \n Nearly 2,800 dogs across 202 breeds and varieties were entered. Plenty of them were early crowd favorites at the mostly filled Garden, if not winners. \n A toy fox terrier just wanted to stand still. A papillon lived up to its name \u2014 \"butterfly,\" in French \u2014 by fluttering around. And a sloughi, one of three new breeds at this year's show, kept yawning. \n Preston came in with 95 total wins, known for a black, corded coat so thick that it's often hard to see any of his features. It's also hard to handle \u2014 his hair takes up to five hours to dry, helped by a couple of industrial carpet blowers that create a \"swirly, tornado effect,\" handler and co-owner Linda Pitts said. \n In an upset, Duffy the Norwegian elkhound took the hound group. She topped Lucy the borzoi, second overall at Westminster last year, and Gia the greyhound, champ of the National Dog Show televised last Thanksgiving Day. \n Hound judge Polly Smith perked up some ears, too. In an interview shown on the scoreboard, she started out, \"This bitch epitomized type.\" That's the proper term for a female dog \u2014 predictably, it drew laughs and guffaws from the crowd. \n Chuckie the Pekingese won the toy group. Not yet 2, he already has a legacy as his pop Malachy won Westminster in 2012. A black miniature poodle pranced off with nonsporting group. \n The top of the sporting, working and terriers will be picked Tuesday night, followed immediately by best in show. \n DAZZLING DEBUT \n Watching little Raina McCloskey romp around the Westminster dog show ring with her borzoi buddy, it was hard to tell who was leading whom. \n Because, really, Briar was so big Raina could've ridden him. \n As fans noticed the unlikely pairing in the breed competition \u2014 a 7-year-old girl, in her aqua princess dress, galloping with her elegant 8-year-old pal \u2014 the sweet sound of \"awwwww\" filled the ring. \n \"Makes me teary-eyed,\" said her mom, Kari, of Delta, Pennsylvania. \n Handlers who take dogs into the ring at Westminster are almost always adults. There is a portion of the program for junior showmanship, yet even those participants are usually teenagers. \n \"Mommy, where do I go into the ring?\" Raina asked before boldly making her debut in the main draw. Her mother led a dog right behind them. \n When Raina presented Briar to judge Steven Herman, he leaned over and softly asked: \"Is he your friend?\" She nodded. \n Moments later, Raina took a tumble when her pink sneakers caught on a seam of the green, uneven carpet. She bounced up in a hurry without a worry, drew a loud cheer and finished the run alongside Briar. \n When her mother checked if she was OK, Raina said her elbow hurt. Her mom kissed the boo-boo. \n They both made the first cut of the 27 borzoi entries. \n \"I'm so proud of her, she did a great job,\" Kari said. \n Asked if she had a fun time, Raina simply smiled. Instead, she kept her eyes on Briar, nuzzling him. \n No words necessary. \n ONCE IS ENOUGH \n Reigning champion CJ the German shorthaired pointer was entered in the show and came to New York, but co-owner/hander Valerie Nunes-Atkinson isn't going to have him compete Tuesday. \n \"We're not going to tarnish the memory,\" she said. \n Westminster winners rarely try for a repeat \u2014 it's been more than 20 years since any champ stepped back into the Garden ring. The last dog to take two in a row at Westminster was an English springer spaniel in 1971-72. \n There is no prize money for winning Westminster. Instead, the payoff can come in breeding rights, so owners frequently are eager to retire their champions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rumor has it: German shepherd scores at Westminster dog show"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Activist Samia Assed stands in front of a mural at the Albuquerque Center for Peace and Justice coalition in Albuquerque, N.M. earlier this month. Assed, a Palestinian-American, has now turned her fears over Donald Trump's election into action. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. >> As Samia Assed watched election returns come in with her children and another Muslim family, she panicked when it became clear that Donald Trump would win the presidency. The Palestinian-American woman wondered if they would have to register as Muslims, as Trump said during his campaign. Would she be barred from wearing her hijab in public? \n \"Honestly, I was scared,\" the 51-year-old Albuquerque resident said. \"I didn't even want to take my daughter to school the next day.\" \n Assed has turned her fears into action, joining what advocacy groups say are hundreds, possibly thousands of women of color, who are exploring making a run for public office. Across the country, women are gathering signatures, attending workshops, and signing up for fundraising and public speaking classes as they set their eyes on school board seats, city councils, state offices, and even Congress. \n Just how many women of color will actually seek office is anyone's guess. Advocacy groups say it's too early to determine how many women will formally file papers, but they believe the number could triple. Some are deciding on what position to seek, while others are waiting for 2018 or 2019, advocates said. \n VoteRunLead director Erin Vilardi said the group has seen a jump in the number of women interested in politics. The New York-based group typically draws 50 to 100 participants for webinars like \"From Protester to Politician.\" But since November, the webinars have attracted more than 1,000 participants each time, Vilardi said. And about half of those signing up are women of color. \n \"From our inboxes to our social media sites, we can't keep up with the fire hose,\" Vilardi said. \n In interviews with the Associated Press, some say Trump's win and his past comments on minorities and women sparked them to jump into politics. Others, like Monic Behnken, 44, cite the divisiveness of the presidential campaign or Democrat Hillary Clinton's defeat among the motivating factors. \n Behnken, a criminal justice professor at Iowa State University, is seeking a seat on the Ames School Board. \n \"Seeing how this ugliness was filtering into my children's lives was probably the thing that motivated me the most,\" said Behnken, who is black. \"I knew I had to do something to step up to make the world as safe for them as I could.\" \n Kathleen Daniel, 46, said she decided to run for New York's City Council the day after Trump's election. Her 12-year-old son refused to wear his coat that day even though it was cold. He didn't want to be seen in a hoodie, believing Trump would bring back \"stop and frisk,\" said Daniel, who is black. \n \"I couldn't face my kids,\" said Daniel, a mother of two who lives in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. \"So right then and there I decided to jump in.\" \n Lourdes Cruz said she long thought about running for office but seeing the first steps taken by the Trump administration solidified her decision. \n The 32-year-old social worker from Yorba Linda, California, has never held elected office and plans to run for city council or the state assembly in 2018. \n \"What the actions are now, it is very scary as a country to see that one person can have so much power,\" said Cruz, a naturalized U.S. citizen originally from Mexico. \n Erin Loos-Cutraro, co-founder of She Should Run, a nonpartisan group that encourages women to seek office, said the group's site usually gets about 100-200 women a month expressing interest in their programs. Since the election, it's been close to 6,000. \n Karen Hinks, founder of WeLead OC, said she's seen at least 15 groups spring up in Orange County, California, since the women's march was put together. \n \"Every day there's another group that sprouts up, and it is all women that are doing this,\" said Hinks, whose organization trains Democratic women to run for office and work on political campaigns. \n It's not just Democratic-leaning women seeking to expand the diversity of elected officeholders. The Republican State Leadership Committee's Future Majority Project, an initiative that seeks diverse GOP candidates, is identifying and recruiting state-level candidates after a successful 2016. \n Republican State Leadership Committee spokeswoman Ellie Hockenbury points to Patricia Rucker, a first-generation American from Venezuela who in November won a seat in the West Virginia Senate. And Republican Affie Ellis became the first Native American woman to win a seat in the Wyoming Legislature, Hockenbury said. \n \"The 2016 election cycle saw political engagement at every level of government in ways we have not seen in years,\" Hockenbury said. \n In addition, some female political veterans also are taking a shot at history. For example, Debra Haaland, the outgoing chair of the New Mexico Democratic Party, is mulling a run for a congressional seat in 2018. If elected, the enrolled member of the Laguna Pueblo would become the first Native American woman elected to Congress. \n Assed said she hasn't decided when she'll run for city council, but in the meantime, she plans to learn all she can. As president of the advocacy group Albuquerque Center For Peace and Justice Coalition, Assed has sought to build alliances with Latino and Native Americans on a variety of different issues, she said. \n Behnken said she is starting from scratch and will focus on meeting new people. \n \"I don't know if I'll win or not, but I know this,\" Behnken said. \"This is what I'm supposed to be doing at this moment.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Hajela reported from New York. Associated Press reporter Amy Taxin in Santa Ana, California, contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Russell Contreras on Twitter at http://twitter.com/russcontreras . His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/russell-contreras. Follow Deepti Hajela at www.twitter.com/dhajela. Her work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/deepti-hajela . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Election, Women's March prompt women of color to seek office"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "NEW YORK >> President Donald Trump managed to avoid questions about hot-button issues facing the White House \u2014 such as the future of national security adviser Michael Flynn and a North Korean missile launch \u2014 in a news conference today where selected reporters asked non-challenging questions and other, shouted-out inquiries were ignored. \n Trump appeared before the White House press corps after meeting Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Traditionally, leaders in these gatherings face two questions each from White House press and from reporters following the foreign leader. \n The president selected his questioners: Scott Thuman from Washington's local ABC News affiliate and Kaitlan Collins of The Daily Caller, a conservative website founded in 2010 by Fox News Channel anchor Tucker Carlson. \n Thuman asked Trump about his relationship with Trudeau, given the two men have outlined policy differences, and whether there were any areas where Trump had changed his stance on issues following their conversation. The president offered no specifics. \n Collins asked Trump what he saw as the most important national security issues facing the nation. \n While Thuman and Collins both said that they had not discussed their questions in advance with anyone at the White House, left unasked were questions about Flynn following reports that he had discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with a Russian envoy before Trump was inaugurated. Trump did not reply to shouted questions on the topic as he was leaving the news conference. Flynn late tonight announced his resignation amid the controversy. \n \"Personnel questions are interesting, but our readers want substance. They don't want Washington bull\u2014\u2014. They want to know where the next war is going to be,\" Collins told The Associated Press by email later in the day. \n Thuman's boss noted the reporter asked a question related to Trudeau's visit and focused on issues of terrorism and international trade, which is important to his viewers. \n Thuman \"works hard to go beyond the 'inside the Beltway' chatter and get to the heart of the issues that are relevant to all Americans,\" said Scott Livingston, vice president of news for the Sinclair Broadcast Group. \n A similar news conference took place Friday after Trump met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. The president selected questioners from the New York Post and Fox News Channel. Although their questions were newsier \u2014 about the president's reaction to a judicial decision about his immigration order \u2014 many outlets noted that both the Post and Fox are owned by Trump-friendly media mogul Rupert Murdoch. \n On MSNBC, correspondent Katy Tur said Trump was given \"two softball questions\" today while her colleague, Hallie Jackson, decried the \"startling lack of news.\" The AP did not send out any alerts of news from the session, which is relatively unusual when a president addresses the media. \n CNN analyst Gloria Borger said it seemed like part of a deliberate strategy by the White House to diminish the influence of the traditional mainstream media. \n The Daily Caller wrote about the issue on the site under the headline: \"Daily Caller gets a question at press conference. Liberal reporters lose their minds.\" \n Reporters and presidential administrations frequently tangle; it's an inevitability baked into their duties. But Trump raised doubt about his willingness to face difficult questions when he didn't hold a news conference until Jan. 11, weeks after his election as president. \n There also was continued fallout today from the appearance of Trump aide Stephen Miller's appearances on Sunday news programs. Miller and ABC's George Stephanopoulos had a tense back-and-forth over the president's claims of voter fraud in November. Miller also told CBS' John Dickerson, in a discussion of judges halting Trump's immigration order, that it will soon become clear that \"the powers of the president to protect our country are very substantial and will not be questioned.\" \n That led MSNBC's Joe Scarborough, the \"Morning Joe\" host whose show Trump has been known to watch, to suggest that Miller needed a civics lesson. \n \"That sounds like a spokesman for Vladimir Putin,\" Scarborough said. \n But Miller's boss, President Trump, today tweeted praise for his aide while a Trump-friendly pundit, Fox News Channel's Sean Hannity, lit into Scarborough on Twitter. \n \"Why don't you focus on getting your horrific ratings up?\" Hannity tweeted. \"They totally suck. And I'll take Steve Miller on my team over u every day.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "News conferences raise issue of Trump seeking softballs"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump was accompanied by, from second from left, Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Vice President Mike Pence, White House press secretary Sean Spicer and National Security Adviser Michael Flynn on Jan. 28. Trump spoke on the phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway take their seats today before the start of a joint news conference with President Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in the East Room of the White House. \n WASHINGTON >> Fired by one American commander in chief for insubordination, Michael Flynn has now delivered his resignation to another. \n President Donald Trump had been weighing the fate of his national security adviser, a hard-charging, feather-ruffling retired lieutenant general who just three weeks into the new administration had put himself in the center of a controversy. Flynn resigned late Monday. \n At issue was Flynn's contact with Moscow's ambassador to the United States. Flynn and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak appear to have discussed U.S. sanctions late last year, raising questions about whether he was freelancing on foreign policy while President Barack Obama was still in office and whether he misled Trump officials about the calls. \n The center of a storm is a familiar place for Flynn. His military career ended when Obama dismissed him as defense intelligence chief. Flynn claimed he was pushed out for holding tougher views than the Obama administration about Islamic extremism. But a former senior U.S. official who worked with Flynn said the firing was for insubordination, after the Army lieutenant general failed to follow guidance from superiors. \n Once out of government, he disappeared into the murky world of mid-level defense contractors and international influence peddlers. He shocked his former colleagues a little more than a year later by appearing at a Moscow banquet headlined by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Given a second chance by Trump, Flynn, a lifelong if apolitical Democrat, became a trusted and eager confidant of the Republican candidate, joining anti-Hillary Clinton campaign chants of \"Lock Her Up\" and tweeting that \"Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL.\" \n As national security adviser, Flynn required no Senate confirmation vote or public vetting of his record, and his tenure was brief but turbulent. \n The Washington Post and other U.S. newspapers, citing current and former U.S. officials, reported last week that Flynn made explicit references to U.S. sanctions on Russia in conversations with Kislyak. One of the calls took place on Dec. 29, the day Obama announced new penalties against Russia's top intelligence agencies over allegations they meddled in the U.S. election process to help Trump win. \n While it's not unusual for incoming administrations to have discussions with foreign governments before taking office, the repeated contacts just as the U.S. was pulling the trigger on sanctions suggests Trump's team might have helped shape Russia's response. They also contradicted denials about such discussions of the sanctions by several Trump administration officials, including Vice President Mike Pence. \n Flynn later backed off his adamant denials. On Friday, he said he \"no recollection\" of discussing sanctions policy but \"can't be certain,\" according to an official, who wasn't authorized to speak publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity. \n He apologized to Pence, who, apparently relying on Flynn's denials, vouched for him on television. In his resignation letter, Flynn said he held numerous calls with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during the transition and gave \"incomplete information\" about those discussions to Pence. \n For days, Trump was publicly and unusually quiet on the matter. While his aides were declaring the president had confidence in Flynn, Trump privately told associates he was troubled by the situation, according to a person who spoke with him recently. \n INSUBORDINATION \n Flynn's sparkling military resume had included key assignments at home and abroad, and high praise from superiors. \n The son of an Army veteran of World War II and the Korean war, Flynn was commissioned as a second lieutenant in May 1981 after graduating from the University of Rhode Island. He started in intelligence, eventually commanding military intelligence units at the battalion and then brigade level. In the early years of the Iraq war, he was intelligence chief for Joint Special Operations Command, the organization in charge of secret commando units like SEAL Team 6 and Delta Force. He then led intelligence efforts for all U.S. military operations in the Middle East and then took up the top intelligence post on the Joint Staff in the Pentagon. \n Ian McCulloh, a Johns Hopkins data science specialist, became an admirer of Flynn while working as an Army lieutenant colonel in Afghanistan in 2009. At the time, Flynn ran intelligence for the U.S.-led international coalition in Kabul and was pushing for more creative approaches to targeting Taliban networks, including use of data mining and social network analysis, according to McCulloh. \n \"He was pushing for us to think out of the box and try to leverage technology better and innovate,\" McCulloh said, crediting Flynn for improving the effectiveness of U.S. targeting. \"A lot of people didn't like it because it was different.\" \n It was typical of the determined, though divisive, approach Flynn would adopt at the Defense Intelligence Agency, which provides military intelligence to commanders and defense policymakers. There, he quickly acquired a reputation as a disruptive force. While some applauded Flynn with forcing a tradition-bound bureaucracy to abandon old habits and seek out new, more effective ways of collecting and analyzing intelligence useful in the fight against extremist groups, others saw his efforts as erratic and his style as prone to grandstanding. \n In the spring of 2014, after less than two years on the job, he was told to pack his bags. \n According to Flynn's telling, it was his no-nonsense approach to fighting Islamic extremist groups that caused the rift. \n A former senior Obama administration official who was consulted during the deliberations disputed that account. Flynn was relieved of his post for insubordination after failing to follow guidance from superiors, including James Clapper, Obama's director of national intelligence, said the official, who asked for anonymity to discuss personnel matters. \n CIVILIAN LIFE \n Plunged into civilian life for the first time in 33 years, Flynn moved quickly to capitalize on his military and intelligence world connections and experience. He did so in an unorthodox way. \n \"I didn't walk out like a lot of guys and go to big jobs in Northrup Grumman or Booz Allen or some of these other big companies,\" Flynn told Foreign Policy magazine in 2015. \n Instead, he opened his own consulting firm, Flynn Intelligence Group, in Alexandria, Va. He brought in his son, Michael G. Flynn as a top aide, and began assembling a crew of former armed forces veterans with expertise in cyber, logistics and surveillance, and sought out ties with lesser-known figures and companies trying to expand their profiles as contractors in the military and intelligence spheres. \n One \"team\" member listed on the firm's site was James Woolsey, President Bill Clinton's former CIA director. Woolsey briefly joined Flynn on Trump's transition team as a senior adviser, but quit in January. Another was lobbyist Robert Kelley. \n Kelley proved a central player in the Flynn Group's decision to help a Turkish businessman tied to Turkey's government. At the same time that Flynn was advising Trump on national security matters, Kelley was lobbying legislators on behalf of businessman Ekim Alptekin's firm between mid-September and December last year, lobbying documents show. \n It was an odd match. Flynn has stirred controversy with dire warnings about Islam, calling it a \"political ideology\" that \"definitely hides behind being a religion\" and accusing Obama of preventing the U.S. from \"discrediting\" radical Islam. But his alarms apparently didn't extend to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government as it cracked down on dissent and jailed thousands of opponents after a failed coup last summer. Erdogan's power base is among Turkey's conservative Muslim voters and many affected by his crackdown are secularists. \n Shortly before Trump's election, Flynn wrote an op-ed saying Turkey needed U.S. support and echoing Erdogan's warnings that a \"shady\" Turkish Muslim cleric living in Pennsylvania should not be protected by the United States. Erdogan accuses the cleric, Fethullah Gulen, of orchestrating the coup attempt and has requested extradition. Obama officials widely described Turkey's evidence of Gulen's wrongdoing as insufficient. \n Alptekin, the businessman, told The Associated Press he met Flynn several times starting last summer. He wouldn't detail their conversations. Alptekin said he met mostly with Kelley, a former chief counsel to a congressional subcommittee, who registered with Congress as a lobbyist for Inovo BV, a company Alptekin established in the Netherlands in 2005. Alptekin also is a member of a Turkish economic relations board run by an Erdogan appointee, though he says he has no official relationship with Turkey's government. \n Kelley said Flynn's consulting firm could help \"do something about improving the relations between Turkey and the United States,\" Alptekin told the AP. He said he didn't consider any need for his firm or Kelley to register with the Justice Department as a \"foreign agent in this context\" because his firm was \"not a government entity.\" \n FOREIGN AGENT? \n Kelley also was a registered foreign agent for the National Mobilization Force, a Turkish-backed militia fighting the Islamic State group in Syria. Documents filed with the Justice Department show Kelley was paid $90,000 to \"convey the views\" of the armed group to Congress, federal officials and the media. \n The Justice records do not cite any Kelley affiliation with the Flynn Group. But a December letter from Democratic senators Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., and Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., to top federal intelligence officials raised questions about whether Kelley inappropriately represented the militia on behalf of Flynn's firm, which they said raises \"the potential for pressure, coercion, and exploitation by foreign agents.\" \n Several ethics experts also said Flynn's firm should have registered with the Justice Department. \"If a foreign entity is lobbying Congress on influencing U.S policy, they need to file under the foreign agent act,\" said Lydia Dennett, an investigator with the Project on Government Oversight, a Washington good government group. \n Alptekin said Inovo BV paid Flynn's firm \"tens of thousands of dollars.\" Kelley said Flynn's firm made less than $5,000 for its three months of work on behalf of Alptekin's company when he filed a lobbying termination notice to Congress on Dec. 1. \n Kelley and Flynn Intel Group have not responded to multiple calls and emails from the AP. Flynn said in a statement that Kelley provided to Yahoo News in mid-November that \"if I return to government service, my relationship with my company will be severed.\" \n The Flynn Intel Group's website no longer operates and AP visits to three northern Virginia locations associated with the firm no longer showed any company activity or identification. Several Flynn Intel Group staffers who worked for the firm and its cyber and flight subsidiaries, FIG Cyber Inc. and FIG Aviation, departed around the November election. \n BLIMP IN A BOX \n Flynn had other nontraditional business engagements. \n In early 2015, he signed on with the cybersecurity firm Palo Alto Networks as a member of its Public Sector Advisory Council comprising retired military officers working as a \"sounding board\" to answer \"the technology needs of the world's governments.\" \n He advised Conversion Capital, a venture capital firm specializing in tech-oriented investments. He was briefly listed as a board director of GreenZone Systems, a technology firm headed by another Flynn Intel Group partner, Iranian-American investor Bijan Kian. \n And then there was Drone Aviation, a firm that makes tethered surveillance drones. Flynn was named vice chairman and a board member in May 2016, and said he would promote the firm's \"blimp in a box\" concept for military and government use and expand \"the role of persistent aerial solutions in the marketplace.\" \n The company later won a $400,000 Defense Department contract. Drone Aviation paid Flynn a $36,000 annual salary and awarded him 100,000 shares of restricted stock. He was re-elected to the board after Trump's election but stepped down from the board after being offered his job at the White House. \n Another venture was Brainwave Science, a Boston company publicizing its use of \"brain fingerprinting,\" scans that the firm claims can be used to assess a person's honesty. Flynn briefly joined the advisory board in February 2016. The firm's concept is disputed by critics and one adviser left the board after media reports surfaced that he pleaded guilty in 1996 to selling stolen biotech material to Russia's spy agency. \n MEETING PUTIN \n Like many former military officials, Flynn boosted his profile by appearing on television news and talk shows, including several networks connected to foreign governments. They include Qatar-backed Al Jazeera and RT, the news network aligned with the Russian government. He has said he wasn't paid for the appearances. \n But a December 2015 trip to RT's 10th anniversary celebration would put Flynn in some unique company. An RT video from the Moscow event showed Flynn seated next to Putin and rising during a standing ovation following the Russian leader's address. \n Flynn has acknowledged being paid for the appearance, but hasn't said who wrote the check or for how much. Flynn's webpage at All American Speakers shows a standard lecture circuit fee in the $30,000-$50,000 range. \n According to another attendee at the event, Jill Stein, the former Green Party presidential candidate who won 1 percent of the popular vote last November, RT paid for the Moscow event. \n Stein told the AP she turned down the network's offer to pay for her transportation and stay at Moscow's Hotel Metropol, where the event was held. \"I didn't think it was appropriate for a presidential candidate to take money from a foreign government,\" she said. \n Before dinner, Flynn was interviewed on international issues by an RT personality. He then joined Stein and others at a front table, seated with Putin and an entourage of aides. Stein said she didn't see Flynn and Putin talk privately at the table. \n Flynn later told the Post that he had only a brief introduction with Putin. Flynn shrugged off the meeting as \"boring.\" \n Still, several Democratic House members have asked if Flynn accepted payment from RT and if that is a violation of the federal Emoluments Clause, which prohibits even retired military officers from accepting direct or indirect payments from foreign governments. \n Flynn was both hopeful and skeptical about Russia relations before joining Trump's administration. In his 2016 book \"The Field of Fight,\" Flynn warned that Russia had joined an \"enemy alliance\" with Iran. But he also talked publicly of Russia as a possible ally with the U.S. in confronting radical Islam. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Flynn, fired once by a president, now resigns to another"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A helicopter sat at a staging area behind bags of rocks near the Oroville Dam today. \n OROVILLE, Calif. >> Helicopters dropped giant rock-filled sandbags into place today to shore up a California reservoir that had threatened to breach its banks and unleash a 30-foot wall of water, but officials said an evacuation order covering nearly 200,000 people would stay in place until they are sure it's safe to return home. \n Officials defended their decision to issue the hasty order to abandon homes downstream from the nation's tallest dam, about 150 miles northeast of San Francisco. They said it was necessary for public safety after engineers spotted a hole in an emergency spillway, which they feared could have failed within an hour. \n The water level of the massive reservoir known as Lake Oroville dropped today, slightly easing fears of a catastrophic collapse. But with more storms on the horizon, crews raced to fortify heavily eroded soils where water flowed over the edge of the reservoir and carved huge channels in the earth as it gushed toward the Feather River. \n The acting head of the state's Department of Water Resources said he did not know if anything had gone wrong and was unaware of a 2005 report that recommended reinforcing the earthen emergency spillway with concrete for just such an event. The spillway had never been used in the dam's nearly 50 years of operation, and it was not near capacity when it began to fail. \n \"I'm not sure anything went wrong,\" Bill Croyle said. \"This was a new, never-having-happened-before event.\" \n Croyle and the local sheriff sought to reassure the public that downstream communities were safe until water began spilling over the lake's edge Sunday and a chocolate-colored torrent began chewing through the slope below it. \n The Department of Water Resources said conditions were stable at noon and then tweeted an evacuation order at 4:45 p.m. warning of a possible failure within the hour, saying \"this is not a drill.\" \n Chaos ensued as anxious residents rushed to pack up their families and abandon several communities in Butte, Yuba and Sutter Counties. The flat northern Central Valley is known mainly for its abundant agriculture, which is fed by dammed-up rivers that tumble down through the Sierra Nevada foothills. \n It took some people seven hours to travel to evacuation centers that should have been an hour away, said Chico Councilman Andrew Coolidge, who visited with evacuees in packed shelters in his city. \n Butte County Sheriff Kory Honea insisted the evacuation had been accomplished in a \"fairly timely fashion\" and a \"fairly orderly manner.\" \n Patrick Miner of Live Oak said he and his family in a caravan of four cars returned home after driving back roads for two hours and feared they would run out of gas. They didn't bother trying to fuel up because lines were hours long at gas pumps. \n \"People were just panicking, honking and yelling at each other,\" he said. \"I just got nervous and decided to hunker down. It was pretty scary.\" \n More than 500 Butte County jail inmates were transferred to Alameda County Jail farther south, Honea said. \n Honea could not estimate when people will be able to return home, but said he's working on a \"repopulation plan\" to let residents return to areas least at risk of flooding. \n The threat emerged after weeks of storms dumped rain and snow across California, particularly in northern parts of the state. \n While the wet winter has been a boon for water supplies, it has created a challenge in balancing the need for water and hydroelectric power with protecting flatland communities from floods during times of excessive rain or rapidly melting snow. \n The Department of Water Resources began releasing water down its main spillway last week to make more room in the reservoir behind the 770-foot-tall Oroville Dam. \n After a chunk of concrete tore out of the spillway, creating a 200-foot-long, 30-foot-deep hole that continues growing, water managers began using the emergency spillway for the first time in its 48-year history. Eventually, the flow of water ripped through a road below and carved out deep chasms in the ground. \n Trucks hauled boulders to fill the giant crevices in the spillway, and helicopters lifted big sandbags into place. \n The main concrete spillway was used to drain water from the lake at about three times the rate it was filling up. Officials want the level to drop 50 feet to make room for storms expected later this week. \n Environmental groups raised concerns years ago about the stability of the emergency spillway, but state and federal officials dismissed them and insisted the structure was safe, according to records. \n In 2005, three advocacy groups complained to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that using Lake Oroville's earthen spillway would cause significant erosion because it was not armored with concrete. \n They said soil, rocks and debris could be swept into the Feather River, potentially damaging highway bridges and power plants. The groups warned of a complete failure of the dam itself, threatening lives and property. \n Nearly three years later, state officials said no \"significant concerns\" about the emergency spillway's integrity had been raised in any government or independent review. \n The Department of Water Resources estimated repair costs last week at $100 million. Officials refused to update that figure today. \n Gov. Jerry Brown requested federal assistance from the Trump administration, setting aside previous criticism of the president and praising his plan to invest $1 trillion on infrastructure. \n \"I'm sure that California and Washington will work in a constructive way,\" Brown said. \"There will be different points of view, but we're all one America and we all have challenges that we share in common.\" \n U.S. Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris, both Democrats, called on the president to provide $162.3 million in disaster assistance. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Evacuees might not go home until dam spillway is repaired"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring, right, accompanied by Virginia Solicitor General Stuart Raphael, spoke outside the federal courthouse in Alexandria, Va., on Friday. \n McLEAN, Va. >> A federal judge today granted a preliminary injunction barring the Trump administration from implementing its travel ban in Virginia, adding another judicial ruling to those already in place challenging the ban's constitutionality. \n The ruling is significant from a legal standpoint because U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema found that an unconstitutional religious bias is at the heart of the travel ban, and therefore violates First Amendment prohibitions on favoring one religion over another. She said the evidence introduced so far indicates that Virginia's challenge to the ban will succeed once it proceeds to trial. \n A federal appeals court in California has already upheld a national temporary restraining order stopping the government from implementing the ban, which is directed at seven Muslim-majority countries. But the ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals was rooted more in due process grounds, said Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring, a Democrat who brought the lawsuit against Trump in Virginia. \n \"Judge Brinkema's ruling gets right to the heart of our First Amendment \u2026 claim,\" Herring said in a conference call tonight. \n In her 22-page ruling, Brinkema writes that Trump's promises during the campaign to implement what came to be known as a \"Muslim ban\" provide evidence that the current executive order unconstitutionally targets Muslims. \n \"The president himself acknowledged the conceptual link between a Muslim ban and the EO (executive order),\" Brinkema wrote. She also cited news accounts that Trump adviser Rudy Giuliani said the executive order is an effort to find a legal way for Trump to be able to impose his Muslim ban. \n Herring said that \"the overwhelming evidence shows that this ban was conceived in religious bigotry.\" \n Also, the preliminary injunction issued by Brinkema in Alexandria is a more permanent type of injunction than the temporary restraining order issued in the Washington state case. Herring said he expects the injunction to remain in place until the case goes to trial. \n Brinkema's injunction, though, applies only to Virginia residents. Herring had asked the judge to issue the injunction nationwide, but Brinkema limited it to Virginia, saying that the nationwide restraining order in place out of the Washington state case already provides much of the relief Virginia is seeking. Herring said he could ask the judge to extend the injunction nationally if the 9th Circuit stay gets reversed. \n Virginia's lawsuit also does not challenge the portion of the executive order directed at refugees. The 9th Circuit case covers refugees. \n Virginia based its arguments on the harms the state would suffer if the travel ban were allowed to go forward. The state has said, for instance, that 1,000 students at its universities and dozens of university staff members and professors could be affected by the ban. \n In her ruling, Brinkema said the Trump administration offered no justification for the travel ban, and wrote that the president's executive power \"does not mean absolute power.\" \n Brinkema chided the federal government for offering no evidence to support its rationale for the ban, other than arguing the president's authority for issuing such an order. \n She said the president's executive authority is still limited by the Constitution. \"Every presidential action must still comply with the limits set by Congress' delegation of power and the constraints of the Constitution, including Bill of Rights,\" she wrote. \n A Justice Department spokeswoman did not immediately return an email seeking comment tonight. Trump has raised the possibility that he will issue a new executive order to replace the one being challenged in court. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge grants injunction against Trump travel ban in Virginia"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police are asking for the public's help in identifying a man who stole items earlier this month from Stevenson Middle School in Makiki. \n Police said the man broke into the school at 1202 Prospect St. between 8:30 and 10:15 p.m. Feb. 4, took several items, and fled. \n He was captured on video and was wearing shorts and had a tattoo on his left calf. \n Anyone with information should call police. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek Stevenson Middle School burglar"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe listened as they both made statements about North Korea at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Fla., Saturday. \n WASHINGTON >> There was President Donald Trump, in the middle of his Mar-a-Lago resort, conferring with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on decisions with national security implications over iceberg wedge salads. The club members snapped photos and posted them to Facebook with detailed narratives about what they were seeing unfold before their eyes Saturday night in Palm Beach, Florida. \n \"HOLY MOLY !!! It was fascinating to watch the flurry of activity at dinner when the news came that North Korea had launched a missile in the direction of Japan,\" Richard DeAgazio wrote on his public Facebook page. \n Welcome to the social media presidency \u2014 and all of the security and ethical challenges it poses. \n DeAgazio also posed for a photo with a man whom he said carries the \"nuclear football\" for the president. He's since deleted his account and did not respond to requests for comment from the Associated Press. \n CNN and other news outlets used DeAgazio's and other social media accounts to write about what seemed to be an open-air situation room. The publicly shared photos showed Trump, illuminated by cell phone flashlights, conducting national security business on the terrace of his oceanfront resort, in an area accessible to dues-paying members. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said no classified material was discussed at the dinner table and that the president had been briefed previously and afterward in a secure setting. He said the photos on social media depicted Trump and Abe aides discussing the logistics of a press conference they were about to hold. \n Yet Democrats said the scene at Mar-a-Lago seemed to pose security risks. Trump spent much of his campaign blasting opponent Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server to conduct business while she was secretary of state, something Trump said was not nearly secure enough. \n \"There's inconsistency all over the place in terms of how much Donald Trump raised national security on the campaign trail and how he is now operating as president,\" said Brian Fallon, who was Clinton's campaign spokesman. \"And there's hypocrisy from congressional leaders who demagogued this issue, constantly accusing Hillary Clinton of doing something that was far less egregious than this very conspicuous departure from security protocols.\" \n House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi wrote on Twitter, \"There's no excuse for letting an international crisis play out in front of a bunch of country club members like dinner theater.\" \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said Trump \"never should have had such a sensitive discussion in such a public place.\" \n Some Republicans appeared frustrated by Trump's Saturday night powwow. \"You can't make it up,\" said Arizona Sen. John McCain, a frequent Trump critic of late. \n \"Usually that's not a place where you do that kind of thing,\" said Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who sits on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. \n The chairman of that committee, North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr, seemed dismissive of the concerns. \n \"If the president didn't speak of things that couldn't be spoken of in public, then there's no problem with it,\" he said. He said he saw no immediate need for a briefing on the matter. \n There's also an ethical component: Mar-a-Lago memberships now cost $200,000. Some of that money makes its way back to the president, since he has stepped away from operating his businesses but not given up his financial stake. \n That means those who can afford it get special access to Trump, who has dubbed Mar-a-Lago his \"Winter White House\" and now traveled there two weekends in a row for official duties. \n \"This is all a symptom of Donald Trump continuing to comingle his business ventures with his official government duties,\" Fallon said. \"He's trying to make Mar-a-Lago more of a destination for paying members and paying diners by bringing state visitors there.\" \n After working through the details of their joint response to North Korea, the two world leaders stepped into a wedding being held on Trump's property. A guest shot a minute-long video of Trump's impromptu speech, which was then shared with New York Magazine. \n \"I said to the prime minister of Japan, I said, 'Come on, Shinzo, let's go over and say hello,\" Trump says in the video. \"It's an honor to be with you, and you really are a special, beautiful couple.\" \n The groom, Carl Henry Lindner IV, is the son of the chief executive of American Financial Group. The elder Lindner gave $100,000 last fall to two super PACs supporting Trump. \n At the wedding, the video showed, the president kissed the bride on the cheek and encouraged the guests to get back to dancing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump presidency gets social with detailed posts, photos"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2002 \n The 10th hole at Pali Golf Course. \n The city closed the Pali Golf Course this afternoon due to high winds and falling branches that posed safety concerns. The golf course also lost electricity earlier today and is still without power. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High winds close Pali Golf Course"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Kaneohe Bay Drive between Puohala Street and Mokulele Drive was being contraflowed today because of a downed pole. \n Kaneohe Bay Drive was being contraflowed this evening because of a snapped pole, Honolulu police said. \n Police completely closed the road between Puohala Street and Mokulele Drive at about 2 p.m. and warned motorists to avoid the area if possible. \n At about 5:20 p.m., police said the road was reopened in the Kailua-bound direction, but traffic was still being contraflowed in the area. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kaneohe Bay Drive partially reopened after downed pole"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE \n A resident doing yard work found this iguana in Waimanalo on Sunday. \n COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE \n This 6-foot-long iguana was captured Sunday in Waimanalo. \n A 6-foot-long iguana was captured in Waimanalo over the weekend, the state Department of Agriculture said. \n A resident found the lizard Sunday while doing yard work and called the state's pest hotline at about noon Sunday. The resident contained the animal, and inspectors from the Agriculture Department picked up the iguana in the afternoon. \n Iguanas can reach up to six feet in length and have powerful tails that can fend off enemies. The lizards are native to central Mexico through South America, but they are believed to be established in parts of Oahu, the Agriculture Department said. The lizards are mainly vegetarians, but are known to disturb bird nests and feed on eggs. \n It is illegal to own, import, or transport iguanas in Hawaii. Anyone in possession of illegal animals may face up to $200,000 in fines and three years in prison. \n Anyone with information on illegal animals should call the state's pest hotline at 643-PEST (7378). The Agriculture Department urged those possessing illegal animals to turn them in under the state's amnesty program, which provides immunity from prosecution. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "6-foot iguana captured in Waimanalo"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / JAN. 13 \n A high surf warning Is in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for north- and west-facing shores of the islands from Niihau to Molokai, along with north-facing shores of Maui. \n Meanwhile, surf was building along north- and west-facing shores and was expected to reach warning-level heights tonight. \n A wind advisory was in effect for the windward sides of Kauai and Oahu until 6 a.m. Tuesday, the Weather Service said. \n Southwest winds were forecast to be 25 to 30 mph today with higher gusts, the advisory said. An advisory means sustained winds of at least 30 mph or gusts of at least 50 mph are expected. Motorists should use extra caution, the Weather Service said. \n In Lihue, winds were 29 mph and gusts were 38 mph at 3 p.m., according to the Weather Service. At the same time, winds were 15 mph at Honolulu Airport. \n The wind closed Pali Golf Course today and left the course without power, and Honolulu firefighters responded to 26 wind-related emergencies from 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., mostly from Waimanalo to Kaneohe. \n Honolulu Capt. David Jenkins said the emergencies included 16 blown roofs, five downed trees, and five electrical hazards. \n Meanwhile, a high surf warning was in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for north- and west-facing shores of the islands from Niihau to Molokai, along with north-facing shores of Maui. \n The northwest swell will build across the state tonight and peak on Tuesday, bringing dangerously high surf to most north- and west-facing shores of the smaller islands, the Weather Service said. \n Surf was forecast to be 20 to 30 feet for north-facing shores and 15 to 20 feet for west-facing shores. \n Ocean water will occasionally sweep across portions of beaches, and beachgoers can expect strong breaking waves and rip currents, the Weather Service said. \n Anyone entering the water could face significant injury or death, and boaters should be aware of more surfers or body boarders in the water, the Weather Service said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf, strong winds lash islands"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "City officials are warning those in the area around the Kailua Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant that they may detect an odor as a result of a power outage at the facility Monday morning. \n The odor may be detectable until power is fully restored. It's unknown how long that may be. Crews are on-site investigating the issue and portable generators have been brought to supply temporary power. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Power outage at Kailua wastewater plant may bring foul odor"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "Power has been restored to 142 Hawaiian Electric Co. customers on Kapaia Street in Hawaii Kai, HECO said. \n The outage was reported at 10:25 a.m. this morning and service was restored at 1:07 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HECO restores power to customers in Hawaii Kai"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n National Security Adviser Michael Flynn was in the east Room of the White House in Washington, today, for a joint news conference with President Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. \n WASHINGTON >> White House national security adviser Michael Flynn has apologized to Vice President Mike Pence for the controversy surrounding his discussions with the Russian ambassador to the U.S., an administration official says. \n Pence said in televised interviews that Flynn had not discussed sanctions during his pre-inauguration calls with the Russian envoy. Flynn has since told the White House that sanctions may have come up. \n Administration officials have said Pence was relying on information from Flynn. \n The official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and insisted on anonymity. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Flynn apologizes to Pence over Russia controversy"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Trash was seen piled in a dumpster at an encampment set up near Cannon Ball, N.D., Wednesday, for opponents against the construction of the Dakota Access pipeline. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Razor wire and concrete barriers protected access to the Dakota Access pipeline drilling site, Thursday, near Cannon Ball, North Dakota. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A June 2012 photo provided by ALM shows U.S. District Judge James \"Jeb\" Boasberg in Washington, D.C. Boasberg is overseeing a lawsuit filed by the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux, two Dakotas tribes who maintain the $3.8 billion Dakota Access pipeline to carry North Dakota oil to Illinois threatens their drinking water and cultural sites. \n WASHINGTON >> A federal judge today rejected a request by two American Indian tribes for an emergency order halting construction of the remaining section of the Dakota Access oil pipeline. \n U.S. District Judge James Boasberg, in Washington, D.C., said that as long as the oil isn't flowing through the pipeline, there is no immediate harm to the Cheyenne River and Standing Rock Sioux tribes, which are suing to stop the project. But he said he'd consider the arguments more thoroughly at another hearing on Feb. 27. \n The tribes requested the temporary injunction last week after Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners got federal permission to lay pipe under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota. That's the last big section of the $3.8 billion pipeline that would need to be constructed before it could carry oil from North Dakota to Illinois. \n The tribes say the pipeline would endanger their cultural sites and water supply. They added a religious freedom component to their case last week by arguing that clean water is necessary to practice the Sioux religion and that the mere presence of the pipeline renders the water impure. \n At the hearing, though, Boasberg said the harm to the tribe apparently would come from the pipeline being turned on and the oil flowing through it, not from the pipeline's mere presence. \n Energy Transfer Partners received final approval from the Army last week to lay pipe under the reservoir and to complete the 1,200-mile pipeline, which would move North Dakota oil to a shipping point in Illinois. Drilling work began immediately under Lake Oahe, which is the water source for both tribes. \n The company's attorneys filed court documents early today urging Boasberg to reject the tribes' request, calling the new religious freedom argument \"exceedingly tardy,\" \"not construction-related\" and a \"last-minute delay tactic.\" \n \"Dakota Access has the greatest respect for the religious beliefs and traditions of (tribes). The emergency relief sought here simply is not necessary to protect the exercise of those beliefs or preserve those traditions,\" wrote William Scherman, an attorney for the company. \n The Corps also filed court documents today arguing that a work stoppage isn't warranted, saying the tribes will have plenty of time to make their case before oil flows through the pipeline. \n Work under Lake Oahe had been held up in the courts until President Donald Trump last month instructed the Army Corps of Engineers to advance construction. The Army is involved because its engineering branch manages the river and its system of hydroelectric dams, which is owned by the federal government. \n The drilling work is expected to take about two months. The full pipeline system could be operational within three months. \n Energy Transfer Partners maintains that the pipeline is safe and disputes that cultural sites have been affected. But an encampment near the construction in southern North Dakota drew thousands of protesters last year in support of the tribes, leading to occasional clashes with law enforcement and nearly 700 arrests. The camp has thinned to fewer than 300 people, but law enforcement officers continue to maintain a presence in the area. \n Associated Press writer Blake Nicholson in Bismarck, N.D., contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge denies request to halt Dakota Access pipeline work"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Centre County Correctional Facility shows Jeffrey Sandusky, who was charged today with multiple charges of sexual offenses involving children. \n Jerry Sandusky's adult son is in a Pennsylvania jail, awaiting a hearing next week on charges he pressured one teenage girl to send him naked photos and asked her teen sister to give him oral sex. \n Jeffrey Sandusky, 41, faces 14 counts, including solicitation of statutory sexual assault and solicitation of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse. His lawyer isn't commenting on the allegations. \n A child abuse expert says the allegations raise the possibility that he may not have been raised in a healthy sexual environment, whether or not he was himself victimized. \n University of Pennsylvania professor Richard Gelles said adult men who seek sexual contact with adolescent girls are seeking power over them and can't have a mature relationship with another adult. \n \"The sexual development in that household must depart significantly from normal. Mom is denying (her husband's serial abuse) or didn't know. Jerry was accused of having some sexual contact with one of his adopted children. It's hard to imagine that this young man (Jeffrey) is going to develop normally,\" said Gelles, chair of child welfare and family violence at Penn's School of Social Policy and Practice. \n Jeffrey Sandusky is one of six people adopted by Jerry Sandusky. He's been a stalwart supporter of his father, regularly attending his court proceedings alongside his mother, Dottie Sandusky, who also has consistently supported her husband and fought to clear his name. \n Jeffrey Sandusky has not made any public allegations of abuse by Jerry Sandusky, but one of his siblings, Matt Sandusky, alleged at the time of their adoptive father's 2012 criminal trial that he had been abused by him. Matt Sandusky was not called as a witness, and Jerry Sandusky has never been charged with those allegations. \n Abbie Newman, chief executive of the Mission Kids Child Advocacy Center of Montgomery County, a private agency that helps coordinate child abuse investigations, said it's not unusual for patterns of abusive behavior to exist among different generations of the same family. \n \"We certainly see cases at Mission Kids of allegations of intergenerational child abuse,\" she said. \n Sandusky also was charged with six counts of unlawful contact with a minor and two counts each of solicitation to photograph or depict sexual acts, sexual abuse of children and corruption of minors. \n A state trooper said in the arrest affidavit that on Nov. 21, the alleged victims' father turned over to investigators text messages from Sandusky in which he asked one of the girls for nude photographs. \n The affidavit said Sandusky told the alleged victim in texts in March that \"it's not weird because he studied medicine\" and instructed her \"to not show these texts to anyone.\" \n The girl's mother told investigators that when she confronted Sandusky, he told her \"he knows it was wrong and inappropriate,\" police said. \n The girl, called \"Victim 1\" in the affidavit, told police the texts made her uncomfortable and that \"he kept pressuring me and asked me multiple times not to show the texts to anyone,\" police said. \n Gelles gave the teen accuser credit for reporting the alleged contact. \n \"This girl was mature beyond her years, and smart beyond her years, and certainly not vulnerable to the kind of grooming that predators tend to use,\" he said. \n Prosecutors allege Jeffrey Sandusky sought oral sex from a second girl, \"Victim 2,\" in 2013. She was 15 years old at the time. \n \"Victim 2\" told investigators that Jeffrey Sandusky told her in March: \"I can't even say anything except I'm sorry.\" \n Jerry Sandusky is serving a lengthy prison sentence for sexual abuse of 10 boys, maintains he was wrongly convicted and is appealing. \n The state Corrections Department said that because of the charges, Jeffrey Sandusky was suspended without pay Monday from employment as a corrections officer at Rockview State Prison, near State College. He was hired in August 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jerry Sandusky's son awaits hearing on child sex abuse allegations"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alan Boucher used a farm tractor to dig out of his driveway during a blizzard, today, in Freeport, Maine. Snow up to two feet deep blanketed parts of the Northeast, just days after the biggest storm of the season dumped up to 19 inches of snow on the region. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tina Fuller, 60, of Waltham, Mass., behind center, walked past a snowman and a person walking a dog, Sunday, in Waltham, Mass. Officials in the Northeast urged people take precautions and schools have begun announcing cancellations as another winter blast of snow moved into the region. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ryan Jussif shoveled out a front porch and walkway in Derry, N.H. today. Another winter blast of snow and strong winds moved into the Northeast on Sunday, just days after the biggest storm of the season. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> Plow trucks and shovelers in the Northeast attacked the region's newest winter storm today as fresh powder covered ever-growing snow piles and whiteout conditions made roads unsafe, immobilizing millions of residents. \n Winter storm warnings were in effect from upstate New York to Maine, where blizzard conditions took hold and more than 2 feet of snow fell in some areas. Snow and high wind gusts also were reported in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the New York City area. \n At least one death has been called weather-related. In Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania, a coroner said high winds took down a tree branch that crashed through a driver's windshield and led to the man's death. Wind also \n Cumberland County Coroner Charley Hall said Shannon Lee Martin, 22, died early today after going into cardiac arrest at a hospital outside Harrisburg. Authorities also were investigating whether injuries in Maine, Massachusetts and Rhode Island could be attributed to the weather. \n Just north of New York City, a Metro-North train struck a fallen tree, damaging the train and hampering service for hours, but causing no injuries. About 100 passengers were onboard. And in Queens, the canopy of a gas station was ripped down as winds gusted up to 60 mph in some areas. \n State officials in New Hampshire and Maine urged people to stay off the roads to avoid whiteout conditions; a number of crashes were reported from Sunday through this afternoon. \n \"We just want to remind people to be smart and be safe,\" New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu said, warning residents to watch for children playing in snowbanks because plow truck drivers might not see them. \n Schools around the region delayed or canceled classes, including in Boston and some areas across New York state. \n By early afternoon today, snow totals in Maine included 25 inches in Starks, 20 inches in Harpswell and 15 inches in Kennebunk. In New Hampshire, 14 inches had fallen in Ossipee and a foot covered Berlin. Scattered power outages were reported overnight, and the forecast of strong winds and coastal flooding remained a concern. \n There were reports that thunder and lightning accompanied snow in Nobleboro, Maine. The Mountain Washington Avalanche Center issued an extreme avalanche danger warning on two trails. Snow still was falling in much of Maine by afternoon. \n Nearly all flights in and out of the airport in Manchester, New Hampshire, were canceled. The airport in Portland, Maine, also was closed. \n A spokeswoman for Central Maine Power said about 800 power outages were reported by mid-day. Most are around Waldo County, which was predicted to have the biggest snowfall and the fastest wind speeds. \n The new snow comes on the heels of a series of other storms, including one last week that dumped 19 inches on parts of Maine. \n One of the big questions for residents: Where is all the snow going to go? \n Raychell Libby, from Portland, walked through a path that had been cut through the snow, piled hip-high. \n \"I really love the paths that are made afterward,\" she said as she chugged along and walked Logan, her 7-year-old Catahoula mix. \"It's kind of like a winter wonderland.\" \n Boston was largely spared large accumulations. Still, Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker urged residents to avoid driving and to use public transportation. \n In northern New England, the storm was welcome news at ski areas, which last year faced some of the lowest snowfall totals in years. The ski area was forecast to get up to 26 inches of snow by the end of the day. \n And in Vermont, the governor declared today a \"Powder Day,\" urging winter weather enthusiasts to take advantage of the snow. Gov. Phil Scott encouraged out-of-state skiers and snowmobilers to stay an extra day or two in Vermont and take advantage of the conditions. \n \"And while I can't grant official pardons out-of-state, I certainly hope all will be granted a 'snow day' pardon. Visitors can feel free to tell their boss Vermont's governor asked them to stay,\" Scott said. \n Associated Press writers Marina Villeneuve in Portland, Maine; Holly Ramer in Hopkinton, New Hampshire; and Kathy McCormack in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New storm wallops Northeast, where 'Stay home' is message"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Thousands of teachers gathered at the Capitol today to call for better pay. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Pam Corpuz-Lahne, a retire Aikahi Elementary School teacher, waited at the Capitol this morning for teachers marching to call for better pay. \n Hawaii teachers marched to the state Capitol to call for better pay. \n They rallied today while the union is in the midst of contract negotiations with the state. \n Hawaii State Teachers Association President Corey Rosenlee said insufficient funding has led to a teacher shortage. He said Hawaii teachers are the lowest-paid in the nation when cost of living is considered. \n Teachers are also pushing legislation to change the tax code and direct more money to public schools. They want to create an education surcharge on residential investment properties such as second homes. \n Critics such as the Hawaii Chamber of Commerce say it would be unfair to levy a surcharge on some residents and not others. They also say the tax would probably get passed on to renters. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii teachers march to Capitol calling for better pay"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kellyanne Conway, left, and Stephen Miller, both senior advisers to President Donald Trump, walked to a news conference with President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Feb. 10, at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Presidential adviser Stephen Miller peddled discredited theories about voter fraud during a round of TV appearances Sunday that won praise from his boss but brought no new evidence to light. \n Miller mischaracterized research about wrongly registered voters and spread a debunked claim that busloads of Democrats came into New Hampshire and voted improperly in the November election. His Sunday morning performance on news shows earned him a \"Good job!\" on Twitter from President Donald Trump, who alleged days earlier that he lost New Hampshire in November only because \"thousands\" of people came by bus to vote against him. \n A look at a few of the senior policy adviser's statements on ABC's \"This Week.\" \n The accusation that people from more liberal Massachusetts crossed state lines in buses and voted was made shortly before the election by Republican Chris Sununu, who won election as governor. Sununu quickly backed down, saying his talk about busloads of illegal voters was \"more a figure of speech\" \u2014 in other words, not reality. Actual cases of voter fraud detected in New Hampshire have been in the single digits over recent elections. \n After Miller's remarks, Fergus Cullen, chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party for the 2008 election, lashed out. \n \"Miller makes false #magicbus claim, offers no proof,\" he tweeted. \"Delusional. There are no bused-in voters.\" He also tweeted: \"I will pay $1000 to 1st person proving even 1 out-of-state person took bus from MA 2 any NH polling place last Election Day.\" \n David Becker, an author of the study, said it never found fraud. Moreover, he said voting integrity in 2016 was \"better in this election than ever before.\" \n Miller's claim about an \"astonishing\" number of non-citizens who are registered to vote is based on a study that has been disputed in academia and misrepresented in the political arena. \n The study by Old Dominion University researchers did estimate that 14 percent or more of noncitizens had registered to vote, but the methodology was challenged and the authors were upfront about the imprecision in their findings. As for how many non-citizens actually voted, their \"best guess\" was 6.4 percent of them in 2008 and 2.2 percent in 2010. \n \"There are many on the left side of that debate who have relentlessly sought to discredit our results and want to push the level of estimated non-citizen participation to zero,\" Jesse Richman, an associate professor of political science and international affairs and one of the authors, wrote. \"On the right there has been a tendency to misread our results as proof of massive voter fraud, which we don't think they are.\" \n He wrote that the study suggests \"almost all elections in the US are not determined by non-citizen participation, with occasional and very rare potential exceptions.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Trump aide pushes false story of vote fraud"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Four family pets died Sunday in a fire on Old Government Road in Waianae. \n Fire investigators continue to search for the cause of a fire along Old Government Road in Waianae that killed four family pets on Sunday and caused $365,000 to the structure and contents. \n Six people were home when they smelled the odor of smoke before smoke alarms went off, said Honolulu Fire Capt. David Jenkins. \n None of the human occupants were injured but four family pets died. Jenkins did not immediately know what kind of animals were killed. \n Firefighters were dispatched to the two-story, single-family home at 2:22 p.m., arrived five minutes later and had the fire under control at 2:47 p.m., Jenkins said. It was extinguished at 4:25 p.m. \n The fire caused approximately $315,000 in damage to the structure and $50,000 to the contents, Jenkins said. \n The American Red Cross of Hawaii said that volunteers will help the residents with immediate needs for food, shelter or clothing. \n The organization said caseworkers will follow up in the coming weeks to provide assistance as needed. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Family pets killed in Waianae fire"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "The Maui Fire Department hopes to identify and locate the owner of spearfishing equipment that lifeguards found about half-a-mile to a mile off of the eastern point of Hookipa Beach Park Sunday around noon. \n Ocean safety lifeguards retrieved a spear gun attached by a tag line to an orange dive float with a flag. A fresh fish catch was still hanging on the dive float, but no diver was found, firefighters said. \n There were no reports of an overdue spearfisherman, and a search along the coast from Maliko Bay to the beach fronting Mama's Fish House turned up no vehicle or witnesses who had seen a diver in the area. \n Anyone with information is asked to call 244-6400 and press \"0\" for an operator. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire department searching for owner of abandoned spearfishing gear"}

{"date": "February 13, 2017", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n Debris on the Pali Highway this morning closed one lane in each direction. \n Police have reopened all lanes of the Pali Highway near the hairpin turn after debris forced police to close some lanes this morning. \n Police had closed the lanes shortly before 5 a.m. The lanes were opened 7 hours later. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pali Highway lanes reopen"}

