{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., speaks to supporters after being declared the winner in the Arizona Republican primary Tuesday, Aug. 30, 2016, in Phoenix. The 80-year-old McCain defeated former state Sen. Kelli Ward and two other Republicans on the ballot. \n PHOENIX >> Sen. John McCain beat back a primary challenge Tuesday from a Republican tea party activist to win the right to seek a sixth term in November in a race that has been inundated with questions about GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n The 2008 GOP presidential nominee easily defeated former state Sen. Kelli Ward and two other Republicans. \n He faces a tough Democratic challenge in the November general election from U.S. Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick. She advanced Tuesday after facing only a write-in opponent in the primary. \n McCain vowed to not take the primary for granted, and he campaigned hard until the end. But the contest between Ward and McCain was often overshadowed by Trump and his outspoken comments. \n Trump had attacked many issues dear to the Arizona senator, including the family of a fallen soldier, NATO and even McCain's own military service and time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. \n Yet McCain stuck by his support for Trump, at times seemingly through gritted teeth. He repeatedly avoided calling Trump by name, instead saying he'll support his party's nominee. \n Trump is set to roll out his plan to handle immigration in Phoenix on Wednesday, with Republican Gov. Doug Ducey making his first appearance with the GOP nominee. Ducey, like McCain, has said he supports his party's nominee but avoided Trump in his previous four campaign stops in Arizona. \n There's no word if McCain will appear at the event. \n McCain made no mention of Trump or his many divisive comments in his victory speech Tuesday night, but he sought to strike an inclusive tone as he praised his Latino, Asian-American and Middle Eastern supporters. \n \"There is a lot at stake in this election, no matter who wins the presidency,\" McCain said. \"Most of all, it's important that Republicans can fight for the resources our military needs.\" \n Ward had been mainly ignored by McCain, but she got national attention by saying in recent interviews that the 80-year-old senator would be unable to complete another six-year term because of his age. Ward also cast the race as a David and Goliath battle, but could not overcome his huge spending advantage and name recognition. \n \"I thought we ran an amazing race like had never been seen against an entrenched career politician,\" Ward told The Associated Press after the results were announced. \n McCain is one of two longtime politicians in their 80s who easily won primaries Tuesday in Arizona. \n Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio won the Republican primary despite a cloud of legal troubles hanging over him. He trounced his three opponents after raising $11.3 million \u2014 a staggering sum for a sheriff's race. He will face retired Phoenix police Officer Paul Penzone, the same opponent who took on Arpaio in 2012. \n Arpaio also plans to appear with Trump Wednesday, as he has throughout the billionaire businessman's campaign. \n Ryan Lukens, a deliveryman, stopped by a central Phoenix polling site after work. The Republican cast a vote against Arpaio, citing his litany of legal problems. But he said McCain continues to have his support. \n \"He has the influence that is needed to keep Arizona great,\" he said. \n All nine U.S. House seats were also on the primary ballot, though just a few are tight races. \n A heavily GOP district in the eastern Phoenix suburbs, for instance, featured a four-way race among Republicans who want to replace retiring Rep. Matt Salmon. Senate President Andy Biggs and former dot-com executive Christine Jones led the field and gave an upbeat speech to supporters, but the race remained too close to call late Tuesday. \n \"Enough of these same old career politicians in Washington,\" Jones said to cheers from the crowd as results were being tallied. \n And in a sweeping district that includes much of eastern Arizona outside the Tucson and Phoenix metro areas, Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu defeated four other Republicans vying for the chance to advance to November. He'll face the Democrat seeking Kirkpatrick's seat, Tom O'Halleran. \n Babeu was attacked by one of his opponent for the \"baggage\" he would hand to a Democratic opponent in the general election. He was forced to publicly acknowledge his homosexuality and drop a congressional bid in 2012 after a story published that featured pictures of him in his underwear that he had posted on a dating website and allegations that he threatened a former lover. \n Babeu called his victory \"historic\" and said it showed that while Republicans are often portrayed as intolerant they were willing to look past his sexual orientation. \n \"I want to be judged on my merit, on my performance and my contributions to my community and my nation,\" he said. \n And Rep. Paul Gosar won his primary in a heavily Republican district that stretches from Phoenix suburbs to the California border. \n Two Democrats battled for the right to take on first-term GOP Rep. Martha McSally in the district once held by Democratic Rep. Gabby Giffords, who was shot in the head in 2011 and resigned a year later. \n Tucson physician and former state lawmaker Matt Heinz bested former state Rep. Victoria Steele. \n The other statewide contest featured a five-way race among Republicans seeking three seats on the state's utility regulation panel, the Arizona Corporation Commission. \n Incumbents Andy Tobin, Bob Burns and retired Superior Court Judge Boyd Dunn won the Republican nominations and will face Democrats Bill Mundell and Tom Chabin in the Nov. 8 general election. Mundell and Chabin automatically advanced to the general election. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "McCain defeats Republican challengers to win Arizona primary"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "A man with a violent history is back behind bars after police said he injured two people while stealing their backpacks on a city bus Thursday. \n Andrey Lake, 38, was charged Friday with second-degree robbery. He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Wednesday. \n According to a police affidavit filed in District Court on Monday, two males were riding bus route 65 from downtown to Kaneohe when Lake told one of them that he was going to steal his backpack. \n Lake grabbed the backpack from the victim's lap and started rifling through it, the affidavit says. The victim ran to tell the driver who stopped the bus on Kamehameha Highway in Kaneohe. \n Then Lake grabbed the other male's bag and fled with both sacks on Kamehameha Highway, the affidavit says. Both victims were injured as they struggled with Lake to hold onto their belongings. \n Nearby, a police officer noticed Lake trying to flee and detained him at Kaneohe Community Park about 11:30 a.m. Thursday. \n In 2004, Lake was convicted of using a tree branch to hit a woman in the head, splitting her head open. Eight men were sentenced for their roles in the January 2002 murder of the woman, Tracey Tominaga, who was violently beaten and strangled in Makakilo over a drug robbery. \n Lake was sentenced to two five-year terms for second-degree assault and hindering prosecution. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man charged with stealing backpacks from 2 bus passengers"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korea has executed vice premier Kim Yong Jin, second from left, and banished two other top officials to rural areas for re-education, South Korean officials said Wednesday. The letters read \" North Korea has executed Kim Yong Jin.\" \n SEOUL, South Korea >> North Korea has executed a vice premier and banished two other top officials to rural areas for re-education, South Korean officials said Wednesday. \n If confirmed, they would be the latest in a series of killings, purges and dismissals carried out since North Korean leader Kim Jong Un took power in late 2011. \n North Korea is a closed, authoritarian country with a state-controlled press that often makes it difficult for outsiders, and even North Korean citizens, to know what's happening in the government. \n Rival South Korea, which runs several intelligence organizations mainly tasked with spying on North Korea, has a mixed record on reporting developments across the border. In May, a former North Korean military chief, who Seoul said had been executed, was found to be alive and holding several new senior-level posts. \n Jeong Joon Hee, a spokesman for Seoul's Unification Ministry, told reporters Wednesday that Kim Yong Jin, a vice premier on education affairs in North Korea's cabinet, had been executed. Jeong gave no further details, including why and when his ministry believes he was executed and how it obtained the information. \n But a South Korean official, speaking on condition of anonymity citing office rules, said Kim was executed by firing squad in July for unspecified anti-revolutionary and factional acts. The official said Kim first faced an investigation because of the way he was seated during a June meeting attended by Kim Jong Un. \n Little is known about Kim Yong Jin, who was last mentioned by North Korea's state news agency on June 15, when it reported he attended an event celebrating the 50th anniversary of the founding of North Korea's taekwondo federation. \n Kim Jong Un, believed to be his early 30s, is revered at the center of an intense cult of personality, with state TV occasionally showing aging senior officials kowtowing and kneeling down before him. Last year, South Korea's spy agency said Kim had his defense chief executed with an anti-aircraft gun for complaining about him and sleeping during a meeting he had presided over. \n Jeong said Kim Yong Chol, a top ruling Workers' Party official in charge of anti-Seoul spy operations, had also been ordered to undertake \"revolutionary re-education,\" in a reference to the banishment at a rural collective farm or a coal mine. Jeong said another senior party official dealing with propaganda affairs, Choe Hwi, was still on a similar \"revolutionary re-education\" program. \n Seoul officials believe Kim Yong Chol, director of the party's United Front Department, orchestrated two attacks that killed 50 South Koreans in 2010, when he headed the North Korean army's intelligence agency. Kim disappeared from the public eye for about 50 days before the North's state media on Sunday mentioned his name in a list of officials who attended ceremonies marking the Youth Day. \n Kim Yong Chol was banished at a rural farm for about one month between mid-July and mid-August because of alleged high-handed attitudes and attempts to expand his United Front Department's authority too much, according to the South Korean official who spoke about Kim Yong Jin's execution. The official said Kim Yong Chol was recently reinstated. \n The rival Koreas have shared the world's most heavily fortified border since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, and they bar ordinary citizens from exchanging phone calls, letters and emails without special permission. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea says top North Korean official executed"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama greets people in the audience after speaking to the 2016 Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders at the East West Center today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama speaks to the 2016 Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders at the East West Center today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama waves as he arrives at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam today. \n DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Barack Obama arrived aboard Air Force One at Hickam Air Force Base at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam tonight. Before he gets into his car, he walks over to shake hands with 1st Lt. Kaitlin Dadddona, left, 2nd Lt. Liz Andreas Feeney and Technical Sgt. Terri Paden. \n President Barack Obama returned home to Hawaii this evening for a short trip to stress the importance of addressing the dangers of a rapidly changing climate. \n Obama arrived at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam aboard Air Force One before 6 p.m. and was greeted by U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, Mayor Kirk Caldwell, and Gen. Terrence J. O'Shaughnessy, commander of Pacific Air Forces. After greeting some members of the military on the tarmac, Obama then took the short motorcade trip to the East-West Center at University of Hawaii at Manoa, where crowds lined the street. \n A group of protesters chanted that the military needed to leave Hawaii: \"People of the world, scream and shout. U.S. military get the hell out.\" \n At the center, the president spoke for about 12 minutes during a combined reception for the Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders and the East-West Center Sustainability Summit. There were about 200 invited guests in attendance. \n \"Welcome to Hawaii. Aloha,\" he said. \"It's not often that I get to welcome folks to my home state.\" \n Before delivering his prepared remarks, the president noted that Hawaii was facing the threat of two hurricanes and urged the public to be prepared and to listen to the instructions of local and state leaders. \n He then turned to the theme of his two-day visit, fighting climate change. \n \"No nation, not even one as powerful as the U.S. is immune from a changing climate,\" he said. \n He referenced conditions in Alaska where the \"sea is already swallowing villages\" and glaciers are melting at an unprecedented pace in modern times, as a \"preview of our future.\" \n He also highlighted his administration's strides in encouraging the adoption of more clean energy, which has become economically competitive with dirty energy sources. \"So there is no conflict between a healthy economy and a healthy planet,\" he said. \n He spoke about his latest environmental accomplishment: quadrupling the size of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument to cheers from the audience. \n \"Thanks to the hard work of many people in this room, including Sen. Schatz, I created the world's largest marine preserve,\" he said. \n Obama closed by saying how his visit at UH Manoa's East-West Center was \"especially meaningful,\" noting that \"a lot of my life started within a mile radius of here.\" \n He said his mother and father met \"probably a couple hundred yards\" from the East-West Center. He went to school about a mile from UH's campus (at Punahou School), and he was born about a mile away (at Kapiolani Hospital). \n He also noted that he brought his children to Hawaii for Christmas vacation every year. \"I want to make sure that when they are bringing their children here or grandchildren that they are able to appreciate the wonders of this island,\" he said in closing. \n The president departed the UH-Manoa campus in his motorcade at about 7 p.m. to dine at Morimoto Waikiki. \n On Thursday, the president is scheduled to take a trip to Midway Atoll in Papahanaumokuakea. Air Force One will depart in the morning, so motorists can expect more traffic delays and rode closures as his motorcade travels from his rental home in Kailua to Hickam. \n On Friday, Obama leaves Hawaii for China where he will attend the Group of 20 major economies summit and meet with China's president. Before returning to Washington, Obama will also visit Laos. \n Previous coverage \n Update 7:10 p.m. \n After speaking at the East-West Center, President Obama's motorcade departed from the UH-Manoa campus and headed toward Waikiki. \n Update 7 p.m. \n President Obama's speech lasted less than 15 minutes. \"No nation \u2026 is immune to a changing climate,\" he said. The president spoke of the expansion of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, the importance of addressing climate change, and his administration's accomplishments on environmental issues. He also noted his close family ties to Hawaii and even the area where he was speaking. He said his parents met nearby while at UH-Manoa, he went to school nearby (at Punahou), and his grandparents lived a few blocks away. \n Update 6:45 p.m. \n President Obama began his speech at the East-West Center by welcoming the attendees to Hawaii followed by an enthusiastic \"Aloha!\" Before giving his prepared remarks, he noted that Hawaii was in the path of two hurricanes and he urged the public to listen to state and local officials and prepare for the storms. He also said the local government officials were working with FEMA to respond to the storms. \n Update 6:30 p.m. \n President Obama arrived at the East-West Center in Manoa where he will give a speech to attendees of the Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders and of the International Union for Conservation of Nature's World Conservation Congress, which kicks off tomorrow. Obama is expected to talk about his decision last week to expand the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument. \n After his arrival, Honolulu police reopened H-1 eastbound and overpasses. \n Update 6:10 p.m. \n U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, Mayor Kirk Caldwell, and Gen. Terrence J. O'Shaughnessy, commander of Pacific Air Forces, greeted the president after he exited Air Force One shortly after landing. The president briefly shook hands with members of the military gathered to witness his arrival, and took a photo with Caldwell at the mayor's urging. Obama then departed in a black SUV as his motorcade headed to the East-West Center on the campus of the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The ride promises to be quick with the eastbound H-1 and other roads on the way to Manoa closed to all traffic. \n Update 6 p.m. \n President Barack Obama arrived at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam aboard Air Force One just before 6 p.m. and Honolulu police were shutting down H-1 eastbound and overpasses. The president will be traveling by motorcade to the East-West Center in Manoa where he will give a speech at 6:30 p.m. \n Previous coverage \n President Barack Obama left Lake Tahoe, Nev., for Honolulu this afternoon for a quick visit that will include an East-West Center speech on protecting the environment, a day trip to Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, and traffic \u2026 lots of traffic. \n Rush hour came early as commuters left work early ahead of the president's motorcade. From about 3 p.m. until after 5 p.m., traffic backed up on the freeway and surface streets in town as commuters tried to get to where they were going before the chance of a freeway shutdown starting as early as 4 p.m. \n Instead, they got caught in a massive traffic jam that cleared before the president's plane arrived. \n City officials at 4:30 p.m. said surface street traffic was heavy, and mauka-bound traffic was \"very heavy\" on Ward Avenue from Kapiolani Boulevard to Prospect Street. Officials said they are adjusting traffic light timing and warned motorists to avoid blocking intersections. \n Earlier Tuesday, city officials had warned the public to avoid traveling between Aiea and Manoa today from 4 p.m. into the evening, or risk the possibility of spending hours stuck in traffic. \n Motorists responded by hitting the roads early, with jammed roads and gridlock reported after 3 p.m. from Pearl City to Kahala. A tweet from the state Department of Transportation reminded commuters to use the bathroom before hitting the road. \n Air Force One was expected to land at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam just before 6 p.m. \n City officials had said eastbound lanes along the president's motorcade's route from the airport to Manoa could be closed from about 4 p.m. until Obama arrives at the East-West Center, where he is scheduled to speak at about 6:30 p.m. \n Obama plans to formally announce the historic expansion of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument at his speech to attendees of the Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders and of the International Union for Conservation of Nature's World Conservation Congress, which kicks off tomorrow. \n When Obama departs UH-Manoa, westbound lanes along the route that the president takes to his rented home in Kailua will also be closed, Assistant Honolulu Police Chief Clayton Kau said at a news conference Tuesday. \"Probably until 7, or 7:30, just to be sure,\" he said, reiterating that all times are dependent on the president's schedule. \n \"Drivers are advised to expect significant delays,\" Kau said. \n City acting Transportation Services Director Mark Garrity said the Department of Transportation will be monitoring traffic cameras and make adjustments to signal-timing where needed. \"But we do anticipate major impacts to traffic so we want to apologize in advance and we appreciate people's patience,\" he said. \n On Thursday, Obama plans a day trip to Midway Atoll in the national monument where he will take a tour and receive a briefing on the monument from U.S. Fish & Wildlife officials. \n The president flies out of Marine Base Hawaii in Kaneohe in the morning, so there shouldn't be an impact on the morning commute. \n He returns from Midway to Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam Thursday night at around 9:15 p.m. and will spend the night again in Kailua. \n Obama is slated to leave Honolulu for China on Friday, but is expected to leave during non-rush hour times, Kau said. In China, Obama will attend the Group of 20 major economies summit and meet with China's president. Before returning to Washington, Obama also was to become the first sitting president to visit Laos. \n Earlier today, Obama gave a speech on conservation and climate change at the 20th Annual Lake Tahoe Summit in Stateline, Nev. \n \"From here, I'm going to travel to my original home state of Hawaii, where the United States is proud to host the World Conservation Congress for the first time,\" Obama told the summit. \"Tomorrow, I'm going to go to Midway to visit the vast marine area that we just created and to honor those who sacrificed their lives to protect our freedom. Then I head to China, with whom we've partnered \u2014 as the world's two largest economies and two largest carbon emitters \u2014to set historic climate targets that are going to lead the rest of the world to a cleaner, more secure future.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press contributed to this story. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Remarks by President Obama to leaders from the Pacific Island Conference of Leaders and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature \n Aloha! You know, it's not often I get to welcome folks to my home state. But it's always wonderful to be here, even if it's only for a day. It's even rarer that not one but two hurricanes are set to pass through the islands over the next few days. So we've been working with the Governor and FEMA to make sure Hawaii's got everything it needs to keep our folks safe. And, in the meantime, I'd just ask the people of Hawaii to listen to your state and local officials, and make sure you and your families are prepared for the storms. But the Governor says he's got it all taken care of. He's pushing them all south. \n I want to thank East-West Center President, Charles Morrison, for hosting all of us this evening. I want to recognize, in addition to the Governor, we also have Senator Brian Schultz \u2014 Schatz here. Where is Brian? There he is. I want to thank the 8,000 delegates from more than 180 countries who will share their expertise here at the IUCN World Conservation Congress, including President Zhang Xinsheng and Director General Andersen. To the world leaders and ministers who are here from the Pacific Island Conference of Leaders, thank you for joining us tonight. And I know many of you will be in Washington next month when Secretary Kerry hosts our 2016 Our Oceans Conference. \n But today, the United States is proud to host the IUCN Congress for the first time. I just came here from another beautiful place \u2014 Lake Tahoe, Nevada. And in my address there I talked about climate change and conservation, and how those two things are inextricably linked. Few people understand, I think, the stakes better than our Pacific Island leaders, because they're seeing already the impact. Rising temperatures and sea levels pose an existential threat to your countries. And while some members of the U.S. Congress still seem to be debating whether climate change is real or not, many of you are already planning for new places for your people to live. Crops are withering in the Marshall Islands. Kiribati bought land in another country because theirs may someday be submerged. High seas forced villagers from their homes in Fiji. \n And no nation, not even one as powerful as the United States, is immune from a changing climate. I saw it myself last year in our northernmost state of Alaska, where the sea is already swallowing villages and eating away at shorelines; where the permafrost thaws and the tundra is burning; where glaciers are melting at a pace unprecedented in modern times. And it was a preview of our future if the climate keeps changing faster than our efforts to address it. \n And that's why I've devoted so much of my time and my energy to making sure that we get this right while we still have time. I spoke about this at length in a speech earlier today, but over the past seven and a half years, America has worked to generate more clean energy, use less dirty energy, and waste less energy overall. And it's made a difference. Our investments have tripled wind power, multiplied solar power thirtyfold, and, in many places, helped clean energy become cheaper than dirty energy. And we did all of this while fueling the longest uninterrupted streak of job growth on record. \n So there's no conflict between a healthy economy and a healthy planet. And that's why I've committed, along with Canada and Mexico, to get 50 percent of U.S. electricity from clean sources by 2025. And with many of our biggest businesses switching to clean energy, I'm absolutely confident that we can meet that goal. \n But that's not all. I've also made sure we're better prepared for the impacts of climate change, because even as we need to hit the brakes so that we don't go over the cliff, we're not going to come to an immediate stop. We know that there is still going to be an inevitable impact as a consequence of rising temperatures. And that means conservation has been a cornerstone of my presidency. \n Since taking office, I've protected more than 548 million acres of our lands and waters for our children and our grandchildren. I have to say that Teddy Roosevelt gets the credit for starting the National Parks system, but when you include a big chunk of the Pacific Ocean, we now have actually done more acreage than any other President. We've designated national monuments from Maine to Ohio to California. And just last week, thanks to the hard work of many people in this room, including Senator Schatz, I created the world's largest marine preserve \u2014 (applause) \u2014 quadrupling the size of our monument at Papahanaumokuakea. This is an area twice the size of Texas that's going to be protected, and it allows us to save and study the fragile ecosystem threatened by climate change. \n Tomorrow, I'm going to travel to the Midway Atoll to see it for myself. Seven thousand species live in its waters, a quarter of which are not found anywhere else in the world. Ancient islanders believed it contained the boundary between this life and the next. Hundreds of brave Americans gave their lives there in defense of the world's freedom. So this is a hallowed site, and it deserves to be treated that way. And from now on, it will be preserved for future generations. \n So I'm very proud of these achievements, but we always have to remind ourselves no nation can do this alone. We're going to have to tackle climate change together. Nations like many of yours obviously feel a special urgency about this. The biggest emitters, like my country and China, have a special responsibility to act to make sure that countries willing to do their part move past the dirty phase of development to move into a clean energy strategy. That was a key principle in the Paris agreement. And I was mentioning to the leaders here, we could not have gotten a Paris agreement without the incredible efforts and hard work of the Island nations. They made an enormous difference, and we're very proud of the work that they did. \n And this is why we've been working to accelerate public, private clean energy innovation, making sure that resources will be there for countries that need help preparing for the impacts of climate change that we can no longer avoid. It's also why, tonight, I can announce more than $30 million in new commitments for our friends in the Pacific \u2014 funding for investments like stronger infrastructure, more sustainable development, and safer drinking water. \n From here I'm going to be traveling to China, where we'll be meeting for the G20 Summit, and climate will be a centerpiece of our agenda. Joint U.S.-Chinese leadership on climate was part of the reason that we were able to get Paris done, and I'm going to push to build on that record as long as I occupy this office and probably even after I leave it. \n There's an old Hawaiian proverb that loosely translates to: \"Unite to move forward.\" It seems simple enough, but the natives used it as a reminder that if you want to row a canoe, every oar has to be moving in unison, otherwise, I don't know, you go in circles. You just go around and around. Your pace slows, you drift. You get caught up in the currents, and you get off course. \n Well, when it comes to climate change, there is a dire possibility of us getting off course, and we can't allow that to happen. That's why our united efforts are so important. Government has a role to play, but so do scientists and inventors and investors, all working to revolutionize clean energy production. Entrepreneurs and academics and leaders in this room are collaborating across continents. And everyday citizens of the world are going to have to push their own communities to adopt smarter practices, and to push those of us in positions of power to be less concerned with special interests and more concerned about the judgment of future generations. \n And that's why we're all here. That's what this is all about. And for me, this is especially meaningful. I was telling my staff, a lot of my life started about a mile radius around here. My mother and father met probably a couple hundred yards from here. It's true. I went to school about a mile from here. I was actually born about a mile from here. My grandmother and my grandparents lived most of their lives a short way away from here. \n And so since Malia was born, since my oldest child was born, I've brought them here every Christmas for the last 18 years now. And I want to make sure that when they're bringing their children here, or their grandchildren here, that they are able to appreciate the wonders and the beauty of this island and of the Pacific, and every island. \n So I know you have the same feeling, and that's why we've got to \"unite to move forward.\" We have to row as one. If we do, we might just save the one planet that we've got. \n Thank you very much, everybody. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke", "title": "Obama talks of his Hawaii ties, climate change at East-West Center speech"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "EVERETT, Wash. >> Donald Trump told thousands of supporters in Everett Tuesday evening that he would win in Washington in November, which hasn't voted for a Republican presidential candidate since Ronald Reagan in 1984. \n \"You know a Republican would never come to the state of Washington,\" said Trump, who arrived for a rally and a fundraiser. \"We're gonna win it, that's why I'm here.\" \n The New York businessman's speech to cheering backers at Xfinity Arena was interrupted several times by protesters who were escorted out of the facility. \n People started gathering outside the arena hours before the doors opened, with thousands gathering and the line stretching for blocks. There was a large police presence in the area. Protesters gathered near the facility but were outnumbered by Trump supporters. \n An organized protest rally began Tuesday afternoon at Clark Park. Everett Mayor Ray Stephanson and other officials planned to attend before marching to the nearby arena. \n Brandon Knox, 18, of Auburn, arrived early in the morning to line up to see the candidate. \n \"I like Trump because he's pro-gun and he wants to enforce immigration,\" he told The Daily Herald. \n Several prominent Washington state Republicans were staying away from the Trump event, having previously said they wouldn't support their party's nominee. GOP Senate candidate Chris Vance, gubernatorial candidate Bill Bryant and Rep. Dave Reichert, who represents the state's 8th Congressional District, have all said they won't vote for Trump because of his controversial statements. \n Trump last visited the state in May, when he held rallies in Spokane and Lynden. \n A recent Elway Poll showed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton with a double-digit lead over Trump in Washington \u2014 43 percent to 24 percent. The state hasn't voted for a Republican candidate for president since 1984. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thousands line up to see Donald Trump in Everett"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Passengers of JetBlue flight 387 arrived at the airport in Santa Clara, Cuba today. JetBlue 387, the first commercial flight between the U.S. and Cuba in more than a half century, landed in the central city of Santa Clara this morning, re-establishing regular air service severed at the height of the Cold War. \n SANTA CLARA, Cuba \u00bb The first commercial flight between the United States and Cuba in more than a half century landed in the central city of Santa Clara on this morning, re-establishing regular air service severed at the height of the Cold War. \n Cheers broke out in the cabin of JetBlue flight 387 as the plane touched down. Passengers \u2014 mostly airline executives, U.S. government officials and journalists, with a sprinkling of Cuban-American families and U.S. travelers \u2014 were given gift bags with Cuban cookbooks, commemorative luggage tags and Cuban flags, which they were encouraged to wave. \n The arrival opens a new era of U.S.-Cuba travel with about 300 flights a week connecting the U.S. with an island cut off from most Americans by the 55-year-old trade embargo on Cuba and formal ban on U.S. citizens engaging in tourism on the island. \n \"Seeing the American airlines landing routinely around the island will drive a sense of openness, integration and normality. That has a huge psychological impact,\" said Richard Feinberg, author of the new book \"Open for Business: Building the New Cuban Economy.\" \n The restart of commercial travel between the two countries is one of the most important steps in President Barack Obama's two-year-old policy of normalizing relations with the island. Historians disagree on the exact date of the last commercial flight but it appears to have been after Cuba banned incoming flights during the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. \n Secretary of State John Kerry said on Twitter that the last commercial flight was in 1961. \n U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and JetBlue CEO Robin Hayes both addressed passengers on board the 150-seat Airbus A320, which was staffed by a specially selected five-member crew of Cuban-Americans. Airline executives changed from American business attire into loose-fitting Cuban-style guayabera shirts before landing. \n \"This is one of the most visible examples of the president's activities to restore diplomatic relations with Cuba,\" Foxx said. \n \"It's a positive step and a concrete contribution to the process of improving relations between the two countries,\" Cuba's vice minister of transportation Eduardo Rodriguez told journalists Monday. \n Neta Rodriguez, a 62-year-old Havana-born South Florida homemaker, checked in this morning with her daughter, son-in-law and three grandsons for a visit to family in Santa Clara and Havana. \n More than the historic nature of the flight, she said she appreciated the $200 price and the ability to book online instead of visiting a charter office \n U.S. travel to Cuba is on track to triple this year to more than 300,000 visitors in the wake of the 2014 declaration of detente. Cuba's cash-starved centrally planned economy has been bolstered by the boom in U.S. visitors, along with hundreds of thousands of travelers from other nations hoping to see Cuba before more Americans arrive. \n Today's first commercial flight \"will be a positive step and a concrete contribution to the process of improving \n Commercial flights are expected to significantly increase the number of American visitors, although it's not clear by how much. Many of the air routes are currently used by expensive charter flights that are largely expected to go out of business with the advent of regularly scheduled service from the U.S. \n Hundreds of thousands of Cuban-born Americans fly to the island each year with the chaotic, understaffed charter companies, which require four-hour check-in waits and charge high rates for any luggage in excess of restrictive baggage allowances. Americans without ties to Cuba have found it hard to negotiate the charters, most of which don't accept online bookings or help travelers navigate the federal affidavit still required for U.S. travelers to Cuba. \n Cuban officials insist the continuing U.S. ban on tourism will limit the impact of commercial flights to Cuba, but some experts believe the drastic reduction in the difficulty of flying to Cuba could turn the surge in U.S. visitors into a tidal wave. Americans are allowed to visit the island on \"people-to-people\" cultural and educational visits, among other reasons. \n Americans who fit one of 12 categories will now be able to fill out a federal affidavit by clicking a box on an online form and, in many cases, buy their Cuban tourist visa near the check-in counters of U.S. airports. Within weeks, Americans will be able to fly direct from cities including Chicago, Philadelphia and Minneapolis, Miami and Fort Lauderdale to eight Cuban cities and two beach resorts. \n The final announcement of routes to Havana, which could be announced today and start before December, is slated to include flights from Atlanta, New York, Los Angeles and Houston, among others. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Historic commercial flight from U.S. lands in Cuba"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified today a 24-year-old Kaneohe man who died after being pulled from the water in Waikiki last week as Gary Thomas. \n The cause of his death was deferred pending an investigation, the examiner's office said. \n Police said Thomas collapsed in the water near the shoreline just before 6 p.m. Aug. 25. People in the area pulled him out of the water unresponsive and performed CPR. He was taken to a hospital where he died. \n Police do not suspect foul play. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Medical Examiner IDs Kaneohe man who died after collasping in Wakiki waters"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The number of students enrolled at the state's 256 department schools decreased by 719 students from last school year to 169,268 students. \n Enrollment at Hawaii public schools dipped slightly this school year to 179,902 students, the Department of Education said today. \n The number of students enrolled at the state's 256 department schools decreased by 719 students from last school year to 169,268 students. Hawaii's 34 charter schools, meanwhile, enrolled 10,634 students, up by 212 students. \n The overall drop-off from last school year is less than one-half percent. \n The DOE said the largest fluctuations were seen in first and second grade classes due to lingering effects from a later entry age for kindergarten that took effect in 2014. \n The largest DOE public schools by grade level include: \n >> High schools: Campbell (3,125 students); Mililani (2,556); Waipahu (2,463); Farrington (2,370); and Kapolei (2,020). \n >> Intermediate/middle schools: Mililani Middle (1,837); Kapolei Middle (1,402); Waipahu Intermediate (1,314); Maui Waena (1,183); and Kalakaua Middle (1,017). \n >> Elementary schools: August Ahrens (1,262); Holomua (1,184); Ewa (1,100); Waipahu (1,015); and Keoneula (972). \n Among the state's charter schools, the largest campuses are: Hawaii Technology Academy (1,062), Kamaile Academy (887), Myron Thompson Academy (685), Ka Waihonua o ka Naauao (650) and Hawaii Academy of Arts & Sciences (637). \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii public schools enrollment dips"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n City transit officials announced in the spring that it now likely will cost an estimated $8 billion to build the line the 20 miles from East Kapolei to Ala Moana with 21 rail stations, about $2 billion more than what was being estimated two years ago. \n Federal transit officials told a Honolulu delegation in San Francisco today not to expect additional federal dollars to pay for a $2 billion shortfall in the city's rail project budget. \n At the same time, the Federal Transit Administration made it clear that stopping at Middle Street \u2014 rather than to Ala Moana as the city original promised \u2014 is not acceptable and warned that stopping the line short could put Honolulu on the hook for a $1.55 billion federal grant, the city said in a news release. \n City transit officials announced in the spring that building rail now likely will cost an estimated $8 billion for the full 20 miles from East Kapolei to Ala Moana with 21 rail stations, about $2 billion more than what was estimated two years ago. \n The FTA said today basically reiterated that its grant was contingent on building all 20 miles and 21 stations, city officials said. \n The Honolulu delegation traveled to the FTA's western regional office for two days of meetings and included Mayor Kirk Caldwell, Council Chairman Ernie Martin, Council Transportation Chairman Joey Manahan, Honolulu Authority for Rail Transportation Chairwoman Colleen Hanabusa and HART acting Executive Director Michael Formby. \n Leading discussions on the FTA side was Acting Administrator Carolyn Flowers. \n \"Both Mayor Caldwell and Council Chair Martin asked the FTA for a commitment for additional funds,\" the release said \"The FTA's response was 'no.'\" \n The release quoted Manahan as saying: \"We need the Legislature's support to invest in a better future with us and to recognize the role rail will play in improving the quality of life for the people of Hawaii.\" \n Key state lawmakers told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser this afternoon, however, that extending the 0.5 percent Oahu-only surcharge on the general excise tax would be a hard sell. \n City officials said they are optimistic that the FTA will consider their request to extend the deadline for coming up with a recovery plan for the project funding beyond the current Dec. 31 timeline. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Feds to city: No more money for rail, no stopping at Middle Street"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "U.S. NAVY \n The Littoral combat ship USS Coronado (LCS 4) arrives at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam during Rim of the Pacific 2016 on July 31. \n The U.S. Navy experienced another setback for its controversial Littoral Combat Ship program with the futuristic-looking USS Coronado experiencing an \"engineering casualty\" today en route to the Western Pacific after participating in Rim of the Pacific war games in Hawaii. \n \"The crew took precautionary measures, and the ship is currently returning to Pearl Harbor to determine the extent of the problem and conduct repairs,\" the Navy said in a release. \n The 421-foot all-aluminum trimaran, which left Pearl Harbor on Friday, is operating under its own power and and is being escorted back by the replenishment oiler USNS Henry J. Kaiser. \n The extent of repairs and any operational impact \"is unknown at this time,\" the Navy said. \n The Navy is building two Littoral Combat Ship variants, and the Coronado's deployment represents the first of its type to the Western Pacific and Singapore. \n \"Last night's problem is the fourth issue in the last year\" involving Littoral Combat Ships, Chief of Naval Operations Adm. John Richardson said in a release. \"Some of these were caused by personnel, and some were due to design and engineering. These issues are all receiving our full and immediate attention, both individually and in the aggregate.\" \n During RIMPAC, the San Diego-based Coronado fired the first Harpoon missile from a Littoral Combat Ship in a \"sink exercise\" involving the retired frigate USS Thach. \n The Navy originally wanted 52 of the warships, which were touted for their speed and shallow draft for operations in near-shore environments against pirates, mines and diesel submarines. With the rise of China, however, concerns were raised about the ships' armor and lethality, and the Pentagon reduced the total to 40, which includes current Littoral Combat Ships and an upgraded version being referred to as a \"frigate.\" \n The Coronado was fitted for the deployment beyond Hawaii with additional Harpoons, which have the capability of destroying enemy ships 100 miles away, the Navy said. \n The Navy is seeking to arm all of its Littoral Combat Ships with over-the-horizon missiles to increase the ship's ability to fight at greater distances as nations such as China and Russia continue to refine their own long-range anti-ship missiles. \n Two shipyards are building an equal number of two different versions of the Littoral Combat Ship. Lockheed Martin is constructing the Freedom variant with a steel monohull and aluminum superstructure, while Austal USA is building the all-aluminum trimaran Independence version. \n Breakdowns in the past 12 months have included: \n >> The Navy's first Littoral Combat Ship, USS Freedom, experienced a July 11 casualty to one of the ship's main propulsion diesel engines caused by a leak from an attached seawater pump mechanical seal. \n >> The USS Fort Worth experienced damage to the ship's combining gears on Jan. 12 while in Singapore. The ship's commander, Cmdr. Michael Atwell, was relieved of command, the Navy said. The ship, which had been in the Western Pacific since November of 2014, departed Changi Naval Base in Singapore on Aug. 22 headed home to San Diego. \n >> The USS Milwaukee was about 40 nautical miles off the coast of Norfolk, Va., in December when it experienced a loss of propulsion. Metallic particles were discovered in the port combining gear filter system. \n \"Given the engineering casualties on USS Freedom and USS Fort Worth, I believe improvements in engineering oversight and training are necessary,\" Vice Adm. Tom Rowden, commander of Naval Surface Forces, said in a release this week. \n Singapore's Ministry of Defense said the first Littoral Combat Ship deployed to the country in late 2013, with the possibility of up to four of the U.S. ships to be rotationally deployed to the region in the future. \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Engineering snag sends Navy's futuristic-looking ship back to Pearl Harbor"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / AUG. 7, 2014 \n Hilo High School was used as a storm shelter when Tropical Storm Iselle hit Hawaii island on Aug. 7, 2014. \n All public schools and University of Hawaii campuses on Hawaii island will shut down Wednesday ahead of stormy conditions from Hurricane Madeline. \n \"Closures are being made in anticipation of severe weather,\" the Department of Education said in a news release this afternoon. \"All other schools in other counties will remain open until further notice.\" \n The public schools will also be closed on Thursday. \n All inter-scholastic athletic events and student activities on the Big Island also are being canceled tomorrow and Thursday. \n The DOE said that while many public school campuses serve as emergency shelters, county civil defense agencies determine which schools are activated shelters. \n Hawaii County has designated the following schools as activated shelters starting today at 5 p.m.: \n University of Hawaii campuses on the Big Island \u2014 UH Hilo, Hawaii Community College, HCC-Palamanui, 'Imiloa Astronomy Center, North Hawaii Education and Research Center, Hale Pohaku \u2013 Onizuka Cener for International Astronomy and food and lodging facilities, UH Manoa College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources facilities on Hawaii island and all UH Manoa Institute for Astronomy facilities on Hawaii island are closed Wednesday, the university said. \n The state Public Charter School Commission said at least seven charter schools on the Big Island will shut down their campuses tomorrow. \n Connections Public Charter School in Hilo; Hawaii Academy of Arts & Science in Pahoa; Kanu o ka Aina New Century Public Charter School in Kamuela; Kua o ka La New Century Public Charter School in Pahoa; Ka \u02bbUmeke Ka\u02bbeo in Hilo; Ka'u Learning Academy in Naalehu; and West Hawaii Explorations Academy in Kailua-Kona will be closed tomorow. \n Officials said Connections and Kanu o ka 'Aina will also be closed Thursday, while Kua o ka La will remain closed through Friday. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "All Big Island public schools, UH campuses closing"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "A 76-year-old California woman apparently drowned in a resort swimming pool Monday in South Kohala. \n Hawaii island police identified the woman today as Brenda Chodroff of Lafayette, Calif. An autopsy has been ordered. \n Police said officers responded at about 3:40 p.m. to a report of an unresponsive woman in a pool at a resort on Mauna Kea Beach Drive. \n Resort staff were already performing CPR by the time police and firefighters arrived, police said. Firefighters took over, but could not revive Chodroff. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "California woman apparently drowns in South Kohala resort pool"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Authorities said officers responded to singer Chris Brown's Los Angeles home early Tuesday after a woman called police seeking assistance. \n LOS ANGELES >> Police arrested singer Chris Brown on Tuesday on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon after a woman called hours earlier from outside his Los Angeles home and said she needed help. \n The arrest followed an hours-long standoff and lengthy search of Brown's home after police produced a search warrant. \n Baylee Curran told the Los Angeles Times that Brown had pointed a gun at her face in his home early Tuesday. She said Brown and another man at his home became angry with her when she admired the man's diamond necklace. \n Curran said she and her friend ran outside as one of Brown's associates gave chase and hid under a neighbor's SUV. \n She hasn't responded to requests for comment from The Associated Press. \n Earlier, Brown sent messages via social media proclaiming his innocence and rebuffing reports that he had barricaded himself in his home. \n \"I don't care. Y'all gonna stop playing with me like I'm the villain out here, like I'm going crazy,\" he said in one Instagram video Tuesday, waving a cigarette and looking at the camera. \"When you get the warrant or whatever you need to do, you're going to walk right up in here and you're going to see nothing. You idiots.\" \n Officers first responded to his hilltop estate around 3 a.m. Tuesday after a woman called for help from outside the residence. Police Lt. Chris Ramirez did not identify the woman or elaborate on the assistance she needed. He did not know if she was injured. \n Brown's attorney, Mark Geragos, arrived at the house shortly before police served the search warrant. Geragos has not responded to AP's request for comment. \n Brown has been in repeated legal trouble since his felony conviction in the 2009 assault of his then-girlfriend, Rihanna. \n After several missteps, Brown completed his probation in that case last year. \n In 2013, Brown struck a man outside a Washington, D.C., hotel and was charged with misdemeanor assault. The singer was ordered into rehab but was dismissed from the facility for violating its rules. \n He spent 2\u00bd months in custody, with U.S. marshals shuttling him between Los Angeles and the nation's capital for court hearings. \n In another incident while in treatment, Brown was accused of throwing a brick at his mother's car following a counseling session. It came after Brown had completed court-ordered anger management classes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chris Brown arrested on suspicion of assault with deadly weapon"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Libyan man investigated the inside of the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, after a deadly attack two days earlier, on Sept. 13, 2012. The State Department says about 30 emails that may be related to the 2012 attack on U.S. compounds in Benghazi, Libya, are among the thousands of Hillary Clinton emails recovered during the FBI's recently closed investigation into her use of a private server. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke in Reno, Nev. on Aug. 25. The State Department says about 30 emails that may be related to the 2012 attack on U.S. compounds in Benghazi, Libya, are among the thousands of Hillary Clinton emails recovered during the FBI's recently closed investigation into her use of a private server. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The State Department says about 30 emails that may be related to the 2012 attack on U.S. compounds in Benghazi, Libya, are among the thousands of Hillary Clinton emails recovered during the FBI's recently closed investigation into her use of a private server. \n Government lawyers told U.S. District Court Judge Amit P. Mehta today that an undetermined number of the emails among the 30 were not included in the 55,000 pages previously provided by Clinton. The State Department's lawyer said it would need until the end of September to review the emails and redact potentially classified information before they are released. \n Mehta questioned why it would take so long to release so few documents, and urged that the process be sped up. He ordered the department to report to him in a week with more details about why the review process would take a full month. \n The hearing was held in one of several lawsuits filed by the conservative legal group Judicial Watch, which has sued over access to government records involving the Democratic presidential nominee. The State Department has said the FBI provided it with about 14,900 emails purported not to have been among those previously released. \n Clinton previously had said she withheld and deleted only personal emails not related to her duties as secretary of state. With the November election little more than two months away, Republicans are pressing for the release of as many documents related to Clinton as possible. \n In a separate development today, Judicial Watch submitted 25 questions to Clinton about her 2009 decision to rely on a private server in the basement of her New York home rather than a government email account. \n Clinton was ordered earlier this month by U.S. District Court Judge Emmet G. Sullivan to answer the group's questions under oath. The judge's order was only a partial victory for the group, which had sought to depose Clinton in person. \n It was not immediately clear from the wording of Sullivan's order whether Clinton must answer the questions before or after the November election. Judicial Watch contends the deadline is Sept. 29. \n Clinton lawyer David Kendall did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment about the timing of his client's planned response. A woman who answered the phone at Sullivan's chambers said he was unavailable to provide clarification. \n A law enforcement official also told The Associated Press today that the FBI is expected to release documents soon related to its investigation, which focused on whether Clinton and her aides mishandled government secrets. \n The official, who wasn't authorized to discuss the matter by name and spoke on condition of anonymity, said documents in the case would be made public as the FBI responds to Freedom of Information Act requests. It wasn't immediately clear when the documents would be released or exactly what they would include. \n Though he described Clinton's actions as \"extremely careless,\" FBI Director James Comey said his agents found no evidence that anyone intended to break the law and said \"no reasonable prosecutor\" would have brought a criminal case. \n The FBI this month provided Congress portions of its file from the agency's yearlong investigation. \n The FBI interviewed Clinton for several hours at FBI headquarters in Washington just days before announcing its decision to close the investigation. The Justice Department accepted the FBI's recommendation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI recovers Clinton emails involving Benghazi attack"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally at Xfinity Arena. \n EVERETT, Wash. \u00bb\u00a0In a surprise move, Donald Trump will travel to Mexico on Wednesday to meet with President Enrique Pena Nieto, just hours before the Republican delivers a highly anticipated speech on immigration. \n Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday night to say he looks \"very much forward\" to meeting with the Mexican leader. Pena Nieto's office confirmed the meeting with its own tweet, saying the two men would meet privately. \n The unexpected trip comes as Trump seeks to clarify his stand on illegal immigration, a contentious issue that has been a centerpiece of his Republican presidential campaign. Trump has long called for deporting people currently living in the U.S. illegally and building a wall along the country's border with Mexico. \n But in meetings recently with Hispanic supporters, Trump has suggested he could be open to changing the hardline approach he outlined during the GOP primaries. After one such roundtable this month, his new campaign manager said Trump's stance on deportations was \"to be determined.\" \n In the days since, Trump and his staff have broadcast varied and conflicting messages, with Trump himself saying one day he might be open to \"softening\" his stance, and days later saying he might, in fact, be \"hardening.\" \n Pena Nieto has been sharply critical of Trump's original immigration policy, particularly the Republican's insistence that Mexico would pay for the border wall. In a March interview, Pena Nieto said that \"there is no scenario\" under which Mexico would do so. \n In the same interview, Pena Nieto compared Trump's language to that of dictators Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, saying it had hurt U.S.-Mexico relations. Former Mexican Presidents Vicente Fox and Felipe Calderon have also alluded to Hitler in describing Trump. \n New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a close Trump adviser, has been among those pushing Trump to make the trip to Mexico, according to a person familiar with their conversations who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss them publicly. Christie made his own successful trip to Mexico City in September 2014 and has a warm relationship with the Mexican president. \n Pena Nieto extended invitations to visit Mexico to both Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton last week. The Washington Post first reported Tuesday that Trump was considering making the trip to Mexico. \n Trump is scheduled to speak on immigration Wednesday evening in Phoenix. He was already out West on Tuesday for a campaign stop near Seattle, giving him enough time to jet to Mexico before the Wednesday speech. \n Trump's short stop in Mexico marks his first campaign visit to a foreign country. The Republican has faced a torrent of criticism from Clinton, a former secretary of state, about his preparedness to lead on the world stage. Several Republican foreign policy experts have also warned that Trump is unprepared for the numerous international issues that land on a president's desk. \n Clinton's campaign has urged voters to not \"be fooled\" by what it calls Trump's attempts to disguise his immigration policies. \n \"Donald Trump will be who he has always been: Donald Trump,\" the campaign said in an email Tuesday night. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump to make quick trip to Mexico before immigration speech"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The Chain of Craters Road and access to the lava viewing area, seen in this Aug. 12 photo, will close by 9 a.m. Wednesday as hurricanes Madeline and Lester approach Hawaii island. \n The Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and Hawaii island ports are closing Wednesday as Hurricane Madeline continues on a path to Hawaii island. \n The Coast Guard will close Hilo and Kawaiahae ports at 8 p.m. and Young Brothers cancelled its voyages from Honolulu to Hilo and Molokai today. \n No cargo will be accepted at those ports until further notice, Young Brothers said in an announcement. \n Young Brothers will not resume sailing to Hilo and Kaunakakai until both hurricanes have passed the island chain. \n Instead of sailing to Kaumalapau, Lanai, today, the company sent its vessel over early, leaving Monday and arriving today. \n Sections of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park will close starting at 5 p.m. \n The closures on Wednesday include the coastal lava viewing area, Chain of Craters Road, and the Jaggar Museum, Kilauea Visitors Center and the entrance station to the park. The lava viewing area will close by 9 a.m. Wednesday. \n The timing of the closures of the museum, visitors center and entrance station are yet to be determined. \n The Kulanaokuaiki Campground and Hilina Pali Road, all backcountry sites and Mauna Loa Road from Kipukapuaulu to the overlook will close at 5 p.m. today. \n Guests at the Kilauea Military Camp and Volcano House may shelter in place. If necessary, staff will direct guests to a shelter. \n In addition, the Kahuku unit will remain closed over the weekend, but may reopen if Hurricane Lester is not a threat. \n Hawaiian Airlines announced it will allow a one-time reservation change without a fee on Big Island flights Wednesday and Thursday. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Lava viewing area, parks, ports closing in advance of storm"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama answered a question during a Aug. 4 news conference at the Pentagon. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President Barack Obama cut short today the sentences of 111 federal inmates in another round of commutations for those convicted of nonviolent drug offenses. \n Obama has long called for phasing out strict sentences for drug offenses, arguing they lead to excessive punishment and incarceration rates unseen in other developed countries. \n White House Counsel Neil Eggleston said the commutations underscored the president's commitment to using his clemency authority to give deserving individuals a second chance. He said that Obama has granted a total of 673 commutations, more than the previous 10 presidents combined. More than a third of the recipients were serving life sentences. \n \"We must remember that these are individuals \u2014 sons, daughters, parents, and in many cases, grandparents \u2014 who have taken steps toward rehabilitation and who have earned their second chance,\" Eggleston said. \"They are individuals who received unduly harsh sentences under outdated laws for committing largely nonviolent drug crimes.\" \n Eggleston noted that Obama also granted commutation to 214 federal inmates earlier in the month. With Tuesday's additions, Obama has granted the greatest number of commutations for a single month of any president. \n Eggleston says he expects Obama to continue granting commutations through the end of his administration. He said the individualized nature of the relief points to the need for Congress to take up criminal justice reform. Such legislation has stalled and is unlikely to be approved this year. \n \"Only the passage of legislation can achieve the broader reforms needed to ensure our federal sentencing system operates more fairly and effectively in the service of public safety,\" Eggleston said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama cuts short the sentences of 111 federal inmates"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "With two hurricanes approaching the islands, the Coast Guard will close Hilo and Kawaiahae ports at 8 p.m. and Young Brothers has cancelled its voyages from Honolulu to Hilo and Molokai today. \n No cargo will be accepted at those ports until further notice, Young Brothers said in an announcement. \n \"We will be working with state and federal officials and keeping our customers informed for the duration of [Hurricanes] Madeline and Lester,\" said Young Brothers Vice President Roy Catalani. \n Young Brothers will not resume sailing to Hilo and Kaunakakai until both hurricanes have passed the island chain. \n Instead of sailing to Kaumalapau, Lanai, today, the company sent its vessel over early, leaving Monday and arriving today. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hilo, Kawaiahae ports to close; Young Brothers cancels some voyages"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "Big Island police have identified the 18-year-old Mountain View man who died Friday after he apparently hit a wall while speeding on Highway 11 as Lucas Derego. \n Puna police found a Chevrolet two-door sedan with severe damage in a ditch off Highway 11 near North Glenwood Road at 10:28 p.m. Friday. \n Police believe that the car had been traveling Hilo bound on Highway 11 and had struck a rock retaining wall. The driver, who was the sole occupant, was not wearing a seat belt and died at the scene. \n He was identified through fingerprints. \n Police believe that speed was a factor. It is unknown if drugs or alcohol were involved. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify Mountain View man killed in car crash"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Lester as of 5 a.m. today. \n CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Madeline as of 5 a.m. today. \n NOAA/ NASA/ GOES WEST \n This composite satellite image shows hurricanes Madeline and Lester heading to Hawaii. A low pressure system south of Hawaii is not expected to intensify, but could cause tradewinds to increase today. \n Update Wednesday 7:45 a.m. \n The east side of Hawaii island is under a flood advisory this morning as the outer bands of rain from Hurricane Madeline begin to reach the island. \n The National Weather issued the advisory until 10:15 am after \"radar and rain gauges indicated heavy rain associated with the outer bands of Hurricane Madeline over the South Hilo and Puna districts. Rain was falling at a rate of 1 to 2 inches per hour. Additional rainfall is expected to move over the eastern slopes of the Big Island through the day.\" \n Forecasters said the advisory includes Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Keaau, Pahoa, Pepeekeo, Glenwood, Hawaiian Acres, Mountain View, Papaikou, Volcano, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and Orchidland Estates. \n The entire island is under a flash flood watch through Thursday as Madeline approaches from the east. \n Update Wednesday 5 a.m. \n Madeline weakened overnight, barely maintaining its hurricane status but still posing a dangerous threat to the Big Island. \n At 5 a.m., the hurricane had maximum sustained winds of 80 mph with higher gusts and was centered about 140 miles east-southeast of Hilo and 355 miles east-southeast of Honolulu. Madeline was moving west at 14 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 10 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 125 miles, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center. \n A hurricane warning is in effect for Hawaii island, and a tropical storm warning was issued for Maui County this morning. A high surf warning has been issued for eastern shores of Maui, while a high surf advisory for eastern shores of the other islands remains. \n Madeline's forecast track has it moving just south of the Big Island, but close enough to bring heavy rain, damaging winds, and dangerous surf starting today. It is expected to travel well south of the other islands. \n Churning further east in the Pacific, Hurricane Lester maintained its Category 4 status with maximum sustained winds of 130 mph, moving west at 12 mph. It was 1,085 miles east of Hilo at 5 a.m., and is expected to cross into the Central Pacific later today. The storm's forecast track brings it just north of the islands starting this weekend. \n Hurricane-force winds extend out up to 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 90 miles, according to the National Hurricane Center. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Hurricane Madeline has weakened to a Category 1 storm, but remained a significant and immediate threat to the Big Island. It was about 235 miles east of Hilo and 440 miles east-southeast of Honolulu by 11 p.m. Tuesday. \n Maximum sustained winds dropped to 90 mph but Madeline increased in speed as it continues to move west at 12 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend out up to 25 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 125 miles. \n A hurricane warning and flash flood watch are in effect for Hawaii island, and a tropical storm watch has been posted for Maui, Molokai, Lanai and Kahoolawe. \n The latest forecast track has Madeline glancing South Point on the Big Island, but a direct hit on the island is still possible. No matter its eventual exact path, forecasters and government officials warn that Madeline is likely to pack a dangerous punch of wind, rain and surf. \n Central Pacific Hurricane Center forecasters on Oahu said the threat includes hurricane-force winds of 75 mph or more for the Big Island as early as late Wednesday and into early Thursday; tropical storm-force winds of 40 mph or more over Maui County late Wednesday into early Thursday; surf building from east to west across the Hawaiian islands, possibly becoming damaging along eastern shores of Hawaii island and Maui Wednesday into Thursday; heavy rain of 5 to 10 inches across Hawaii County, with isolated maximum amounts near 15 inches, especially over windward portions; rainfall totaling 1 to 3 inches, with isolated maximum amounts up to 4 inches, across Maui County; and the possible combination of storm surge and tides causing flooding, with water reaching 1 to 3 feet above ground. \n East of Madeline, Hurricane Lester remained a reinvigorated and powerful Category 4 storm, centered about 1,260 miles east of Hilo and moving west at 12 mph, with maximum sustained winds of 140 mph and higher gusts. The latest forecast track has it skirting just north, and within striking distance, of the entire island chain this weekend. \n Hurricane-force winds extend out up to 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend out up to 90 miles, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. The storm is expected to enter the Central Pacific Wednesday as a major hurricane. While it is expected to weaken after that, forecasters still believe it will be a hurricane as it approaches the islands. \n \"Interests in Hawaii should monitor the progress of this hurricane,\" they said late Tuesday. \n Update 8 p.m. \n Hurricane Madeline weakened to a category 1 storm about 270 miles east of Hilo and 475 miles east-southeast of Honolulu tonight. \n Maximum sustained winds dropped to 95 mph as the storm traveled west at 10 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extend 25 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds go out 125 miles from the center. \n The storm is expected to gradually weaken and turn to the west-southwest sometime tonight, which should send it just south of South Point early Thursday morning. \n It should still be at hurricane strength when it makes its closest pass to Hawaii island. \n Hawaii County remains under a hurricane warning and Maui County is under a tropical storm watch. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Hurricane Madeline retained its strength and direction this afternoon. It remained a category 2 hurricane with 110 mph winds heading west on a path toward Hawaii island at 10 mph. \n At 5 p.m., the storm was 315 miles east of Hilo and 510 miles east-southeast of Honolulu. Hurricane-force winds extend 25 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend 125 miles from the center. \n The storm is expected to gradually weaken and turn to the west-southwest sometime tonight, which should send it just south of South Point Wednesday. \n It should still be at hurricane strength when it makes its closest pass to Hawaii island. \n Hawaii County remains under a hurricane warning and Maui County is under a tropical storm watch. \n The storm was 1,225 miles east of Hilo and could bring strong winds and rains to the state over Labor Day weekend. \n Lester is expected to turn slightly to the west-northwest as it crosses into the Central Pacific over the next two days. \n Hurricane-force winds extend 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds go out 90 miles from the center. \n Update 4 p.m. \n Gov. David Ige issued an emergency proclamation this afternoon in advance of possible landfall of hurricanes Madeline and Lester \n The proclamation authorizes state spending for relief of disaster-related damages, losses and suffering resulting from the storms, according to Ige's office. \n \"As always, our top priority is protecting the health, safety and overall welfare of our residents and visitors. During this time, I ask residents and visitors to closely follow emergency instructions as we prepare for the storm. I urge you to take immediate steps to protect your families, loved ones, employees and property. The state is monitoring the storms and standing by to support the counties,\" Ige said in a news release \n The disaster emergency relief period starts today and continues through Sept. 9. \n Update 2 p.m. \n Hurricane Madeline weakened to a Category 2 storm, but still maintained sustained maximum winds of 110 mph, about 350 miles east of Hilo and 540 miles east-southeast of Honolulu. \n Madeline is still traveling west at 10 mph. \n Forecasters are watching for a shift in Madeline's direction to the west-southwest over the next 12 hours. That slight change in direction should take the storm just south, but still \"dangerously close,\" to Hawaii island on Wednesday, the Central Pacific Hurricane Center said. Gradual weakening is also expected over the next 48 hours. \n At 2 p.m., hurricane-force winds extended outward up to 25 miles from Madeline's center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 125 miles. \n Update 1:05 p.m. \n The National Weather Service estimates there is a 90 percent chance of tropical storm conditions and winds greater than 39 mph for South Point, a 78 percent chance in Hilo and 68 percent chance in Kailua Kona. \n The likelihood of hurricane-force winds is 10 percent in Hilo, 6 percent in Kailua Kona and 23 percent in South Point, the National Weather Service estimated after the 11 a.m. Hurricane Madeline update. \n Honolulu has a 17 percent chance of experiencing tropical storm-force winds. Kahului's chances are estimated at 26 percent and Lihue has an 11 percent likelihood of seeing sustained strong winds. \n Update 12:23 p.m. \n Hawaii County Civil Defense issued a message urging residents to prepare for hurricane-force winds and heavy rains: \n \"Hurricane force winds are expected over Hawaii County sometime Wednesday into early Thursday. \n \"Ocean swells generated by Madeline are expected to build from east to west across the Hawaiian Islands today and tonight, possibly becoming damaging along east facing shores of the Big Island. \n \"Heavy rains associated with Madeline may reach Hawaii County on Wednesday with greatest amounts over windward areas. This rainfall may lead to dangerous flash floods and mudslides. \n \"In preparation for Hurricane Madeline, the public is advised to be StormReady. \n \"Build or restock your emergency preparedness kit. Include a flashlight with fresh batteries, cash, first aid supplies, and any medication or supplies specific to you or your family members. \n \"Plan how to communicate with family members. Create an evacuation plan for your household. Bring in or secure outdoor furniture and other items that could blow away. Keep your vehicle fueled and cell phone charged. \n \"To help preserve water availability through the storm, the Department of Water Supply asks customers to minimize non-essential use of water, such as irrigation. \n Update: Tuesday 11 a.m. \n The National Weather Service issued a hurricane warning for the Big Island late this morning as Madeline barreled west toward the state, packing maximum sustained winds of 115 mph. \n At 11 a.m., Madeline, a Category 3 major hurricane, was 370 miles east of Hilo and moving west at 10 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles from Madeline's center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 125 miles. \n The warning, meaning hurricane conditions are expected in the next 36 hours, adds to a slew of other watches and warnings for the islands as Madeline approaches. \n Hurricane Madeline is forecast to pass just south of the Big Island as a weakened hurricane, however the southern half of the island is in the track's so-called \"cone of uncertainty,\" meaning a direct hit is still possible. \n \"This track will take the center of Madeline dangerously close to the Big Island of Hawaii late Wednesday and Thursday,\" said forecasters from the Central Pacific Hurricane Center on Oahu. \n They say the public can expect hurricane-force winds of 74 mph or more over the Big Island late Wednesday into Thursday, while tropical storm-force winds of 39 mph or more are possible for Maui County at that time. Surf from Madeline is expected to build across the islands today, starting with east-facing shores of the Big Island and Maui County. \n Heavy rain should hit the Big Island Wednesday and is possible for the other islands later Wednesday through Thursday. \"Madeline is expected to produce total rain accumulations of 5 to 10 inches, with isolated maximum amounts near 15 inches, across the Big Island, especially over windward portions.This rainfall may lead to dangerous flash floods and mudslides,\" forecasters said. \"Madeline may produce up to 4 inches of rainfall across Maui County.\" \n In the Eastern Pacific, Hurricane Lester has also maintained its Category 3 strength with maximum sustained winds of 120 mph. It is expected to enter the Central Pacific later this week and threaten the islands this weekend as a weak hurricane or strong tropical storm. Hurricane-force winds extend up to 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 90 miles. \n Lester's forecast track has it skirting north of the islands, however all islands are within the track's \"cone of uncertainty,\" according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. \n Previous coverage \n Tropical storm warnings, a hurricane watch, high surf warnings and a flash flood watch are posted as two hurricanes move toward Hawaii. \n Madeline remained a major category 3 hurricane this morning with winds of 120 mph, on a track to pass \"dangerously close\" to Hawaii island Wednesday and Wednesday night, forecasters said. \n The storm was 415 miles east of Hilo and 610 miles east-southeast of Honolulu at 8 a.m., heading west at 10 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend 30 miles from the center and tropical storm winds extend 125 miles from the center. \n The National Weather Service posted a tropical storm warning and hurricane watch for Hawaii island and a tropical storm watch for Maui County. \n The tropical storm warning means tropical storm conditions are possible on Hawaii island within 36 hours. Forecasters said preparations in advance of the storm should be rushed to completion. \n The tropical storm and hurricane watches mean tropical storm or hurricane conditions, respectively, are possible within 48 hours. \n A flash flood watch is posted for the Big Island, where 5 to 10 inches of rain could fall during the storm's passage, with isolated areas, likely over windward sections, getting as much as 15 inches. \n \"This rainfall may lead to dangerous flash floods and mudslides,\" forecasters said. \n Forecasters expect humidity and showers to increase today across the state as tropical moisture ahead of Madeline's center reaches the islands. \n \"Moisture will increase from east to west across the state today in advance of Hurricane Madeline, with showers favoring windward and mauka locales,\" forecasters said. \"Direct impacts from Hurricane Madeline, including damaging winds, flooding rain, and high surf, are expected over the Big Island and possible over other portions of the state Wednesday through Thursday.\" \n In additions to the watches and warnings, the National Weather Service posted a high surf warning for east Maui and a high surf advisory for east shores of Kauai, Oahu, Molokai and west Maui. \n Surf will begin rising along exposed east shores, peaking tonight through Wednesday, forecasters said. Surf will rise again Friday through the weekend as waves generated by Hurricane Lester in the East Pacific arrive on exposed east shores. \n Surf on the Big Island, which is under a tropical storm warning and hurricane watch, could reach 15 to 25 feet tonight through Wednesday night, and could cause significant wave run-up and damage to coastal properties and roads. \n On Maui, surf is expected to build to 10 to 15 feet by tonight and peak at 12 to 18 feet through Wednesday. \n Surf on east shores of Oahu is expected to rise to 5 to 9 feet tonight and Wednesday. \n The strong, breaking waves could sweep across beaches and create dangerous rip currents. \n Anyone entering the water in the warning areas could face significant injury or death, the weather service said. \n Madeline appears to be weakening, its winds are down from its peak as a category 4 storm with 130 mph winds overnight. Madeline also took a slight turn to the west, from its northwest direction, and is expected to turn to the southwest later tonight. \n But the weather service cautioned that people should not pay too much attention to the exact path of the storm. \n \"While the highest chances of damaging winds, flooding rainfall, and large dangerous surf are on the Big Island, any change in the track could mean that additional portions of the state will experience direct impacts and could be placed under a watch or warning. For this reason, it is important to not focus too closely on the exact forecast track of Madeline, especially since the average forecast track error is about 85 to 150 miles in the 48 to 72 hour time range. It is also important to note that significant impacts can extend well away from the center of a tropical cyclone,\" forecasters said. \n Forecasters estimate there is a 10 percent chance of hurricane conditions in Hilo, a 20 percent chance at South Point and a 6 percent chance in Kailua-Kona. \n Hilo has a 75 percent chance of tropical storm conditions, Kailua-Kona's chances are estimated at 67 percent and South Point's chance is 80 percent. \n If the storm continues on its current track, tropical storm-force winds of 39 mph or higher will arrive Wednesday afternoon through late Thursday, with hurricane-force winds possible. \n \"There is the possibility of significant wind damage, including downed trees and power lines and damage to roofs and weak structures,\" forecasters said. \n In the East Pacific, Hurricane Lester weakened to a category 3 hurricane, from its peak as a powerful category 4 storm with 140 mph winds on Monday. \n At 5 a.m., Lester had sustained winds of 120 mph, still a major category 3 hurricane, about 1,355 miles east of Hilo and continues to move toward Hawaii. \n Lester was moving west at 14 mph and hurricane-force winds extend 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend 90 miles from the center. \n Lester is forecast to continue weakening and cross into the Central Pacific on Wednesday. \n It will likely interact with Madeline and that should send Lester on a turn to the northwest. \n Lester could bring surf, humidity, rains and winds to the islands over the Labor Day weekend, but forecasters caution that it is too early to predict its exact impacts. \n If the storms continue on their current tracks, Lester will be to the northwest of Hawaii on Saturday, while Madeline moves off to the southeast. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Madeline bears down on Big Isle; Maui County under tropical storm warning"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "Fire investigators are assessing the damage to a house fire that burned one home and several neighboring structures and vehicles in Aiea this morning. \n The fire was reported at 7:19 a.m. in the 99-000 block of Moanalua Road. The stretch of Moanalua Road between Nalopaka and Heleconia places was closed shortly before 8 a.m. due to the fire, police said. \n Eight people were home when the blaze broke out in the two-story structure, but escaped injury. \n One man was treated at scene by paramedics. \n The fire was brought under control by 7:44 a.m. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters investigate cause of Aiea house fire"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "A 61-year-old Naalehu man was killed Monday when the tractor-trailer he was driving ran off the Hawaii Belt Road in South Kona hit a rock wall, overturned and burned. \n An autopsy will be perform to determine the cause of death for Brysson Lorenzo Sr., Big Island police said. \n Lorenzo was driving a 1994 Kenworth tractor-trailer northbound on Hawaii Belt Road near the 85-mile marker when he ran off the right shoulder of the roadway and collided with a rock embankment. The collision caused the tractor-trailer to overturn onto its left side and catch fire. Lorenzo was taken to Kona Community Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 8:40 a.m. \n Police do not believe speed was a factor in this crash and it is not immediately known if alcohol was a factor. \n Anyone who witnessed the crash is asked o call Officer Kimo Keliipaakaua at 326-4646, extension 229. Tipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300. \n This is the Big Island's 17th traffic fatality this year, compared with 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle man dies after tractor-trailer hits embankment"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "Warning signs were posted by the health department Monday after a private sewer collapsed on Ward Avenue, causing sewage to enter a storm drain that empties into Kewalo Basin. \n Water samples are being taken by the health department. \n The public is advised to remain out of waters near Kewalo Basin Harbor until the warning signs have been removed. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Sewer collapse fouls Kewalo Basin Harbor"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "WASHINGTON \u00bb The Agriculture Department said today it had closed offices in five states after receiving anonymous threats that it considered serious. \n USDA spokesman Matthew Herrick said in a statement that the department had received \"several anonymous messages\" late Monday that raised concerns about the safety of USDA personnel and facilities. He said six offices were closed this morning until further notice. \n Herrick said the department is working with the FBI and federal and local law enforcement to determine whether the threats are credible. \n In an email to employees, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said USDA is closing the offices \"due to the serious nature of these threats.\" He did not characterize the threats or say how they were received, but asked employees to be aware of their surroundings and report any suspicious activity. \n White House Spokesman Josh Earnest said the Department of Homeland Security is working with USDA \"to ensure the safety of their offices and the personnel that work there.\" \n The closed facilities are in Fort Collins, Colorado; Hamden, Connecticut; Beltsville, Maryland; Raleigh, North Carolina; Kearneysville, West Virginia and Leetown, West Virginia. \n They include offices for eight USDA agencies, including the Forest Service and the Food Safety and Inspection Service. Among the sites affected was USDA's sprawling agricultural research center and library in Beltsville, where employees were informed of the threat this morning and sent home. \n In his memo to employees, Vilsack said employees could telework or take authorized leave. \n The temporary closures may affect some tourists. In Colorado, the Forest Service's Canyon Lakes Ranger District tweeted that their information center is closed. \n Associated Press writers Ben Nuckols and Darlene Superville contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Agriculture Department closes offices in 5 states after threats"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "Getting treatment for depression may sometimes be a regular part of health care for the \"worried well\" that leaves those who cannot afford it to suffer by themselves.  \n A new study published Monday in JAMA Internal Medicine illustrates that phenomenon. Most Americans who screen positive for depression don't receive treatment \u2014 while most who did receive treatment don't actually have the condition. \n \"Over the last several years there has been an increase in prescription of antidepressants,\" said Mark Olfson, professor of psychiatry at the Columbia University Medical Center and lead author of the study. \"In that context, many people assumed that under-treatment of depression is no longer a common problem.\" \n But Olfson found the opposite to be true after analyzing data from Medical Expenditure Panel Surveys in 2012 and 2013 that includes questionnaires screening for depression. Of the 46,417 adults surveyed, 8.4 percent answered in ways that suggested they had depression, but only 28.7 percent of them received any treatment for it. \n \"The findings highlight that there are continuing challenges in aligning depression care with patient needs,\" he said. \n Adults in the lowest income group were five times more likely to be depressed compared with those in the highest income group. But they, along with uninsured adults, racial and ethnic minorities, and men, were also less likely to receive treatment. \n On the other hand, among the 8.1 percent of adults who received treatment for depression, only 29.9 percent of them had depression and 21.8 percent of them had serious psychological distress. And those with either less serious or no depression were more likely to receive antidepressants. It's a problem of overprescription, Olfson said, because studies have shown that antidepressants are not any more effective for patients with mild depression than a placebo. \n \"Being a little less aggressive in medication in mild depression would be beneficial,\" he said. \"There are simpler forms of psychological interventions that can be adapted for primary care.\" \n Rather than relying on these drugs, the patients can be given other treatments ranging from counseling and exercise to yoga. \n In addition, researchers concluded that those with serious psychological distress are more likely to be treated by psychiatrists instead of general medical professionals, but this trend does not translate to older patients, African-Americans, the uninsured or those with less education. \n \"Some when they have depression don't believe they require treatment or that they could benefit from treatment,\" Olfson said. \"People are visiting doctors but the attention is to current, pressing medical problems.\" \n But these doctor visits can be used as an opportunity for increasing access to treatment for depression to disadvantaged populations. Olfson found that most people with untreated depression make at least one visit to a primary care doctor annually. If depression screening and mental health services can be integrated into primary care, Olfson said, there will be better access and awareness about the illness. \n \"If you give them a referral to a mental health clinic, they simply won't go if they don't think they have a mental health disorder,\" he said. \"By embedding the services within primary care, it becomes more accessible and less stigmatized.\" \n It's an idea Benjamin Cook, director of the Health Equity Research Lab and assistant professor at Harvard Medical School, agrees on, but he said increasing access for minorities would require professionals who speak their languages and understand what type of treatment they are open to. Cook was not involved in the study.  \n \"(For example) African-Americans and Latinos prefer antidepressants less than whites,\" Cook said. That might be an underlying reason \"not to go for mental health treatment, why they might not stay at treatment for as long.\" \n This integration of services would also benefit patients who are over treated \u2014 those who receive antidepressants when they don't need to. Olfson said many primary care doctors expressed frustrations in finding mental health professionals particularly in small and rural areas, so prescribing antidepressants might become their go-to when they don't have resources. If there is a mental health professional right in the clinic, patients might get access to more services that a general doctor cannot offer such as counseling and psychotherapy. \n \"Depression really is a serious condition and we're finding that so many Americans aren't receiving care,\" he said. \"I hope that it (this study) brings attention to this situation.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n (Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a national health policy news service. It is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.)  \n \u2014\u2014  \n \u00a92016 Kaiser Health News  \n ", "author": "By Zhai Yun Tan Kaiser Health News", "title": "Study: Screening positive for depression doesn't mean you'll get treatment"}

{"date": "August 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / FEB. 2016 \n In this file photo, Lara, who is less than 3-months-old and was born with microcephaly, is examined by a neurologist at the Pedro I hospital in Campina Grande, Paraiba state, Brazil. \n MIAMI \u00bb For months, as the Zika virus has spread from Latin America and the Caribbean to South Florida, public health officials have crafted warnings to include the fact that there is no medical treatment for the infectious disease, which is linked to severe birth defects in newborns.  \n On Monday, however, a team of researchers from Florida State University, Johns Hopkins University and the National Institutes of Health published research showing that existing drugs \u2014 including an FDA-approved drug used to treat tapeworm \u2014 can potentially stop Zika from replicating in the body and damaging fetal brains. \n The team's research, published in the journal Nature Medicine, may be the first to identify a therapeutic treatment for Zika, which was discovered in 1947 but remained little known until an outbreak raced across Brazil and the rest of South America in 2015. \n Nicolsamide, a chewable tablet used to treat tapeworm, was identified as having one compound that could be helpful in reducing the effects of Zika. The drug showed no danger to pregnant women, according to researchers, though tests are still needed to determine a specific treatment regimen for Zika. \n FSU professor of biological science Hengli Tang, who helped lead the research, said the team focused its work on drug compounds that have the shortest path to clinical use. \n \"This is a first step toward a therapeutic that can stop transmission of this disease,\" Tang said in a written statement. \n Tang and colleagues at Johns Hopkins and the NIH teamed up for the research and screened 6,000 drug compounds that were either already approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or were in the process of a clinical trial. Researchers traveled back and forth between Baltimore and Tang's lab in Tallahassee testing cells infected with the virus. \n The next step is for researchers to test the drugs on animals infected with the Zika virus, which can be transmitted to people through a sexual partner or the bite of an infected Aedes aegypti or Aedes albopictus mosquito. \n And while only one in five infected people will feel symptoms, including fever, rash, muscle pain and red eyes lasting a week to 10 days, Zika has been associated with devastating birth defects and neurological disorders. \n The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has concluded that congenital Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause microcephaly, a birth defect characterized by an abnormally small head, and other neurological disorders in newborns. \n During the current outbreak, at least 1,845 cases of birth defects including microcephaly and other developmental complications associated with Zika have been reported in Brazil, according to the World Health Organization's most recent update. \n In the United States, the CDC has reported 584 confirmed cases of pregnant women contracting Zika through Aug. 18, though most of those are travel related infections. \n A total of 42 local Zika infections have been reported in four Florida counties this year, with one each in Broward, Palm Beach and Pinellas, and the remainder in Miami-Dade \u2014 where health officials have identified two zones where mosquitoes are actively transmitting the disease: a 1-square-mile section of Wynwood, and a 1.5-square-mile zone in Miami Beach. \n As of Aug. 26, there were 545 travel-related Zika cases in Florida, and an additional 75 among pregnant women. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Miami Herald  \n ", "author": "By Daniel Chang Miami Herald", "title": "Study: Drugs can stop Zika from replicating, damaging fetal brains"}

