{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A driver's windshield was damaged after she drove in the area with protesters demonstrating against Tuesday's U.S. presidential election results, Thursday, Nov. 10, 2016, in Portland. \n PORTLAND, Ore >> From New York to Illinois to California, in red states as well as blue, protesters decrying Donald Trump's election spent another night overtaking highways, smashing store windows, igniting fires and in at least one city, facing pepper spray and rubber projectiles from police trying to clear the streets. \n The demonstrations stretched into a third straight night Thursday and came to a head in Portland, Oregon, where thousands of marchers chanted, \"We reject the president-elect!\" while some lit firecrackers, sparked small blazes and used rocks and baseball bats to break the glass of businesses and vehicles parked at dealerships. \n Officers began pushing back against the crowd that threw glass bottles and a trash can, making 26 arrests and using flash-bang devices and pepper spray to force people to disperse. \n In Los Angeles, protests were mostly peaceful, but 185 people were arrested, mostly for blocking streets, Officer Norma Eisenman said. An officer was injured near police headquarters, leading to one arrest, but Eisenman had no details about the circumstances or the injury. The officer was released after treatment. \n The persisting protests led Trump himself to fire back, tweeting: \"Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!\" \n His supporters also took to social media to accuse protesters of sour grapes and refusing to respect the democratic process, though there were no significant counterprotests. \n In Portland, police termed the protest a riot after some 4,000 people surged into the downtown area. After giving several orders to leave, officers fired rubber baton rounds. It was not clear if anyone was hurt. \n In Denver, protesters made their way onto Interstate 25, stopping traffic for about a half-hour. They also briefly shut down highways in Minneapolis and Los Angeles. \n In downtown San Francisco, high school students called out \"not my president\" as they marched, holding signs urging a Trump eviction. They waved rainbow banners and Mexican flags, as bystanders in the heavily Democratic city gave them high-fives. \n \"As a white, queer person, we need unity with people of color, we need to stand up,\" said Claire Bye, a 15-year-old sophomore at Academy High School. \"I'm fighting for my rights as an LGBTQ person. I'm fighting for the rights of brown people, black people, Muslim people.\" \n Nearby in Oakland, a group got into some shoving matches with police and 11 people were arrested. Protesters lit street fires, smashed windows and sprayed graffiti on at least seven businesses. \n In New York City and Chicago, large groups gathered outside Trump Tower. In New York, they chanted angry slogans and waved banners bearing anti-Trump messages. Police still stood guard Friday on Fifth Avenue. \n \"You got everything straight up and down the line,\" demonstrator David Thomas said. \"You got climate change, you got the Iran deal. You got gay rights, you got mass deportations. Just everything, straight up and down the line, the guy is wrong on every issue.\" \n In Philadelphia, protesters near City Hall held signs saying, \"Not Our President,\" \"Trans Against Trump\" and \"Make America Safe For All.\" Officers on bikes blocked traffic for a march that spanned four street lanes and drew parents with children in strollers. \n Jeanine Feito, 23, held a sign reading, \"Not 1 more deportation.\" The Temple University student said she acknowledges Trump as president-elect but does not accept it. \n \"I'm Cuban-American. My parents are immigrants, and I'm also a woman. These are things Trump doesn't stand for,\" Feito said. \"He's bullied us, discriminated against us, is racist and encourages violence. I think it's important we stand together and fight against this.\" \n About 500 people turned out at a protest in Louisville, Kentucky, while hundreds in Baltimore marched to the stadium where the Ravens were playing a football game. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rubber bullets and fear: Trump protesters flood streets anew"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A group of asylum seekers hold up their identity after landing in Manus Island, Papua New Guinea. The United States and Australia are close to announcing a deal in which the U.S. would resettle hundreds of asylum seekers banished by Australia to Pacific island camps, a newspaper reported on Friday. \n CANBERRA, Australia >> The United States and Australia are close to announcing a deal in which the U.S. would resettle hundreds of asylum seekers banished by Australia to Pacific island camps, a newspaper reported on Friday. \n The U.S. had agreed to accept up to 1,800 refugees held for up to three years at Australia's expense in camps on the impoverished island nations of Nauru and Papua New Guinea, The Australian newspaper reported. \n Such an agreement struck with the Obama administration could be opposed by President-elect Donald Trump, who has called for a moratorium or tight restrictions on Muslim immigration. Most of the asylum seekers are Muslims from the Middle East, Africa and Asia. \n The agreement could empty the camps that have been condemned by human rights groups as a cruel abrogation of Australia's responsibilities as a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention. \n Prime Minster Malcolm Turnbull declined to comment on negotiations with the United States. \n Rebecca Gardner, spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Australia, would not comment on the newspaper report, saying the State Department did not \"comment on or discuss diplomatic negotiations.\" \n Senior government minister Christopher Pyne praised the prospect of such an agreement being finalized before the Obama administration ends. \n \"There certainly is time \u2014 two and a half months is plenty of time \u2014 and if that's the case, it will be a great achievement for the Turnbull government,\" Pyne told Nine Network television. \n Senior opposition lawmaker Anthony Albanese said \"if this occurs, that will be a good thing.\" \n The opposition center-left Labor Party criticized a previous deal struck between Australia and the United States in 2007 to swap refugees, arguing that the prospect of U.S. resettlement would attract more asylum seekers to Australian shores. \n Under that deal, up to 200 refugees a year held on Nauru could have been swapped for Cubans and Haitians intercepted at sea while trying to get to the U.S. and held at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. But no refugee was ever traded under that deal. \n Turnbull announced at Obama's Leaders' Summit on Refugees in September that Australia would participate in the U.S.-led program to resettle Central American refugees from a camp in Costa Rica. Australia would also increase its refugee intake by 5,000 to 18,750 a year. \n Turnbull said at the time that the agreement to resettle Central Americans was \"not linked to any other resettlement discussions\" involving Australia's refugees. \n Immigration Department Secretary Chief Michael Pezzullo told a parliamentary committee on Friday that \"today we are closer than we were yesterday\" to resettling asylum seekers from Nauru and Papua New Guinea. \n Immigration Minister Peter Dutton said this week he was looking for countries that will accept all asylum seekers bound for Australia, including those who have had their refugee claims rejected but refuse to go home. Iran won't take back Iranians who won't to go home voluntarily. \n Almost 1,300 asylum seekers are on Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Hundreds more have come to the Australia for medical treatment and have taken court action to prevent them being send back to the islands. \n Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in. \n Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: U.S. close to accepting 100s of Australia's refugees"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters holds up signs in opposition of Donald Trump's presidential election victory as they march from Jefferson Square Park, Thursday, Nov. 10, 2016 in Louisville Ky. \n President-elect Donald Trump seems to be having a change of heart about those protesting the election results. \n Trump had denounced the protesters in a tweet late Thursday. He wrote that \"professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!\" \n But early today, he tweeted: \"Love the fact that the small groups of protesters last night have passion for our great country. We will all come together and be proud!\" \n Thousands have been gathering in cities across the United States to protest Trump's victory in Tuesday's election. \n Demonstrations occurred from Portland, Oregon, to Chicago, to New York and parts in between and each typically drew a few hundred people, less than the thousands that gathered in various protests that surged after it became clear Trump had won Tuesday's election. \n In Portland Thursday night hundreds of people marched throughout the city as protests turned violent, with people smashing store windows and lighting off firecrackers. Police declared the protests a riot, said there were people with baseball bats in the crowd and told people via loudspeaker to move on. \n Oregon Department of Transportation officials closed portions of Interstate 5 and Interstate 84 in the area intermittently as a precaution. \n In Denver, protesters managed to shut down Interstate 25 near downtown Denver briefly Thursday night. \n Denver police tweeted around 10 p.m. that demonstrators made their way onto the freeway and traffic was halted in the northbound and southbound lanes. Police say the interstate was reopened about half an hour later as the crowd moved back downtown. \n Earlier protests in Denver, Boulder and Colorado Springs on Wednesday and Thursday went off peacefully. \n In San Francisco's downtown, high-spirited high school students marched through, chanting \"not my president\" and holding signs urging a Donald Trump eviction. They waved rainbow banners and Mexican flags, as bystanders in the heavily Democratic city high-fived the marchers from the sidelines. \n \"As a white, queer person, we need unity with people of color, we need to stand up,\" said Claire Bye, a 15-year-old sophomore at Academy High School. \"I'm fighting for my rights as an LGBTQ person. I'm fighting for the rights of brown people, black people, Muslim people.\" \n In New York City, a large group of demonstrators once again gathered outside Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue Thursday night. They chanted angry slogans and waved banners baring anti-Trump messages. \n \"You got everything straight up and down the line,\" demonstrator David Thomas said. \"You got climate change, you got the Iran deal. You got gay rights, you got mass deportations. Just everything, straight up and down the line, the guy is wrong on every issue.\" \n Protesters briefly shut down interstate highways in Minneapolis and Portland, Oregon. In Philadelphia, protesters near City Hall held signs bearing slogans like \"Not Our President,\" \"Trans Against Trump\" and \"Make America Safe For All.\" About 500 people turned out at a protest in Louisville, Kentucky and in Baltimore, hundreds of people marched to the stadium where the Ravens were playing a football game. \n Hundreds of protesters demonstrated outside Trump Tower in Chicago and a growing group was getting into some shoving matches with police in Oakland, California. \n Another protest was building in Los Angeles, where 28 people were arrested Wednesday for blocking traffic during a demonstration that also saw vandalism to some buildings and a news truck. \n Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, a Democrat, condemned what he called a \"very, very small group of people\" that caused problems in that demonstration but said he was proud of the thousands more that peacefully protested. \n \"I actually thought it was a beautiful expression of democracy. I think it was a marvelous thing to see the next generation of this country get engaged and involved,\" he said at a news conference, adding that at one time in his life he might have joined them. \n As expected, the demonstrations prompted some social media blowback from Trump supporters accusing protesters of sour grapes or worse, though there were no significant counter-protests. \n Trump supporters said the protesters were not respecting the democratic process. \n As of Thursday, Democrat Hillary Clinton was leading Trump in votes nationwide 47.7 percent to 47.5 percent, but Trump secured victory in the Electoral College. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump reacts as protests surge in cities across country"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shoppers ride on an escalator under Nintendo's Super Mario characters at an electronics store in Tokyo. Nintendo Co. is ending sales in Japan of its Wii U home console \"soon,\" although it's not saying exactly when, and similar announcements are expected in other regions. \n TOKYO >> Nintendo Co. is ending sales in Japan of its Wii U home console \"soon,\" although it's not saying exactly when, and similar announcements are expected in other regions. \n The Wii U, which went on sale from late 2012, is being replaced by Switch, set to go on sale globally in March 2017. Nintendo says it will show it to reporters in Japan on Jan. 13. \n The Japanese video game manufacturer behind the Super Mario and Pokemon franchises has already shipped Wii U machines for U.S. sales through March, company spokesman Kenichiro Matsuura said Friday. \n Kyoto-based Nintendo has scored success with the remake of its 1980s FamiCom machine, called NES Classic Edition, which goes on sale Friday in the U.S. for $59.99. \n Japanese have been snatching it up since it went on sale Thursday. \n Much smaller than the original machine, it comes packed with popular 30 game software titles, such as \"Donkey Kong,\" \"The Legend of Zelda\" and \"Super Mario Brothers.\" \n Another recent hit the company has scored is \"Pokemon Go,\" an augmented reality game that can be played on smartphones. \n Nintendo's earnings have suffered from lagging sales of the Wii U, as well as its 3DS handheld. \n After years of scoffing at the threat from smartphones, Nintendo did an about-face last year and entered that sector. Pokemon Go is the first big success for Nintendo since that decision, underlining the company's potential. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nintendo ending Japan sales of Wii U, shifting to Switch"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE \n The guided missile destroyer USS William P. Lawrence participated in Rim of the Pacific exercises off Hawaii this summer. \n The San Diego-based destroyer USS William P. Lawrence will make Pearl Harbor its new home port Monday as part of a ship swap that sent the USS Paul Hamilton to California in April, the Navy said. \n \"The Navy ohana in Hawaii welcomes USS William P. Lawrence sailors and families to their new home,\" Rear Adm. John Fuller, commander of Navy Region Hawaii and Naval Surface Group Middle Pacific, said in a release. \"We have a robust plan in place to formally welcome our shipmates and their loved ones and show them the 'who, what, when, where, why and how' about living here in the 50th State.\" \n The William P. Lawrence deployed from San Diego in January and in February became the first U.S. warship to visit Fiji in almost 10 years. In May the guided missile destroyer conducted a \"freedom of navigation\" operation in the contested South China Sea's Spratly Islands, sailing within 12 nautical miles of Chinese-occupied Fiery Cross Reef, Reuters reported. \n China scrambled jet fighters in the U.S. operation to challenge excessive maritime claims by China, Taiwan and Vietnam in the region, Reuters said. \n The William P. Lawrence also participated in Rim of the Pacific exercises off Hawaii in July. The Navy previously said the Paul Hamilton would be drydocked and receive extended maintenance in San Diego while moving the Lawrence to Hawaii to maintain ship presence here. \n \"This move supports the rebalance to the Indo-Asia-Pacific, placing our most advanced capabilities and greater capacity in that vital theater,\" the Navy said in March. \n William P. Lawrence and its more than 300 sailors returned to San Diego in mid-August following its seven-month deployment with the USS John C. Stennis carrier strike group. \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Navy destroyer USS William P. Lawrence sailing to Hawaii"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rishi Sharma interviews World War II veteran William Hahn, at his home in Los Angeles. Sharma's heroes aren't sports or movie stars, or any other kind of stars; they're the U.S. combat veterans who won World War II. \n LOS ANGELES >> For as long as he can remember, Rishi Sharma's heroes haven't been sports stars or movie stars or any other kind of stars. They've been the U.S. combat veterans who won World War II. \n Alarmed that even the youngest of them are now in their 90s and dying each day by the hundreds, the Southern California teenager has launched a campaign to try to ensure each one's legacy. \n \"I'm on a mission to in-depth film interview a World War II combat veteran every single day,\" the earnest 19-year-old says after a recent afternoon spent in the living room of William R. Hahn of Los Angeles, where Sharma mined the 93-year-old's memories for hours. \n His Canon 70D camera rolling, his long, jet-black hair tied back in a tight ponytail, the son of Indian immigrants listened intently as Hahn recounted how he received the Silver Star for bravery by charging through a hail of gunfire on Easter Sunday 1945 as Allied forces retook the German town of Hettstandt. \n Asked if he considers himself a hero, Hahn chuckled. \n \"Not really,\" said the retired metal-shop teacher who had a bullet come so close to him that it blew the canteen on his belt to smithereens. Other guys, he said, did similar things, and not all came back to talk about it. \n Sharma wants to meet and honor every one who did, and he knows time is not on his side. \n Of the approximately 16 million Americans who served in some capacity during WWII, some 620,000 survive, but they are dying at the rate of nearly 400 a day, according to the National Museum of World War II. \n \"I want to create this movement where people, where they just realize that we have such a limited time with these men who saved humanity,\" he says. \"Let's try to learn as much as we can from them and give them a proper send-off and make them feel like their sacrifices they made were worth it.\" \n He figures he's got about 10 years to do that so he's putting off college, putting off finding a job, putting off looking for a girlfriend, putting off just about everything except occasionally eating and sleeping between interviewing combat veterans. \n Since childhood, Sharma says, he's been fascinated by the sacrifices men his age made during WWII, risking their lives for freedom, then returning home to raise families and take everyday jobs as they transitioned back to civilian life. \n He read every book and watched every documentary he could find. But it wasn't until his junior year at Agoura Hills High School, just north of Los Angeles, that he became committed to meeting them. \n He came across the name Lyle Bouck, one of the heroes of Germany's Battle of the Bulge offensive in Belgium, as he read historian Stephen Ambrose's book \"Citizen Soldiers.\" \n Fascinated, he looked up Bouck's phone number and called him, not realizing it was 1 a.m. where the 92-year-old war hero lives. A friendly voice on the other end of the phone told Sharma if he called back at a decent hour, Bouck would be happy to talk. \n That's when the teen had an epiphany. \"It made me realize these guys are really out there! And I could do this for all of them.\" \n Soon Sharma was riding his bike to every retirement home within pedaling distance. After he interviewed every combat-hardened soldier there, he turned to veterans halls, then the internet. \n Borrowing his parents' car, he traveled to Oregon over the summer, then back down the California coast, interviewing still more people. He's up to about 160, and has plans to expand his travels in the weeks ahead to Arizona and other states and, on next month's 75th anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack, to Hawaii. \n He makes a DVD of every interview and gives it to the veteran. Some have passed on copies to the World War II museum. \n \"He's just totally dedicated and a very decent young fellow,\" says Howie Beach of Fullerton, whom Sharma recently interviewed. What he is doing is important, says Beach, another Silver Star recipient who at 91 sometimes speaks to high school groups. \n \"But a lot of them go on their merry way, just taking their lives and their freedoms and all that for granted,\" Beach says of those students. \"So it's good to see a young man like Rishi with such a convincing way about him.\" \n Such an effort doesn't come cheap, however, and Sharma quickly exhausted his modest life's savings carrying it out. He raised about $3,300 through a GoFundMe account and has spent most of that. To economize during the Oregon-Northern California trip, he limited himself to one meal every other day. \n But Sharma, who also founded a nonprofit called Heroes of the Second World War, has huge dreams for his effort. He'd like to eventually recruit others to help conduct interviews, perhaps get the interviews to museums and allow others to get to know some of the people he says have become his closest friends. \n \"This one guy I interviewed in Oregon told me he hadn't been visited by anyone in over five months and that he was just waiting to die,\" Sharma recalled. \"This is a 94-year-old who saw combat in the South Pacific, and now he has no one.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Teen dedicates life to finding World War II combat veterans"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "A 48-year-old Kapaa man, who allegedly fired a gun to scare a group of children, has been released on bail. \n Police arrested Randy Yamagata Wednesday afternoon after he allegedly threatened five children, ages 11 to 14, from his property along Olohena Road, across from the Bryan J. Baptiste Sports Complex. \n Police said they responded to a report from the boys at about 2:15 p.m. that Yamagata had fired a gun at a tree to scare the children. \n Yamagata was arrested on suspicion of first-degree reckless endangering and first-degree terroristic threatening. He was released after posting $10,000 bail. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man allegedly fires gun to scare children on Kauai"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "SAN DIEGO >> California authorities were investigating a reported attack on a college campus of a Muslim student wearing a headscarf as a hate crime today. \n San Diego State University's police department said two suspects who assaulted the student on campus Wednesday had targeted her because of her faith and made comments about Donald Trump's election. \n The woman was not hurt. Authorities said the assault occurred in a parking complex while the woman was wearing a hijab. The suspects stole her car keys, and the vehicle was later reported missing, authorities said. \n \"We condemn this hateful act and urge all members of our community to join us in condemning such hateful acts,\" SDSU President Elliot Hirshman said in a statement. \n A similar report came from Northern California, where a woman said she was walking in a parking garage at San Jose State University when a fair-skinned man in a hooded sweatshirt came up behind her and pulled at her head scarf, the university said in a statement. \n The victim was briefly choked and lost her balance before the suspect ran away, the statement said. \n California Attorney General Kamala Harris issued an information bulletin today to law enforcement agencies, outlining laws that prohibit hate crimes. \n Meanwhile, a Louisiana student acknowledged she fabricated a reported attack by two men, one she said wore a \"Trump\" hat. \n In the Louisiana case, the Lafayette Police Department said in a statement that it is no longer investigating the 18-year-old woman's claims, which were made within hours of Trump's presidential victory. \n Police said the student told investigators she was walking near the University of Louisiana at Lafayette's campus Wednesday morning when she was accosted by two white men who drove up in a gray sedan. Police added the student had claimed the men shouted racial obscenities as they knocked her down and stole her wallet and the headscarf. \n Charlie Bier, a spokesman for the university, said a federal privacy law prohibits him from saying whether the student could be disciplined. \n Lafayette Police spokesman, Officer Karl Ratcliff, did not immediately respond to emails or phone messages from The Associated Press seeking further comment. But he told The Advocate that the woman offered no explanation for lying. He said the woman might now face charges herself related to filing a false police report. \n \"We don't take this lightly, and it's made national headlines now,\" he said. \"There will be consequences.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California police investigate attacks on women wearing head scarfs"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / APRIL 3, 2012 \n Limu is added to ahi limu poke. \n The state Department of Health has ordered an Oahu seaweed farm to stop selling and distributing its Kahuku Ogo, Robusta Ogo and Sea Asparagus products, which have been connected to salmonella infections. \n The Kahuku farm, Marine Agrifuture LLC, is also known as Olakai Hawaii. \n The state said reports of salmonella infections on Oahu were linked to consumption of ogo (or limu) and led to the investigation of Olakai Hawaii on Nov. 2 and 7. Lab tests identified salmonella bacteria in packing and processing tanks at the farm, as well as in the environment there. \n \"Distributors and retailers have been notified to remove the affected products from sale or distribution immediately,\" said Peter Oshiro, chief of the DOH Sanitation Branch. \"We advise the public to discard any suspect product they may have.\" \n \"Marine Agrifuture is a major distributor of ogo and sea asparagus in Hawaii and its products may have been shipped to all islands as well as the mainland (California and Washington state). The department is still confirming all locations and states the product may have been shipped to,\" a press release said. \n Earlier today, Times Supermarkets said it would temporarily stop using raw limu (seaweed) in its poke products over concerns about salmonella. \n There have been 14 cases of salmonella on Oahu linked to eating poke prepared with raw fish and limu (seaweed) from the seaweed farm. \n The salmonella cases involve children and adults, who developed diarrheal illness from mid- to late October. Four cases required hospitalization. \n Times said in a news release that although the limu has not been recalled, \"the health and safety of Times' shoppers is the company's primary concern.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Health Department pulls products tied to salmonella from seaweed farm"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 24, 2016, file photo, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. speaks at a rally for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at St. Anselm College in Manchester, N.H. \n WASHINGTON >> President Barack Obama hands over the White House to Republican Donald Trump in 70 days, leaving the Democratic Party leaderless and with few up-and-coming stars among its aging stalwarts. \n In what appeared to be a wave election, Republicans also secured majorities they already enjoyed in the Senate and the House and in governor's mansions and state legislatures across the country. Democrats were all but wiped out in places like Iowa and Kentucky. \n The defeat of Hillary Clinton, an experienced Washington politician who sought common ground with Republicans, could make it more likely that the party will turn to its liberal wing as it grapples with its future. That's best represented by Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, whom Clinton defeated in a long primary, and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, a pull-no-punches progressive darling. \n The Democratic Party should remold itself in the image of Warren and Sanders \"and offer a systemic critique of the rigged economy\" that appeals to the same voters who put Trump over the top, said Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. \n Green said Democrats must make a \"conscious decision to separate themselves from the corporate villains who are to a large extent funding their campaigns.\" \n Trump's open warfare with Republican leaders over the past year and a half obscured the extent of the Democrats' crisis, and they are only now beginning to contend with it. \n \"This is painful, and it will be for a long time,\" Clinton said in her concession speech Wednesday in New York. She implored those who want to fight for Democratic values \u2014 particularly young voters \u2014 to participate every day, not just every four years. \n Hawaii Sen. Brian Schatz urged careful deliberation as the Democratic reckoning begins. He said the \"rush to recalibrate\" strategy and messaging concerns him. \n \"Democrats need to take, not forever, but weeks and months to diagnose what just happened to us and why,\" he said. \n But the outlook for Democrats may well get worse before it improves. \n In two years, they will be defending about two dozen Senate seats, including at least five in deep-red states. That election could hand Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell a filibuster-proof majority, further clearing the way for a conservative policy agenda. \n \"We have to ask ourselves what is wrong with our party,\" said Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, arguing it's at least in part a failure to connect with working-class people who are hurting. \n One small Democratic bright spot this year was the election of three women of color to the Senate, Catherine Cortez Masto in Nevada, Kamala Harris in California and Tammy Duckworth in Illinois. At the same time, the party's marquee names are far older than the core Democratic coalition. \n Sanders is 75, Warren 67 and soon-to-be Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer turns 66 this month. Across the Capitol, Democrats are led by 76-year-old Rep. Nancy Pelosi of California. \n In a telephone interview Thursday with The Associated Press, Sanders said Democrats must take a strong stand against the role of corporate interests in politics. \n That millions of white working-class people voted for Trump \"suggests that the Democratic message of standing up for working people no longer holds much sway among workers in this country,\" Sanders said. \n Warren is speaking Thursday at an AFL-CIO executive council meeting. Although labor leaders spent millions of dollars backing Clinton, many union members, particularly in Rust Belt states that had been Democratic strongholds, appear to have voted for Trump. \n \"We should hear the message loud and clear that the American people want Washington to change,\" Warren is telling them, according to her prepared remarks. \"Working families across this country are deeply frustrated about an economy and a government that doesn't work for them.\" \n Democratic woes ripple into their party's infrastructure, as the Democratic National Committee in Washington struggles. Both the chairwoman who stepped down this summer and the woman who succeeded her in the interim have been dinged by embarrassing emails published by WikiLeaks after what the government believes was a Russian hack of their internal Democratic systems. \n Sanders said he would support Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota to become the next chairman of the DNC. \n Democrats emphasized their party's diversity, and some argued that Trump's singular appeal as a plain-spoken celebrity businessman does not translate into a wholesale voter rejection of Democratic policies. \n Jaime Harrison, the South Carolina party chairman, downplayed the idea that Trump's nationalistic populism should necessarily push the Democratic Party leftward. \"That might be overthinking what happened,\" he said. \n Harrison argued it's more about finding the right messengers to take the Democratic platform to the pockets of the electorate that have drifted away from the party, naming New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker among others as potential role models for other Democrats. \n Yet Walsh warned Democrats not to fall into the same trap as they did eight years ago, after an inspiring 47-year-old first-term senator with a powerful stage presence was elected president. \n \"Every now and then you get a shining star, and that person takes over the party,\" Walsh said. \"And during that time you sort of lose the bench.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Ken Thomas and Bill Barrow contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As Obama leaves office, Democrats look for new leaders"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "CLIMATE.GOV / NOAA \n This graphic shows ocean temperatures in the Pacific last month. \n LOS ANGELES >> La Nina has arrived and could hang around through winter, government weather forecasters said today. \n La Nina, the flip side of El Nino, is the periodic cooling of the central Pacific Ocean that affects weather patterns around the globe. Predictions called for fleeting La Nina conditions that could last through February. \n It's \"anticipated to be a weak, short-lived event,\" said Mike Halpert of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climate Prediction Center. \n In the United States, the arrival of La Nina usually brings wetter winters to the northern Rockies, Pacific Northwest and Ohio Valley and warmer, drier conditions to southern parts. \n There's a 55 percent chance La Nina will stick around through winter, causing the drought to persist in Southern California and regions in the Southeast and southern Plains to experience dry conditions, NOAA said. \n After five years of withering drought that forced mandatory water conservation, parts of California have recovered thanks to October storms that doused the northern part of the state. Three-quarters of California remain in drought, mostly in the central agricultural belt and Southern California. \n The drought cost the state's economy $2.7 billion in 2015 alone, according to a recent study by the University of California, Davis. \n NOAA planned to release a winter forecast update next week. Last month, the agency predicted a wet winter in the northern Rockies, Great Lakes region, Hawaii and western Alaska. Warmer and drier than normal conditions were predicted for the South while it was a tossup for the middle section of the country. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Forecasters say La Nina is here, could mean wet winter in Hawaii"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n High school students protest in opposition of Donald Trump's presidential election victory in front of City Hall in San Francisco, today. \n NEW YORK >> Demonstrators took to the streets in San Francisco and gathered in a New York City park today to express their outrage over Donald Trump's unexpected presidential win while Trump supporters took to social media and denounced demonstrators as hypocrites or worse for not accepting defeat in a democratic process. \n High-spirited high school students marched through San Francisco's downtown, chanting \"not my president\" and holding signs urging a Donald Trump eviction. They waved rainbow banners and Mexican flags, as bystanders in the heavily Democratic city high-fived the marchers from the sidelines. \n \"As a white, queer person, we need unity with people of color, we need to stand up,\" said Claire Bye, a 15-year-old sophomore at Academy High School. \"I'm fighting for my rights as an LGBTQ person. I'm fighting for the rights of brown people, black people, Muslim people.\" \n In New York City, about a hundred protesters gathered at Union Square in Manhattan to protest a Trump presidency. They held signs that read \"Divided States of America\" and \"Not My President\" and \"Let the New Generation Speak!!\" \n At a subway station along 14th Street, New Yorkers expressed their thoughts \u2014 \"Time to Fight Back\" and \"Keep the Faith! Our work is just beginning!\" \u2014 along the walls of a walkway using sticky notes. \n On Twitter, Trump supporters accused protesters of not respecting the process because it didn't work out in their favor. \n \"You're literally protesting against free democratic elections. Go live in North Korea, you absolute trash,\" one said. \"They're not protesting Trump, they're protesting democracy and the right to disagree with them. Isn't that fascism,\" said another. \n Thousands demonstrated Wednesday around the country, from New England to Kansas City to the West Coast. Flames lit up the night sky in California cities as protesters burned a giant papier-mache Trump head in Los Angeles and started fires in Oakland intersections. \n In Chicago, where thousands had recently poured into the streets to celebrate the Chicago Cubs' first World Series victory in over a century, several thousand people marched through the Loop. They gathered outside Trump Tower, chanting \"Not my president!\" \n Since Tuesday night, protesters have marched in the Midwest, including St. Paul, Minnesota, Omaha, Nebraska, and Kansas City, Missouri. Marchers protesting Trump's election chanted and carried signs in front of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Janie Har in San Francisco contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Anti-Trump protests continue; Opponents call them hypocrites"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., campaigned for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at the University of Cincinnati on Nov. 3. President Barack Obama hands over the White House to Republican Donald Trump in 71 days, leaving the Democratic Party leaderless and with few up-and-coming stars among its aging cast of stalwarts. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. spoke at a rally for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at St. Anselm College in Manchester, N.H. on Oct. 24. The defeat of Clinton, an experienced Washington politician who sought common ground with Republicans, could make it more likely that the party will turn to its liberal wing as it grapples with its future. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Bernie Sanders is leaving open the possibility of another presidential bid as shell-shocked liberals focus on helping the Democratic Party rebuild after Donald Trump's victory. \n \"Four years is a long time from now,\" said the 75-year-old Vermont independent, noting that he faces re-election to the Senate in 2018. But he added: \"We'll take one thing at a time, but I'm not ruling out anything.\" \n Democrats have begun postelection soul searching, with Sanders and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., urging the party to embrace a more populist economic message. As some Democrats protested across the country, the party's liberal wing began jockeying for power, arguing that Clinton's loss could be attributed to her reluctance to fully focus on economic inequality and tougher Wall Street regulations. \n \"The final results may have divided us \u2014 but the entire electorate embraced deep, fundamental reform of our economic system and our political system,\" Warren told the AFL-CIO today. \"Working families across this country are deeply frustrated about an economy and a government that doesn't work for them.\" \n Warren laid out the principles she believes should govern Democrats during the Trump era: Standing up to bigotry, pushing for economic equality and combatting the influence of Wall Street. \n \"We will fight back against attacks on Latinos, African Americans, women, Muslims, immigrants, disabled Americans \u2014 on anyone. Whether Donald Trump sits in a glass tower or sits in the White House, we will not give an inch on this, not now, not ever,\" she said. \n The sweeping Republican gains have thrown the future of the party into uncertainty, as Democrats process the scale of their losses and try to figure out the best way to come back in the 2018 elections. The Democratic National Committee may end up being ground zero for the fight, with no clear successor in line to replace interim chairwoman Donna Brazile. \n Sanders is backing Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison. \n Warren and Sanders were articulating the frustrations among many liberals in the aftermath of Trump's stunning triumph over Hillary Clinton. But their influence underscores another problem facing Democrats: Many of the party's leading voices are senior citizens, older than their core constituencies of young and minority voters. Warren is 67. \n Sanders said that millions of working-class voters' decision to back Trump was \"an embarrassment\" to the party and Democrats must take a strong stand against the role of corporate interests in politics. He said the party as a whole was unable to make a strong enough case to struggling workers, particularly in the industrial Midwest, who sided with Trump. \n \"You cannot be a party which, on one hand, says we're in favor of working people, we're in favor of the needs of young people, but we don't quite have the courage to take on Wall Street and the billionaire class. People do not believe that. You've got to decide which side you're on.\" \n While Clinton pushed for greater financial regulation and higher taxes on the wealthy, she shied away from his more populist rhetoric. And she also largely ignored white working-class male voters in favor of trying to boost turnout among minority and female supporters. \n The decision infuriated former President Bill Clinton who argued to campaign officials that they should pay greater attention to the voters who twice boosted her husband to office. During the long primary slog against Sanders, he insisted the campaign make stops in Wisconsin, which ended up being the last time either Clinton appeared in the state. \n Wisconsin voted for Trump, shocking many in her campaign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sanders doesn't rule out 2020 White House run"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "The University of Hawaii at Manoa's Hawaiian studies dean is being recommended for the chancellor position at UH-West Oahu, the university announced today. \n Maenette Benham, who was named inaugural dean of the Hawaiinuiakea School of Hawaiian Knowledge in 2008, was one of three finalists named in September by a search advisory committee. \n A former elementary and secondary teacher, Benham holds a doctorate in educational administration from UH-Manoa. She began her teaching career in 1978 and has taught in Hawaii, California and Texas. Benham previously taught at Kaiser High School, Kamehameha Schools and Chaminade University before joining the College of Education faculty at Michigan State University, where she spent 16 years. \n \"One of Dr. Benham's true gifts is her commitment to collaboration, inclusiveness and partnership, which is extremely important as UH West is poised to develop its identity in a time of growth,\" UH President David Lassner said in a statement. \"I am confident she will provide inspirational leadership to the campus and the community.\" \n Her appointment, along with a recommended salary that has yet to be made public, is subject to approval by the UH Board of Regents at its Nov. 17 meeting. \n Retired university executive Doris Ching has been leading the West Oahu campus on an interim basis since late last year, following the retirement of Rockne Freitas. \n \"I am honored to be given this opportunity and promise to build on the great work of my predecessors as I work collaboratively with the amazing faculty, staff, and students of UH West Oahu,\" Benham said in a statement. \"The next voyage of UH West Oahu's history will be a critical one as our sail plan will include expanding our campus and developing signature programs to serve the central and west Oahu region and the entire state.\" \n The UH-West Oahu campus serves approximately 2,900 students at its Kapolei campus, which opened in 2012. (Established in 1976, the college previously operated out of portables next to Leeward Community College.) Enrollment at the Kapolei campus has increased every year since opening. At full capacity, the university's strategic plan calls for eventually accommodating 20,000 students. \n UH last fall moved ahead with plans to lease more than 160 acres of vacant land next to the campus for mixed-use development to help support the growing university. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaiian studies dean selected to lead UH-West Oahu"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "A 70-year-old woman apparently drowned in waters off Poipu Beach on Kauai Wednesday. \n She has been identified as Janice Klayson of Kansas. \n Shortly after 5 p.m., firefighters responded to a woman who was swimming approximately 30 feet from the shore then discovered face down in the water. \n Police said bystanders pulled Klayson to shore and performed CPR until firefighters arrived. Paramedics transported her to Wilcox Hospital where she was pronounced dead. \n An autopsy is expected to be performed to determine the exact cause of death. \n This is Kauai's 12th drowning this year compared to six for all of last year. \n A high surf warning is in effect for north and west shores of Kauai County and Molokai and along the north shores of Oahu and Maui until 6 p.m. Friday. Surf of up to 20 to 25 feet is expected. \n Officials advised beachgoers to steer clear of the water and shoreline at affected areas due to hazardous currents and breaking waves. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman who died while swimming at Kauai beach identified"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "HAGATNA, Guam >> A Korean Air passenger who pleaded guilty to interfering with a flight crew after he was accused of fighting with a flight attendant who refused to serve him more beer may withdraw the plea and face trial. \n Kwon Woo Sung previously signed a plea deal that called for a one-month prison sentence with credit for time already served following the alleged incident on the April flight from Seoul to Guam. \n Kwon is accused of starting a fight with the flight attendant who refused to serve him another beer. Other passengers struggled with Kwon to subdue him and tie him up inside the plane, court documents said. \n In handing down a stiffer penalty Tuesday, Chief Judge Frances Tydingco-Gatewood cited passenger interviews and a video of the incident played in court. On the video, a man can be heard swearing and threatening to kill the flight attendant's family. \n \"It's quite disturbing to me,\" Tydingco-Gatewood said. \n Kwon, 41, suffers from anxiety, depression and poor impulse control and had been going through a crisis, his lawyers said. \n A court hearing is scheduled for Nov. 16 to discuss Kwon's punishment, court records said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Korean Air passenger in alleged beer fight may go to trial"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People stood on the steps of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, next to the White House in Washington, today, as they waited for the arrival of President-elect Donald Trump for his meeting with President Barack Obama. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump is keeping America in the dark about his earliest conversations and decisions about his incoming government, and bucking a long-standing practice intended to ensure the public has a watchful eye on the nation's new leader. \n Trump refused to allow journalists to travel with him to Washington today for his historic first meeting with President Barack Obama and congressional leaders. The Republican's top advisers rebuffed news organizations' requests for a small \"pool\" of journalists to trail Trump as he attended meetings Washington. \n The decision was part of an opaque pattern in Trump's first moves since his victory Tuesday. Trump was entirely out of sight on Wednesday. His aides said he was huddled with advisers at his offices in New York. His team has not put out a daily schedule, or offered any detailed updates on how he has spent his time. They have not acknowledged phone calls or other contact with world leaders. \n When Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a congratulatory telegram to Trump on Wednesday, Moscow spread the word. A phone call with British Prime Minster Theresa May was announced in London. The pattern was repeated for calls with leaders of Israel, Egypt, South Korea and Australia. \n The White House typically releases statements on the president's phone calls with foreign leaders, providing some details about the conversation. Past presidents-elect have had early briefings with journalists, even in confusing first hours after Election Day. \n But early signs suggest Trump is willing to break protocol when it comes to press access and transparency. \n As a candidate, Trump railed against the press as \"disgusting\" and \"dishonest.\" He refused to allow a pool of campaign reporters and photographers fly on his plane to events, sometimes starting his rallies before his press corps arrived. The practice did not extend to his running mate, Mike Pence, who was followed by a traditional pool of journalists. \n News organizations had tried for weeks to coordinate a pool of journalists to travel with Trump immediately after Election Day if he won. The Associated Press is among those reaching out to Trump advisers about press access. \n Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said the president-elect's team expects \"to operate a traditional pool and look forward to implementing our plans in the near future.\" \n The White House Correspondents' Association, which coordinates press pools and advocates for transparency at the White House, urged Trump to allow journalists to cover his meetings and other movements. \n \"This decision could leave Americans blind about his whereabouts and well-being in the event of a national crisis,\" said Jeff Mason, White House correspondent for Reuters and the group's president. \"Not allowing a pool of journalists to travel with and cover the next president of the United States is unacceptable.\" \n Trump's meeting with Obama in the Oval Office was recorded by the pool of White House reporters, photographers and TV journalists who cover the president. \n Every president and president-elect in recent memory has traveled with a pool of journalists when they leave the White House grounds. \n A pool of reporters and photographers were in the motorcade when President John F. Kennedy was shot and killed in Dallas. The pool was just steps away from President Ronald Reagan when he was shot outside a hotel in the District of Columbia, and was stationed outside his hospital as he recovered. The pool also travels on vacation and foreign trips and at times captures personal, historic moments of the presidency. \n The practice makes journalists eyewitnesses to how the president conducts business, rather than relying on secondhand accounts. It often captures more intimate moments between the president and people he greets. The White House, meanwhile, depends on having journalists near at all times to relay the president's first comments on breaking news. \n News organizations take turns serving in the small group, paying their way and sharing the material collected in the pool with the larger press corps. The pool also covers official events at the White House when space doesn't allow for the full press corps. \n Because of safety concerns, presidents and presidents-elect travel in a bubble of security, with the exact timing of their travel kept secret and streets often blocked off around their events. That leaves news organizations dependent on the White House to facilitate the pool coverage by arranging security clearances and transportation. \n Obama also has looked for new ways to limit White House press access. \n On Thursday, photographers were not allowed to shoot a meeting between first lady Michelle Obama and Melania Trump, who joined her husband on the White House visit. \n The White House released a photo taken by a staff photographer and circulated it on social media. The Associated Press does not distribute such photos. \n White House photographers were allowed to shoot a similar meeting between Mrs. Obama and then-first lady Laura Bush eight years ago. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump bucks protocol on press access"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former U.S. Rep. Aaron Schock, center, and members of his family listened as attorney Jeff Lang, right, spoke during a press conference today, outside Peoria Heights Village Hall in Peoria Heights, Ill. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former U.S. Rep. Aaron Schock, R-Ill. spoke to reporters in Peoria, Ill. in Feb. 2015. Schock's defense team said it's been told that the former Illinois congressman is being indicted by a federal grand jury. \n PEORIA, Ill. \u00bb The Illinois congressman who resigned amid scrutiny of lavish spending \u2014 including remodeling his Capitol Hill office in the style of the television series \"Downton Abbey\" \u2014 was indicted today on 24 federal counts, including wire fraud and theft of funds. \n The 52-page indictment charges Aaron Schock with nine counts of wire fraud, five of falsification of election commission filings, six of filing false federal income tax returns, two of making false statements and one each of mail fraud and theft of government funds. \n A convictoin on just one count of wire fraud alone carries a maximum 20 year prison sentence. \n Before the charges were announced, Schock's attorney, George Terwilliger, called the indictment a \"misuse\" of prosecutorial power by the Justice Department. \n \"This indictment will look bad, but underneath it is just made-up allegations of criminal activity arising from unintentional administrative errors,\" Terwilliger said in a statement. \"These charges are the culmination of an effort to find something, anything, to take down Aaron Schock. \n Once a rising star and prodigious fundraiser for the GOP, the 35-year-old Republican from Peoria resigned in March 2015 amid intensifying scrutiny over real estate deals, extensive travel that he documented on his social media accounts and other spending documented by The Associated Press and other media outlets. The reports raised questions about improper mileage reimbursements, trips on donors' aircraft and more. \n The former congressman downplayed the allegations in June, saying any wrongdoing was \"honest mistakes.\" \n In his own statement today, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schock said he never intentionally did anything wrong and that he was eager to defend his name and reputation. \n \"As I have said before, we might have made errors among a few of the thousands and thousands of financial transactions we conducted, but they were honest mistakes \u2014 no one intended to break any law,\" he said. \n The charges are the culmination of 19-month investigation that included two grand juries that Schock said \"poked, prodded, and probed every aspect of my professional, political, and personal life.\" \n \"Like many Americans, I wanted to have faith in the integrity of our Justice Department,\" he said. \"But after this experience, I am forced to join millions of other Americans who have sadly concluded that our federal justice system is broken and too often driven by politics instead of facts.\" \n Associated Press writer Eric Tucker contributed from Washington. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spendthrift ex-Illinois congressman indicted on wire fraud, theft counts"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "KAUAI POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Koma Texeira, left, and Clayton Kona are being held on a murder charge in connection with the death of a Kekaha man. \n A Kauai grand jury indicted two Waimea men Wednesday for murder in connection with the shooting death of a 34-year-old Kekaha man on Kauai. \n Clayton K. Kona, 38, and Koma K. Texeira Jr., 20, pleaded not guilty at their arraignment Wednesday before Judge Joe Moss at Kauai District Court. \n Kona was indicted as an accomplice for second-degree murder and firearm-related charges. His bail was increased to $750,000 from $500,000. \n Texeira was indicted for second-degree murder and firearm-related charges. His bail was increased to $1 million from $500,000. \n A preliminary hearing for both Kona and Texeira is set for Monday. \n A man walking along the shoreline near Port Allen Airport found Jon Togioka's body on Nov. 1. Police said Togioka sustained multiple gunshot wounds. \n Police arrested Kona on Nov. 3 and Texeira on Friday. Prosecutors charged both men for murder Monday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Grand jury indicts Kauai men in murder case"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Kasen Kunishima-Takushi, 20, the former Pacific University football player, appeared in court with his defense attorney Randall Hironaka before Judge Collete Garibaldi on Oct. 6. \n A 20-year-old Mililani man charged with rape of a student in Oregon is free after posting bail. \n Kasen Kunishima-Takushi recently pleaded not guilty at Washington County Circuit Court in Oregon to charges of first-degree rape, three counts of first-degree sodomy and two counts of fourth-degree assault. \n He was released after he posted $52,000 via bond of his $520,000 bail. A pre-trial hearing is set for Nov. 14 where his attorney will offer a plea, according to Deputy District Attorney Bracken McKay. \n The assaults occurred between Sept. 1, 2015 and Nov. 20, 2015 in Washington County. Forest Grove police said a female student reported three assaults that occurred on and off campus last November. \n Kunishima-Takushi was a student at Pacific University in Oregon for the 2014-2015 academic year and for the first two months of the 2015-2016 year. \n The woman reported the alleged attacks to police in late November. By that time, Kunishima-Takushi had returned to Hawaii. \n On Oct. 4, he was arrested at the University of Hawaii at Manoa for extradition to Oregon. Kunishima-Takushi is currently a freshman at UH-Manoa. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "UH-Manoa student charged in sex assault case is released on bail"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n High surf off Waimea Bay on the North Shore. Most beach goers stayed out of the water and enjoyed the waves from a safe distance. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n High surf at Waimea Bay on Tuesday. \n A large northwest swell today is expected to bring surf up to 25 feet along affected shores of most islands and prompted forecasters at the National Weather Service to post a high surf warning early this morning. \n The high surf warning is now in effect through 6 a.m. Friday. \n Weather officials expect surf up to 20 to 25 feet along the north and west shores of Kauai County and Molokai, and along the north shores of Oahu and Maui. \n The dangerous surf is expected to build from this afternoon through this evening. \n Weather officials warned of hazardous currents and breaking waves. \"Large breaking surf, significant shorebreak and dangerous currents make entering the water very hazardous. Anyone entering the water could face significant injury or death.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big surf expected today; High surf warning is in effect"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama and President-elect Donald Trump shook hands following their meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama met with President-elect Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester held a sign that reads \"Dump Trump\" as she took part in a protest against the election of President-elect Donald Trump, Wednesday, in downtown Seattle. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters marched in opposition of Donald Trump's presidential election victory in San Francisco on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama, accompanied by Vice President Joe Biden, spoke about the election results, Wednesday, in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump took a triumphant tour of the nation's capital today, holding a cordial White House meeting with President Barack Obama, sketching out priorities with Republican congressional leaders and taking in the majestic view from where he'll be sworn in to office. \n Trump's meeting with Obama spanned 90 minutes, longer than originally scheduled. Obama said he was \"encouraged\" by Trump's willingness to work with his team during the transition of power, and the Republican called the president a \"very good man.\" \n \"I very much look forward to dealing with the president in the future, including his counsel,\" Trump said from the Oval Office. He'll begin occupying the office on Jan. 20. \n While Trump noted that he and Obama had never met before, their political histories will forever be linked. Trump spent years perpetrating the lie that Obama was born outside the United States. The president campaigned aggressively against Trump during the 2016 campaign, warning that his election would put the republic at risk. \n But at least publicly, the two men appeared to put aside their animosity. As the meeting concluded and journalists scrambled out of the Oval Office, Obama smiled at his successor and explained the unfolding scene. \n \"We now are going to want to do everything we can to help you succeed because if you succeed the country succeeds,\" Obama said. \n From the White House, Trump headed to Capitol Hill for meetings with House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky to discuss the GOP legislative agenda. Ryan, who holds the most powerful post in Congress, was a sometime critic of Trump and never campaigned with the nominee. \n Emerging from the meetings, Trump sketched out priorities for his presidency. \n \"We're going to move very strongly on immigration,\" he said. \"We will move very strongly on health care. And we're looking at jobs. Big league jobs.\" \n If Trump makes good on his campaign promises, he'll wipe away much of what Obama has done during his eight years in office. The Republican president-elect, who will govern with Congress fully under GOP control, has vowed to repeal Obama's signature health care law and dismantle the landmark nuclear accord with Iran. He's also vowed to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. \n First lady Michelle Obama met privately in the White House residence with Trump's wife, Melania, while Vice President Joe Biden was seeing Vice President-elect Mike Pence later Thursday. \n Obama and Trump met alone, with no staff present, White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters afterward. \n \"The two men did not relitigate their differences in the Oval Office,\" Earnest said. \"We're on to the next phase.\" \n Trump traveled to Washington from New York on his private jet, breaking with protocol by not bringing journalists in his motorcade or on his plane to document his historic visit to the White House. Trump was harshly critical of the media during his campaign and for a time banned news organizations whose coverage he disliked from his events. \n As scores of journalists waited to be admitted to the Oval Office to see Obama and Trump together, they saw White House chief of staff Denis McDonough walking along the South Lawn driveway with Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law. A handful of Trump aides trailed them. \n The show of civility at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue contrasted with postelection scenes of protests across a politically divided country. Demonstrators from New England to the heartland and the West Coast vented against the election winner on Wednesday, chanting \"Not my president,\" burning a papier-mache Trump head, beating a Trump pinata and carrying signs that said \"Impeach Trump.\" \n More than 100 protesters held a sit-in outside Trump International Hotel just blocks from the White House. The mostly student protesters held signs saying \"Love Trumps Hate,\" a phrase Democrat Hillary Clinton often used during the campaign. \n Trump's advisers, many of whom were stunned by his unexpected victory over Clinton, plunged into the work of setting up a White House and staffing government agencies. \n Officials at the Pentagon and State Department said they had not yet been contacted. \n State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the agency stood ready \"to work with the incoming team once that team is designated and arrives here. But we don't have any firm word as to when that will be.\" \n Trump was expected to consider several loyal supporters for top jobs, including former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani for attorney general or national security adviser and campaign finance chairman Steve Mnuchin for Treasury secretary. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker were also expected to be under consideration for foreign policy posts. \n As president-elect, Trump is entitled to the same daily intelligence briefing as Obama \u2014 one that includes information on U.S. covert operations, information gleaned about world leaders and other data gathered by America's 17 intelligence agencies. The White House said it would organize two exercises involving multiple agencies to help Trump's team learn how to respond to major domestic incidents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump takes triumphant tour of Washington, meets Obama"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump smiled as he arrived, Wednesday, to speak at an election night rally, in New York. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Late-night hosts pivoted from candidate Donald Trump to President-elect Trump, combining punch lines and audience group counseling after the billionaire's defeat of Hillary Clinton. \n \"For years I've come out every night and asked how you're doing, but I've never meant it. Tonight I actually mean it. Does anyone need a hug?\" Conan O'Brien said in his monologue Wednesday on TBS. Despite divisions among voters, he said, \"the optimist in me chooses today to be happy that we have fair and free elections at all. It's an amazing thing.\" \n And then there were the jokes. \"The first thing I did this morning was call my old high school bully and congratulate him,\" O'Brien said. \n ABC's Jimmy Kimmel took viewers through the stages of grief, including denial (\"No, the host of 'The Celebrity Apprentice' is not our president\") and bargaining (\"Maybe he'll only build the wall waist-high, to keep short people out\") and, finally, acceptance. \n \"No matter how you feel about it, Donald Trump is the president of the United States. Of America. So thank God we legalized marijuana yesterday,\" Kimmel said, referring to pot-related measures passed by voters in several states. \n Like O'Brien, Stephen Colbert began his monologue by asking CBS' \"The Late Show\" studio audience how they were doing, drawing cheers and applause. \n \"I'm glad. That's better than I thought,\" he said, suggesting the country was facing \"four very interesting years.\" \n \"This is what it feels like when America's made great again. I was wondering, and I was really hoping it would feel better because this sucks,\" he said, drawing out the last word. Noting anti-Trump protests in New York and other cities nationwide, Colbert advised viewers, \"Don't ever be cowed by what happens in the next four years.\" \n For parents struggling to explain Trump's victory to their children, he suggested lying: \"Tell them anything. Tell them the president is Elsa from 'Frozen.'\" \n NBC's \"Tonight\" host Jimmy Fallon focused on serving up jokes rather than angst. \n \"Republicans hope he'll keep his promise to build the wall, and Democrats hope he'll keep his promise not to accept the election results,\" he said. \"And after the results came in, Donald Trump gave a big victory speech. Yep, he said he couldn't have done it without the love of his life, his rock, his better half \u2014 FBI Director James Comey.\" \n CBS' \"Late Late Show\" host James Corden, recalling the excitement of moving from England to America with his wife and son two years ago, said after the \"nastiest\" of campaigns it was critical to remember the nation's values. \n \"This country isn't about one election result. This country is about the people who live here. It's you. It's how you treat one another, it's the tone you set that will define who we are\" and reaffirm that America is great, he said. \n Seth Meyers, who had sharply criticized Trump's campaign on his \"Late Night\" show on NBC, struck a philosophical tone in hashing over Tuesday's election. \n \"I felt a lot of emotions last night and into today: some sadness, some anger, some fear. But I'm also aware that those are the same emotions a lot of Trump supporters felt, emotions that led them to make their choice. And it would be wrong for me to think my emotions are somehow more authentic than their emotions.\" \n Meyers got a bit choked up when talking about his mother's excitement prior to the election about the prospect seeing the first woman president. He hopes he and his mother live to see the day when a woman takes the White House, he said. \n For now, Meyers is hoping for compassion for all Americans from the Trump administration. \n \"We're always better as a society when we have empathy for one another, so I would just say to those Trump voters, congratulations. I sincerely hope he addresses your concerns,\" Meyers said. \n His show will be on watch, he said, to see if Trump fulfills the campaign promises he made. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Late-night hosts mark Trump's election with jokes, therapy"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "U.S. COAST GUARD \n The crew of the Coast Guard cutter Galveston Island boards commercial fishing vessels near Honolulu looking for compliance with state and federal regulations. \n The Coast Guard cited three commercial fishing vessels for safety and other violations, and sent the boats back to port during inspections this month, in one instance discovering a non-U.S. citizen at the helm of a U.S. vessel. \n The Coast Guard boarded 10 vessels and issued 39 notices of violation to the fishing vessels Azure, Capt. Millions III and Capt. Danny off Honolulu Harbor. The citations included two fisheries violations; two potential marine pollution violations; and 35 safety violations. \n Two U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service special agents assisted in boardings led by the crew of the Coast Guard cutter Galveston Island, which found multiple discrepancies, including \"excessive volatile fuel, multiple five-gallon buckets of oily water, oily water in the bilge, lack of a sound-producing device, lack of a record log book for training and drills as well as inoperable bilge and general alarms,\" the Coast Guard said in a news release. \n The Galveston Island escorted the boats back to port, where they will remain until the violations are corrected, the Coast Guard said. \n \"Our role as the boarding team is to ensure compliance with all federal regulations,\" said lead boarding officer, Lt. j.g. Chelsea Sheehy. \"We identified various types of violations and instructed the respective masters to make the necessary corrections in order to ensure the overall safety of the Hawaii-based commercial fishing fleet.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser", "title": "Coast Guard sends fishing boats back to port for safety violations"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "CANONSBURG, Pa. >> Two police officers have been shot in western Pennsylvania, and the search is underway for a suspect. \n The shooting happened at about 4 a.m. Thursday in Canonsburg, 20 miles southwest of Pittsburgh. \n Canonsburg Mayor Dave Rhome tells radio station WJPA two officers were shot, but the he did not know their conditions. Their names have not been released. \n One officer was taken to a hospital in Canonsburg and the other was flown to a hospital in Pittsburgh. \n Officials have not released details about what led to the shootings. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 officers shot in western Pennsylvania; suspect sought"}

{"date": "November 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Defendant Michael P. covers his face as he arrives in a courtroom in Traunstein, southern Germany. \n BERLIN >> A German train dispatcher charged with 12 counts of negligent homicide and 89 counts of causing bodily harm in the collision of two commuter trains earlier this year admitted Thursday to hitting the wrong signal buttons, news agency dpa reported. \n The dispatcher, identified only as Michael P. in line with German privacy laws, made the confession at the opening of his trial at the regional court in Traunstein, dpa reported. \n Michael P. said in a statement to the families of the victims that he knows he is guilty and that while he couldn't undo what had happened he wanted to tell the families that \"in my thoughts I am with you.\" \n Prosecutors have said the dispatcher is suspected of playing a game on his phone shortly before the two trains he was in charge of collided on a single-track line on Feb. 9 near the Bavarian town of Bad Aibling, which is about 60 kilometers (40 miles) southeast of Munich. \n The dispatcher is accused of having played the phantasy game \"Dungeon Hunter 5\" on his smartphone until shortly before the crash, dpa reported. When asked about his online game habits at the trial, the accused didn't answer, dpa reported. \n The dispatcher has been in custody since April. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Train dispatcher admits hitting wrong signal in crash trial"}

