{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ammon Bundy speaks during an interview at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, near Burns, Ore. Bundy the leader of an armed takeover of a national wildlife refuge took the witness stand in his own defense, tearfully telling jurors he was initially reluctant get involved in the plight of an Oregon ranching family. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> The leader of a 41-day standoff at a national wildlife refuge in Oregon testified that he orchestrated the takeover to take \"a hard stand\" against the federal government's control of public lands and said the occupiers would not be successful unless they carried guns. \n Ammon Bundy's two days of testimony have taken jurors from his family's high-profile 2014 standoff with federal agents in Nevada to this winter's occupation of Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, revealing the connections between the two. Bundy asserted the Nevada standoff triggered the activism that led him to Oregon. \n Though U.S. District Judge Anna Brown has tried to keep jurors focused on the criminal charges, the charismatic Bundy has repeatedly tried to use the platform to amplify his message that Western states must win more control over vast federal land holdings. \n Bundy, 41, is among seven people accused of conspiring to impede federal workers from doing their jobs at the refuge during the occupation that lasted nearly six weeks. Four of the seven, including Bundy, are also charged with possessing a gun in a federal facility. If convicted, they face years in prison. \n Bundy said he did not conspire with anyone in the weeks prior to the Jan. 2 occupation. That morning, he met a group at a restaurant 30 miles from the refuge and suggested they take it over during a rally supporting two ranchers set to return to prison for arson. \n \"I proposed to them that we go into the refuge, and we basically take possession of it, and we give these lands back to the people,\" Bundy said. \n He said he wasn't armed on the refuge but acknowledged telling others to carry guns. Otherwise, the occupation had no chance of success, he said. \n \"Without the guns, they would have come out in a paddy wagon and put us in zip-tie handcuffs,\" Bundy said of authorities. \"We would never have been able to tell people why we were there.\" \n Bundy testified that interfering with federal workers was never a consideration. He wanted to generate media coverage of the treatment of Dwight and Steven Hammond, father-and-son ranchers convicted of setting fire to public land, and his belief that the U.S. Constitution gives the federal government very limited right to own land within a state. \n \"This issue is the issue,\" Bundy told the judge when she tried to limit his testimony about the Constitution. \"This is why we went onto the refuge and did what we did.\" \n Bundy maintains he tried legally to keep the Hammonds out of prison before deciding he had no choice but to take what he repeatedly called a \"hard stand.\" \n Prosecutors contend the conspiracy began two months before the occupation, when Bundy met an Oregon sheriff on Nov. 5 to discuss the plight of the Hammonds. Bundy said that was not true. \n He testified that a police official helped ease tensions during a 2014 standoff with federal agents at his father, Cliven Bundy's Nevada ranch. The federal agents tried to round up the elder Bundy's cattle but backed off as they faced a large armed group. \n A video played for jurors showed the police official appearing to broker the deal that allowed Cliven Bundy's cattle to go free. \n Ammon Bundy said that official protected his family, and he figured Harney County Sheriff Dave Ward in Oregon would do the same for the Hammonds. But he said the discussion with Ward got no results, and neither did his efforts to contact elected officials. \n Bundy also discussed how his religious faith played a role in his decision to help the ranchers. The judge, however, stopped him from reading Scripture on the stand. \n After the jury left for its lunch break, Bundy co-defendant Neil Wampler stood to applaud, saying, \"We all love you Ammon. Thank you so much for what you're doing.\" \n Bundy will take the stand again Thursday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Standoff leader: Carrying guns let larger message to get out"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama, accompanied by first lady Michelle Obama, pumps his fist as they watch the torch parade from the balcony of their hotel in Oslo, Norway. \n WASHINGTON >> Seven years ago this week, when a young American president learned he'd been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize barely nine months into his first term \u2014 arguably before he'd made any peace \u2014 a somewhat embarrassed Barack Obama asked his aides to write an acceptance speech that addressed the awkwardness of the award. \n But by the time his speechwriters delivered a draft, Obama's focus had shifted to another source of tension in his upcoming moment in Oslo: He would deliver this speech about peace just days after he planned to order 30,000 more American troops into battle in Afghanistan. \n The president all-but scrapped the draft and wrote his own version. \n The speech Obama delivered \u2014 a Nobel Peace Prize lecture about the necessity of waging war \u2014 now looks like an early sign that the American president would not be the sort of peacemaker the European intellectuals of the Nobel committee had anticipated. \n On matters of war and peace, Obama has proven to be a confounding and contradictory figure, one who stands to leave behind both devastating and pressing failures, as well as a set of fresh accomplishments whose impact could resonate for decades. \n He is the erstwhile anti-war candidate, now engaged in more theaters of war than his predecessor. He is the commander-in-chief who pulled more than a hundred thousand U.S. troops out of harm's way in Iraq, but also began a slow trickle back in. He recoiled against full-scale, conventional war, while embracing the brave new world of drone attacks. He has championed diplomacy on climate change, nuclear proliferation and has torn down walls to Cuba and Myanmar, but failed repeatedly to broker a lasting pause to more than six years of slaughter in Syria. \n If there was consensus Obama had not yet earned his Nobel Peace Prize when he received it in 2009, there's little such agreement on whether he deserves it today. \n \"I don't think he would have been in the speculation of the Nobel committee now, in 2016, even if he had not already won,\" said Kristian Berg Harpviken, director of the Peace Research Institute of Oslo, and a close watcher of the Nobel committee. Harpviken said he views Obama's foreign policy as more conventional and limited than he expected, particularly regarding his use of multilateral cooperation and institutions. \n When it comes to finding new instruments for peace, he said, \"Obama has been stuck in the old paradigm.\" \n By some sobering measures, the case for Obama the peacemaker is difficult to make. Analysts who track conflict, refugee populations, terrorist attacks and political upheaval say the world has only become less peaceful during Obama's tenure, a trend that began just before he took office. \n Instances of terrorism have peaked, deaths in battle around the world are at a 25-year high, and the number of refugees and displaced people has reached a level not seen in sixty years, according to the 2016 Global Peace Index, a report on international stability produced by the nonpartisan think-tank the Institute for Economic and Peace. The researchers attributed the trends to the expanded warfare in the Middle East and North Africa and broad ripples across the region and in Europe. \n Few would blame global strife on one man, even the commander of the world's most powerful military. And if anything, Obama's legacy\u2014 and his supporters would say his strength \u2014 is a steady wariness of limits of using that military without triggering unintended consequences. \n That wariness has led to a seven-year debate over whether the president has used the tools of war to try to make peace too much or little. \n The president's Nobel acceptance speech delivered to Oslo in December 2009 is something of a roadmap to Obama's thinking on use of force. In it, the president affirmed his readiness to wage war in self-defense and called for new thinking on the concept of \"just war.\" \n \"More and more, we all confront difficult questions about how to prevent the slaughter of civilians by their own government, or to stop a civil war whose violence and suffering can engulf an entire region,\" Obama said, years before war broke out in Syria. \"Inaction tears at our conscience and can lead to more costly intervention later. That's why all responsible nations must embrace the role that militaries with a clear mandate can play to keep the peace.\" \n Critics do not see Obama heeding his own call to responsible nations. Obama's refusal to use force to depose Syrian President Bashar Assad, cripple his air force or more aggressively engage in diplomatic efforts to end the fighting have been a steady source of criticism. Many view it as an unfortunate overcorrection from the George W. Bush-era Iraq war. \n \"The president correctly wanted to move away from the maximalist approach of the previous administration, but in doing so he went to a minimalist, gradualist and proxy approach that is prolonging the war. Where is the justice in that?\" said Ret. Lt. Gen. Jim Dubik, a senior fellow at the Institute for the Study of War and the author of the book, \"Just War Reconsider.\" Obama should have worked harder to rally a coalition around a shared vision of a stable Middle East:, he believes. \"Part of the requirement of leadership,\" Dubik said, \"is to operate in that space between where the world is and where the world ought to go.\" \n The president's advisers contend such criticism comes from a misguided presumption that more force yields more peace. Cold-eyed assessments of the options in Syria show no certainty of outcomes, they say, only risk of broader conflict. \n \"In Syria, there is no international basis to go to war against the Assad regime. Similarly, there's no clearly articulable objective as to how it would play out. What is the end that we're seeking militarily?\" said deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes. \"The president doesn't believe you can impose order through military force alone.\" \n But Obama has in many other cases been willing to use limited force to achieve limited objectives, even risking unintended consequences. \n He has ordered drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen, Libya, Somalia and Syria that have killed civilians and sparked tension in those countries and across the international community. What began as a secret program has become more transparent as Obama has aimed to leave legal limits for his predecessor on the use of unmanned warplanes. \n But he has left unanswered the question of how or when those actions will lead to peace, some argued. \n Looking back on Obama's Nobel speech, that dilemma was already there, said Jon Alterman, a Middle East expert and former State Department official. \n \"What's strikes me most is how different our concept of war was seven years ago,\" he said. \"We are engaged in a whole series of infinitely sustainable, low-level actions that have no logical endpoint. When do we stop doing drone attacks in Yemen and Pakistan? What level of terrorism is acceptable? \u2026 We're engaged in battles with a whole range of groups that are never going to surrender, so how do you decide to stop it? How do you decide what winning looks like?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Once lauded as a peacemaker, Obama's tenure fraught with war"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A boy stands inside a church after it was damaged by Hurricane Matthew in Saint-Louis, Haiti. \n LES CAYES, Haiti >> Two days after Hurricane Matthew rampaged across Haiti's remote southwestern peninsula with roaring winds and flooding rains, local authorities and international aid workers still lack a clear picture of the storm's destruction. \n But as the weather began calming and a way was found around a key bridge that was washed away, convoys and helicopters have begun venturing to marooned corners to assess the damage and determine how to help thousands of people who lost homes, livestock and crops. \n At least 16 deaths in the Caribbean have been blamed on the storm. The death toll in Haiti alone was raised to 10 by the country's civil protection agency Wednesday evening, but the number was expected to tick upward as more hard-hit rural areas are reached Thursday and people tell their stories. \n In Aquin, a south coast town outside the battered city of Les Cayes, people trudged through the mud around the wreckage of clapboard houses and tiny shops. \n Cenita Leconte was one of many coastal residents who initially ignored official calls to evacuate vulnerable shacks before Matthew roared ashore at dawn Tuesday as a Category 4 hurricane. The 75-year-old is thankful she finally complied and made it through the terrifying ordeal with her life. \n \"We've lost everything we own. But it would have been our fault if we stayed here and died,\" she told The Associated Press as neighbors poked through wreckage hoping to find at least some of their meager possessions. \n Marie Alta Jean-Baptiste, head of the civil protection agency, said authorities were starting to get a better view of the situation in the Grande Anse department, where the storm made roads impassable and knocked out communications. \n \"We do know there's a lot of damage in the Grand Anse, and we also know human life has been lost there,\" Jean-Baptiste said, adding that the official death toll did not yet include reports from that severely raked area. \n Civil aviation authorities reported counting 3,214 destroyed homes along the southern peninsula, where many families live in shacks with sheet metal roofs and don't always have the resources to escape harm's way. \n The government has estimated at least 350,000 people need some kind of assistance after the disaster, which U.N. Deputy Special Representative for Haiti Mourad Wahba has called the country's worst humanitarian crisis since the devastating earthquake of 2010. \n International aid groups are already appealing for donations to sustain a lengthy recovery effort in Haiti, the hemisphere's least developed and most aid-dependent nation. \n In coming days, U.S. military personnel equipped with nine helicopters were expected to start arriving in the capital to help deliver food and water to hard-hit areas. \n Jean-Michel Vigreux, the country director in Haiti for the non-profit group CARE, said the lack of communication with people in the Grande Anse region was deeply worrisome. \n \"We don't know the exact impact yet. We currently aren't able to communicate with our team in one region, Grande Anse. It is very scary,\" he said. \n As answers were slow to come, some Haitians were convinced their troubled homeland was largely spared the kind of human suffering that severe weather has wrought in the past. \n \"It seems like Haiti dodged a bullet. The news on the radio doesn't seem nearly as bad as it could have been,\" upholsterer Daniel Wesley said as he walked down a rain-slicked street in downtown Port-au-Prince. \n The last Category 4 storm to pound Haiti was Hurricane Flora in 1963, which killed as many as 8,000 people. \n In nearby Cuba, Matthew blew across that island's sparsely populated eastern tip, destroying dozens of homes and damaging hundreds in the island's easternmost city, Baracoa. But nearly 380,000 people were evacuated and strong measures were taken to protect communities and infrastructure, U.N. officials said. \n Early Thursday, Matthew was pounding the central the Bahamas on a path forecast to take it close to the U.S. East Coast, where authorities were pursuing large-scale evacuations. Forecasters said Matthew, which had dropped slightly to a dangerous Category 3 storm after crossing land in Haiti and eastern Cuba, was expected to strengthen anew into a potent Category 4 hurricane in the coming day or so as it nears Florida. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press video journalist Pierre Richard Luxama reported this story in Les Cayes and AP writer David McFadden reported from Port-au-Prince. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Haiti starting to gauge full damage from Matthew's rampage"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "YONHAP VIA AP \n Rescue workers carry a resident through a flooded street caused by Typhoon Chaba in Ulsan, South Korea on Wednesday. Typhoon Chaba slammed South Korea on Wednesday, bringing heavy rains and raging waves to Jeju Island, an island south of the mainland, and the country's southern cities. \n SEOUL \u00bb A typhoon that battered South Korea this week has killed six people and left four others missing, the country's safety agency said Thursday. \n Typhoon Chaba caused strong winds and heavy rain in southeastern areas in South Korea and the southern resort island of Jeju on Tuesday and Wednesday. South Korean officials say the typhoon has later dissipated after moving to the waters off the east coast. \n The six dead include one who fell from a breakwater and another who fell from the roof of a house, the Ministry of Public Safety and Security said in a statement. \n It said the typhoon also left 200 others homeless and temporarily left about 229,000 households without power. \n Chaba also inundated hundreds of houses, shops and factories in the areas, according to the statement. \n Another typhoon, Lionrock, hit a remote area of North Korea in late August, causing floods that are estimated to have killed more than 130 people and left 400 others missing. The Red Cross estimates that 70,000 people were also made homeless in the North's North Hamgyong province. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Typhoon kills 6 people in southeastern South Korea"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "PORTLAND, Ore. \u00bb A former Pacific University football player has been arrested in his home state of Hawaii on rape charges for an alleged assault on another student in Oregon. \n Forest Grove police Capt. Mike Herb says a Pacific University student reported three assaults last November, three weeks after they allegedly occurred. The suspect had been back in Hawaii at the time. \n He's being held on $520,000 bail while he awaits extradition to Oregon. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-football player accused of sex assault arrested in Hawaii"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Chicago City Council on Wednesday approved mayor Rahm Emanuel's plan to create a new agency to investigate police shootings and misconduct allegations even as critics say it's not strong enough to keep a close eye on a police force with a reputation for brutality. \n CHICAGO >> The Chicago City Council on Wednesday approved Mayor Rahm Emanuel's plan to create a new agency to investigate police shootings and misconduct allegations even as critics \u2014 some on the council \u2014 say it's not strong enough to closely watch a police force long dogged by a reputation for brutality and covering up misdeeds of officers. \n Over the objections of some aldermen and several people in the audience who angrily shouted their displeasure, the council voted 39-8 to form a new agency to investigate the police force called the Civilian Office of Police Accountability and create a new deputy inspector whose job will be to monitor the department. \n \"Obviously, Chicago ain't ready for reform,\" said Alderwoman Leslie Hairston, who voted against the plan after complaining that it won't have enough funding and independence from City Hall. \n She said the new agency is \"not what many community organizations and activists want\" and that it's not any more transparent than the Independent Police Review Authority, which was discredited by long delays in completing investigations that almost always sided with officers. \n But Emanuel echoed several aldermen, saying the plan is not perfect but a significant step in a city where faith in the Police Department was shattered last year by a video showing a white police officer fatally shoot black teenager Laquan McDonald in 2014 and allegations that officers tried to cover up what happened. \n \"I consider this to be the beginning of a journey, not the end,\" said the mayor, who fired Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy in the wake of the video that showed 17-year-old McDonald being shot 16 times. \n Emanuel, who is now waiting for the U.S. Department of Justice to finish investigating the Police Department, credited the move with being the latest example of the city's willingness to reform the department. He pointed to changes in officer training, officers being equipped with body cameras and a policy that calls for the release of videos like the McDonald one, which the city refused to put out until a judge's order. \n The new agency will investigate shootings, incidents when officers used stun guns, allegations of physical and psychological coercion of witnesses by officers, as well as allegations that officers conducted improper searches or denied access to attorneys for people suspected of crimes. And the agency would have to complete its investigations within six months or offer an explanation to the mayor and others. \n The agency can't hire anyone who has been a Chicago police officer within the last five years as an investigator \u2014 an effort to satisfy reform advocates who worried that people who were recently on the force might not aggressively investigate officers. \n Critics also singled out a part of the plan that calls for the new agency to hire attorneys from a list of at least five law firms previously approved by the city's law department. \n Hairston wondered how attorneys who owe their jobs to the law department could be trusted to do work that is not influenced by the law department. \n Activists had harsh words for Emanuel's decision to put off the creation of a new civilian board that would help select a new head of the Civilian Office of Police Accountability. Emanuel and others said more community input is needed and that an ordinance for the board will go before the City Council next year. \n The vote for the new police accountability agency comes as other cities around the country \u2014 also often under pressure \u2014 deal with creating or strengthening similar agencies. But while it is too soon to say if it will be effective, Samuel Walker, who teaches criminal justice at the University of Nebraska at Omaha and has researched police oversight boards nationwide, said he was impressed with some components of Chicago's new accountability structures. \n Walker praised Chicago for following Los Angeles in setting up a deputy inspector or inspector general post dedicated to police accountability, saying that's crucial. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago council approves Emanuel's plan for police probes"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lidia Grassley and her son Samuel at Utah Valley Hospital in Provo, Utah. Ryan Grassley discovered a perplexing charge on a hospital bill for the recent birth of his son. Nearly $40 for \"skin to skin\" contact after his wife gave birth via cesarean section. \n SALT LAKE CITY \u00bb Ryan Grassley discovered a perplexing charge on a hospital bill for the recent birth of his son: Nearly $40 for \"skin to skin\" contact after his wife gave birth via cesarean section. \n Amused by the bill, he posted a picture of it on Reddit this week and commented: \"I had to pay $39.35 to hold my baby after he was born.\" \n The post set off a flurry of outrage and consternation on Reddit. Nearly 12,000 people commented, with many sharing their own stories of what they said were bizarre or ridiculous medical charges. \n \"A lot of people like to be shocked and outraged by things,\" Grassley said in an interview Wednesday. \"Today, It happened to be my hospital bill.\" \n The fee technically wasn't for Grassley to hold his baby, but to have an additional nurse present in the hospital recovery room for C-section patients to ensure the mother and baby were safe, said Janet Frank, spokeswoman for Utah Valley Hospital in Provo, Utah. \n \"There is never a charge for a patient to hold their baby,\" Frank said. \n Grassley said that he wasn't mad about the bill or seeking reimbursement but thought posting it would make people laugh. He's also hopeful the attention the bill attracted might lead hospitals to be more precise about their billing charges. \n He said he and his wife were pleased with the doctors and nurses who handled the Sept. 4 birth of their second child, a boy named Samuel. \n A GoFundMe account Grasley set up to pay the bill brought in $60 by Wednesday afternoon and he has a plan for the surplus. \n \"Any money donated over the $39.35 will be put toward a vasectomy because I never want to go through these sleepless new baby nights again,\" Grassley wrote on GoFundMe. \n He sent Frank an email on Tuesday apologizing for ruining her day as media attention about the bill intensified. \n \"Maybe it should have said, 'Sorry for your ruining your week,'\" Grassley said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah father charged $40 for 'skin-to-skin' contact with newborn"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "HOPSKINS POLICE DEPARTMENT / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n An official annoucement from the Hopskins Police Department leading to an arrest of \"Kroacky Klown\" persona. \n MINNEAPOLIS \u00bb A 15-year-old girl seized on the national \"scary clown\" craze and posted on Facebook a violent threat to residents of many Twin Cities communities, and police in one of those cities said they have arrested the juvenile.  \n \"Kroacky Klown has been identified and charges will be pursued for their threats,\" Hopkins police said in its own notice late Tuesday on Facebook. \n Hopkins Police Sgt. Mike Glassberg said his department received information via Facebook that Kroacky Klown posted \"Should I come to Hopkins and kill?\" \n The girl was tracked down and identified as being from Bloomington, Glassberg said. Police were withholding her identity because she is a juvenile. \n \"The suspect had used her younger sister's cellphone to create the fictitious Facebook account,\" the sergeant said. \"The juvenile told police her intent was to scare her boyfriend, but the situation got out of control and went viral.\" \n Glassberg said that another Kroacky Klown threat on Facebook by the girl read: \"If you live in the following Minnesota cities you are in danger: Bloomington, Richfield, Minneapolis, Brooklyn Park, St. Paul, Rochester, Apple Valley, Plymouth or HOPKINS. My clown brothers are in every city listed.\" \n The Kroacky Klown photo depicted the character behind jail bars with a sinister sneer and a bloody gash over one eye. \n In St. Paul, the School District issued a notice on Twitter and Facebook about it receiving \"reports of several threatening 'creepy clown' messages on social media, as well as sightings of clowns in St. Paul.\" \n The district added that even though \"these situations are believed to be hoaxes,\" its security staff is \"monitoring reports and will work closely with St. Paul Police to ensure the safety of our students.\" \n St. Paul Police Sgt. Mike Ernster said Wednesday that his department and school officials are working \"to ensure our students have a safe and secure learning environment. \u2026 We have not had any reported sightings.\" \n Hopkins' Sgt. Glassberg seized the opportunity to urge parents to \"remind their children about the consequences of inappropriate behavior on social media, which may become criminal in nature.\" \n The Police Department in Hopkins takes these threats seriously, Glassberg continued, \"and does not clown around.\" \n In the south metro suburb of Farmington, the police chief expressed exasperation this week with all the hubbub on the internet and elsewhere about scary clowns. \n \"I received a call from a very upset parent,\" Chief Brian Lindquist began. \"He identified his child as the party responsible for Bobo the friendly clown. There was no malicious intent, there was no ill will; it was merely an attempt to scare their best friend.\" \n Noting that he's seen \"the great benefits and the awful dangers of social media,\" Lindquist urged everyone \"to take two seconds before you hit the send key. \u2026 We are done with Bobo the Clown. He doesn't exist. Stay safe and be kind to your neighbors.\" \n There have been people in Alabama, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina and Pennsylvania reporting scary or suspicious encounters with people dressed as clowns. \n \"When people report these things it should be 'someone dressed like a clown,' because a real clown would never dress or do anything to scare anyone,\" said Tricia Manuel, 55, who runs Mooseburger Clown Arts Camp in Maple Lake, Minn. The camp, named for her alter ego, Pricilla Mooseburger, trains about 100 clowns each year. \n She said she has been following the reports closely because they are hurting business. \n \"In South Carolina, two of the clowns were afraid to go out and perform, and they're two of my customers,\" said Manuel, whose two children are also clowns. \n Author Stephen King has made a fortune scaring people and wrote \"It,\" which featured a monster in the form of a clown. King spoke out Monday as a voice of pro-clown reason.  \n \"Hey, guys, time to cool the clown hysteria,\" King tweeted on Monday, \"most of em are good, cheer up the kiddies, make people laugh.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Star Tribune (Minneapolis)  \n ", "author": "By Paul Walsh Star Tribune (Minneapolis)", "title": "Teenage girl ID'd as 'scary clown' that threatened Twin Cities communities"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / SEPT. 2015 \n This Sept. 25, 2015 file photo shows the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. The nation's largest shopping mall says that it will be closed on Thanksgiving in 2016. \n MINNEAPOLIS \u00bb Bucking the trend in recent years of Black Friday shopping encroaching into Thanksgiving, the nation's biggest mall has decided not to open on the holiday this year. \n The Mall of America notified its employees and tenants Wednesday morning that it will close the mall \u2014 including Nickelodeon Universe and even its movie theaters \u2014 on Thanksgiving Day for the first time. Its 520-plus stores will have the option to open on the holiday, but mall executives expect that most will decide to remain closed. \n \"We've been talking about this for months, looking at the numbers, looking at the pros and the cons,\" said Jill Renslow, the mall's senior vice president of marketing and business development. \"We're excited to give this day back to our employees so they can celebrate with their families.\" \n The decision means that most of the 1,200 people who directly work for the suburban Minneapolis mall will get Thanksgiving off. If stores follow suit, the approximately 13,000 people who work at them will also get the day off. A limited number of the mall's security and maintenance personnel will still work since some stores will likely decide to open and an annual fundraiser walk will still go on. \n By making this move, Renslow added that the mall also hoped to \"bring that special magic back to Black Friday.\" The mall will officially open at 5 a.m. the day after Thanksgiving, instead of staying open all night as it has in recent years. Executives plan a special \"door opening ceremony\" and other festivities and giveaways. \n In the last several years, many big-box stores and department stores have moved back their Black Friday openings with big doorbuster sales into Thanksgiving night in a fierce battle for consumers' holiday spending. Crowds of shoppers have shown up at these earlier sales, justifying the change for retailers. But the phenomenon also met complaints from people objecting to the encroachment into the holiday.  \n At the same time, earlier openings have not led to more revenue for retailers, just spread out shopping over more days, analysts have noted. Many stores have also been rolling out \"early Black Friday deals\" earlier in November, which has taken some of the bang out of what typically is one of the biggest shopping days of the year. \n Mall of America's movie theaters and Nickelodeon Universe have been open for years on Thanksgiving Day. In more recent years, the mall has also opened for shopping on Thanksgiving night. Last year, the Mall of America encouraged its stores to open at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving and more than 150 of its stores did so, most of them staying open through the night. But for many of the mall's smaller specialty stores, it was a hardship to staff those hours, which was also a factor in the mall's decision. \n It remains to be seen whether the change will affect sales over the Black Friday weekend when about 400,000 people typically visit the mall during the Thursday-to-Sunday period. But officials expect the traffic to be fairly similar this year over the course of the three days instead of four. \n \"By closing on Thanksgiving, we're confident we'll still get those strong numbers throughout the Black Friday weekend.\" Renslow said. \n Most other retailers and shopping malls have not yet announced their Thanksgiving and Black Friday hours yet. \n But last year, several shopping malls around the Twin Cities put an end to the all-night shopping hours they held in previous years after seeing crowds dwindle in the middle of the night because of the earlier openings. They opened at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving, closed at midnight, then reopened on the actual Black Friday at 6 a.m. Best Buy, headquartered in suburban Minneapolis, has also closed its stores for a few hours in the middle of that night in the last two years. \n But few have gone has far as outdoors retailer REI which made headlines last year when it decided to close on Black Friday itself. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Star Tribune (Minneapolis)  \n ", "author": "By Kavita Kumar Star Tribune (Minneapolis)", "title": "Mall of America takes bold stand by closing on Thanksgiving this year"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestures with a firing stance as he announces issuing side arms to army troopers during his visit to its headquarters in suburban Taguig city east of Manila on Tuesday. \n MANILA \u00bb An independent poll shows that Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, under fire internationally for his deadly crackdown on suspected drug dealers, has a \"very good\" public net satisfaction rating of plus 64 nearly three months after taking office. \n The figure is lower than the \"excellent\" trust rating of plus 79 he got days before his June 30 inauguration according to pollster Social Weather Stations. \n The latest survey, conducted Sept. 24 to Sept. 27, was published Thursday and shows that 76 percent of 1,200 adults polled nationwide were satisfied with Duterte's performance, while 11 were dissatisfied, and 13 percent were undecided. That yielded a net satisfaction rating of plus 64, with a sampling error margin of plus or minus 3 percent. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Poll: Philippines' Duterte satisfaction rating 'very good'"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "TIM WRIGHT / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Kamehameha Avenue flooded this morning after heavy rains overnight. \n Residents on Hawaii island began cleaning up today after record rainfall Tuesday and this morning. \n Police reopened the Hilo Bayfront Highway and parts of Kamehameha Avenue after flood waters covered the roads. \n Police said this afternoon that one lane is open in each direction on the road and motorists should continue to expect delays on Kamehameha Avenue. \n State crews also cleared debris from Highway 19 at Malua Gulch along the Hamakua Coast, said Kanani Aton, a spokeswoman for Hawaii County Civil Defense. \n The National Weather Service also dropped a flash flood watch for Maui and the Big Island. \n A combination of heavy moisture in the air and unstable upper atmospheric conditions created steady rain and a deluge Tuesday afternoon and evening over Hawaii island and parts of Maui. The Mauna Kea summit also saw a dusting of snow Tuesday that melted today. \n More than 11 inches of rain fell in the 24 hour period ending at 9 a.m. in Waikea Uka, above Hilo. The Waiakea Experiment Station got nearly 9.7 inches, and almost 8 inches fell in Mountain View. \n Hilo Airport recorded 3.13 inches Tuesday, breaking the old record for Oct. 4 of .89 inches set in 1963. The early morning rain also set a record today. The Hilo Airport recorded 2.83 inches, breaking the record for the date of 2.5 inches set in 2006. \n Vehicles parked in a lot off Kamehameha Highway appeared to have suffered flood damage, Aton said. The lot is used by people who take the bus early in the morning to the west side of the island, she said. \n Soccer fields, which are in a flood drainage area, were also under water today. \n Aton said she went out to the flooded area this afternoon and noticed storm drains were mostly clear and working. But she said the amount of water just overwhelmed them. \n \"The weather has been very wet,\" she said. Rains since Sunday saturated the ground and the heavy rain Tuesday afternoon and evening led to the flooding, she added. \n The forecast for the Big Island and the rest of the state calls for gradually clearing weather. \n There may still be some windward showers tonight in Hilo, but conditions should improve by this weekend as tradewinds pick up and the heavy moisture in the atmosphere moves away. \n \"We're expecting moderate, tradewind weather (statewide),\" said Tom Evans, a meteorologist with the Honolulu office of the National Weather Service. \"\u2026 your typical windward and mauka showers in the morning and isolated night and morning leeward showers.\" \n The pleasant tradewind weather should continue into the Colombus Day holiday. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima", "title": "Better weather ahead after record rains in Hilo"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sunday photo, Australian men pose for a photo in Budgy Smuggler-brand swimsuits decorated with the Malaysian flag at the conclusion of the Malaysian Formula One Grand Prix in Sepang, Malaysia. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nick Kelly, second left, and Thomas Whitworth, center, two of the nine Australian men arrested arrive at the Sepang Magistrate in Sepang, Malaysia on Thursday. \n CANBERRA, Australia \u00bb Nine Australian friends who have spent four nights in Malaysian police detention will appear in a court for the first time on Thursday after stripping down to their briefs and drinking beer from shoes at the Malaysian Formula One Grand Prix, an official said.  \n The nine have been detained since they stripped down to Budgy Smuggler-brand swimsuits decorated with the Malaysian flag in full view of thousands of spectators at the Sepang track Sunday after Australian driver Daniel Ricciardo won the race. \n Police say the men were being investigated for intentionally causing insult with intent to provoke a breach of the peace and public indecency. They face up to two years in jail, a fine or both if they are found guilty. \n Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade First Assistant Secretary Jon Philp said he did not know what would happen in court today. \n \"Something could happen quickly, but it's entirely up to the magistrate and the legal authorities,\" Philp told Nine Network television. \n \"We'd like to think that they'll be home soon, but it's up to the Malaysian authorities to decide what to do now,\" he added. \n The men, mostly Sydney University graduates, could be charged or police could ask the magistrate for their detention to be extended while they continue their investigation. \n Ricciardo, the driver whose success inspired the Australians' beer-fueled revelry, described the incident as \"pretty harmless.\" \n \"I respect the laws of Malaysia, but beyond that I don't think they deserve any further punishment,\" Ricciardo told Sydney's The Daily Telegraph newspaper. \n \"In Australia, it's a bit different, but I'm very sure they didn't intend to offend anyone,\" he added. \n The Australian media has dubbed the men the Budgie Nine, using a spelling variation of the abbreviated name of the budgerigar, a small Australian parrot. The name plays on nine Australians arrested in Indonesia for heroin trafficking in 2005 who became known as the Bali Nine. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Aussies to appear in Malaysian court for partying in briefs"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A queue of voters waited to register for the Hawaii Republican Party presidential caucus at Kaiser High School on March 8. \n Two Democratic senators today asked the U.S. Department of Justice to ensure that Hawaii and nine other states do not violate federal law with their mail-in voter registration deadlines for the November election. \n U.S. Sens. Charles Schumer of New York and Patrick Leahy of Vermont said they were concerned that thousands of people could be disenfranchised under plans that would block applications as many as three days earlier than other states. \n A department spokesman said officials would review the request as soon as it's received. \n The senators said deadlines in 10 states violate the National Voting Rights Act, which calls for mail-in voter registration applications to be accepted if they are postmarked 30 days before the election. That falls on a Sunday this year. The next day happens to be Columbus Day, when there will be no postal service. \n Other states have adjusted their deadlines to account for the long holiday weekend, accepting applications postmarked by Tuesday, Oct. 11. \n The 10 states cited in the senators' letter are Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Hawaii, Mississippi, Nevada, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Utah and Washington. Officials in Utah have said they already changed the deadline, while officials in Washington and Arkansas have said they also will accept applications postmarked on Oct. 11. \n Officials in Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii and Rhode Island have said the mail-in deadline would not be changed. \n \"We're confident that we're following the law that the Legislature wrote, and that's not disenfranchising anyone,\" said Matt Roberts, spokesman for Arizona Secretary of State Michele Reagan. \n Last week, the senators sent a similar letter to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DOJ asked to intervene over voter deadlines in Hawaii, other states"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 19 photo, flowers bloom in front of a Yahoo sign at the company's headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif. Yahoo responded again on today to a report that it scanned incoming email to hundreds of millions of accounts for the U.S. government. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Yahoo's reported willingness to search user email to assist U.S. government investigators has revived concerns about court-approved surveillance programs that companies aren't allowed to disclose to the people using their services.  \n Last year, Yahoo modified an existing version of its email security program to flag the appearance of a digital \"signature\" the U.S. had linked to a foreign terrorist group backed by another government, according to a report published Wednesday by The New York Times. Copies of any incoming email containing the signature were stored in Yahoo's system and made available to the FBI. \n The Times quoted an unnamed government official, following up an earlier Reuters story that had revealed Yahoo's email scanning activity without specifying what kind of information the government sought. \n SEEN THROUGH A PRISM  \n The revelations have conjured memories of a data-collection program set up by the National Security Agency and major internet companies a few years ago under other court orders issued in secret. \n That program, called \"Prism,\" only became public knowledge in 2013 after former NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked slides revealing that the government had been authorized to grab emails, videos and pictures stored by Google, Yahoo and Facebook, among other companies. \n As with Prism, the U.S. government appears to have demanded Yahoo's cooperation in an effort to sniff out terrorist threats and protect public safety. The government said Prism targeted the specific online accounts of foreigners. \n The Yahoo hunt may have cut a much broader swath, scanning through hundreds of millions of incoming emails in search of the signature used by the foreign terrorist group, said Kurt Opsahl, general counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group. He likened it to the government getting a court order to rifle through the documents stored in millions of homes in search of a particular piece of information. \n BIG COMPUTER IS WATCHING YOU  \n \"This is a troubling vision of the future where there might be massive government surveillance done with computers,\" Opsahl said. \"The government may well say they were only targeting a string of characters used by a foreigner, but it just so happened that hundreds of millions of innocent people also had their emails examined too.\" \n Patrick Toomey, a staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, said in a statement that the government order appears to be \"unprecedented and unconstitutional.\" \n Odia Kagan, a Philadelphia-based data privacy attorney, said that it's impossible to judge the legality of the government's request, because the facts surrounding it remain murky. \n The Justice Department didn't immediately respond to a request for comment late Wednesday. \n Bulk collection of data isn't allowed and the government cannot indiscriminately review the emails or phone calls of ordinary people, Richard Kolko, deputy director of public affairs for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, said in a statement. The U.S. government can gather information about non-U.S. citizens under the Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act, but those powers are supposed to be narrowly focused, Kolko said. \n Yahoo hasn't explained what it did under the government order. It called Reuters' original story \"misleading,\" but declined to comment on the Times' disclosure about the government's quest for the digital signature. \n GAGGING ON SECRECY  \n The company probably wishes it could say more, but can't because of a court order forbidding the company from discussing the surveillance, Opsahl said. \n Google and Microsoft have issued statements disavowing any involvement in a government-ordered surveillance program similar to Yahoo's. \n While companies have a duty to abide by the law, they also have a duty to protect the privacy of their users, Kagan said. The trick is to balance those two things. And sometimes that means putting up a fight when it comes to government requests, even if they ultimately lose, in order to preserve their users' trust in them. \n Not long ago, Yahoo also resisted government demands. The Sunnyvale, California, company initially challenged the program that became Prism in a battle dating back to 2007, despite threats of being fined $250,000 per day if it didn't comply. \n Yahoo was under different management then. It has been run by a former Google executive, Marissa Mayer, for the past four years. \n \"The big takeaway is that that we really don't know what is going on between any of these companies and the government,\" said Forrester Research privacy analyst Fatemeh Khatibloo. \"It sort of a shadowy world threatening our Fourth Amendment rights\" protecting against unreasonable search and seizures. \n MORE TROUBLE FOR YAHOO  \n The news is just the latest email bombshell for Yahoo, which was already reeling from its recent admission that computer hackers swiped personal information from at least 500 million of its accounts. That attack is believed to be the biggest digital break-in ever suffered by an email provider. \n This week's revelations could also affect Yahoo's operations in Europe, Kagan said. User data there is protected by a data privacy agreement struck this summer between the U.S. and EU regulators known as the Privacy Shield. \n Yahoo is also in the process of selling its online operations to Verizon for $4.8 billion. Verizon so far has had no comment on the email-scanning reports. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reported Yahoo email scanning revives surveillance concerns"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic vice-presidential nominee Sen. Tim Kaine leaves the stage with Republican vice-presidential nominee Gov. Mike Pence during the vice-presidential debate at Longwood University in Farmville, Va., on Tuesday. To the right is Anne Holton, wife of vice-presidential candidate Sen. Tim Kaine. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally today in Henderson, Nev. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci) \n HENDERSON, Nev. \u00bb Donald Trump pushed back today on Hillary Clinton's accusation that he's cozying up to Russian President Vladimir Putin after the charge put Trump's running mate on the defensive during the vice presidential debate. \n Trump offered effusive praise for Mike Pence's performance \u2014 but also claimed credit for it \u2014 even as both campaigns acknowledged that the sole vice presidential debate was unlikely to alter the race's trajectory. \n The celebrity businessman said his relationship with Russia's leader would be determined by how Moscow responds to strong U.S. leadership under a Trump administration. \n \"They say Donald Trump loves Putin. I don't love, I don't hate. We'll see how it works,\" Trump told a rally outside Las Vegas. \n Clinton today shrugged that off, saying Trump has \"this weird fascination with dictators.\" \n \"My opponent seems not to know the difference between an ally and adversary,\" Clinton said at an evening fund raiser in Washington. \"There seems to be some misunderstanding about what it means to have a dictatorship and provide leadership.\" \n The billionaire candidate sought to take away an argument that Clinton and her running mate, Tim Kaine, have ramped up in the final weeks of the campaign as they work to portray Trump as dangerous for American interests overseas. While U.S.-Russia relations nosedive over failed diplomacy in Syria, Trump has complimented Putin, calling him a strong leader and even encouraging him to track down Clinton's missing e-mails, though Trump later said he was being sarcastic. \n \"You guys love Russia,\" Kaine said in Tuesday's debate. \"You both have said Vladimir Putin is a better leader than the president.\" \n In a forceful rebuke, Pence described Putin as a \"small and bullying leader,\" but blamed Clinton and President Barack Obama for a \"weak and feckless\" foreign policy that had awakened Moscow's aggression in Ukraine and meddling in the Middle East. \n The U.S. and Russia back opposing sides in Syria's civil war but both are fighting the Islamic State group there. The U.S. cut off talks with Russia about Syria this week after the latest cease-fire collapsed, blaming Russia for failing to fulfill its commitments under the deal. \n \"I can say this: If we get along and Russia went out with us and knocked the hell out of ISIS, that's OK with me folks,\" Trump said, using an acronym for the extremist group. \n Since last week's debate, Trump has faced a barrage of questions over a leaked tax return showing he lost more than $900 million in 1995. In turn, he's sought to reframe his life story as a comeback tale he hopes to recreate on behalf of a faltering nation. \n \"America needs a turnaround. American needs a comeback. America needs a change. And that's why I'm running,\" Trump said. \n Taking the stage in Henderson, Nevada, Trump took his own victory lap for Pence's performance, which he called \"phenomenal. Pence's cool demeanor contrasted with Trump's bluster during his own, top-of-the-ticket showdown against Clinton. However strong Pence's performance, Trump made clear he considers it a reflection of himself. \n \"I'm getting a lot of credit, because that's really my first so-called choice, that was my first hire,\" Trump said of Pence. \n Even Clinton's team wasn't claiming that Kaine had come out on top. Former President Bill Clinton, for example, his wife's running mate \"did just fine.\" \n Kaine acknowledged that even his wife gave him a hard time for his constant interruptions during the debate. But Kaine said he was effectively able to block Pence from attacking Clinton. \"I've never played hockey but I think I'd be a good goalie, based on last night,\" he said. \n The big moment for their running mates behind them, both Clinton and Trump were shifting focus back to each other \u2014 and to Sunday's debate, the second of three showdowns between the nominees. \n Clinton was deep in debate prep Wednesday at her Washington home. She was huddling with campaign chairman John Podesta, top policy aid Jake Sullivan and her debate advisers. \n Trump, meanwhile, was on the campaign trail, making several stops across Nevada. In Reno, the New Yorker appeared to lecture Nevadans on how their state is correctly pronounced and then did an exaggerated version of his preferred pronunciation of \"Neh-VAH-da,\" though most residents of the Silver State pronounce it, \"Neh-VAD-uh.\" He then declared that \"nobody says it the other way.\" \n Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said, despite Trump's travels, the candidate was preparing \"constantly\" for the debate. Trump planned his own town hall in New Hampshire on Thursday, in an apparent dress rehearsal for the big event. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "After testy VP debate, Trump rebuffs claim he 'loves' Putin"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke in Harrisburg, Pa. on Oct. 4. For Clinton, October is the month when she's likely to win or lose the election, not the official Election Day on Nov. 8. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Each night, Hillary Clinton's data experts head to a conference room on the 11th floor of her Brooklyn headquarters, to start counting votes. \n The sessions in the \"early voter boiler room,\" as it's been dubbed by campaign aides, stretch into the early hours of the morning. The team pores over turnout patterns in states where advance voting is already underway, projects how many votes Clinton and Republican Donald Trump have already received, and updates crucial targeting lists of the voters she still needs. \n For Clinton, October is when she's likely to win or lose the election, not Nov. 8. By the third week of this month, Clinton's campaign hopes to have a solid enough sample of the early vote to know whether the Democrat is on track to win the White House. \n \"Many battleground states are already voting so every day is Election Day,\" said Matt Dover, Clinton's voter analytics director. \n In several competitive states, including North Carolina, Iowa, Colorado, Florida and Nevada, at least 45 percent of the total vote is expected to come in early. Initial metrics show good news for Clinton in North Carolina, a must-win state for Trump. There are modestly positive signs for the Republican in Iowa, but that's a state the Democrat can likely afford to lose. \n The Republican National Committee, which oversees early voting and turnout operations for Trump, is also encouraging supporters to take advantage of opportunities to cast ballots before Nov. 8. The party has significantly stepped up its analytics and voter targeting operations since being outmatched by Democrats in the past two presidential elections, but the 2016 race is the first test of its strength in a national election. \n Despite improvements, the RNC system was always intended to be a complement to whatever operations the eventual GOP nominee brought to the table. Trump arrived in the general election with intense enthusiasm among his core supporters but few ways to harness it into trackable voter data. \n Unlike Clinton, whose travel schedule is being built around voter registration deadlines and the start of early voting in key states, Trump's battleground stops haven't been pegged to those benchmarks. However, there is a noticeably more robust registration effort at Trump rallies and the candidate himself is making explicit early voting appeals to supporters. \n \"Get those ballots in because the only way this is going to be taken away (is) if we're foolish or if we let people take it away from us,\" Trump said Monday during a rally in Colorado. \"I hate to interrupt my speech with these minor details but they're very important, right?\" \n Republicans traditionally do well initially with mail-in absentee balloting before Democrats surpass them during in-person early voting. That makes the start of in-person voting a key indicator as to whether core Democratic constituencies, such as young people and non-whites, show up. \n \"For me, voting early is a matter of convenience, and if I don't do it I'm unlikely to vote at all,\" said Joseph Wozniak, 23, of Macon, Georgia. A recent college graduate who declined to say who he is supporting in the election, Wozniak is working on early vote efforts for the non-partisan organization Democracy Works. \n Thirty-seven states allow voting with little restriction before Election Day, either in person or via mail. By the third week in October, 34 of those states will be voting. \n Iowa was the first of the battlegrounds to start in-person voting last Thursday. Of the 39,435 people who have cast ballots, 58 percent were Democrats and 25 percent were Republicans \u2014 but that was much closer than in 2012. \n In North Carolina, buoyed by strong voter interest, Clinton appears to hold an edge with Democratic ballots submitted so far currently leading Republican ones, 40 to 35 percent. At this point in 2012, Republicans had opened a wide lead over Democrats in ballots, due in part to strong support among older whites. \n For 2016, Clinton officials pointed in particular to a 13 percent increase in African-American and a 40 percent jump in Latino mail-in ballot requests. To them, it's a hopeful sign that non-whites and young people will be engaged this election, part of a shift in campaign strategy to more strongly mobilize less reliable, sporadic voters first. Still, the campaign said it will have a much clearer picture once in-person voting begins in the state on Oct. 20. \n Similarly in Florida, absentee balloting began only Tuesday, but already more than 2.5 million people \u2014 nearly one-third of the total number of votes cast in 2012 \u2014 have requested ballots. In-person voting doesn't begin until Oct. 24, so state Democrats are now strongly urging voters to vote by mail \u2014 including in a letter from President Barack Obama paid for by the party. \n \"In Florida, voting is easier than ever because now you can vote by mail,\" he writes. \"It's the fastest and most convenient way to make your voice heard.\" \n In Obama's historic 2008 race, he ran up such big early voting advantages in four battlegrounds \u2014 Colorado, Florida, Iowa and North Carolina \u2014 that his rival, John McCain, couldn't catch up, despite winning the Election Day vote in those states, according to AP data. \n If all goes according to the Clinton campaign's plan, early ballots soon enough will start to unequivocally point in the same direction. \n AP writer Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For Clinton, election likely to be won or lost in October"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "LOS ANGELES >> Watchdog and activist groups are outraged by a Fox News Channel segment in which an interviewer asked people in New York's Chinatown if he was supposed to bow to greet them, if they were selling stolen goods and if they could \"take care of North Korea for us.\" \n Several organizations condemned humorist Jesse Watters' piece on \"The O'Reilly Factor,\" calling it racist and demeaning to Asian-Americans. \n \"It's 2016. We should be far beyond tired, racist stereotypes and targeting an ethnic group for humiliation and objectification on the basis of their race,\" Asian American Journalists Association President Paul Cheung said in a letter to Fox and posted online. He is director of interactive and digital news production for The Associated Press. \n Cheung called on Fox to apologize to the Asian-American community and asked for \"an explanation for how this type of coverage will be prevented in the future.\" \n Watters asked people on the street about the presidential race, sought a demonstration of karate and showed footage of him getting a pedicure. \n At one point in Monday's nearly five-minute segment, an elderly woman's silence in response to a query was paired with a clip from Mel Brooks' \"Young Frankenstein\" in which Madeline Kahn shouts, \"Speak, speak, why don't you speak?!\" \n Gregory A. Cendana, executive director of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance, criticized the report. \n The coverage, including making \"fun\" of the Chinese elder, \"played into the exoticization and status of perpetual foreigner\" of the Asian-American community, Cendana said in a statement. \n After the \"Watters World\" report concluded, Bill O'Reilly called it \"gentle fun,\" adding, \"we're gonna get letters, inevitably.\" \n On Wednesday, the Asian Americans Advancing Justice affiliation said it was outraged by the \"blatant, racist and offensive stereotypes of Chinese Americans.\" \n \"It is unconscionable that a news organization would sanction a segment that laughs at a community of people, including Watters ridiculing elderly Chinese Americans who were limited English-proficient,\" the group said. \n U.S. Rep. Ted W. Lieu, D-California, weighed in as well. \n \"Note to Bill O'Reilly and Fox News: Your recent segment mocking Asian American voters and using every conceivable stereotype was, at best, racist and, at worst, really racist. I am not 'patient' or 'gentle' nor do I 'bow' when I say hello or know 'karate.' So let me gently say this: if you are not racist at heart, then you would apologize. Immediately,\" Lieu said in a statement. \n Asked for a response to critics, Fox directed attention to two Twitter posts Wednesday by Watters. \n \"As a political humorist, the Chinatown segment was intended to be a light piece, as all Watters World segments are,\" he wrote. \n \"My man-on-the-street interviews are meant to be taken as tongue-in-cheek and I regret if anyone found offense,\" Watters' second tweet said. \n My man-on-the-street interviews are meant to be taken as tongue-in-cheek and I regret if anyone found offense. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Activists blast 'O'Reilly Factor' Chinatown piece as racist"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, left, spoke at United Party's election headquarters in Moscow on Sept. 18. Russia has suspended an agreement with the United States on research cooperation in the nuclear and energy sectors. \n MOSCOW \u00bb Russia has suspended an agreement with the United States on research cooperation in the nuclear and energy sectors, the latest move underlining worsening tensions between Washington and Moscow. \n A suspension decree signed by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was posted today on the government website, which said the decree was a \"countermeasure\" to U.S. sanctions imposed over Russia's role in the Ukraine conflict. \n The impact of the move is likely to be less serious than Russia's suspension Monday of an agreement on disposal of weapons-grade plutonium. That agreement had been seen as a symbol of U.S.-Russian rapprochement. \n The strain in Moscow-Washington relations over Ukraine has intensified in recent weeks amid the collapse of a cease-fire in Syria and the Syrian army's assault on the city of Aleppo under cover of Russian warplanes. \n State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the U.S. has not received notification of the suspension, but \"would regret the Russian decision to unilaterally suspend cooperation on what we believe is a very important issue that's in the interests of both our countries.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia suspends cooperative nuclear research deal with U.S."}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n A screenshot of high definition video of the Kilauea summit eruption released Tuesday. \n As the high-definition camera pans across the surface of an active Hawaii volcano's viscous summit lava lake, a large bubble of volcanic gas grows and bursts, dramatically spewing molten rock into the air and sending a massive ripple of lava outward across the crater. \n The U.S. Geological Survey footage shows lava breaking through the crusted mantle of the lava lake on the Big Island and splashing up the crater walls. Aerial footage shows lava glowing through the cracks of the slightly hardened crust atop the flowing and bubbling lava. \n USGS video producer Stephen Wessells, geologist Janet Babb and other scientists worked along the edge of the volcano's massive summit wearing gas masks and other protective gear to capture the images. At times, they were only a few hundred feet away from the lava lake. \n \"It was the greatest shooting experience of my life,\" said Wessells, who has been producing video for USGS since 1990. \"It was just spectacular.\" \n The summit eruption has been happening since March 2008, which is when federal officials closed the area to the public. \n Babb told The Associated Press that the area is full of hazards. Gasses from the volcano, which can swirl around in the strong trade winds on the summit, \"can be life-threatening,\" said Babb. Additionally, \"rocks from the vent wall will fall apart and fall into the lava lake and when they do there's a big gas release, this big kind of bubble burst, and it will hurl fragments of molten lava \u2026 up onto the crater rim.\" \n The team was reminded of this danger when a filming location was covered in hot spatter just a week after they were there. \n \"It was a very sobering moment,\" Babb said. \n Kilauea has an extensive history of eruptions. While most of Kilauea's activity has been nonexplosive, a 1924 eruption spewed ash and 10-ton rocks into the sky and left a man dead. \n A vent adjacent to the summit known as Puu Oo recently erupted and sent lava trickling down the mountainside and into the Pacific Ocean for the first time in several years. \n A 1983 Puu Oo eruption resulted in lava fountains soaring over 1,500 feet high. In the decades since, the lava flow has buried 48 square miles of land and destroyed many homes. \n In 2008, after a series of small earthquakes rattled the island, Kilauea's summit crater opened and gushed lava and rock over 75 acres of the mountain, damaging a nearby visitor overlook. \n The video released Tuesday is the highest resolution footage the agency has ever captured of the lava lake, and will be included in a longer documentary about the history of the volcano around the 10th anniversary of the current eruption in 2018. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gurgling lava splashes up Hawaii volcano walls in high-definition video"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The sign outside the National Security Agency campus in Fort Meade, Md., as seen on June 6, 2013. A contractor for the National Security Agency has been arrested on charges that he illegally removed highly classified information and stored the material in his house and car, federal prosecutors announced today. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A contractor for the National Security Agency has been arrested on charges that he illegally removed highly classified information and stored the material in his house and car, federal prosecutors said today. \n Harold Thomas Martin III, 51, of Glen Burnie, Maryland, was arrested by the FBI in August after authorities say he admitted to having taken government secrets. A defense attorney said Martin did not intend to betray his country. \n The arrest was not made public until today, when the Justice Department released a 5-page criminal complaint that accused Martin of having been in possession of top-secret information. \n Among the classified documents found with Martin, according to the FBI, were six that contain sensitive intelligence \u2014 meaning they were produced through sensitive government sources or methods that are critical to national security \u2014 and date back to 2014. All the documents were clearly marked as classified information, according to a criminal complaint. \n The complaint does not specify what documents Martin was alleged to have taken. The arrest was made around the same time that U.S. officials acknowledged an investigation into a cyber leak of purported hacking tools used by the NSA. The tool kit consists of malicious software intended to tamper with firewalls, the electronic defenses protecting computer networks. Those documents were leaked by a group calling itself the \"Shadow Brokers.\" \n The arrest could turn into another embarrassment for the U.S. intelligence community. It would be the second case of an intelligence worker illegally removing secret data from the NSA in recent years. The agency monitors and collects sensitive information and data, mostly from overseas. \n At the White House, spokesman Josh Earnest said President Barack Obama takes the situation \"quite seriously. And it is a good reminder for all of us with security clearances about how important it is for us to protect sensitive national security information.\" \n The New York Times first reported the arrest of an NSA contractor who worked for Booz Allen Hamilton. The complaint does not identify the agency Martin worked for as a contractor, but a U.S. official familiar with the investigation confirmed it was the NSA. Booz Allen said in a statement that after learning of the arrest of one of its employees, it reached out to law enforcement authorities to offer its cooperation and fired the worker. \n At Martin's home, investigators found stolen property valued at \"well in excess of $1,000,\" the complaint said. He voluntarily agreed to an interview. \n \"Martin at first denied, and later when confronted with specific documents, admitted he took documents and digital files from his work assignment to his residence and vehicle that he knew were classified,\" according to the complaint, despite not having the authorization to do so. \"Martin stated that he knew what he had done was wrong and that he should not have done it because he knew it was unauthorized.\" \n Martin has been in custody since a court appearance in August, when he was arrested. \n \"There is no evidence that Hal Martin intended to betray his country,\" his public defenders, James Wyda and Deborah Boardman, said in a statement. \"What we do know is that Hal Martin loves his family and his country. He served honorably as a lieutenant in the United States Navy, and he has devoted his entire career to serving his country. We look forward to defending Hal Martin in court.\" \n Greg Mickley, who lives several houses down from Martin, said his family was barbecuing on a Saturday afternoon in August when they heard a loud bang. \n \"They threw, we're guessing, a flashbang (stun grenade) in his house and raided and went in the house, and they were there for 11 hours \u2014 in and out, and they had him outside in cuffs,\" Mickley said, recalling the afternoon of the arrest. \n Speaking at a cybersecurity conference today, the Justice Department's top national security official, Assistant Attorney General John Carlin, confirmed the arrest of \"an individual who's involved in taking classified information.\" He said the arrest generally pointed to the threat posed by insiders. \n The complaint charges Martin with unauthorized removal and retention of classified materials, which carries a maximum one-year sentence, and theft of government property \u2014 an offense punishable by up to 10 years. \n In 2013, NSA contractor Edward Snowden stole substantial classified information from NSA. He leaked the records to journalists, revealing the agency's bulk collection of millions of Americans' phone records. \n The disclosures off a fierce debate that pit civil libertarians concerned about privacy against more hawkish lawmakers fearful about losing tools to combat terrorism. Democrats and libertarian-leaning Republicans pushed through a reauthorization of the USA Patriot Act last year that ended the program. \n Snowden fled to Hong Kong, then Russia, to avoid being arrested, though he does face criminal charges in the United States. Snowden now wants a presidential pardon because he says he helped his country by revealing secret domestic surveillance programs. \n After news broke of Martin' arrest, Snowden tweeted: \"Am I correct in reading they didn't charge him under the Espionage Act? Under this administration, that's a noteworthy absence.\" The Justice Department could, however, still bring new or additional charges in a grand jury indictment. \n Associated Press writers Ben Nuckols and Deb Riechmann and Brian Witte in Glen Burnie contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NSA contractor accused of taking classified information"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thomas, 5, looked at Jeanne Calment after he brought her flowers at her retirement home in Arles, southern France in Feb. 1997. Calment, believed to be the world's oldest person, died at the age of 122 in 1997. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Just how long can people live? \n The record for the world's oldest person is 122 years and the odds of shattering that record are slim, according to an analysis published Wednesday in the journal Nature. \n \"It seems extremely difficult if not impossible to break through that ceiling due to the complexity of the aging process,\" one of the researchers, Jan Vijg, a geneticist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York, said in an email. \n Life expectancies in many countries have risen dramatically because of improvements in medical care and sanitation in the last century, and the maximum age of death has also increased, leading some to believe that there's no boundary to how long people can live. \n In the new study, researchers analyzed mortality data from a global database. They found that while there have been strides in reducing deaths among certain groups \u2014 children, women during childbirth and the elderly \u2014 the rate of improvement was slower for the very old, those over 100 years old. \n Next they examined how old centenarians were when they died. The record holder is Jeanne Calment, of France, who lived until 122 years old. Since her death in 1997, no one has broken her record. \n The researchers calculated the odds of someone reaching 125 years in a given year are less than 1 in 10,000. They think the human life span more likely maxes out at 115 years. \n Some aging specialists said the study doesn't take into account advances that have been made in extending the life span \u2014 and health \u2014 of certain laboratory animals including mice, worms and flies through genetic manipulation and other techniques. The goal is to eventually find treatments that might slow the aging process in humans and keep them healthier longer. \n \"We can greatly extend the life spans of many different types of animals. I don't think humans are an exception,\" said David Sinclair, a geneticist at Harvard Medical School and a spokesman for the American Federation For Aging Research. \n S. Jay Olshansky, a longevity researcher at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said it remains to be seen just how much further life span can be stretched with technology. \n \"If we succeed, current limits are likely to be broken. How much they are broken depends on the nature of the breakthrough,\" he said in an email. \n Studies of centenarians have found that lifestyle choices play a bigger role than genetics in their longevity and most were able to delay disease and disability until late in life. Among supercentenarians \u2014 people who survive to 110 years old or longer \u2014 genes are key. \n Instead of searching for an anti-aging pill, people should focus on eating better and exercising to stay healthy in their twilight years, said Dr. Thomas Perls, professor of geriatrics at Boston University who heads the New England Centenarian Study. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Study suggests there's a cap to human life span"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eric Dunn sat on the northern end of Tybee Island's beach to watch larger than average waves roll in as a result of approaching Hurricane Matthew, Tuesday, in Tybee Island, Ga. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Beth Johnson filled up her car after waiting in line at a Sunoco gas station in advance of Hurricane Matthew in Mt. Pleasant, S.C. on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Andrew Esser boarded up the glass doors at the entrance of Sky King Fireworks in preparation for Hurricane Matthew, today, in Cocoa, Fla. \n MELBOURNE BEACH, Fla. \u00bb Hurricane Matthew marched toward Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas and at least a half a million people along the coast were urged to evacuate their homes today, a mass exodus ahead of a major storm packing power the U.S. hasn't seen in more than a decade. \n Matthew was a dangerous and life-threatening Category 3 storm with sustained winds of 120 mph (190 kph) as it passed through the Bahamas, and it was expected to be very near Florida's Atlantic coast by Thursday evening. At least 11 deaths in the Caribbean have been blamed on the storm, with heavy damage reported in Haiti. \n The storm was forecast to scrape much of the Florida coast and any slight deviation could mean landfall or it heading farther out to sea. Either way, it was going to be close enough to wreak havoc along the lower part of the East Coast, and many people weren't taking any chances. \n In Melbourne Beach, near the Kennedy Space Center, Carlos and April Medina moved their paddle board and kayak inside the garage and took pictures off the walls of their home about 500 feet from the coast. They moved the pool furniture inside, turned off the water, disconnected all electrical appliances and emptied their refrigerator. \n They then hopped in a truck filled with legal documents, jewelry and a decorative carved shell that had once belonged to April Medina's great-grandfather and headed west to Orlando, where they planned to ride out the storm with their daughter's family. \n \"The way we see it, if it maintains its current path, we get tropical storm-strength winds. If it makes a little shift to the left, it could be a Category 2 or 3 and I don't want to be anywhere near it,\" Carlos Medina said. \"We are just being a little safe, a little bit more cautious.\" \n About 20 miles away in the town of Cape Canaveral, John Long said Hurricane Matthew is just hype as his neighbors in his RV park packed up and evacuated inland. Even though his 32-foot RV is just feet from the Banana River and a half mile from the beach, he had no plans to leave. \n Long, who owns a bike shop and has lived along the Space Coast for 30 years, said he has a generator and enough food and water for himself and his cats to last a week. \n \"There's always tremendous buildup and then it's no stronger than an afternoon thunderstorm,\" he said. \"I'm not anticipating that much damage.\" \n In Fort Lauderdale, about 200 miles south, six employees at a seven-bedroom Mediterranean-style mansion packed up for an evacuation fearing any storm surge could flood the property. The homeowners planned to move to another home they own in Palm Beach that's further from the water. Two Lamborghinis and a Ferrari had been placed inside the garage, but employee Mae White wasn't sure what they would do with a Rolls Royce, Mustang and other cars still parked in the driveway. \n \"This storm surge. It's scary,\" White said. \"You're on the water, you've got to go.\" \n The last Category 3 storm or higher to hit the United States was Wilma in October 2005. It made landfall with 120 mph (190 kph) winds in southwest Florida, killing five people as it pushed through the Everglades and into the Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach area. It caused an estimated $21 billion in damage and left thousands of residents without power for more than a week. It concluded a two-year span when a record eight hurricanes hit the state. \n As of 5 p.m. EDT today, Matthew was centered about 400 miles (640 kilometers) southeast of West Palm Beach and moving northwest, according to the National Hurricane Center. Hurricane-force winds extended 45 miles (72 kilometers) from the center. \n \"When a hurricane is forecast to take a track roughly parallel to a coastline, as Matthew is forecast to do from Florida through South Carolina, it becomes very difficult to specify impacts at any one location,\" said National Hurricane Center forecaster Lixion Avila. \n Florida can expect as much as 10 inches of rain in some isolated areas. \n At Folly Beach, South Carolina, southwest of Charleston, Gaby Trompeter loaded her car at her beachfront home preparing to evacuate to Augusta, Georgia. \n Trompeter, a 50-year-old goldsmith who designs and makes jewelry, remembers Hurricane Hugo when she stayed in Savannah, Georgia, in 1989. \n A year ago when what has been described as a 1,000-year flood inundated South Carolina there was so much water on the road near her house she couldn't get out for three days. \n \"If it brings a lot of rain, more than the storm last year, why would I want to stay?\" she said. \n President Barack Obama visited the Federal Emergency Management Agency's headquarters today to be briefed on preparations. FEMA has deployed personnel to emergency operation centers in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina. It's also positioning commodities and other supplies at Fort Bragg in North Carolina and in Albany, Georgia. \n On the Georgia coast, 92-year-old Lou Arcangeli saw two of his adult children come to his home on Tybee Island to help prepare and evacuate if necessary. \n \"It's serious,\" said Arcangeli, who has lived in the Savannah area since 1979, when Hurricane David became the last hurricane to make landfall on Georgia's 100-mile coast. \"I'm going to keep an eye on it and not wait until the last minute. As far as I'm concerned, what's going to happen is going to happen.\" \n Farmers in Matthew's path scrambled to protect their crops. In South Carolina, Jeremy Cannon was harvesting his soybeans a week early after waiting too long before last year's record rainstorm. He watched his soybeans and cotton crops slowly drown as 20 inches of rain fell, costing him $800,000. \n \"I don't want to lose a single soybean this year if I don't have to,\" Cannon said. \"The Lord says pray without ceasing. And that's what I've been doing \u2014 in the fields, near the barn \u2014 just praying all the time. I don't want to find out what I'll have to do if I get wiped out for another year.\" \n Associated Press reporters Terry Spencer in Fort Lauderdale, Freida Frisaro in Miami, Jennifer Kay in Miami Beach, Florida, Russ Bynum in Savannah, Georgia, Martha Waggoner in Raleigh, North Carolina, Jeffrey Collins, Jack Jones and Meg Kinnard in Columbia, South Carolina; Bruce Smith in Charleston, South Carolina. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "At least 500K urged to evacuate as Matthew nears Florida"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Part of a knife lay on the ground behind a police cordon as police investigated the scene where a man stabbed two police officers, in the Schaerbeek neighborhood in Brussels today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police investigated the scene where a man stabbed two police officers, in the Schaerbeek neighborhood in Brussels today. The man stabbed one officer in the neck and the other in the abdomen and then fled the scene in an incident that Belgian prosecutors say could be terror-related. \n BRUSSELS \u00bb A knife-wielding man stabbed two police officers in Brussels today in an attack that may be terror-related, Belgian prosecutors said. \n It was the latest attack on law enforcement officials in a nation that has been on high alert since 32 people were killed March 22 in suicide bombing attacks on the Brussels airport and subway. \n Two police officers in the Schaerbeek neighborhood of Brussels were attacked at noon on the street by a man with a knife, the Federal Prosecutor's Office said in a statement. \n Another police patrol overpowered the man, who was shot in the leg before he was arrested. During that operation, a third police officer was slightly injured, it said. \n State-run broadcaster RTBF said the assailant stabbed one officer in the neck, the other in the abdomen and broke the nose of a third officer who shot him. \n The suspect arrested was identified by prosecutors as Hicham D., a 43-year-old Belgian national. \n \"We have reason to believe that it is terror-related,\" prosecutor's office spokesman Eric Van Der Sypt told The Associated Press, but declined to explain why. \n The suspect's home in the neighborhood was searched but prosecutors said no weapons or explosives were found. \n The daily newspaper Le Soir, quoting sources in the prosecutor's office, said the suspect was a former member of the Belgian army discharged in 2009, and was already known to law enforcement for having had contacts with people who left to fight with Islamic extremist groups in Syria. \n At the stabbing scene, a dark green multi-implement eating utensil, similar to those used by soldiers, was marked as evidence on the ground. It was not immediately clear if that was the attack weapon. \n An investigating judge specializing in terrorism cases will decide whether Hicham D. should remain in custody, prosecutors said. They said the wounds received by police and the suspect were not life-threatening. \n In August, a machete-wielding man shouting \"Allahu akbar!\" \u2014 Arabic for \"God is great\" \u2014 attacked and seriously wounded two policewomen in the southern Belgian city of Mons. The assailant was shot dead. The attack was later claimed by the Islamic State extremist group, which also claimed the Brussels suicide bombings. \n On Sept. 7, a man carrying a knife attacked two police officers in the Molenbeek area of Brussels, but the officers were wearing bulletproof vests and suffered only bruises. The assailant gave no indication of his motives. \n Lorne Cook in Brussels contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Belgian prosecutor: 2 police stabbed, may be terror-related"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Renae Hall, left, mother of Jacob Hall, talked to Starr Henderson, 12, of Belton, S.C., during a wake service for Jacob Hall, at Oakdale Baptist Church, Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016 in Townville, S.C. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Starr Henderson, 12, of Belton, cried after seeing her nephew Jacob Hall during a wake service at Oakdale Baptist Church in Townville, S.C. today. Jacob, a classmate and a teacher were shot last Wednesday as they left for recess. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dale Hall, dressed as Superman, stood before the casket during a superhero-themed funeral service for his brother, Jacob Hall at Oakdale Baptist Church today in Townville, S.C. A 14-year-old boy killed his own father, then drove to Townville Elementary and fired on two children and a teacher as recess began. Jacob died Saturday. \n TOWNVILLE, S.C. \u00bb A 6-year-old boy who died after a teen gunman opened fire at his South Carolina elementary school was dressed as Batman in his small blue casket today. \n Jacob Hall's family encouraged mourners at his funeral to dress as superheroes as well. \n Jacob died from a bullet that struck the main artery in his thigh after a 14-year-old boy opened fire at Townville Elementary School. Authorities say the boy killed his own father and then drove a pickup truck to the school, crashing into a playground fence. A classmate and a first-grade teacher also were struck by bullets, and were treated and released from a hospital. \n Jacob had told his family he wanted to be a preacher one day, the Rev. Tim Marcengill told a crowd that packed the pews at the family's Oakdale Baptist Church. \"He's preaching today,\" Marcengill said. \n \"Jacob Lee hall, Townville's very own superhero, was born into our world, given to us as a gift and through those 6 years up until the very last moment of his life with us, God was and still is today accomplishing his purpose with Jacob,\" the reverend said. \n A fellow 6-year-old, Lily Gunby, sat in the pews wearing a pink and black Superman shirt. She said Jacob \"was really sweet,\" and \"knew a lot about Jesus.\" \n Lily's uncle Derek Gunby says Jacob was \"the cutest thing ever\" at the church's Bible school. \n John Buckland drove his Batmobile from West Virginia to attend the funeral. Wearing full Batman garb, he gave the kids posters saying \"Tough things make me stronger.\" \n \"We're here to celebrate,\" Buckland said. \"Take what we've learned from Jacob; let it make you a better husband, better father \u2026 better everything.\" \n \"Keep an eye on each other. Care about each other, love each other. If someone's in trouble, reach out and give them the help they need, because Jacob would,\" he added. \n Townville Elementary school teachers also attended, wearing handmade blue capes with a Ninja Turtle face and Jacob's name on the back. Jacob's casket was decorated with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle stickers, and figurines of Ninja Turtles and Captain American were in a floral spray on top. \n The 14-year-old faces two murder charges in the deaths of his father and Jacob. He also is charged with three counts of attempted murder, as well as five counts of possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime. \n District Superintendent Joanne Avery announced a district-wide moment of silence at 1:42 p.m. today to mark one week since the shooting. Supporters also released hundreds of balloons Sunday in his honor, and people also crowded into the church Tuesday evening for Jacob's visitation. \n Students won't return to Townville Elementary until Thursday. \n But the district's other five schools planned to honor Jacob by participating in Superhero Day. All employees and students were invited to come to school in costume, and anyone wanting to attend the funeral would be excused, Avery said. \n According to a Facebook page created for Superhero Day, schools across the state planned to participate. But schools in central and coastal South Carolina were closed for the rest of the week because of the approach of Hurricane Matthew. \n Family members said Jacob told them he was out saving Townville as others slept. \n \"He loved anything to do with goodness,\" Jacob's mother, Renae Hall, told WYFF (http://bit.ly/2drFQvL). \"He loved anything to do with being able to help somebody. That's why I say Jacob was going to make a difference and he still is going to make a difference.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Superhero funeral honors 6-year-old fatally shot at school"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "A 26-year-old Makaha man shot and killed himself after arguing with two individuals on Tuesday night. \n According to police, the victim was arguing with a 26-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man at a home on Hanalei Street just before 8 p.m. \n The argument escalated and the suspect shot at one of the two individuals. \n One round from his gun hit a neighboring house, which was occupied by a 29-year-old female and a 2-year-old boy. \n The suspect then shot himself in the head and died at the scene, Emergency Medical Services reported. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Makaha man fatally shoots himself after argument with couple"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican vice-presidential nominee Gov. Mike Pence and Democratic vice-presidential nominee Sen. Tim Kaine, right, walked past each other after the vice-presidential debate at Longwood University in Farmville, Va. on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Not all the claims in the vice presidential debate stand up to scrutiny. A look at some of them and how they compare with the facts: \n Still, the debt has ballooned to $19.6 trillion. This largely reflected efforts by the Obama administration to stop the Great Recession. \n Would Clinton similarly increase the debt? Not according to an analysis by the independent Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. \n The Clinton plan with its tax increases would increase the gross debt \u2014 both privately and publicly held\u2014 by $450 billion over 10 years. Mind you, that is on top of an $8.8 trillion increase already projected by the government under current law. \n As for Donald Trump, the committee says his tax-cut-heavy plan would increase the gross debt by $4.3 trillion \u2014nearly 10 times more than Clinton's plan would do. \n There are also some notable differences between the law signed by President Reagan and Clinton's proposal. The Reagan law included a provision that made it illegal for businesses to hire workers who don't have the legal right to work in the United States. Enforcement of that provision has never fully materialized. Clinton's plan as laid out in her campaign website does not address workforce enforcement. \n She's described a three-part strategy that involves crushing IS \"on its home turf\" in the Middle East, disrupting its infrastructure on the ground and online, and protecting America and its allies. All are current elements of the Obama administration's strategy, so it's not clear what would change or if she would accelerate any portions of it. \n It's also the case that Trump has not laid out a clear plan, though he claims to have a \"secret\" one that he won't detail. \n As for Trump's foundation, multiple questions have been raised about its namesake's generosity. \n Money has been used to buy paintings of Trump and a signed football helmet that belonged to Tim Tebow. Money from the foundation has also helped settle legal cases against Trump's for-profit businesses, according to The Washington Post. Trump even paid the IRS a $2,500 penalty this year after it was uncovered that the foundation broke tax laws by giving a political contribution to Florida's attorney general. \n Comey indeed concluded that no reasonable prosecutor would have recommended that Clinton or others face prosecution in the email probe. As for his being a \"Republican FBI director,\" he was a Republican for most of his adult life, but says he's no longer registered with the party. \n A string of major coal companies have filed for bankruptcy in recent years, including Arch Coal, Alpha Natural Resources and Peabody Energy. Layoffs and cutbacks have spread economic suffering through coal country in the Appalachians and Wyoming's Powder River Basin. By contrast, these are boom times for natural gas extraction, mostly due to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. \n Still, the Obama administration has implemented rules that aren't making the coal industry's life any easier. Obama last year imposed a rule requiring coal-fired power plants to cut their carbon emissions as part of his effort to combat climate change. The rule has been suspended pending a legal challenge. Obama also has halted new coal leases on federal lands until it completes a comprehensive review. \n Associated Press writers Josh Boak, Deb Riechmann, Stephen Braun, Matthew Daly and Alicia A. Caldwell contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact Check: Claims in the VP debate"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Retired Marine Sgt. John Peck. \n BOSTON \u00bb A former Marine sergeant who underwent a double arm transplant said today that the best part about having arms again is that he can hold his fiancee's hand and pursue his lifelong dream of becoming a chef. \n His arms are scarred and move awkwardly, but every day with the new limbs is better, he said at a news conference at the hospital. He is learning to dress himself, brush his teeth and feed himself all over again. \n The first time he held fiancee Jessica Paker's hand after the surgery, he couldn't even feel it, but it still meant the world. \n \"That truly is a special gift,\" he said, adding later that he can now feel pressure when she squeezes. \n Peck, 31, will probably need nine to 12 months of rehabilitation before the nerves are fully functional again, said Dr. Simon Talbot, the lead surgeon. \n Peck, originally from Antioch, Illinois, now lives in Fredericksburg, Virginia. He said he's wanted to be a chef since he was 12. \n \"As a result of surgery, I'll be able to pursue my dreams,\" he said. He's already started cooking but because he doesn't have full feeling in the new limbs, he has to be careful he doesn't cut or burn himself. He plans to visit France and Italy to hone his craft, he said. \n Peck also thanked the donor, whose family wishes to remain anonymous. \n \"I will remember his selflessness and gift until the day I die,\" he said. \n According to Johns Hopkins Medicine, hand and arm transplants have been performed on more than 85 people around the world. This was the fourth double arm or hand transplant performed at Brigham and Women's. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arm transplant recipient says he can now hold fiancee's hand"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "Hawaii Sen. Brian Schatz has no aloha for Fox News correspondent Jesse Watters, whose report in New York's Chinatown generated a backlash on social media for its use of Asian stereotypes. \n \"I cannot believe that this guy is allowed to stay on the air. Or that anyone finds this garbage funny,\" Schatz wrote in a tweet today. \n \"Jesse Watters is unfunny and mean. He should be ashamed of himself. Also, he's not welcome to Honolulu Chinatown,\" the Democratic senator from Hawaii wrote in another tweet. \n Jesse Watters is unfunny and mean. He should be ashamed of himself. Also, he's not welcome to Honolulu Chinatown. \n The Fox reporter's \"Watters World\" segment on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" Monday night showed him asking people in New York's Chinatown about the presidential election. \n Fox describes Watters' reports as a \"comedic look at the latest headlines.\" \n But the Asian American Journalists Association issued a statement saying the piece was \"rife with racial stereotypes, drew on thoughtless tropes and openly ridiculed Asian Americans.\" \n The group asked Fox News to apologize for the story. \n Watters tweeted his regret about the backlash. \n \"My man-on-the-street interviews are meant to be taken as tongue-in-cheek and I regret if anyone found offense,\" he wrote in a tweet today. In another tweet, Watters said: \"As a political humorist, the Chinatown segment was intended to be a light piece, as all Watters World segments are.\" \n My man-on-the-street interviews are meant to be taken as tongue-in-cheek and I regret if anyone found offense. \n The story starts out with Watters asking two women, \"Am I supposed to bow to say hello?\" \n He interviews a number of people on Trump's comments on China and also asks a man if he knows karate and then goes on to show video of tae kwon do, while interspersing scenes from kung fu movies. \n In an on-air conversation after the piece, Watters told host O'Reilly that, \"they are such a polite people,\" while O'Reilly notes that \"they are patient.\" \n \"It's gentle fun,\" O'Reilly continues. \"I know we are going to get letters.\" \n Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites filled up with comments about the story. Watters' defenders urged him not to give in to political correctness, while his detractors said offering regret is not the same as apologizing. \n \"It's called humor-Don't getur panties in a twist jus cause u have no funnybone/cantexist outside of a safe zone,\" wrote @KrisWilliams. \n While @briflys asked, \"Would @jessebwatters do something like what he did in NY Chinatown in Harlem with the African American community?\" \n \u2014\u2014- \n Editor's note: Craig Gima, who wrote this story, is a member of the Asian American Journalists Association. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Schatz says Fox reporter not welcome in Honolulu's Chinatown after 'racist' story"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Royal Academy of Sciences members, from left to right, Professor Sara Snogerup Linse, Professor Goran K Hansson and Professor Olof Ramstrom present the 2016 Nobel Chemistry Prize at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, in Stockholm, Sweden, Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2016. Jean-Pierre Sauvage, Fraser Stoddart and Bernard Feringa have been awarded the Nobel chemistry prize. \n The Nobel Prize in chemistry has been awarded to three scientists who helped develop the smallest machines known to man. \n They are Frenchman Jean-Pierre Sauvage, 71, of the University of Strasbourg; British-born Fraser Stoddart, a 74-year-old chemistry professor at Northwestern University in Illinois in the United States; and Dutch scientist Bernard \"Ben\" Feringa, 65, a professor of organic chemistry at the University of Groningen, the Netherlands. \n Here's a look at why they won and the importance of their achievements: \n SIGNIFICANCE \n The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said the three developed tiny molecular machines that will likely be used for the development of new computer chips, batteries and energy storage systems. They are credited with designing and synthesizing molecules with controllable movements that can perform tasks when energy is added. It is almost impossible to imagine how small the machines are \u2014 roughly one thousand times smaller than the width of a strand of human hair. \n REACTION \n Alison Stoddart, the chemist daughter of Fraser Stoddart, said her father called her and was \"absolutely ecstatic\" about the news. \n She said she was pleased to see the promising work of the three laureates recognized. \n \"It's just really lovely, it's fundamental chemistry; it's synthesis in making these machines. \u2026 What it could make in years to come is very exciting,\" she told The Associated Press by telephone from Cambridge, England. \n \"They just make really interesting molecules and they love doing it and it's just really nice they won together,\" she said. \n French Prime Minister Manuel Valls praised Sauvage for his \"avant-garde\" research and phenomenal results. \n \"French research has once again been celebrated with a Nobel Prize,\" he tweeted. \n Sauvage told French TV the award had not been anticipated. \n \"It's obviously a memorable moment of happiness and a big surprise,\" he said. \"I was not expecting at all to be one of the lucky prize winners this year, or even in the future.\" \n PRIZE \n The Nobel Prize carries with it an 8 million kronor ($930,000) prize in addition to a medal and a diploma that is handed out at the award ceremonies each December. The chemistry prize is the last of three science prizes to be awarded. Still to come are awards for literature and economics and the Nobel Peace Prize. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 share Nobel Prize in chemistry for tiniest machines"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Justin Ross Harris, left, listens to jury selection during his murder trial at the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., Monday, Oct. 3, 2016. Harris charged with murder after his toddler son died two years ago while left in the back of a hot SUV. \n Brunswick, Ga. \u00bb Testimony is scheduled to resume in the trial of a Georgia man charged with murder after his toddler son died inside a hot SUV. \n The trial of Justin Ross Harris enters its third day Wednesday in coastal Brunswick, where the case was moved 275 miles from the Atlanta suburbs because of pretrial publicity. \n Prosecutors say Harris intentionally killed his 22-month-old son, Cooper, by leaving the child for seven hours in a vehicle parked outside the father's Cobb County workplace. \n Harris' defense lawyer Maddox Kilgore told the jury in his opening statement Tuesday that Harris is certainly responsible for his son's death, but insisted it was an accident and Harris committed no crime. \n The trial of Harris, who moved to Georgia from Alabama in 2012, is expected to last several weeks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trial in Georgia boy's hot car death enters third day"}

{"date": "October 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 27, 2016 photo, reporters surround a car carrying Oguchi Hospital chief Yoichi Takahashi as he prepares to head to the bereaved families of the patients, in Yokohama, near Tokyo. Authorities in Japan are investigating the poisoning deaths of two elderly patients at the hospital specializing in terminal-stage care. Oguchi Hospital has had a higher death rate in recent months, sparking speculation that the poisoning may have been systematic and more widespread. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 29, 2016 photo, people pass by Oguchi Hospital in Yokohama, near Tokyo. Authorities in Japan are investigating the poisoning deaths of two elderly patients at the hospital specializing in terminal-stage care. Oguchi Hospital has had a higher death rate in recent months, sparking speculation that the poisoning may have been systematic and more widespread. \n Tokyo \u00bb Authorities in Japan are investigating the poisoning deaths of two elderly patients at a Yokohama hospital specializing in terminal-stage care. \n Oguchi Hospital has had a higher death rate in recent months, sparking speculation that the poisoning may have been systematic and more widespread. \n The case surfaced Sept. 20 when the hospital informed police of a possible poisoning after an 88-year-old man died while receiving an intravenous injection. Police confirmed Nobuo Yamaki's IV solution had been contaminated with a disinfectant. \n He turned out to be the second victim. Police rushed to get hold of the body of his former roommate, who had died two days earlier, before it was cremated. An autopsy showed he had been poisoned with the same chemical. \n Investigators also reportedly found tiny puncture marks in 10 of about 50 unused intravenous bags stored at the nursing station on the fourth floor, which handles the terminally ill. The pinholes were on a protective seal covering each rubber cap where an IV tube connects. \n Police confiscated the bags, along with syringes and other equipment, but have not released findings. \n A lawyer for the hospital, Yuki Uehara, told The Associated Press that 46 other patients had died on the same floor from July 1 to Sept. 20. \n The fourth floor can handle up to 42 patients at a time, and normally about half die while hospitalized, Uehara said. Including the two recent deaths, the 48 exceeded 60 percent, somewhat above average but not an abnormal spike, he said. \n Hospital chief Yoichi Takahashi told reporters last month that \"we see many people pass away due to the nature of this hospital, but I had an impression that the number of deaths was somewhat larger than usual.\" \n He said his biggest concern was a massive infection but that possibility was ruled out after checking. When asked, he said he could not rule out criminal activity. He did not elaborate. \n Uehara said the hospital has been admitting patients who are more seriously ill than usual, and that could also explain the higher death rate. \n In July, Yokohama officials received an anonymous email about suspicious incidents at the hospital: nurses' aprons torn, a bottled drink laced with bleach and a patient's card missing. Tetsuo Hama, the manager of the city's medical affairs department, said officials had thought they were internal harassment cases. \n ___ \n ___ \n This story has been corrected to show that investigators, not hospital staff, found puncture marks in intravenous bags. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan police probe poisoning deaths at hospital for elderly"}

