{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NICHOLAS AUGUSTA \n Firefighters responded tonight to an Isenberg Street fire in Moiliili. \n A fire investigator was searching for the cause of a fire Tuesday night that damaged at least one apartment unit and forced dozens to evacuate an apartment building in Moiliili. \n The fire started at about 7:34 p.m. in a sixth-floor unit at Scenic Tower, 796 Isenberg St., said Honolulu Fire Department Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. He said the 19-story building was more than 40 years old and did not have a sprinkler system. The building's fire alarm system, however, was working and residents began evacuating before firefighters arrived. \n About 35 firefighters responded and found heavy smoke and flames coming from the sixth-floor unit. Firefighters brought the fire under control at 7:50 p.m. and extinguished it at 8:51 p.m. \n Mokulehua said one man, who lived alone in the unit, was not home when the fire started. \n At about 8 p.m., residents were allowed to return to their units, except for those on the sixth floor because of smoke and the ongoing fire operations. \n The American Red Cross was assisting. No one was injured. \n Damage from the fire was estimated at $130,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters investigating cause of Moiliili fire"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n A man was treated for an apparent stab wound at 2161 Aoao St. in Kamehameha Heights. \n A 56-year-old man was seriously injured in an apparent stabbing Tuesday afternoon in Kalihi. \n Emergency Medical Services said paramedics treated a man who was apparently stabbed and transported him to a hospital emergency room. \n The man was found at 2161 Aoao St. in Kamehameha Heights. It was not clear if the stabbing occurred there. \n Police dispatch said the stabbing was reported at 1:44 p.m. Police were investigating, but no further information was available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man seriously injured in Kalihi stabbing"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Press secretary Sean Spicer is seen on television broadcast monitors as he speaks to the media during the daily briefing at the White House on Tuesday. \n NEW YORK >> White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer took the first question at his briefing Tuesday from a reporter who works for LifeZette, a website founded by Donald Trump supporter Laura Ingraham that published some untrue stories during the 2016 presidential campaign. \n Last year, LifeZette released a video, \"Clinton Body Count,\" that promoted a conspiracy theory that Hillary and Bill Clinton had ties to the deaths of several colleagues and Democrats. Another video posted two weeks before the election promoted false claims that voting machines in 16 states could be compromised because they were linked to a company tied to liberal activist George Soros. \n LifeZette features a mix of conservative politics, lifestyle and consumer articles and videos. Its home page Tuesday featured a story about New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady calling Trump to congratulate him on becoming president; one that questioned the purpose of last weekend's women's march; and another in which Fox News' Sean Hannity condemned Trump officials who had leaked information to the press. \n Tuesday's briefing was another indication of how press relations have changed with the onset of a new administration in Washington. \n The reporter, Jim Stinson, asked Spicer when President Trump would follow through on campaign promises about immigration. \n Ingraham, a conservative radio host, was among those the new president considered to serve as his press secretary. She was given a prominent speaking role at the Republican convention last summer. \n Spicer taking the first question from Stinson attracted notice because, before Trump, major news outlets were traditionally called upon to open White House press conferences and briefings. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pro-Trump site gets 1st question at White House briefing"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 12, 2016 file photo, a panel discussion took place at the Anti-Corruption Summit in London with Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, from left, Jose Ugaz, Transparency International, Daria Kaleniuk and Norway's Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Watchdog group Transparency International warned on Wednesday that people who turn to populist politicians who promise to change systems and end corruption may only be feeding the problem. \n BERLIN >>People who turn to populist politicians promising to upset the status quo and end corruption may only be feeding the problem, an anti-corruption watchdog group warned Wednesday. \n Transparency International said in its annual Corruption Perceptions Index for 2016 that in countries with populist or autocratic leaders, \"instead of tackling crony capitalism, those leaders usually install even worse forms of corrupt systems.\" \n The group's board chairman, Jose Ugaz, cited Hungary and Turkey as examples. Their scores have worsened in recent years under leaders with authoritarian leanings, while Argentina, which ousted a populist government, has improved in the rankings, he said. \n Based on expert opinions of public sector corruption, the annual report rated Denmark and New Zealand as the least-corrupt countries, followed by Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, and Norway. Somalia was ranked most corrupt, followed by South Sudan, North Korea, and Syria. \n Rounding out the Top 10 least corrupt were Singapore, the Netherlands, Canada, and the tie-placing trio of Germany, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom in the No. 10 spot. The United States placed 18th, down from 16th in 2015. \n Transparency International research director Finn Heinrich told The Associated Press that the organization was taking a wait-and-see approach to Donald Trump's presidency, but that already it had \"serious concerns.\" \n \"Donald Trump came on board as the people in Hungary and Turkey, on an anti-corruption ticket. He said, 'We're going to drain this swamp,'\" Heinrich said. \"But if you look at his action so far, there is nepotism\u2026. The people in his Cabinet have many conflicts of interest. They are not people who stand for transparency.\" \n The index scores countries on a range of factors, such as whether government officials are held to account or go unpunished for corruption; the perceived prevalence of bribery; and whether public institutions respond to citizens' needs. \n Nearly 70 percent of the 176 countries scored below 50 on the 100-point scale, with a zero meaning a country is perceived to be highly corrupt and 100 indicating it's perceived to be very clean. \n \"This year, more countries declined in the index than improved, showing the need for urgent action,\" the report said. \n The country that dropped most sharply in the rankings was Qatar, which has faced criticism over alleged human rights abuses involving migrant construction workers since it was chosen to host the 2022 World Cup of soccer. It dropped 10 points, falling to 31st on the list from 22nd last year. \n Still, Heinrich said Qatar's government has in the past shown itself \"willing and keen\" to fight corruption, and that Transparency would appeal to them for more fundamental reforms to ensure better freedom of speech and more media freedom, among other things. \n \"You can't fight corruption without having accountability and transparency in the entire public process,\" he said. \n Afghanistan, a perennial fixture near the bottom of the list, improved the most in 2016. Its score on the Transparency International index rose four points, but still was ranked 169th, just ahead of Libya, Sudan and Yemen. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Watchdog group: Corruption worsens under populist leaders"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A surfer rides in the barrel of a large wave breaking at Banzai Pipeline on the North Shore of Oahu on Jan. 13. \n A high surf advisory is in effect for the north and west shores of Oahu, Kauai, Niihau and Molokai and the north shores of Maui, the National Weather Service said. \n A northwest swell will build tonight and boost surf to a range of 16 to 22 feet along north shores tonight, the weather service said. \n The west shores of Oahu, Kauai, Niihau and Molokai will see surf in the 10-to-14-foot range. \n The weather service said the surf will be accompanied by a heavy shorebreak and strong currents, making swimming difficult and dangerous. \n The advisory is set to expire at 6 a.m. Thursday, but could be extended. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "North Shores could get 22-foot surf tonight through Wednesday"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Image from Bank of Hawaii security footage. \n Police are looking for a man who robbed the King Street branch of Bank of Hawaii at gunpoint this afternoon. \n Police said the man entered the bank at 2470 S. King St. at 12:09 p.m. and handed the teller a demand note while displaying a handgun. \n Police said he fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of money in an unknown direction. \n He is described as between 50 and 60 years old, 5 feet 7 inches tall, about 180 pounds. He was wearing a black hoodie, a black Nike baseball cap and sunglasses. \n Anyone with information about the robbery should call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on a cell phone. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "King Street bank branch robbed at gunpoint"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated image shows George Orwell, author of \"1984.\" \n NEW YORK >> After incorrect or unprovable statements made by Republican President Donald Trump and some White House aides, one truth is undeniable: Sales of George Orwell's \"1984\" are soaring. \n First published in 1949, Orwell's classic dystopian tale of a society in which facts are distorted and suppressed in a cloud of \"newspeak\" topped the best-seller list of Amazon.com as of Tuesday evening. The sales bump comes after the Trump administration's assertions his inauguration had record attendance and his unfounded allegation that millions of illegal votes were cast against him last fall. \n Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway coined an instant catchphrase Sunday when she called his claims about crowd size \"alternative facts,\" bringing comparisons on social media to \"1984.\" \n Orwell's book isn't the only cautionary tale on the Amazon list. Sinclair Lewis' 1935 novel about the election of an authoritarian president, \"It Can't Happen Here,\" was at No. 46. Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\" was at No. 71. \n Sales also were up for Hannah Arendt's seminal nonfiction analysis \"The Origins of Totalitarianism.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'1984' sales soar after Trump claims, 'alternative facts'"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump talks with reporters in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington today before signing an executive order on the Keystone XL pipeline. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump will begin rolling out executive actions on immigration Wednesday, beginning with steps to tighten border security \u2014 including his proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border \u2014 and other domestic immigration enforcement measures, according to two administration officials. \n Later in the week, the president is expected to restrict the flow of refugees to the United States. The proposed plans include at least a four-month halt on all refugee admissions, as well as temporary ban on people coming from some Muslim majority countries, according to a representative of a public policy organization that monitors refugee issues. The person was briefed on the details of that proposed action by a government official and outlined the expected steps for The Associated Press. \n The officials and the public policy organization's representative insisted on anonymity in order to outline the plans ahead of Trump's official announcements. The president is expected to sign the first actions Wednesday during a trip to the Department of Homeland Security, with additional actions being rolled out over the next few days, according to one official. \n It appeared as though the refugee restrictions were still to be finalized. The person briefed on the proposals said they included a ban on entry to the U.S. for at least 30 days from countries including Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, though the person cautioned the details could still change. \n There is also likely to be an exception in the refugee stoppage for those fleeing religious persecution if their religion is a minority in their country. That exception could cover Christians fleeing Muslim-majority nations. \n Trump campaigned on pledges to tighten U.S. immigration policies, including beefing up border security and stemming the flow of refugees. He also called for halting entry to the U.S. from Muslim countries, but later shifted the policy to a focus on what he called \"extreme vetting\" for those coming from countries with terrorism ties. \n As president, Trump can use an executive order to halt refugee processing. President George W. Bush used that same power in the immediate aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Refugee security vetting was reviewed and the process was restarted several months later. \n While the specific of Trump's orders were unclear, both administration officials said Wednesday's actions would focus in part on the president's plans to construct a wall along the southern border with Mexico. Trump's insistence that Mexico would pay for the wall was among his most popular proposals on the campaign trail, sparking enthusiastic cheers at his raucous rallies. \n Mexico has repeatedly said it will not pay for any border wall. Earlier this month, Trump said the building project would initially be paid for with a congressionally approved spending bill and Mexico will eventually reimburse the U.S., though he has not specified how he would guarantee payments. \n Trump will meet with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto at the White House next week. \n In claiming authority to build a wall, Trump may rely on a 2006 law that authorized several hundred miles of fencing along the 2,000-mile frontier. That bill led to the construction of about 700 miles of various kinds of fencing designed to block both vehicles and pedestrians. \n The Secure Fence Act was signed by then-President George W. Bush and the majority of the fencing in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California was built before he left office. The last remnants were completed after President Barack Obama took office in 2009. \n The Trump administration also must adhere to a decades-old border treaty with Mexico that limits where and how structures can be built along the border. The 1970 treaty requires that structures cannot disrupt the flow of the rivers, which define the U.S.-Mexican border along Texas and 24 miles in Arizona, according to The International Boundary and Water Commission, a joint U.S.-Mexican agency that administers the treaty. \n Other executive actions expected Wednesday include bolstering border patrol agents and ending what Republicans have argued is a catch-and-release system at the border. Currently, some immigrants caught crossing the border illegally are given notices to report back to immigration officials at a later date. \n If Trump's actions would result in those caught being immediately jailed, the administration would have to grapple with how to pay for jail space to detain everyone and what to do with children caught crossing the border with their parents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump to move on border security, immigration enforcement"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "The Hawaii State Teachers Association says it wants to tap into property taxes to help better fund public schools. \n The teachers union has drafted a proposed constitutional amendment that would allow the state to collect a property tax surcharge on residential investment properties and a daily surcharge on all visitor accommodations at hotels, timeshares and vacation rentals. \n An amendment is needed because the state Constitution exclusively authorizes the counties to levy property taxes. \n The union says the proposed surcharges together would raise an estimated $500 million a year that it wants set aside for four priorities related to hiring and retaining teachers. \n \"With that $500 million we think we can start solving the systemic problems that we have in Hawaii schools,\" HSTA President Corey Rosenlee said in an interview today. \"At the core of it, as long as we have a teacher shortage crisis and we don't have a surplus of teachers, it's going to make it very difficult to attack a lot of those other problems that are affecting education.\" \n The tax on residential investment properties \u2014 homes or condominiums that do not serve as a primary residence \u2014 would be tiered based on a property's assessed value, according to companion legislation to the proposed constitutional amendment. Under the proposed rates, the annual surcharge would amount to $3,150 for an investment home valued at $700,000, and $6,500 for a property valued at $1 million. \n \"Our basic philosophy behind this is: It's a way to make sure that we fund our schools, make sure that we have quality teachers in the classroom, and at the same time, going after speculators that have made affordable housing in Hawaii almost impossible,\" Rosenlee said. \"If you have a home and that is your one home, you will not have to pay this tax.\" \n The bill includes more than a dozen exemptions for investment properties, including affordable housing that's rented for less than $1,500 a month; properties rented to low-income seniors or disabled veterans; Hawaiian homesteads; and properties used exclusively for charitable purposes. \n The visitor accommodations tax, meanwhile, would tack on a $3 daily fee for transient accommodations offered for less than $150 per day. The fee would increase to $5 a day for accommodations offered for $150 or more per day. \n Last legislative session the union was unsuccessful in its effort to raise the general excise tax to establish a dedicated funding stream for public schools. Rosenlee said by putting the issue to voters through a constitutional amendment, lawmakers would not be put in the position of voting for a tax increase. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HSTA pitches property tax, hotel surcharge to hire, retain teachers"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protestors march past the Civil Rights Museum during the Triad NC Women's March in Greensboro, N.C. on Saturday. \n INDIANAPOLIS >> A school board member in Hillary Clinton's hometown resigned after making a derogatory reference on Twitter to the female anatomy in describing women marching against President Donald Trump. An Illinois teacher was pulled from the classroom for tweets deemed sexist. And a freshman Indiana lawmaker was inundated with criticism over a Facebook post mocking \"fat women.\" \n These are a handful of examples from across the U.S. of mostly male public officials who have been reprimanded, called out or disciplined over social media postings about the women's marches around the globe last weekend. \n The rash of incidents, which range from boorish to downright vulgar, highlight how nasty political discourse has become since the divisive presidential election. But in an era when Trump made lashing out against \"political correctness\" central to his appeal, the consequences these officials face for unfiltered use of social media once again demonstrates that what you say on the internet still can hurt you. \n \"Very few people in public life, even today, get away with what Trump was able to get away with,\" said Michael Cornfield, a George Washington University professor who studies politics in the internet age. \"I wonder what these gentlemen were thinking.\" \n It's not the first time rantings on social media have sparked backlash. Public officials for years have found themselves in trouble, and even resigned from office, over comments that were impolitic, distasteful and sometimes even racist. It's also not strictly a partisan issue. A writer for Saturday Night Live was suspended this week after writing an offensive tweet about Trump's 10-year-old son Barron. The writer, Katie Rich, deleted the tweet, briefly deactivated her account and then apologized after a social media outcry led to calls for a boycott of the show. \n Still, the number of incidents following the women's marches, which packed public squares in blue states and some red as well, has put a few elected officials and supervisors in an awkward spot. And it's not clear where to draw the line. \n In Indiana, Republican House Speaker Brian Bosma says he's conducting social media tutorials after posts from at least two state lawmakers. \n A weekend Facebook post by Indiana state Rep. Jim Lucas, a Republican, showed a photo of a woman sprayed in the face with pepper spray with a caption that read: \"PARTICIPATION TROPHIES. NOW IN LIQUID FORM.\" \n Another post by newly elected Indiana state Sen. Jack Sandlin, also a Republican, credited Donald Trump with getting \"more fat women out walking than (former First Lady) Michelle Obama did in 8 years.\" \n Sandlin, who says he didn't knowingly make the since-deleted post, was inundated with criticism on his Facebook page and has apologized. He says the incident was a powerful lesson on the \"unintended consequences\" of opening up \"your social media to try to get it out as broadly as you can.\" \n Bosma partially blamed \"the Twitter storm created by our president\" which he said \"makes people feel this is an appropriate vehicle to communicate.\" He added: \"We're elected officials, we're held to a higher standard.\" \n On Monday, Dathan Paterno, a school board member in Park Ridge, Illinois, where Hillary Clinton grew up, abruptly resigned after he called the protests a \"farce\" by \"vagina screechers\" on Twitter. \n Paterno, who did not respond to a request for comment, later deleted his social media accounts, said district Superintendent Laurie Heinz. He wrote in his letter of resignation that the tweets were \"understandably misinterpreted.\" \n In the Quad Cities, along Illinois' western border, a teacher was \"removed from the classroom\" for posting a view of women that \"does not reflect the values\" of the school, district officials said in a statement. \n The teacher, Mark Kaczmarek, tweeted a photo of a 1950s housewife, and commented that the protesters \"all went home to make dinner.\" \n One online petition called his tweet \"unacceptable\" while a rival petition said there is \"no proof\" that he \"ever engaged in any kind of sexist, racist or even homophobic hate speeches in his classroom.\" \n A person who answered the phone at a number listed to Kaczmarek declined to comment. \n In Nebraska, a retweet of an offensive joke may be the final straw for State Sen. Bill Kintner, who admitted last year to having cybersex on a state computer with a woman who later tried to blackmail him. The Republican's colleagues on Wednesday will debate whether to expel him after he retweeted a joke implying that three women's march demonstrators were too unattractive to sexually assault. \n Other incidents were reported in Mississippi, Rhode Island and New Mexico. \n Cornfield, the political science professor, said that he thought most people learned the lesson about crossing the line in social media posts years ago during the early days of email. \n \"I guess now that we've elected the real Donald Trump some people need reminders,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sexist, vulgar posts on women's marches rebound on officials"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mark Zuckerberg, chairman and CEO of Facebook, waves at the CEO summit during the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru. Zuckerberg announced through a spokesman that he is \"reconsidering\" his quiet title lawsuits filed recently against hundreds of owners or potential owners of land on Kauai. \n \"Based on feedback from the local community, we are reconsidering the quiet title process and discussing how to move forward,\" the Facebook CEO said in a statement distributed by Ben LaBolt of the New York-based communications firm The Incite Agency. \"We want to make sure we are following a process that protects the interests of property owners, respects the traditions of native Hawaiians, and preserves the environment.\" \n The decision by Zuckerberg follows criticism from many people, including Kauai residents, the Native Hawaiian Legal Corp. and state Rep. Kaniela Ing over eight lawsuits Zuckerberg companies filed Dec. 30 in state court on Kauai against Hawaii families seeking to force them to sell their interest in their family lands or have a judge validate claims that the lands are already owned by Zuckerberg. \n The lands in question are 14 parcels of roughly one acre or less that lie within about 700 acres on Kauai's north shore that Zuckerberg bought in 2014 for around $100 million. The 14 parcels are known as kuleana lands that give their owners access rights over the surrounding property that Zuckerberg wants to make into a secluded home for himself and his wife, Priscilla Chan. \n \"We love Kauai,\" Zuckerberg said in the statement. \"We want to be good members of the community and preserve the land for generations to come.\" \n ", "author": "By Andrew Gomes agomes@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Facebook's Zuckerberg 'reconsidering' his stance on Kauai land dispute"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n State's exhibit 19, a photo of the site where a 13-year-old girl was chained in the basement of the Ciboros house, is displayed on a computer screen during the trial of Timothy Ciboro and son Esten Ciboro in Toledo, Ohio. \n TOLEDO, Ohio >> A 14-year-old girl who says she escaped a basement where she was chained and handcuffed by two relatives who she says touched her sexually, confronted the two men in court Tuesday. \n The girl, who had a comfort dog next to her on the witness stand, testified that she often was held in the basement as punishment by Timothy Ciboro and his 28-year-old son, Esten Ciboro. \n Both have pleaded not guilty to charges including rape, kidnapping and child endangering. \n The two men are serving as their own attorneys, and questioned the girl after she described being shackled by the ankle to a support beam in the darkened room for different lengths of time. \n At one point during her testimony, she told Timothy Ciboro to stop referring to himself as her dad. \"You didn't treat me like a dad,\" she said to Ciboro, who is not her biological father. \n \"You think I like punishing you?\" Ciboro responded. \n \"I would say the sexual touching you enjoyed,\" answered the girl, who occasionally paused to pet or smile at the comfort dog, a 2-year-old golden retriever. \n Prosecutors said the girl suffered both physical and mental abuse before she used a spare key to escape last summer when she was 13 years old. \n Officers found leg irons in the basement along with a bucket the girl said she used as a toilet, according to a police report. \n The girl, whose mother was living in Las Vegas at the time, and two other children were living with the two men. \n The girl testified that she was treated more harshly than the other two. \n Her punishment for wetting the bed worsened from being spanked, to being locked in a bathroom to being chained in the basement, she said. \n She also said she first told police that she had not been sexually abused and only mentioned it several months later. \n The father and son tried to point out that they had provided her with a home, clothes and food. \n \"Did your dad act like I loved you?\" Timothy Ciboro said to her. \n \"Sometimes it seemed like that,\" she said. \"Normal fathers wouldn't do sexual stuff to their kids.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Girl says she was kept in basement prison with chains, cuffs"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / 2016 \n A Hawaiian monk seal makes its way further up from the water on a beach in Waikiki, having taken up temporary residence in front of the Colony Surf. \n Federal wildlife biologists say the population of endangered Hawaiian monk seals has grown 3 percent a year for the past three years. \n Hawaiian Monk Seal Research Program Lead Scientist Charles Littnan said Tuesday there are about 1,400 seals in the wild. He says there have been increases in the past, but they were minor blips. \n Littnan says more juveniles are surviving in the remote Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. He says this is partly because of programs like those that disentangle seals from marine debris and take malnourished young seals to a Big Island seal hospital. \n Littnan says about 30 percent of seals are alive today because of such interventions. \n The monk seal population has been declining since the 1950s, when federal authorities counted 3,400 seals on Northwestern Hawaiian Island beaches. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Endangered Hawaiian monk seal population rises to 1,400"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n UN Ambassador-designate, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> The Senate confirmed President Donald Trump's pick for U.S. ambassador to the United Nations by a decisive margin today as Republican-led committees paved the way for three more of his Cabinet nominees to be approved just days into the new administration. \n South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley won strong support for the U.N. post despite her lack of foreign policy experience. Senators voted 96-4 on Haley's nomination. \n Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, the Republican chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said Haley is a proven leader who will be a \"fierce advocate\" at the U.N. for American interests. \n But not everyone was sold. Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., said Haley didn't convince him that she'll serve effectively. The U.S. ambassador to the international body should be an expert on international affairs, Coons said, \"not someone who will be learning on the job.\" \n A Senate vote is expected soon on Trump's choice for secretary of state, former Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson. The Foreign Relations Committee narrowly approved his nomination Monday, 11-10. No Democrats on the panel voted for Tillerson. \n Tillerson's bid got a key boost when Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., announced his support today. Manchin, who faces re-election in 2018 in a state that backed Trump heavily in the presidential election, said Tillerson's extensive business career \"will bring a unique perspective to the State Department.\" \n The vote on Haley capped a day when the GOP-led panels endorsed Trump's choices to lead the Transportation, Housing, and Commerce departments. Yet congressional Republicans criticized Democrats for not moving quickly enough on all of the president's selections. \n Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, forced a one-week delay \u2014 until Jan. 31 \u2014 of the committee's vote on Trump's attorney general nominee, Sen. Jeff Sessions. \n Feinstein said senators \"owe it\" to the more than 1 million women who marched in Washington and other locations on Saturday to be careful in considering Sessions' nomination and his willingness to protect equal rights. She also said the committee received 188 pages of new material that needs to be reviewed. Committee rules allow any member of the panel to delay a vote. \n Deliberations over two of Trump's picks turned testy as both nominees faced questions from Democrats over their personal finances. Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., the president's choice for health secretary, defended his decision to invest in health care companies as he testified before the Senate Finance Committee. \n Panel staffers found Price undervalued around 400,000 shares of stock in Australian drug company Innate Immunotherapeutics that he purchased last August. He reported the shares were valued at $50,000 to $100,000, but those shares were worth up to $250,000. Price blamed a \"clerical error\" and answered \"no\" when Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., asked if he'd used poor judgment. \n Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., said Trump's nominee for budget director, South Carolina Rep. Mick Mulvaney, should be disqualified because he failed to pay more than $15,000 in payroll taxes for a babysitter more than a decade ago. Mulvaney said he discovered the unpaid taxes while preparing for the nominating process. He has since paid the taxes. \n Trump's choice for education secretary, Betsy DeVos, is also being scrutinized by Democrats about her qualifications, political donations and longtime work advocating for charter schools and school choice in her home state of Michigan. \n Sen. Gary Peters, D-Mich., delivered a withering critique of DeVos, saying he has no confidence she will fully support traditional public schools and students. \n The Senate Commerce Committee approved by voice votes Trump's choices of conservative billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to run the Commerce Department and Elaine Chao to lead the Transportation Department. \n Ross has specialized in buying distressed companies that still have a potential for delivering profits. He has known Trump for more than 20 years, was an early supporter of his presidential campaign and served as an economic policy adviser to Trump's team. \n Chao, an experienced Washington hand, was labor secretary in President George W. Bush's administration and deputy transportation secretary under President George H.W. Bush. She is also the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. \n Chao is expected to play a major role in Trump's effort to fulfill his campaign promise to generate $1 trillion in infrastructure investment. \n Ben Carson, nominated to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development, won unanimous approval from the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. The former Republican presidential candidate and celebrated neurosurgeon would lead a sprawling agency with 8,300 employees and a budget of about $47 billion. \n Sen. Michael Crapo of Idaho, the committee's Republican chairman, praised Carson and said the department \"will benefit from having a secretary with a different perspective and a diverse background.\" Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio, the panel's top Democrat, said he had reservations but welcomed Carson's promises to address lead hazards in public housing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate confirms Trump's nominee for U.S. ambassador to the UN"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis celebrates a Mass at Santa Marta residence at the Vatican, Monday, Jan. 23, 2017. \n VATICAN CITY >> At a time of fake news and \"alternative facts,\" Pope Francis is asking the media to not only tell the truth, but to report good news. \n In his message for the Catholic church's annual communications day, Francis urged journalists on Tuesday to tell positive stories that bring hope and not to focus so much on bad news and scandal. \n He stressed he wasn't asking the journalists to \"ignore the tragedy of human suffering\" or naively turn a blind eye to evil. But he said a constant negative drumbeat can lead to apathy and resignation. \n Francis had tense relations with the press in his native Argentina and has been an outspoken media critic. \n He also has used the media to get his message out, particularly via Catholic and Italian outlets. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope on fake news, 'alternative facts': Tell positive truth"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Nicolo Lorenzo died Saturday after being found with stab wounds near Iwilei Road and North Nimitz Highway. \n Crimestoppers and Honolulu police are seeking the public's help in finding the suspect or suspects responsible for the murder of a 32-year-old man in Kalihi Saturday. \n Police said Nicolo Lorenzo was found unconscious with multiple stab wounds at the intersection of Iwilei Road and North Nimitz Highway around 9:10 p.m. He was known to frequent the area, police said. Lorenzo was taken to the Queen's Medical Center, where he died. \n Anyone with information is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD searching for suspect in Kalihi murder"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Image shows the areas affected by the sewage spill on the Big Island \n State health officials are advising the public to avoid waters near the Paukaa Sewage Pump Station on Hawaii Island after a sewage spill this morning. \n The estimated 5,000 gallons discharged due to equipment malfunctions for about 50 minutes shortly after 8 a.m. It has been stopped and warning signs have been posted. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Equipment malfunctions cause sewage spill on Big Island"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nebraska state Sen. Bill Kintner of Papillion talked on the phone, Jan. 4, in the legislative Chamber on the first day of the 2017 legislative session, in Lincoln, Neb. Sen. Kintner could face expulsion from the Legislature for retweeting a talk show host's joke implying that Women's March demonstrators are too unattractive to sexually assault. \n LINCOLN, Neb. >> A Nebraska state senator could face expulsion from the Legislature for a pattern of questionable behavior that includes cybersex on a state computer and posting a joke on Twitter implying that Women's March protesters are too unattractive to sexually assault. \n Lawmakers on Wednesday will debate whether to expel state Sen. Bill Kintner from the Legislature, a move with no precedent in at least the last half century. \n Kintner drew fierce criticism Sunday when he retweeted Los Angeles talk show host Larry Elder, who mocked a picture of three women with signs protesting Donald Trump's comments about touching women inappropriately. Above the photo, Elder wrote: \"Ladies, I think you're safe.\" \n \"We are in totally unchartered waters here,\" said state Sen. John Kuehn, a fellow conservative who has implored Kintner to resign. \n Sen. Ernie Chambers of Omaha, a longtime adversary of Kintner's, called his behavior \"disgusting\" and demanded that other senators pressure him to resign. Chambers has also said that the behavior is dragging Kintner's wife, who works for Republican Gov. Pete Ricketts, through a series of public embarrassments. Ricketts has also called for Kintner to resign. \n \"This man\u2026 has no respect for his own wife,\" Chambers said. \n Kintner did not respond to phone or text messages today seeking comment, but his office released a statement that said: \"I understand my colleagues' concern about the retweet I sent this weekend. I am very troubled by the liberal activist campaign that is using my mistake on the tweet to escalate calls for my resignation.\" \n He is an outspoken conservative Republican in the ostensibly nonpartisan Legislature, comprised of 32 Republicans, 15 Democrats, one Libertarian and Chambers, a liberal independent. \n Kintner said he had not decided whether he'll stay in office or resign. In his statement, he argued that Chambers has been pushing to expel him from office since last summer. \n \"He has made it obvious that he will use any means, including lies and cheap shots at my wife and myself,\" the statement said, without elaborating. \n Kintner admitted last year to having cybersex on a state computer with a woman who later tried to blackmail him, but refused to resign. His opponents at the time didn't have enough votes to expel him. \n Lawmakers said they've been bombarded with calls, emails and letters from constituents outraged by Kintner's behavior. Sen. Patty Pansing Brooks said she has received so much correspondence that she couldn't work on other issues. \n \"We have a serious and continued pattern of bad behavior,\" she said. \n Sen. Paul Schumacher of Columbus, who has urged Kintner to resign, warned against taking quick action against Kintner without allowing him due-process rights to defend himself. \n \"However bad the conduct is or was, the man has got a right to prepare a defense,\" Schumacher said. \n Kintner's history of offensive statements has made even some of his conservative allies cringe. \n In 2015, the Nebraska Latino American Commission condemned Kintner for repeatedly using an ethnic slur during a debate over allowing driver's licenses for certain youths brought to the country illegally. \n Some were bemused and others offended by his 2013 comment to a newspaper, which asked him what he considered the biggest mystery. Kintner responded, \"Women. No one understands them. They don't even understand themselves.\" \n Kintner, 56, was elected in 2012 to represent a largely rural and suburban district south of Omaha. He is up for re-election in 2018. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nebraska senator could face expulsion for online behavior"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson, right, speaks at a news-conference Tuesday, Jan.24, 2017, in Cleveland. Cleveland officials have identified the police officer killed in a hit-and-run on an interstate as Patrolman David Fahey. \n CLEVELAND >> A man has been arrested and is expected to be charged in the hit-and-run death of a Cleveland patrolman on an interstate, Cleveland police said today. \n The 44-year-old man was arrested in Lorain, about 30 miles west of Cleveland, hours after Patrolman David Fahey was struck around 6 a.m. this morning in the westbound lanes of Interstate 90 in Cleveland. \n Fahey, 39, was setting down road flares at the time because of two previous accidents on the freeway. Rocky River firefighters and police had responded to a single-car crash when a van drove into the back of a firetruck, killing the van's driver and hospitalizing a passenger. \n A Cleveland police spokeswoman said prosecutors will be consulted about possible charges in the officer's death, including aggravated vehicular homicide. \n Cleveland Police Patrolmen's Association President Steve Loomis said officers took Fahey's handcuffs from the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner's Office to use on the suspect, who surrendered to police at gunpoint after a U.S. Department of Homeland Security agent spotted his car in the driveway of a home. Officers from several agencies had searched for the white Toyota Camry that struck Fahey. \n Fahey joined the Cleveland Police Department in July 2014. His step-father is a retired Cleveland police lieutenant, his brother is a Cleveland officer and his mother once worked for the department, Loomis said. Fahey was a Navy veteran who spent several years as Cleveland paramedic before joining the police department, Loomis said. \n Fahey is the first Cleveland police officer to die in the line of duty since Patrolman Derek Owens was shot and killed by a suspect he was chasing on foot in 2008. \n An Ohio State Highway Patrol Trooper was struck and killed on I-90 last year near where Fahey was killed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man arrested in hit-and-run death of Cleveland patrolman"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Flint River in Flint, Mich. Michigan environmental officials announced that Flint's water system no longer has levels of lead exceeding the federal limit. The finding by the Department of Environmental Quality is good news for a city whose 100,000 residents have grappled with the man-made water crisis since 2014. \n LANSING, Mich. >> Flint's water system no longer has levels of lead exceeding the federal limit, a key finding that Michigan state environmental officials said today is good news for a city whose 100,000 residents have been grappling with the man-made water crisis. \n The 90th percentile of lead concentrations in Flint was 12 parts per billion from July through December \u2014 below the \"action level\" of 15 ppb, according to a letter from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality to Flint's mayor. It was 20 ppb in the prior six-month period. \n Based on the sample of 368 residential sites, Flint's lead levels are again comparable to other similarly sized U.S. cities with older infrastructure, state officials told The Associated Press ahead of an official announcement. \n \"This is good news and the result of many partners on the local, county, state and federal levels working together to restore the water quality in the City of Flint,\" the department's director, Heidi Grether, said in a statement. \"The Flint water system is one of the most monitored systems in the country for lead and copper, and that commitment will remain to ensure residents continue to have access to clean water.\" \n Residents, whose mistrust in government remains high nearly three years after a fateful switch of the city's water source in April 2014, are being told to continue using faucet filters or bottled water because an ongoing mass replacement of pipes could spike lead levels in individual houses. The replacement of the lines is expected to take years. \n Today's announcement drew immediate skepticism from some Flint residents. \n Melissa Mays said it \"means nothing. There's still lead in the system.\" \n \"Especially with disruptions, main breaks \u2014 pieces of lead scale will be breaking off until these pipes are replaced,\" Mays said. \"You cannot tell me the water is safe because you have not tested every home.\" \n Flint's public health emergency began when officials failed to properly treat lead lines for corrosion while the city was under state management. \n State officials acknowledged the lead problem in October 2015. Lead from old pipes leached into the water supply because corrosion-reducing phosphates were not added due to an incorrect reading of federal regulations. \n Elevated levels of lead, a neurotoxin, were detected in children, and 12 people died in a Legionnaires' disease outbreak that experts suspect was linked to the improperly treated water. An ongoing investigation has led to charges against 13 current or former government officials, including two managers that Gov. Rick Snyder appointed to run the city. \n Snyder has apologized for the crisis that has largely been blamed on his administration. \n \"The remarkable improvement in water quality over the past year is a testament to all levels of government working together and the resilient people of Flint helping us help them through participation in the flushing programs,\" he said in a statement. \"There is still more work to do in Flint, and I remain committed to helping the residents recover and restore their city.\" \n While it is important for cities to be below the federal limit, experts say there is no safe level of lead and the crisis has exposed gaps in a monitoring system that can mislead individual homeowners and renters into thinking their tap water is safe when only some homes with lead pipes are sampled. \n Michigan's letter to Flint Mayor Karen Weaver was reviewed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency before it was sent. Because the city exceeded the federal limit in the first half of 2016, it must continue replacing at least 7 percent of its lead service lines by June 30. \n Though the requirement may be discontinued if the water supply is at or below the limit in the next monitoring period, the state said it would continue supporting Flint's plan to replace more pipes. The state set aside $27 million for the project as part of the nearly $300 million that has been allocated toward the crisis, including for bottled water, filters and legal bills. \n Today's announcement means the state will soon stop providing a credit on customers' bills. It has been partially covering their bills dating to April 2014. Starting in March, the state also plans to no longer pay for Flint's water, which comes from a Detroit-area system. The state has been the costs since October 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Water lead-level falls below federal limit in Flint"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lord Neuberger, President of the Supreme Court, center, speaks at Britain's Supreme Court in London, Tuesday Jan. 24, 2017, on whether the prime minister or Parliament has the right to trigger the process of taking Britain out of the EU. \n LONDON >> Britain's government warned lawmakers not to try to \"thwart the will of the people\" after the Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that Prime Minister Theresa May must seek the approval of Parliament before starting the formal process of leaving the European Union. \n The 8-3 decision forces the government to put a bill before Parliament, giving members of the House of Commons and the unelected House of Lords the chance to debate and potentially offer amendments that could soften the terms of Britain's exit from the EU, known as Brexit. \n While the government insisted its timetable of starting the talks by the end of March remained on track, some analysts warned that a defeat in the House of Lords, where May does not have a majority, could delay the process by a year or more. \n \"Parliament will rightly scrutinize and debate this legislation,\" David Davis, the government's Brexit secretary, told the House of Commons after the ruling. \"But I trust no one will seek to make it a vehicle for attempts to thwart the will of the people, or frustrate or delay the process of our exit from the European Union.\" \n While the ruling won't scuttle Britain's departure, mandated by voters in a June 23 referendum, it once again highlights the uncertainties in negotiating the country's future relationship with the bloc of 500 million people, which is central to trade, immigration and security. The pound has fallen about 20 percent against the dollar since the vote on concern about slower economic growth and reduced investment. \n May's government fought hard to avoid putting the matter before Parliament, in part because amendments to the legislation could delay her timetable and force her into complicated concessions with her own lawmakers before she even sat across the table before the other 27 members of the EU. \n \"Unfortunately for businesses and other institutions, Brexit still means uncertainty,\" said Phillip Souta, head of UK public policy at the law firm Clifford Chance. \"Parliament remains divided and the outcome of the negotiations remain unknown.\" \n Putting the issue before Parliament is not a simple matter. While May holds sway in the House of Commons, the House of Lords have in recent years stalled dozens of pieces of legislation with which they disagreed, including an attempt by May's predecessor to impose welfare cuts on the vulnerable. The government backed down after the delay. \n \"Defeat in the House of Lords would not stop Brexit from happening, but it could delay it until mid-2020,\" Souta said. \n The lawsuit was considered the most important constitutional case in a generation because it centered on the question of who ultimately wields power in Britain's system of government: the prime minister and her Cabinet, or Parliament. \n May had said she would use centuries-old powers known as royal prerogative to invoke Article 50 of the EU treaty and launch two years of exit talks. The powers \u2014 traditionally held by the monarch \u2014 permit decisions about treaties and other specific issues to be made without a vote of Parliament. \n The prime minister argued that the referendum gave her a mandate to take Britain out of the 28-nation bloc and that discussing the details of her strategy with Parliament would weaken the government's negotiating position. \n Financial entrepreneur Gina Miller sued to force the government to seek parliamentary approval. Leaving the EU, she said, would change the fundamental rights of citizens and this can't be done without a vote of lawmakers. The Supreme Court agreed. \n \"The referendum is of great political significance, but the act of Parliament which established it did not say what should happen as a result, so any change in the law to give effect to the referendum must be made in the only way permitted by the U.K. constitution, namely by an act of Parliament,\" Supreme Court President David Neuberger said in reading the decision. \n \"To proceed otherwise would be a breach of settled constitutional principles stretching back many centuries,\" he said. \n Significantly, the government did win one argument on Tuesday, with the ruling that the legislatures of the nations that are a part of the United Kingdom \u2014 Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland \u2014 do not need to be consulted on Brexit. Such consultation would likely have led to a significant delay as lawmakers from the regions piled in with their concerns. \n While the U.K. government has ceded authority over many local issues to these bodies, responsibility for international relations still rests with the government in Westminster. \"Relations with the EU are a matter for the UK government,\" Neuberger said. \n The government of Scotland, where voters overwhelmingly supported continued EU membership, has been an outspoken opponent of the prime minister's plans for Brexit, and opposition to Tuesday's ruling was immediately evident. The Scottish National Party, the third-largest party in the House of Commons, pledged to put forward 50 amendments. \n The government may be forced to listen. Scotland voted overwhelmingly to remain in the EU, and any sign that its voice is being ignored will feed into the case of those arguing Scotland should be an independent country. \n Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said his party wouldn't frustrate the process but would seek to amend the legislation to make sure the government is held \"accountable.\" \n Miller, co-founder of SCM Direct, an online investment manager, had argued the case wasn't about blocking Brexit but about \"democracy\" and the \"dangerous precedent\" that a government can overrule Parliament. \n For Miller, who brought the case along with hairdresser Deir Dos Santos, the court's decision meant vindication after months of threats to her security that followed her involvement in the case. \n Underscoring the importance of the case, May put Attorney General Jeremy Wright in charge of the legal team fighting the suit. Wright had argued the suit was an attempt to put a legal obstacle in the way of enacting the referendum result. \n The decision is a bad defeat for May and means that the government \"still does not have control of the Brexit timetable,\" said David Allen Green, a lawyer at the London legal firm Preiskel & Co. \n \"The appeal decision is, however, a victory for the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty and a vindication of an independent judiciary,\" Green said. \"The Supreme Court has told the government to get back into its box: A proper process has to be followed.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UK government loses Brexit case, must consult Parliament"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judges William Pryor, left, Neil Gorsuch and Thomas Hardiman. The three men are leading contenders for the Supreme Court vacancy. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump has narrowed his choice to fill the Supreme Court vacancy to three judges and said he expects to make his decision in the coming days. \n A person familiar with the selection process said that the three judges, all white men who sit on federal appeals courts, were on the list of 21 potential high court picks Trump announced during the presidential campaign. \n The leading contenders \u2014 who all have met with Trump \u2014 are William Pryor, Neil Gorsuch and Thomas Hardiman, the person said, speaking anonymously because he was not authorized to speak publicly about internal decisions. \n Pryor, 54, is an Alabama-based judge on the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Gorsuch, 49, is on the Denver-based 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and Hardiman, 51, sits on the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Pittsburgh. All three were nominated by President George W. Bush for their current posts. \n Trump has promised to seek someone in the mold of conservative icon Antonin Scalia, who died nearly a year ago after serving on the Supreme Court for more than 29 years. Senate Republicans prevented President Barack Obama from filling the seat, a political gamble that paid off when Trump was elected. \n Trump was scheduled to meet later Tuesday with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, Sen. Chuck Grassley and Sen. Dianne Feinstein to discuss the court vacancy. McConnell wrote on Twitter, \"I appreciate his soliciting our advice.\" Trump said he plans to announce his choice next week. \n McConnell led the Senate in refusing to even to consider Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to take Scalia's seat, announcing on the night that Scalia died that the vacancy should be filled not by Obama, but by the next president. \n Schumer, D-N.Y., said last week on CNN that the Democrats would inevitably push back against anyone Trump nominates for the Supreme Court. \n \"It's hard for me to imagine a nominee that Donald Trump would choose that would get Republican support, that we could support,\" he said. \n Of the three leading candidates, only Pryor faced significant opposition to his appellate nomination. Senate Democrats refused to allow a vote on Pryor's nomination, leading Bush initially to give Pryor a temporary recess appointment. In 2005, the Senate confirmed him 53-45, after senators reached an agreement to curtail delaying tactics for appellate judgeships. \n Gorsuch was approved by a voice vote in 2006. Schumer and Feinstein were among the 95 senators who voted for Hardiman's confirmation in 2007. Hardiman is a colleague of Trump's sister, Judge Maryanne Trump Barry. \n Trump praised the candidates on his roster after signing several executive actions on Tuesday in the Oval Office. \"We have outstanding candidates,\" the president said. \"And we'll pick a truly great Supreme Court justice.\" \n He said he would be making a decision this week, and announcing it next week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump narrows down Supreme Court nominee list to 3"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Eastbound traffic along Kalanianaole Highway remained heavy and slow-going late into the evening, Monday, in east Honolulu. Board of Water Supply crews this morning have completed repairs to the 24-inch water main that broke on Kalanianaole Highway early Saturday. \n Board of Water Supply crews finished repairs to the 24-inch water main that broke on Kalanianaole Highway early Saturday. Officials expect all eastbound lanes to be open by noon today, the agency said. \n The pipe was repaired as of 4:30 a.m. Tuesday, according to BWS. Crews are working on backfilling the area around the pipe, filling in the excavated area and prepping for paving. Additionally, crews are flushing the line and testing the water. \n Officials reopened a second lane from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. Tuesday on the highway for eastbound commuters. Crews then closed the second lane to continue repairs. \n Officials have implemented a traffic mitigation plan that will allow vehicles traveling eastbound in the afternoon peak hours additional green light access through the Ainakoa Avenue intersection. The state Department of Transportation has placed message boards to alert motorists of lane closures and road work. Additionally, DOT has suspended all road construction projects on major arteries in East Honolulu and Waimanalo until further notice. \n The city Department of Transportation plans to monitor traffic lights and make adjustments as needed. Honolulu police will also direct traffic through the area this afternoon. \n Crews have been working since Saturday to fix the pipe, which is made of cast iron and was installed in 1969. The broken water main on the highway between Kilauea Avenue and Waikui Street caused gridlock over the weekend. Repairs had been expected to be completed by Thursday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews complete Kahala water main repairs; all lanes to reopen today"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton smiles as he waits to brief the media on his state budget Tuesday, Jan. 24, 20117 in St. Paul, Minn. Dayton, who collapsed Monday evening while delivering his State of the State address, announced at the briefing that he has prostate cancer. \n ST. PAUL, Minn. >> Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton announced Tuesday that he has prostate cancer, revealing the diagnosis hours after collapsing while delivering his State of the State address the night before. \n The 69-year-old Democratic governor said he plans to finish the final two years of his term, during which he faces a unified GOP front after Republicans took back control of the Minnesota Senate and strengthened their House majority in November. \n Asked whether he was still felt up to the job, Dayton said: \"I think I am. If I don't, I won't continue.\" \n He also said he doesn't believe the recent cancer diagnosis and his fainting were linked. Tests on what caused Dayton to collapse Monday night were scheduled for Tuesday afternoon at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. He will return to the Mayo Clinic next week to determine treatment options for the prostate cancer. \n \"I take it very seriously. I have an obligation to all of the people of Minnesota,\" he said. \n Dayton, who turns 70 on Thursday, has had other health issues since taking office in 2011. A series of back and hip surgeries have left him with a limp, though he said Tuesday he's no longer in pain. He was briefly hospitalized last year after fainting at a campaign event, later blaming the episode on overheating and dehydration. \n Dayton was about 40 minutes into his annual address Monday night when he began stumbling over his words and trailed off, shaking after taking a sip of water and crumbling behind the lectern, where he struck his head. Several state officials watching the address rushed to his side to catch him, and medical professionals serving in the Legislature helped render aid. \n He appeared conscious as he was helped to a back room and later walked out of the Capitol on his own to return home, where a top staffer said he was given routine tests by emergency medical technicians. \n Dayton returned to work Tuesday morning to unveil his proposal for a $45.8 billion budget. He told reporters that he felt fine Monday until about a minute before losing consciousness. \n \"It was a very brief episode,\" he said. \n Dayton said he was diagnosed with prostate cancer Friday after a biopsy and had planned to reveal it after his consultation next week. He said doctors believe the cancer hasn't spread past his prostate, suggesting it was caught early, and that it would likely be treated with either surgery or radiation. His father, who died in late 2015, underwent successful prostate cancer surgery and lived for 25 more years. \n Prostate cancer is among the most common cancers in men and is considered one of its most survivable forms. A recent study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that 99 percent of patients with early stage cases survived at least 10 years regardless of whether they merely monitored their condition or received treatment. \n Dayton frequently joked Tuesday as he addressed questions about his health, saying he was still fit to continue as governor because \"as far as I know, there are no brain cells in my prostate\" and noting his collapse Monday evening generated good will with Republicans. \n \"If I had known it would result in Republicans not criticizing my speech, I might have tried it years ago,\" he cracked. \n Dayton's latest health troubles overshadowed an ambitious agenda that will likely clash with the Republicans who control both chambers of Minnesota's Legislature. \n Dayton was rounding into a proposal to offer a state-run public health care option for all Minnesota residents when he fainted during his State of the State address. On Tuesday, he released a more detailed proposal for a $45.8 billion budget \u2014 a nearly 10 percent increase from the state's current budget \u2014 that includes extra funding for a new preschool program and boosting overall public school spending. \n The state has posted several years of surpluses, and the governor has pointed to that financial stability as a hallmark of his six years in office, insisting he'll safeguard against a return to painful budget shortfalls. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton says he has prostate cancer"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer called on a reporter during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington today. Spicer answered questions about the Dakota Pipeline, infrastructure, jobs and other topics. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration has instituted a media blackout at the Environmental Protection Agency and barred staff from awarding any new contracts or grants, part of a broader communications clampdown within the executive branch. \n Emails sent to EPA staff since President Donald Trump's inauguration Friday and reviewed by The Associated Press detailed specific prohibitions banning press releases, blog updates or posts to the agency's social media accounts. \n The Trump administration has also ordered what it called a temporary suspension of all new business activities at the department, including issuing task orders or work assignments to EPA contractors. The orders were expected to have a significant and immediate impact on EPA activities nationwide. EPA contracts with outside vendors for a wide array of services, from engineering and research science to janitorial supplies. \n Similar orders barring external communications have been issued in recent days by the Trump administration at other federal agencies, including the Agriculture and Interior departments. \n Staffers in EPA's public affairs office are instructed to forward all inquiries from reporters to the Office of Administration and Resources Management. \n \"Incoming media requests will be carefully screened,\" one directive said. \"Only send out critical messages, as messages can be shared broadly and end up in the press.\" \n A review of EPA websites and social media accounts, which typically include numerous new posts each day, showed no new activity since Friday. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said today he had no information on the blackout. He said aides were looking into the circumstances. \n Doug Ericksen, the communications director for Trump's transition team at EPA, said he expects the communications ban to be lifted by the end of this week. \n \"We're just trying to get a handle on everything and make sure what goes out reflects the priorities of the new administration,\" Ericksen said. \n Beyond what was stated in the internal email, Ericksen clarified that the freeze on EPA contracts and grants won't apply to pollution cleanup efforts or infrastructure construction activities. \n Officials at state and local agencies that rely on EPA for funding said they were left in the dark, saying they had received no information from EPA about the freeze. \n \"We are actively seeking additional information so we can understand the impact of this action on our ability to administer critical programs,\" said Alan Matheson, executive director of Utah Department of Environmental Quality. \n The executive director for the advocacy group Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, Jeff Ruch, said the orders go beyond what has occurred in prior presidential transitions. \n \"We're watching the dark cloud of Mordor extend over federal service,\" Ruch said today, referring to the evil kingdom in the epic fantasy \"The Lord of the Rings.\" \n Ruch noted that key posts at EPA have not yet been filled with Republican appointees, including Trump's nominee for EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt. That means there are not yet the new senior personnel in place to make key decisions. \n Environmentalists said the orders were having a chilling effect on EPA staff, many of whom were suffering from low morale. Trump and Pruitt have both been frequent critics of the agency and have questioned the validity of climate science showing that the Earth is warming and man-made carbon emissions are to blame. \n Liz Perera, climate policy director for the Sierra Club, said Trump's move to freeze all EPA communications and contracts should be \"a major red flag for all Americans.\" \n \"EPA was created to ensure that all Americans can enjoy clean air to breathe, clean water to drink and have their health protected from environmental and climate threats,\" Perera said. \n Some staff at the Agriculture Department also received orders not to release any documents to the public. \n \"This includes, but is not limited to, news releases, photos, fact sheets, news feeds and social media content,\" read an email to staff at the agency's Agricultural Research Service, which was obtained by the AP. \n ARS spokesman Christopher Bentley said the ban would not include scientific publications released through peer-reviewed professional journals. \n \"As the U.S. Department of Agriculture's chief scientific in-house research agency, ARS values and is committed to maintaining the free flow of information between our scientists and the American public as we strive to find solutions to agricultural problems affecting America,\" Bentley said, according to a statement. \n It was not immediately clear whether similar instructions were given to others within the department. \n The AP reported over the weekend that staff at the Interior Department were temporarily ordered to stop making posts to its Twitter account. The prohibition came after the official account of the National Park Service, a bureau of the department, retweeted a pair of posts to its 315,000 followers that seemed to be a swipe at Trump on his initial day in office. The first was a photo that compared the crowd gathered on the National Mall for Trump with the much larger gathering that stood in the same spot eight years earlier for President Barack Obama's swearing-in. \n Trump later falsely claimed that more than 1 million people attended his inauguration, which Spicer insisted was the most watched in history. \n Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick and Darlene Superville in Washington and Dan Elliott in Denver contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump orders EPA contract freeze, media blackout"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters set a parked limousine on fire in downtown Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017, during the inauguration of President Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> The president of the company that owned a limousine set on fire during an Inauguration Day protest in Washington says insurance likely won't cover the damage. \n Muhammad Ashraf, the president of the Virginia-based Nationwide Chauffeured Services, said Monday that replacing the car could cost tens of thousands of dollars. He says insurance would cover vandalism but may not cover his situation because the car was damaged in a riot. \n More than 230 people were arrested after self-described anti-capitalists began breaking business' windows Friday. \n Ashraf said the limousine's driver had taken a client to The Washington Post when the vehicle was attacked and set on fire. Ashraf says he can't imagine why people had to do it. \n A GoFundMe page was set up to help the company. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Owner of limo torched in DC says insurance unlikely to pay"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man smoked a cigarette in New Orleans on April 2015. According to research published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association, U.S. cancer death rates have steadily climbed in parts of the country struggling with obesity, heavy smoking and other ills \u2014 a stark contrast with the national trend and improvements in wealthier pockets of the country. \n CHICAGO >> Americans in certain struggling parts of the country are dying from cancer at rising rates, even as the cancer death rate nationwide continues to fall, an exhaustive new analysis has found. \n In parts of the country that are relatively poor, and have higher rates of obesity and smoking, cancer death rates rose nearly 50 percent, while wealthier pockets of the country saw death rates fall by nearly half. \n Better screening and treatment have contributed to the improvement in the nation as a whole \u2014 but the study underscores that not all Americans have benefited from these advances. \n \"We are going in the wrong direction,\" said Ali Mokdad, the study's lead author and a professor at the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. \"We should be going forward, not backward.\" \n Stark differences in regional cancer death rates have been found in previous research, but this one stands out for providing detailed estimates for deaths from nearly 30 types of cancer in all 3,100 U.S. counties over 35 years. \n From 1980 to 2014, the U.S. death rate per 100,000 people for all cancers combined dropped from about 240 to 192 \u2014 a 20 percent decline. More than 19 million Americans died from cancer during that time, the study found. \n The picture was rosiest the Colorado ski country, where cancer deaths per 100,000 residents dropped by almost half, from 130 in 1980 to just 70 in 2014; and bleakest in some eastern Kentucky counties, where they soared by up to 45 percent. \n \"We all know this is unacceptable \u2026 in a country that spends more than anybody else on health,\" Mokdad said. \n The Affordable Care Act took effect in the study's final years and emphasized prevention services including no-cost screenings for breast, colorectal and cervical cancers. Any resulting benefits wouldn't be evident in the latest results, since cancer takes years to develop. It's unknown whether similar coverage will be part of the replacement system the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans are seeking. \n An editorial published with the study by Stephanie Wheeler, a University of North Carolina health policy specialist and Dr. Ethan Basch, a University of North Carolina cancer specialist, notes that many areas with the highest cancer death rates also strongly supported Donald Trump, \"raising hopes that future policies developed by the incoming administration will provide resources\" for these communities. \n Researchers estimated county death rates using U.S. government death records and U.S. Census Bureau data. Results were published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association. \n Ahmedin Jemal, an American Cancer Society researcher, said better understanding variations in cancer death rates will help target cancer prevention and control. \n Among the more striking disparities: \n \u2014In counties with the highest 2014 cancer death rates, six of the top 10 were in eastern Kentucky. Six of the 10 lowest rates were in the Colorado Rockies. \n \u2014For lung cancer deaths, four of the five counties with the highest 2014 rates were in eastern Kentucky, with rates up to 80 percent higher than in 1980. Three of the five counties with the lowest 2014 rates were in the Colorado Rockies, where rates dropped by up to 60 percent. \n \u2014Death rates for breast and colorectal cancers increased in Madison County, Mississippi and in 2014 were at least five times higher there than in Summit County, Colorado, where the rates fell. These are among cancers that can be successfully treated if detected early. \n Smoking, obesity, physical activity and income explain many of the disparities, said study co-author Dr. Christopher Murray, also at the University of Washington. \n But the study also raises questions. For example, relatively high rates of testicular cancer were found in parts of Southern California and far southern Texas for reasons that are unclear. Since treatments for this rare cancer are extremely effective, \"almost nobody should die of testicular cancer,\" Murray said. \n The poor showing for eastern Kentucky contrasts with wealthier parts of the state and \"is tremendously troubling,\" said Ben Chandler, president of the Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky , a nonpartisan group that funds health policy research and advocacy. \n Chandler cited poor access to health care and high smoking rates and said the disparities highlight a need for statewide smoke-free laws. The foundation funded a study that found that Kentucky's 2014 Medicaid expansion under the ACA covered costs for many cancer-related preventive health measures including mammograms and colon cancer screenings. \n How that expanded access will fare under with the health care law's expected repeal \"has been of great concern to us,\" Chandler said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dying from cancer: Could your location determine your fate?"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Edward J. Majerczyk, leaves the Dirksen Federal Courthouse in Chicago. A federal judge in Chicago sentenced Edward Majerczyk to nine months in prison Tuesday, Jan. 24, 2017, for hacking the electronic accounts of 30 celebrities and stealing private information that included nude videos and photos. \n CHICAGO >> A Chicago man was sentenced Tuesday to nine months in prison for hacking the electronic accounts of 30 celebrities and stealing private information, including nude videos and photos. \n Edward Majerczyk, 29, also was ordered to pay $5,700 in restitution for counseling services for one undisclosed celebrity victim whose photos were disseminated online. \n Majerczyk is accused of orchestrating a phishing scheme that illegally accessed more than 300 email and other online accounts, including those belonging to actress Jennifer Lawrence. \n According to his plea deal, Majerczyk sent emails to his victims that appeared to have come from internet service providers seeking usernames and passwords. Majerczyk illegally accessed the accounts of those people who provided that information. \n Majerczyk pleaded guilty in federal court in Los Angeles last year to one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information. He signed a plea agreement for his case to be transferred to Chicago. He was not charged or accused of selling or posting the material online. \n Both sides agreed he should receive a 9-month prison term. The charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison. \n Majerczyk's attorney Thomas Needham said in a court filing that his client was \"suffering from depression and looked to pornography websites and internet chat rooms in an attempt to fill some of the voids and disappointment he was feeling in his life.\" \n Needham said in a sentencing memo that the fallout from the hacking scandal \"deeply affected\" Majerczyk, who has seen a therapist for anxiety and panic attacks. \n Federal agents have said Lawrence broke down and became distraught during a 2014 meeting about nude photos of her that appeared online. Lawrence called the leak a \"sex crime\" in an interview with Vanity Fair magazine. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago man gets 9 months in celebrity nude photo hack"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n The Mariana Islands. \n HAGATNA, Guam >> The U.S. military is seeking to have a federal lawsuit challenging its plans to expand operations on the Mariana Islands dismissed. \n The military also plans to use some islands in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for training. \n Earthjustice filed its lawsuit last year on behalf of several groups opposed to the military training. \n The lawsuit says the U.S. Navy failed to evaluate the environmental impacts of training on Tinian and Pagan islands. \n The military issued a response to the complaint Friday saying the court should dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Military wants lawsuit over Mariana Islands proposal tossed"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUI FIRE DEPARTMENT \n Firefighters searched yesterday and today for a missing 34-year-old old Utah man at the Olivine Pools in Kahakuloa. \n A 34-year-old Utah man who was swept into the ocean in Kahakuloa on Monday was still missing Tuesday afternoon, Maui firefighters said. \n A Maui Fire Department helicopter and ground crew resumed searching at about 7 a.m. today and had found no signs of the man by about 4 p.m., said MFD spokesman Edward Taomoto. \n Initially, rescuers were searching for two men \u2014 the Utah man and a 23-year-old Connecticut man. Both were taking photos with two women on a rock near the water at Olivine Pools off Kahekili Highway Monday afternoon, Taomoto said. \n At about 1:40 p.m., a wave knocked the younger man into the water, and a second wave dragged the two women across the rocks. \n Witnesses spotted the Utah man in the water, but then lost sight of him. \n The Connecticut man was pulled from the water at 2:13 p.m. He was treated for multiple cuts and flown to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition. The two women, a 19-year-old from Mexico and a 20-year-old from Austria, sustained minor abrasions and were treated at the scene. . \n The Coast Guard deployed an aircrew around 9:15 p.m. Monday and continued searching this morning with an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter, an HC-130 Hercules airplane, and a patrol boat. \n Firefighters suspended their search Monday because of darkness \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "No sign of missing visitor off Maui on second day of searching"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This composite radar image showed moisture over the windward coast of Hawaii island this morning. \n A flood advisory is in effect for windward Hawaii island until 11:15 a.m. today. \n The advisory includes, but is not limited to, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Keaau, Pahoa, Laupahoehoe, Pepeekeo, Glenwood, Hawaiian Acres, Mountain View and Volcano. Hawaii County Civil Defense reported heavy ponding on some roads in Hilo, including Kukila and Pauahi streets. \n The National Weather Service in Honolulu issued the advisory around 6:30 a.m. today. Radar indicated heavy rain near Hilo and over Puna this morning, where rain was falling at a rate of 1 to 2 inches per hour. Residents are advised to avoid streams, drainage ditches and low-lying areas prone to flooding. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flood advisory in effect for windward Big Isle"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump signed an executive order on the Keystone XL pipeline, today, in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, flanked by GM CEO Mary Barra and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles CEO Sergio Marchionne, gestured while speaking at the start of a meeting with automobile leaders in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump signed executive actions today to advance construction of the huge Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines, moving aggressively to overhaul America's energy policy and dealing a swift blow to Barack Obama's legacy on climate change. \n Trump told reporters at the White House the pipelines will be subject to conditions being negotiated by U.S. officials \u2014 including a requirement that the pipe itself be manufactured in America. \n \"From now on we are going to start making pipelines in the United States,\" Trump said from the Oval Office. \n On Keystone, the memorandum by Trump invites the pipeline builder, TransCanada, to resubmit its application to the State Department for a presidential permit to construct and operate the pipeline. \n Trump's memo on the Dakota Access pipeline says its construction and operation will serve the national interest. The memo orders the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to review and approve construction and easement requests in an expedited manner for a project that has led to major protests by American Indian groups and their supporters. \n As a practical matter, the Dakota Access project is likely to be completed first \u2014 perhaps years before Keystone, which must cross a U.S. border and faces a more complicated review process. The company building the Dakota pipeline says it is complete except for the section that would pass under the Missouri River near a camp in North Dakota where pipeline opponents are demonstrating. \n Obama halted the proposed Keystone XL pipeline in late 2015, declaring it would undercut U.S. efforts to clinch a global climate change deal that was a centerpiece of his environmental agenda. The pipeline would run from Canada to Nebraska, where it would join other lines already leading to refineries along the Gulf Coast. A presidential permit is needed because the pipeline would cross the northern U.S border. \n The Army decided last year to explore alternate routes for the Dakota pipeline after the Standing Rock Sioux tribe and its supporters said it threatened drinking water and Native American cultural sites. The company developing the 1,200-mile pipeline, Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners, disputes that and says it will be safe. \n The Dakota pipeline is to carry North Dakota oil through South Dakota and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n \"Today's news is a breath of fresh air, and proof that President Trump won't let radical special-interest groups stand in the way of doing what's best for American workers,\" said Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, the second-ranking Republican in the Senate. \n In July, the Army Corps of Engineers granted the company needed permits, but in September the agency said further analysis was needed. On Dec. 4, the assistant Army secretary for civil works, Jo-Ellen Darcy, said alternate routes needed to be considered. Energy Transfer Partners called the decision politically motivated and said that Obama was delaying the matter until he left office. \n Nearly 600 pipeline opponents have been arrested in North Dakota since last year. An encampment on Corps land along the pipeline route was home to thousands of protesters who call themselves \"water protectors,\" though the camp's population has thinned due to harsh winter weather and a plea by Standing Rock Chairman Dave Archambault for the camp to disband. \n Trump touted the stalled Keystone project during a late October campaign swing through Florida, saying: \"We're going to approve energy infrastructure projects like the Keystone pipeline and many more.\" He listed the project among his top priorities for the first 100 days of his administration, saying it could provide \"a lot of jobs, a lot of good things.\" \n Trump also supports the Dakota pipeline. Until last year, Trump owned a small amount of stock in Energy Transfer Partners and at least $100,000 in Phillips 66, an energy company that owns one-quarter of the pipeline. Trump sold the shares last year as part of a wide-ranging stock divestment, a spokesman said. \n Environmental groups blasted today's order as a bid by Trump to serve the oil industry. Trump's nominee for secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, is a former Exxon Mobil CEO, and his pick for energy secretary, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, owns stock in Energy Transfers. \n \"Donald Trump has been in office for four days and he's already proving to be the dangerous threat to our climate we feared he would be,\" said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. \n He and other activists said the fight against the projects was not over. \n \"It's a dark day for reason, but we will continue the fight,\" said Bill McKibben, co-founder of the environmental group 350.org and a leader of a five-year fight against Keystone XL. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump acts to advance Keystone XL, Dakota Access pipelines"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Damage from a recent storm is shown in this photo taken Sunday on the island of Lanai. \n Crews in Lanai hope to restore power in the Manele area by tonight. \n According to Maui Electric, power was restored to all 1,575 Lanai City residents early this morning but about 125 residents in Manele remain without electricity. \n High winds damaged 19 utility poles on Lanai over the weekend, knocking out power to all 1,700 residents. The damaged poles were about 45- to 50-feet tall and repairs involved replacing all the poles, resetting new poles and restringing about a mile of lines along Kaumalapau Highway to Miki Basin and crossing to Manele Bay. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews restore power to most of Lanai"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry spoke with the media in Paris on Jan. 15. Defying Republican opposition, officials say the Obama administration in its waning hours quietly released $221 million to the Palestinian Authority that GOP members of Congress had been blocking. \n WASHINGTON >> Officials say the Obama administration in its waning hours defied Republican opposition and quietly released $221 million to the Palestinian Authority that GOP members of Congress had been blocking. \n A State Department official and several congressional aides said the outgoing administration formally notified Congress it would spend the money Friday morning. The official said former Secretary of State John Kerry had informed some lawmakers of the move shortly before he left the State Department for the last time Thursday. The aides said written notification dated Jan. 20 was sent to Congress just hours before Donald Trump took the oath of office. \n In addition to the $221 million for the Palestinians, the Obama administration also told Congress on Friday it was going ahead with the release of another $6 million in foreign affairs spending, including $4 million for climate change programs and $1.25 million for U.N. organizations, the congressional aides said. The aides and the State Department official weren't authorized to speak publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity. \n Congress had initially approved the Palestinian funding in budget years 2015 and 2016, but at least two GOP lawmakers \u2014 Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Kay Granger of Texas, who sits on the House Appropriations Committee \u2014 had placed holds on it over moves the Palestinian Authority had taken to seek membership in international organizations. Congressional holds are generally respected by the executive branch but are not legally binding after funds have been allocated. \n The Obama administration had for some time been pressing for the release of the money for the Palestinian Authority, which comes from the U.S. Agency for International Development and is to be used for humanitarian aid in the West Bank and Gaza, to support political and security reforms as well as help prepare for good governance and the rule of law in a future Palestinian state, according to the notification sent to Congress. \n The $1.25 million for U.N. agencies is to be used as voluntary contributions to the U.N. Peacebuilding Fund; the U.N. Special Coordinator on improving the U.N. response to sexual exploitation and abuse; the Montreal Protocol Secretariat, which oversees the protection of the ozone layer; the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights; and the U.N. System Staff College. \n The $4 million for climate programs includes assistance for clean energy, sustainable landscapes, cutting greenhouse gas emissions and creating a climate technology center. \n The last-minute allocation also contained $1.05 million in funding for the State Department's Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan office and the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs. \n The Palestinian funding is likely to draw anger from some in Congress as well as the Trump White House. Trump has vowed to be a strong supporter of Israel and has invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to visit Washington next month. \n He has also pledged to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, although White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Monday a final decision on that had yet to be made. Despite speculation in Israel that an announcement of the move is imminent, Spicer said the decision-making process is only in its very early stages. \n \"If it was already a decision, then we wouldn't be going through a process,\" Spicer told reporters. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. sent $221 million to Palestinians in Obama's last hours"}

{"date": "January 24, 2017", "text": "WORLD SURF LEAGUE \n Kauai's Koa Smith reached the semifinals of the HIC Pro at Oahu's Sunset Beach in November. A high surf advisory is in effect for the east-facing shores of Oahu, Kaui, Molokai, Maui and Hawaii island through noon today. \n A high surf advisory was extended for east-facing shores of Hawaii island through 6 p.m. today.  \n The National Weather Service in Honolulu issued the advisory around 10 a.m. today. There is also a high surf advisory for north- and west-facing shores of Oahu, Molokai, Kauai and Niihau and for north-facing shores of Maui starting 6 p.m. today. \n A northwest swell is expected to build later today and tonight. Surf is expected to rise to 16 to 22 feet tonight through Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf advisory in effect for north, east shores of most islands"}

