{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean President Park Geun-hye, right, talks with Seomun Market Merchant Association President Kim Yong-oh during her visit to the Seomun Market which was burned by a recent fire in Daegu, South Korea, Thursday, Dec. 1, 2016. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> Battered by massive protests and an impeachment push, South Korea's president on Thursday made her first public appearance among her citizens since a huge political scandal exploded in October, as police arrested a man accused of setting fire to her dictator father's birthplace in a nearby city. \n President Park Geun-hye's visit to a rural market came as opponents in parliament squabble over whether to impeach her. \n Police said they arrested a 48-year-old man who told investigators he set fire to the birthplace of Park's late father on Thursday because he was angry over her refusal to step down immediately over the scandal involving a confidant accused of influence peddling and extortion. \n A memorial hall for Park's parents, ex-President Park Chung-hee and Yook Young-soo, was nearly burned down, a police officer in the southeastern city of Gumi said, requesting anonymity because of department rules. The hall is a popular tourist attraction. \n Park didn't immediately comment publicly on the arson. Earlier Thursday, she visited a market in the nearby city of Daegu where hundreds of shops had been destroyed by a previous fire. \n Daegu is Park's political home turf where she was elected as a national lawmaker four times before becoming president in 2013. \n Local TV showed dozens of people at the market shouting \"Park Geun-hye! Park Geun-hye!\" and using cellphones to photograph her. One middle-aged woman wiped away tears. Near the market, though, dozens of anti-Park citizens staged rallies calling for her ouster, according to media reports. \n On Tuesday, Park said she would step down if parliament arranges a safe transfer of power, drawing fierce criticism from main opposition parties that described her overture as a tactic to buy time that would allow her to survive the scandal. \n Park's offer appears to have caused cracks among dissenters in her ruling party who earlier supported her impeachment. A group of anti-Park lawmakers is now saying they won't join an impeachment drive if Park resigns in April and helps ensure a stable power transfer until a new president takes office following a presidential by-election. \n A meeting between leaders of the main opposition parties on Thursday ended without any major breakthrough. They differ over whether they should push for Park's impeachment this week or delay it. \n Much of the hesitation over Park's impeachment is because the opposition does not have enough lawmakers to pass an impeachment in parliament, and they would need help from dissenters in Park's ruling Saenuri Party. \n Passage of an impeachment motion requires at least 200 votes in the 300-member National Assembly, but the three opposition parties and anti-Park independent lawmakers have a total of 172 seats. \n If impeached, Park's presidential powers would be suspended until the Constitutional Court rules on her fate. The court would have 180 days to deliberate. \n Park has denied accusations by prosecutors that she colluded in the criminal activities of her longtime friend Choi Soon-sil, who, despite having no official role in government, allegedly had a say in policy decisions and exploited her presidential ties to bully companies into giving millions of dollars to businesses Choi controlled. \n Choi and two of Park's former advisers have been indicted on charges including extortion and leaking confidential information. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea's Park makes rare public appearance amid scandal"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The family of Keith Lamont Scott including his wife Rakeyia Scott, right, attend a news conference after finding out charges would not be filed against CMPD officer Brentley Vinson in the fatal shooting of her husband. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. >> Some African-American community leaders in Charlotte say the decision not to charge a police officer in the shooting death of a black man was legal, but not right. \n North Carolina NAACP President William Barber says it appears the police officers shoot quicker at black people than others. \n Community groups want a full federal investigation into the shooting of Keith Scott by Charlotte-Mecklenburg police Officer Brentley Vinson. They also want Charlotte police to change their policies to encourage officers to use non-deadly force and improve their negotiating skills and train them to work on deescalating confrontations before they turn deadly. \n Charlotte police say they're having an independent review of their policies, and will release body camera footage when people are seriously hurt or killed by officers as soon as possible. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Protesters: Police shooting may be legal, but isn't right"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Motorcycle law enforcement officers lead a procession away from Tacoma General Hospital of an ambulance bearing the body of a Tacoma Police officer who was shot and killed while answering a domestic violence call Wednesday, Nov. 30, 2016, in Tacoma, Wash. \n SEATTLE >> A police officer who was shot multiple times in Tacoma while responding to a domestic violence call died Wednesday night, while police worked to arrest a suspect they believed was still barricaded in the home with a gun, authorities said. \n Tacoma Police spokeswoman Loretta Cool said the officer was pronounced dead at the hospital Wednesday evening. \n \"We've suffered a great loss and I think the community has suffered a great loss. I don't know how to put that into words,\" Cool said. \n The officer's identity has not been made public. \n The body, escorted by a procession of law enforcement officers from around the region, was moved from the hospital to the county medical examiner's office Wednesday night. \n Cool said police responded to the home Wednesday afternoon in the 400 block of East 52nd Street and that shortly after arriving, officers called for backup. \n Reacting to shots fired, arriving officers entered the home and managed to get the wounded officer outside and to a hospital, Cool said. She had said the officer had been undergoing surgery before the death was announced. \n It wasn't immediately clear what led up to the shooting. \n In a statement, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee said he and his wife Trudi were sending their thoughts and prayers to the family and loved ones of the officer. \n \"All of Washington grieves with Tacoma, which tonight lost one of their finest. Our hearts are with the men and women of the Tacoma Police Department, their families, and their brothers and sisters in law enforcement across Washington.\" \n Cool said police believe the suspect remained in the home Wednesday night. She said the neighborhood was locked down while officers from multiple agencies were \"working to bring it to a peaceful resolution.\" \n She also said it's possible the suspect, who hasn't been identified, could have left while police were removing the wounded officer from the scene. She said that's why the large neighborhood perimeter had been set up. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police officer shot in Washington state dies at hospital"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Indonesian soldiers perform national flag -colored headbands during a military-sponsored interfaith rally held ahead of the planned Dec. 2 Muslim protest against Jakarta Governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama in Jakarta, Indonesia, Wednesday, Nov. 30, 2016. \n JAKARTA, Indonesia >> Foreign governments are warning citizens in Indonesia to stay away from central Jakarta ahead of a huge rally against the capital's minority Christian governor. \n The United States, Japan and Australia issued advisories highlighting the possibility of Friday's protest turning violent or the risk extremists could stage an attack. \n A related protest on Nov. 4 drew more than 100,000 people demanding the arrest of Gov. Basuki \"Ahok\" Tjahaja Purnama, who is being prosecuted for blasphemy, a criminal offense in Muslim-majority Indonesia. After nightfall, hard-liners clashed with police, with one death and dozens injured. \n Security plans call for a heavy police and military presence and organizers have agreed to concentrate the rally around the national monument in the city to limit disruption. \n Labor unions demanding wage hikes are also expected to join the protest, which police say should disperse in the early afternoon following Friday prayers. \n Japan's foreign ministry said the rally could become a \"rampage\" and warned Japanese in Indonesia to stay away from Istiqlal Mosque, City Hall, the presidential palace and national monument, all of which are in close proximity. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Foreign governments warn citizens about Indonesia protest"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hundreds of police officers and their Police K-9s enter Ford Field in formation to pay their respects to fallen Wayne State University Police K-9 Officer Collin Rose. \n DETROIT >> Law enforcement officers from across and beyond Michigan are set to pay their final respects to a Detroit police officer killed in the line of duty. \n A funeral Mass was scheduled Thursday morning for Wayne State University police canine officer Collin Rose at St. Joan of Arc Catholic Church in suburban St. Clair Shores. \n Visitation was held Wednesday at Ford Field, home of the Detroit Lions, drawing officers from across the state and elsewhere. \n Rose was shot Nov. 22 as he tried to arrest DeAngelo Davis, who faces murder and gun charges. \n Wayne State Police Chief Anthony Holt cited Rose for valor and posthumously promoted him to sergeant during a vigil Tuesday. University President M. Roy Wilson said a $25,000 endowed scholarship was being created in Rose's name. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Slain Detroit police officer's funeral set for Thursday"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mark Brewer, left, an attorney for Dr. Jill Stein, listened as Jessica Clarke, an attorney for the Stein campaign leading recount efforts in Michigan, addressed the media. \n MADISON, Wis. >> The first candidate-driven statewide recount of a presidential election in 16 years was set to begin Thursday in Wisconsin, a state that Donald Trump won by less than a percentage point over Hillary Clinton after polls long predicted a Clinton victory.  \n The recount requested by Green Party candidate Jill Stein carries none of the drama of the Florida presidential recount of 2000, when the outcome of the election between Al Gore and George W. Bush hung in the balance. Almost no one expects Stein's push for recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania to result in a Clinton victory over Trump. \n \"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore,\" said Wisconsin's chief elections administrator Mike Haas. \n But still, county election officials across Wisconsin were hiring temporary workers, expanding hours and dusting off recount manuals to prepare for the work of retabulating nearly 3 million ballots. \n Most counties will manually recount the ballots, although Stein lost a court challenge this week to force hand recounts everywhere. The state's largest county, Milwaukee, was recounting the ballots by feeding them through the same machines that counted them on election night. In Dane County, where Clinton won 71 percent of the vote, the ballots will be counted by hand. \n Clinton lost to Trump by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin. \n Wisconsin election officials have less than two weeks to complete the recount. Dec. 13 is the federal deadline to certify the vote to avoid having the fate of Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes decided by Congress. Even if that were to happen, the votes would almost certainly go to Trump, since Republicans control both chambers of Congress. \n Stein has argued, without evidence, that irregularities in the votes in all three states suggest that there could have been tampering with the vote, perhaps through a well-coordinated, highly complex cyberattack. \n Her critics, including the Wisconsin Republican Party, contend that she's a little-known candidate who is merely trying to raise her profile while raising millions of dollars. Stein had raised nearly $7 million, about twice as much as her longshot presidential campaign, to pay for the recounts. \n The Wisconsin recount was estimated to cost about $3.9 million, while Stein paid $973,250 for the one in Michigan. \n Stein filed a lawsuit Monday in Pennsylvania to force a recount there. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Presidential election recount set to begin in Wisconsin"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tamika Robinson of Detroit holds a poster with a picture of her daughter, K'Brianna Griffin, Nov. 30, 2016 in Detroit, Mich. K'Brianna was killed in September when she came in contact with a downed power line in a friend's yard. Staff at the Michigan Public Service Commission are recommending that the city of Detroit remove miles of obsolete, abandoned overhead wires. \n DETROIT >> The electrocution of a 12-year-old Detroit girl has exposed a new risk in a city that's turning the corner nearly two years after emerging from bankruptcy: miles of obsolete power lines that could fall from poles and turn deadly. \n K'Brianna Griffin was killed in September when she came in contact with a downed line in a friend's yard. The line was inactive, but it was energized and dangerous because it was resting on a live DTE Energy power line that was carrying electricity. \n An investigation turned up details that made the tragedy even worse. DTE, the local utility, said one of its workers saw the downed line in July, weeks before K'Brianna's death, taped off the area, warned neighbors and notified the city, which owned the line. The city, however, never removed it. \n Now state utility regulators are urging action to prevent more peril. In a report last week, staff at the Michigan Public Service Commission said it is Detroit's responsibility to remove abandoned wires that once powered neighborhood street lights in a 138-square-mile city that's larger than Boston and Minneapolis combined. \n Detroit told the agency that it could cost $35.7 million and take years to remove 900 miles of overhead wire. DTE, which controls the poles, puts the price tag at more than double if other maintenance work is included. \n \"Only the future removal of the arc wire will entirely eliminate the safety threat. \u2026 Without a city of Detroit formal commitment, the possibility exists that the status quo could return,\" Public Service Commission staff said. \n It's another challenge for a city trying to refresh itself, nearly two years after emerging from the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history. It is spending millions of federal dollars to demolish vacant houses \u2014 more than 10,000 so far \u2014 that can be havens for crime while eating away at neighborhood property values and sapping optimism. \n Below ground, aging water pipes and infrastructure are vulnerable to ruptures. Street lights have been revived by a new independent agency that focuses solely on that task. About three years ago, 40 percent of lights weren't working due to copper theft, old technology, dead bulbs and a lack of money. The new lights don't use the old power lines. \n The city's chief attorney, Butch Hollowell, declined to address questions from The Associated Press about whether Detroit will follow recommendations about removing all wires. He said city workers have been told that no downed lines will be left unattended until the wire is cut and any immediate danger is eliminated. \n \"The city cannot comment further on this tragic matter considering it remains under review\" by state regulators, Hollowell said, referring to K'Brianna's death. \n Separately, he told the Public Service Commission that Detroit \"is in fundamental disagreement\" with DTE Energy's report about the electrocution. He didn't elaborate. \n The commission has no authority over Detroit. But it does oversee DTE, whose poles hold the abandoned wires. Commission staff said the utility should work with the city on a long-term plan if Detroit doesn't act on its own. \n K'Brianna, known as \"KB\" to friends, enjoyed dancing, drawing and dogs. Tamika Robinson said her daughter was making a video in a friend's yard when she backed into the power line. \n \"Her eyes got really big and she just dropped. The wire got caught on her jacket,\" Robinson said. \"Her goal was to be a veterinarian. She was as unique as her name.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Girl's death reveals risks of obsolete Detroit power lines"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Defending champion Magnus Carlsen, right, of Norway, made a move against Sergey Karjakin, of Russia, during the tie-breaker round of the World Chess Championship. \n NEW YORK >> On a dreary, rainy Manhattan night, a huge, happy roar arose in a crowd of chess fans from around the world.  \n Two-time world chess champion, Magnus Carlsen, had just reached for a final, victorious move today that crowned him a champ for the third time. \n He marked his 26th birthday by beating Russian 26-year-old grandmaster Sergey Karjakin with bold, aggressive moves in a series of tie-breakers capping three weeks of the World Chess Championship that was tied after 12 games; 10 draws and one win each. \n Carlsen used a queen sacrifice to checkmate his opponent. \n The setting was a refurbished New York City building overlooking the Brooklyn Bridge that was once the city's fish market. \n On this night, it became a glittering gathering of hundreds of fans \u2014 adults and children \u2014 from Norway, Russia, the United States and elsewhere. They were riveted as the two grandmasters leaned into the tense game, barely moving, in total silence and deep in thought. \n Fans paid $100 to enter, feasting on snacks and drinks as they kept their eyes glued to flat-screens that beamed close-ups of the chessboard in an inner chamber. A panel of soundproof glass shielded the players from onlookers, who could see in but whom the players could not see. \n Hungarian grandmaster Judit Polgar said the four lightning-quick games played today \u2014 plus even faster ones that was not needed \u2014 were \"like Russian roulette.\" \n \"Today, the faster games are a great show even for people who don't know the game,\" said Polgar, considered the greatest female player ever. \n The required mental strategies also played out on chessboards scattered around the spectator lounge. People hovered over them, trying out various combinations of pieces, mirroring the masters. \n \"Magnus is my hero because he takes risks, he's really exciting,\" said Pippa Millstone, a Manhattan 9-year-old who came to watch the tournament for her fourth time. \n \"The game is pretty even now, but I feel like Magnus is going to start attacking really soon,\" she said in the middle of the third of the four so-called \"rapid games,\" each about a half-hour long, played as tie-breakers. \n Carlsen and Karjakin reached a draw in two, and the Norwegian won two for the championship. \n At crucial moments, spectators hushed, waiting to see what the next move would be. One whispered, \"no, no\" when Karjakin's choice seemed halting, or on the defensive. \n Even the winner missed a chance in one game, drawing groans and a few happy shrieks, depending on loyalties. \n Organizers said about 6 million people around the world followed the last games \u2014 sort of like sudden death play in football. \n Most fans were in homes and clubs across the globe. Some spent $15 for a pay-per-view live transmission, others to watch via high-tech goggles in 3-D virtual reality or by tracking moves on various free websites. \n The prize was $1.1 million divided between the two players, with the winner getting 60 percent. \n The New York championship did not escape the shadow of East-West rivalry dating to the Cold War days when American Bobby Fischer beat Russian defender Boris Spassky in 1972. \n This time, a key figure in chess was absent in New York: Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, a Russian multimillionaire and longtime president of the governing World Chess Federation who was accused by the U.S. government of collaborating with the Syrian regime. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Norwegian victorious again at World Chess Championship"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke rises from the remains of the Alamo Steak House Wednesday in Gatlinburg, Tenn., after a wildfire swept through the area Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shaylyn Jeffery holds the building owner's dog \"Payday\" while outside of the demolished Rosalie Plaza Grocery where she had opened up a tee-shirt business one month earlier on Wednesday, in Rosalie, Ala. \n GATLINBURG, Tenn. >> After nearly 24 hours of drenching rain helped quench a series of devastating wildfires in eastern Tennessee, local officials turned to cleanup and recovery efforts even as they battled their own personal crises. \n Gatlinburg Mayor Mike Werner said discussions were under way about re-opening the resort city as early as Friday, which would give business owners and residents their first look at the damage in a city that has been closed since Monday night. \n Werner has spent the better part of two days standing in front of TV cameras saying \"everything is going to be OK,\" all while he lost the home he built himself along with all seven buildings of the condominium business he owned. \n \"I really can't dwell on it that much. I think of others that have lost theirs, and it keeps my mind off of our problems,\" he said while fighting back tears. \"It's really hard, it's really tough.\" \n Werner was just one of several city officials confronting the crisis while dealing with losses of their own. Gatlinburg City Manager Cindy Cameron Ogle also lost her home in the fire. And Gatlinburg Fire Chief Greg Miller said the homes of several firefighters are among the estimated 300 plus buildings in the city that have been destroyed. \n \"They have not asked to be off,\" Miller said. \"That's just a testament to the dedication of these responders who serve this community. They put their own personal needs aside to take care of everybody else.\" \n Great Smoky Mountains National Park Superintendent Cassius Cash said Wednesday afternoon that the fires were \"likely to be human-caused,\" The Washington Post reported. \n Sevier County Mayor Larry Waters said officials plan to announce Thursday morning when local residents and business owners can return to the city. Authorities discovered three more bodies among the ruins Wednesday, raising the death toll to seven. But there were some happy moments, as three people who had been trapped since the fires started Monday night were rescued. \n \"That is some good, positive news for a change,\" he said. \n The mayor said authorities are still working to identify the dead and did not release any details about how they were killed. State law enforcement set up a hotline for people to report missing friends and family. Officials have not said how many people they believe are missing. \n Three brothers being treated at a Nashville hospital said they had not heard from their parents since they were separated while fleeing the fiery scene during their vacation. \n Gatlinburg Police Chief Randall Brackins said they have searched about 30 percent or less of the city so far. \n More than 14,000 people were evacuated from Gatlinburg on Monday night, and many of them are still nervously awaiting word of when they can get back in the city to see if they still have homes. \n Buddy McLean said he watched Monday from a deserted Gatlinburg street as flames surrounded his 26-acre hotel nestled in the mountains. \n \"I have 35 employees,\" McLean said. \"All of them lost their jobs overnight.\" \n Country music legend Dolly Parton said she is establishing a fund to help victims of the wildfires. Parton said The Dollywood Company and The Dollywood Foundation were establishing the My People Fund, which will provide $1,000 monthly to Sevier County families who lost their homes. \n The flames reached the doorstep of Dollywood, the theme park named after Parton, but the park was spared any significant damage and will reopen Friday. Parton said she hopes the financial assistance will help people who lost everything get back on their feet. \n Storms moved through the area as part of a system ravaging the Southeast, spawning suspected tornadoes in parts of Alabama and Tennessee, killing at least five people and injuring more than a dozen. \n Much remained uncertain for a region that serves as the gateway into the Great Smoky Mountains, the country's most visited national park. \n The Rocky Top Sports World complex on the outskirts of town was serving as a shelter. Wolf McLellan stumbled into the facility after a day of wandering the streets. He was forced to evacuate a motel where he was staying. He grabbed his guitar, two computers and his social security card and tried to flee with his dog, Kylie. \n \"She was too scared to move with the smoke and sirens and she just stood there. I didn't want to drag her. I couldn't drag her,\" he said. \"I figured the humane thing to do would be to just cut her loose.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Recovery begins as rains help put out Tennessee wildfires"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue workers stood at the wreckage site of a chartered airplane that crashed in a mountainous area outside Medellin, Colombia, on Tuesday. \n MEDELLIN, Colombia >> The pilot of the chartered plane carrying a Brazilian soccer team told air traffic controllers he had run out of fuel and desperately pleaded for permission to land before crashing into the Andes, according to a leaked recording of the final minutes of the doomed flight. \n In the sometimes chaotic exchange with the air traffic tower, the pilot of the British-built jet requests permission to land because of \"fuel problems\" without making a formal distress call. A female controller explained another plane that had been diverted with mechanical problems was already approaching the runway and had priority, instructing the pilot to wait seven minutes. \n By then the controller had gauged the seriousness of the situation and told the other plane to abandon its approach to make way for the charter jet. It was too late. Just before going silent, the pilot said he was flying at an altitude of 9,000 feet and made a final plea to land: \"Vectors, senorita. Landing vectors.\" \n The recording, obtained Wednesday by Colombian media, appeared to confirm the accounts of a surviving flight attendant and a pilot flying nearby who overheard the frantic exchange. These, along with the lack of an explosion upon impact, point to a rare case of fuel running out as a cause of the crash of the jetliner, which experts said was flying at its maximum range. \n For now, authorities are avoiding singling out any one cause of the crash, which killed all but six of the 77 people on board, including members of Brazil's Chapecoense soccer team traveling to Medellin for the Copa Sudamericana finals \u2014 the culmination of a fairytale season that had electrified soccer-crazed Brazil. \n A full investigation is expected to take months and will review everything from the 17-year-old aircraft's flight and maintenance history to the voice and instruments data in the black boxes recovered Tuesday at the crash site on a muddy hillside. The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board was taking part in the investigation because the plane's engines were made by an American manufacturer. \n As the probe continued, mourning soccer fans in Medellin and the southern Brazilian town of Chapeco, where the team is from, held simultaneous stadium tributes to the victims. The six survivors were recovering in hospitals, with three in critical but stable condition, while forensic specialists worked to identify the victims so they could be transferred to a waiting cargo plane sent by the Brazilian air force to repatriate the bodies. \n Alfredo Bocanegra, head of Colombia's aviation agency, said that while evidence initially pointed to an electrical problem, the possibility the crash was caused by lack of fuel has not been ruled out. Planes need to have enough extra fuel on board to fly at least 30 to 45 minutes to another airport in the case of an emergency, and rarely fly in a straight line because of turbulence or other reasons. \n Before being taken offline, the website of LaMia, the Bolivian-based charter company, said the British Aerospace 146 Avro RJ85 jetliner's maximum range was 2,965 kilometers (1,600 nautical miles) \u2014 just under the distance between Medellin and Santa Cruz, Bolivia, where the flight originated carrying close to its full passenger capacity. \n \"If this is confirmed by the investigators it would be very painful because it stems from negligence,\" Bocanegra told Caracol Radio on Wednesday when asked whether the plane should not have attempted such a long haul. \n One key piece to unlocking the mystery could come from Ximena Sanchez, a Bolivian flight attendant who survived the crash and told rescuers the plane had run out of fuel moments before the crash. Investigators were expected to interview her Wednesday at the clinic near Medellin where she is recovering. \n \"'We ran out of fuel. The airplane turned off,'\" rescuer Arquimedes Mejia quoted Sanchez as saying as he pulled her from the wreckage. \"That was the only thing she told me,\" he told The Associated Press. \n Investigators also want to speak to Juan Sebastian Upegui, the co-pilot of an Avianca commercial flight who was in contact with air traffic controllers near Medellin's Jose Maria Cordova airport at the time the chartered plane went down. \n In a four-minute recording circulated on social media, Upegui described how he heard the flight's pilot request priority to land because he was out of fuel. Growing ever more desperate, the pilot eventually declared a \"total electrical failure,\" Upegui said, before the plane quickly began to lose speed and altitude. \n \"I remember I was pulling really hard for them, saying 'Make it, make it, make it, make it,'\" Upeqgui says in the recording. \"Then it stopped. \u2026 The controller's voice starts to break up and she sounds really sad. We're in the plane and start to cry.\" \n No traces of fuel have been found at the crash site and the plane did not explode on impact, one of the reasons there were six survivors. \n However, there could be other explanations for that: The pilot may have intentionally dumped fuel in the hopes of reducing the risk of a fireball in a crash, or the aircraft could have suffered a fuel leak or other unexplained reason for losing fuel. \n John Cox, a retired airline pilot and CEO of Florida-based Safety Operating Systems, said the aircraft's amount of fuel deserves a careful look. \n \"The airplane was being flight-planned right to its maximum. Right there it says that even if everything goes well they are not going to have a large amount of fuel when they arrive,\" said Cox. \"I don't understand how they could do the flight nonstop with the fuel requirements that the regulations stipulate.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pilot told Colombia controllers 'no fuel' before crash"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carrier and President-elect Donald Trump reached an agreement to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana. \n WASHINGTON >> In persuading Carrier to keep hundreds of jobs in Indiana, President-elect Donald Trump is claiming victory on behalf of factory workers whose positions were bound for Mexico. But the scant details that have emerged so far raise doubts about the extent of the victory. \n By enabling Carrier's Indianapolis plant to stay open, the deal spares about 800 union workers whose jobs were going to be outsourced to Mexico, according to federal officials who were briefed by the heating and air conditioning company. This suggests that hundreds will still lose their jobs at the factory, where roughly 1,400 workers were slated to be laid off. \n Also, neither Trump nor Carrier has yet to say what the workers might have to give up or precisely what threats or incentives were used to get the manufacturer to change its mind. \n \"There's excitement with most people, but there's a lot of skepticism and worry because we don't know the details,\" said TJ Bray, 32, who has worked for Carrier for 14 years and installs insulation in furnaces. \n \"There's a few that are worried. And there's still a few that don't even believe this is real. They think it's a play, a set-up or a scam.\" \n Sen. Joe Donnelly, an Indiana Democrat, said he, too, has lingering questions about what the announcement could mean for the workers. \n \"Who is going to be retained? What is the structure there will be for the retention? What is going to be put in place?\" Donnelly said. \"Are these the same jobs at the same wage? I would sure like to know as soon as I can.\" \n Fuller answers could emerge Thursday, when Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is ending his tenure as Indiana governor, are to appear with Carrier officials in Indiana. \n On the campaign trail, Trump threatened to impose sharp tariffs on any company that shifted its factories to Mexico. And his advisers have since promoted lower corporate tax rates as a means of keeping jobs in the U.S. \n Trump may have had some leverage because United Technologies, Carrier's parent company, also owns Pratt & Whitney, a big supplier of fighter jet engines that relies in part on U.S. military contracts. \n Carrier said in a statement that more than 1,000 jobs were saved, though that figure includes headquarters and engineering staff that were likely to stay in Indiana. \n The company attributed its decision to the incoming Trump administration and financial incentives provided by Indiana, which is something of a reversal, since earlier offers from the state had failed to sway Carrier from decamping to Mexico. \n \"Today's announcement is possible because the incoming Trump-Pence administration has emphasized to us its commitment to support the business community and create an improved, more competitive U.S. business climate,\" the company said. \n In February, United Technologies said it would close its Carrier air conditioning and heating plant in Indianapolis and move its manufacturing to Mexico. The plant's workers would have been laid off over three years starting in 2017. \n Whatever deal Trump struck with Carrier does not appear to have salvaged jobs at a separate branch of United Technologies in Huntington, Indiana, that makes microprocessor-based controls for the heating, air conditioning and refrigeration industries. That branch will move manufacturing operations to a new plant in Mexico, costing the city 700 jobs by 2018. \n Huntington Mayor Brooks Fetters suggested that local officials lack the political clout to preserve those jobs. \n \"At a local level, there was not much that anybody was going to do to make global, publicly traded companies make a decision other than what they made for the benefit of their shareholders,\" Fetters said. \n Donnelly said he worries about other factory job losses threatening his state. Bearing maker Rexnord, which has a factory near the Carrier plant in Indianapolis, plans to lay off about 350 workers. And electronics manufacturer CTS plans to eliminate more than 200 jobs at its Elkhart plant, he said. \n Union leaders who represent the Carrier workers were not involved in the negotiations that the Trump team had with their employer. \n Chuck Jones, president of United Steelworkers Local 1999, which represents Carrier workers, said of Tuesday's news: \"I'm optimistic, but I don't know what the situation is. I guess it's a good sign. \u2026 You would think they would keep us in the loop. But we know nothing.\" \n Trump's deal with Carrier may be a public relations success for the incoming president. It also suggests that he has unveiled a new presidential economic approach: actively choosing individual corporate winners and losers \u2014 or at least winners. \n To critics who see other Indiana factories on the verge of closing, deals like the one at Carrier are unlikely to stem the job losses caused by automation and cheap foreign competition. \n The prospect that the White House might directly intervene is also a concern to some economists. The incentives needed to keep jobs from moving often come at the public's expense. They note that Trump's activism might encourage companies to threaten to move jobs overseas in hopes of receiving tax breaks or contracts with the government. \n \"It sets up a race to the bottom,\" said Diane Lim, chief economist at the nonprofit Committee for Economic Development. \n Carrier's parent company indicated that moving production to Mexico would save the company $65 million annually. Because of pressures like that, states routinely give manufacturers incentives, and \"economists who recoil at the thought of this are living in a dream world,\" said Scott Paul, president of the American Alliance for Manufacturing. \n For Trump, a challenge will be trying to duplicate the Carrier feat many times over to retain and increase the nation's 12.3 million manufacturing jobs. \n Since the start of 2015, the Labor Department has issued over 1,600 approvals for layoffs or plant closings as a result of shifts of production overseas or competition from imports, the American Alliance of Manufacturing noted. \n But other forces, such as consumer demand and the value of the dollar, also determine whether assembly lines keep humming. \n Payroll services provider ADP said Wednesday that manufacturers shed 10,000 jobs in November. U.S. manufacturers have struggled in the past year as a stronger dollar has cut into exports and domestic businesses have spent less on machinery and other equipment. \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Wednesday that Trump would have to replicate the Carrier deal 804 times to meet President Barack Obama's record. He said that Obama created 805,000 jobs in manufacturing and that the figure is much higher if existing jobs that have been protected are included. \n Trump acknowledged the extent of the problem on the campaign trail this year. \n \"So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this,\" he said. \"We have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States.\" \n Carrier wasn't the only company Trump assailed during the campaign. He pledged to give up Oreos after Nabisco's parent, Mondelez International, said it would replace nine production lines in Chicago with four in Mexico. He criticized Ford after the company said it planned to invest $2.5 billion in engine and transmission plants in Mexico. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Boak and Pace reported from Washington, Slodysko from Indianapolis. AP writers Christopher S. Rugaber in Washington and Tom Davies in Indianapolis also contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As Trump claims to have saved Carrier jobs, details are hazy"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Rockefeller Center Christmas tree stands lit during the 84th annual Rockefeller Center Christmas tree lighting ceremony. \n NEW YORK >> Thousands of rain-drenched revelers gathered in midtown Manhattan tonight to watch the annual lighting of the Christmas tree in Rockefeller Center.  \n New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio flipped the switch just before 9 p.m., illuminating the 94-foot tall, 14-ton Norway spruce with 50,000 multicolored LED bulbs on five miles of wires. The tree is topped with a Swarovski star. \n The 84th annual ceremony was televised by NBC and included performances by Neil Diamond, Sarah McLachlan, Tori Kelly and the Radio City Rockettes. \n Security at the event was tight. Spectators were urged to use mass transit and umbrellas, backpacks and large bags were prohibited. \n The holiday tradition started in 1931. This year's tree came from the backyard of Angie and Graig Eichler in the northern foothills of New York's Catskill mountain range. \n Angie Eichler said their family has come almost every year to see the Rockefeller Center tree \u2014 but she never dreamed it would be theirs. \n The tree will be lit every day from 5:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. until Jan. 7. On Christmas Day the lights will be on 24 hours. \n After the holidays, the tree will be milled into lumber for Habitat for Humanity. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thousands attend Rockefeller Christmas tree lighting"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER VIA AP \n The family of Keith Lamont Scott including his wife Rakeyia Scott, right, attended a news conference after finding out charges would not be filed against CMPD officer Brentley Vinson in the fatal shooting of her husband. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. >> A prosecutor today cleared a Charlotte police officer in the killing of a black man whose death touched off civil unrest, and he presented detailed evidence to rebut assertions that the slain man was unarmed. \n Officer Brentley Vinson was justified in opening fire on Keith Scott and won't face charges, Charlotte-Mecklenburg District Attorney Andrew Murray said. \n In a 40-minute news presentation to news reporters, Murray produced evidence that Keith Scott was armed with a handgun and the officer who killed him feared Scott would shoot. \n The announcement \"profoundly disappointed\" Scott's family, but they haven't decided whether to file a lawsuit, their lawyer said. \n Scott, 43, was killed Sept. 20 in the parking lot of an apartment complex. \n Much of Murray's presentation centered on the gun and debunking witnesses who said Scott wasn't armed. \n Murray displayed a store's surveillance video taken shortly before the incident, showing the outline of what appeared to be a holstered gun on Scott's ankle. He said Scott's DNA was found on a Colt .380-caliber semi-automatic handgun recovered at the scene. \n He shared a Facebook conversation from the man who said he sold the stolen gun to Scott and recognized him from TV coverage after the shooting, and police radio traffic where officers talked about the gun before confronting Scott. \n He also released his report online and asked the public to review his findings before protesting again. Two nights of protests after the shooting resulted in looted stores near the scene and in downtown Charlotte, millions of dollars of damage, a fatal shooting and more than two dozen injuries to police officers and others. \n \"The community should read the report. Digest the report. Please do not act viscerally on news snippets,\" Murray said. \n A group of nearly 100 people gathered at Charlotte police headquarters in the rain tonight before marching around downtown Charlotte for about two hours. \n They said they don't believe Scott had a gun. They said a white officer actually shot Scott and Murray and state investigators were using Vinson as a scapegoat despite body and dashboard camera footage only showing Vinson firing his weapon. The protests remained calm. Four people were arrested for refusing to get out of the street and on the sidewalk, police said. \n Murray said his team of homicide prosecutors reviewed the evidence, along with other lawyers. He said the investigation relied on 63 State Bureau of Investigation agents working for 2,300 hours. Murray said every one of them agreed with his conclusion. \n \"All of the credible, available and believable evidence supports the conclusion that Scott was armed with a gun,\" Murray said. \n Immediately after the shooting, a video of Scott's final moments recorded by his wife, Rakeyia, was posted on social media. In it, she shouted to police that her husband \"doesn't have a gun.\" She pleaded with officers not to shoot before a burst of gunfire could be heard. She also told them he was suffering from TBI \u2014 a traumatic brain injury suffered in a motorcycle crash in November 2015. \n Minutes after Murray spoke to reporters, Scott family attorney Justin Bamberg said at a news conference that there still isn't definitive proof Scott had a gun in his hand when he was shot. \n Scott's family is profoundly disappointed at the decision not to charge Vinson, but thanked Murray for meeting with them for an hour to answer their questions, Bamberg said. \n Anyone who's upset should not get violent but should work on changing a system that lets officers shoot people without taking more steps to prevent confrontations from becoming deadly, Bamberg said. He added that he understood why prosecutors decided not to file charges. \n \"That does not mean that this officer's killing of Keith Scott was right. All that means is that under the view of the DA's office, it wasn't criminal. And those are two completely different things,\" Bamberg said. \n Rakeyia Scott stood behind the lawyers with her sister, Rachel Dotch. They didn't speak to reporters. \n The shooting happened after plainclothes officers went to the complex looking for a suspect with an outstanding warrant when two undercover officers saw Scott \u2014 not the suspect they were looking for \u2014 inside a car with a gun and marijuana, Murray said. \n The officers said they would have ignored the marijuana, but the gun made the situation dangerous to others. They left to get backup, then returned to arrest Scott, Murray said. \n Officers said Scott exited the SUV with a gun, ignored at least 10 orders to drop the weapon and appeared to be in a trance, Murray said. \n Scott's wife told investigators her husband took medicine for his brain injury that made him \"zone out\" at times, the prosecutor said. \n As Scott locked eyes with him, Vinson told investigators , \"I felt like if I didn't do anything right then, at that point it's like he was going to shoot me or he's going to shoot one of my buddies, and it was going to happen right now,\" Vinson told investigators the next day. \n Scott's wife had told reporters and investigators her husband had no gun. But in August, the couple had argued on text messages about the weapon, with Rakeyia Scott reminding her husband he could get 25 years in prison because he was a felon who wasn't supposed to have one. \n The case was among a series across the country since mid-2014 that spurred a national debate over race and policing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutor clears officer in man's death, says man was armed"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "HAWAIIAN AIRLINES \n A Hawaiian Airlines Airbus A330 is seen in this 2012 courtesy photo. \n A Hawaiian Airlines flight en route to New York was forced to return to Honolulu on Tuesday because of a disruptive passenger. \n Flight HA50 departed Honolulu at 4:25 p.m. carrying 280 passengers headed to the John F. Kennedy International Airport. \n The aircraft was over the ocean when pilots turned the plane around and headed back to Hawaii, where sheriffs and airport security personnel awaited its arrival, according to an emailed statement by airline spokeswoman Alison Croyle. \n HA50 returned to Honolulu Airport at 9:25 p.m. and resumed service at 12:35 a.m. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Disruptive passenger interrupts Hawaiian Airlines flight to New York"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / 2015 \n Major General Antonio Taguba spoke during an informational briefing for Filipino veterans at the Oahu Veterans Center in Moanalua. \n The U.S. House unanimously voted today to pass a measure that honors World War II Filipinos and Filipino-Americans with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award by Congress. \n \"Today, the United States Congress took a historic step forward in honoring the more than 200,000 Filipino and Filipino-American soldiers that served our country during World War II,\" said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard in a news release. \n The measure will now be sent to President Barack Obama to be signed. \n In the release, retired Maj. Gen. Antonio Taguba, chairman of the Filipino Veterans Recognition and Education Project, said, \"Now we can tell our veterans with pride in our hearts that this grateful nation has, at last, granted them recognition for the selfless sacrifice they endured in war, and restored their dignity and honor in service to their nation. \n The House recently acquired more than the required 290 co-sponsors on the companion bill before today's floor vote. \n In July, the Senate passed a bill authored by U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono in July to honor Filipino WWII veterans with the congressional award. \n In the news release, Hirono said, \"For months, we have said that time is running out to recognize Filipino World War II veterans for their brave service.\" \n \"Today's House passage is the culmination of decades of work by these veterans and their families to recognize their key role in the Allied victory, and their decades-long fight for benefits.\" \n There are approximately 18,000 Filipino WWII veterans alive in the U.S. Hawaii's congressional leaders have been pushing for the measure as most veterans are in their 90s. \n During WWII, over 260,000 Filipino and Filipino-American soldiers responded to President Franklin Roosevelt's \"call-to-duty.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "House OKs Congressional Gold Medal for World War II veterans of Filipino descent"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "COURTESY PHOTOS \n Gary Galiher and Keiko Kuroki \n Witnesses who saw a helicopter before it crashed on Molokai told federal accident investigators it looked like the pilot was lost during dark and rainy conditions. \n Well-known Honolulu personal injury attorney Gary Galiher was flying his helicopter from Honolulu to a helipad at his east Molokai home Nov. 15. \n Rescuers found the charred wreckage the next day on a remote mountain-slope. Galiher and his passenger, real estate agent Keiko Kuroki, were killed. \n A National Transportation Safety Board preliminary report released Wednesday says residents near the crash site reported seeing the helicopter flying low and slow. \n The report says there was low visibility with heavy rain showers at the time. \n The report says the pilot was experienced and often departed from his hangar at Honolulu Airport in the evenings after work. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NTSB: Galiher may have been disoriented in bad weather before copter crash"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "Maui police made an arrest in one hit-and-run fatality over the weekend, and identified the victim in another. \n Officers arrested an 87-year-old Kula man in a pedestrian accident in Kula Friday that killed Destiny Delima, 30, of Kahului. \n Police arrested the man Monday and recovered a white 1998 Ford Explorer from his home. He was released pending investigation. \n Destiny Delima, 30, of Kahului died after she was struck by a vehicle traveling on Pulehu Road Friday night. Delima was walking near the east shoulder when she was hit and the vehicle fled, police said. She was pronounced dead at the scene. \n Maui police also identified a pedestrian killed in another hit-and-run crash on Piilani Highway Sunday as Hannah Simmons of Kihei. They are still looking for the vehicle that hit Simmons on Kaiwahine Street at about 8:50 p.m. \n Police said the vehicle, possibly a blue Dodge or Chevy full-sized pickup truck with a modified lift and tires, made a left turn onto the highway when it struck Simmons who was in a marked crosswalk. She was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in critical condition where she later died from her injuries. \n Anyone with information on either hit-and-run crashes is urged to call the Maui Police Department at (808) 244-6400. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui police arrest man, 87, in fatal crash; identify victim in another hit-and-run"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This satellite image taken this morning shows cloudy conditions over Hawaii. \n Windy, wet weather is expected through Friday with heavier showers, even thunder and lightning, possible this weekend. Snow could also fall on Big Island summits. \n The National Weather Service says unstable weather conditions are moving over Hawaii and will linger into next week. \n \"Wet weather is likely through the weekend with flooding rains possible,\" forecasters said. \n For today, the National Weather Service issued a wind advisory for sections of all islands exposed to the winds. \n East winds of 25 to 35 mph with gusts to 50 mph are expected until 6 p.m. tonight. \n \"The strongest winds will occur over ridges and downwind of steep terrain,\" the weather service said. \n The winds could also blow windward and mauka showers over leeward areas. \n A low pressure system south of the state is moving north and will shift the direction of the winds starting Friday. The blustery tradewinds will turn into light, muggy Kona winds by this weekend. \n The heavy moisture in the air combined with cold, unstable conditions in the upper atmosphere could also bring thunderstorms this weekend, said John Bravender, a meteorologist with the Honolulu office of the National Weather Service. \n The southeasterly winds may also bring vog over Oahu and freezing temperatures on Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea may bring snow to the summits. \n The weather today should be similar to Wednesday. The forecast calls for mostly cloudy conditions and frequent showers in windward and mauka areas and partly sunny weather with scattered leeward showers through Thursday. \n The gusty winds could continue through Thursday. \n Forecasters expect a 50 to 70 percent chance of rain through Saturday and a near 100 percent chance of rain Sunday in Honolulu and south shores of Oahu. \n Bravender said the wet, muggy weather could last well into next week. \n \"We could have a break early next week, but we could also have another system develop with widespread showers over the course of next week as well,\" he said. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Rain, thundershowers, even snow on summits possible through weekend"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "GOOGLE EARTH/DIGITALGLOBE \n This map shows the location of an accident that closed Kamehameha Highway in Kaaawa near Trout Farm Road. \n A 50-year-old man died in a two-car collision near the former Crouching Lion Inn early today. \n The accident occurred at about 5:19 a.m. at 51-666 Kamehameha Highway near Trout Farm Road in Kahana Valley, and involved a Mustang and a pickup truck, according to Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins. \n Jenkins and police said the Mustang was traveling northbound on the highway and collided head-on with the pickup truck traveling southbound. \n The Mustang driver was pronounced dead at the scene. His name has yet to be released. \n The pickup driver and passenger, both approximately 50, were taken to Queen's Medical Center in serious condition. \n Police closed both lanes on the highway to investigate the crash and reopened at about 10 a.m. \n This is the 50th traffic-related fatality on Oahu compared to 44 at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "1 dead, 2 injured in crash that closed Kamehameha Highway"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump walks past a crowd as he leaves the New York Times building following a meeting on Nov. 22, in New York. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump said that he's leaving his business empire to focus on being the nation's 45th president, bowing to pressure to avoid potential conflicts of interest between governing and profiting in the private sector. \n \"I will be leaving my great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country in order to make America great again,\" he tweeted in a series of missives sent before dawn today. \"While I am not mandated to do this under the law, I feel it is visually important, as president, to in no way have a conflict of interest with my various businesses.\" \n He said legal documents are \"being crafted which take me completely out of business operations,\" he added, saying the presidency is \"a far more important task!\" \n Meanwhile, former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin, Trump's former campaign finance director, confirmed that Trump has picked him as treasury secretary and that billionaire investor Wilbur Ross has been chosen for commerce secretary. \n Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign. But he has no government experience, which could prove a political hurdle. If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with implementing international economic sanctions. \n Trump has previously said that he'd leave his business operations to his three eldest children \u2014 Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka, though that wasn't clear from his tweets Wednesday. \n Reince Priebus, Trump's incoming White House chief of staff, said Wednesday \"that'll all be worked out.\" \n Priebus told MSNBC's \"Morning Joe,\" that Trump has \"got the best people in America working on it.\" Priebus demurred when asked if Trump planned to put his businesses in a blind trust \u2014 as presidents have traditionally done \u2014 or leave them in his children's hands. \n \"I'm not ready to reveal that really,\" Priebus said. \n Priebus added that Trump's business acumen and the many business interests he has as a result of it is \"nothing to be ashamed about.\" He said Trump is \"taking seriously\" the issue of possible conflicts of interest. \n \"We're making sure that all those conflicts are taken care of,\" Priebus said. He said the applicable rules and regulations \"are very vague\" and that's Trump's people are \"doing the best job we can.\" \n Priebus said the country hasn't seen a president of such business acumen before and that the rules and regulations \"don't contemplate this scenario.\" \n Mnuchin, meanwhile, told CNBC on Wednesday that he and Ross are \"thrilled to work for the president-elect and honored to have these positions.\" He said \"sustained economic growth\" is the chief priority of the incoming administration and that \"we can absolutely get to sustained 3 to 4 percent\" in the gross domestic product. \n He also outlined what he called \"the largest tax change\" since President Ronald Reagan \u2014 cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, a \"big\" middle-class income tax cut and simplifying taxes. \n \"By cutting corporate taxes, we're going to create huge economic growth and we'll have huge personal income,\" Mnuchin told CNBC's \"Squawk Box.\" \n No previous commander in chief has brought with him such a sprawling business empire with so much complexity, opaqueness and opportunity for self-dealing as Trump. \n Trump owns golf clubs, office towers and other properties in several countries. He holds ownership stakes in more than 500 companies. He has struck licensing deals for use of his name on hotels and other buildings around the world and has been landing new business in the Middle East, India and South America. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says he's leaving businesses to focus on presidency"}

{"date": "November 30, 2016", "text": "HAGATNA, Guam >> A Korean Air passenger who started a fight with a flight attendant who refused to serve him more beer has been sentenced to more than two years in prison. \n A judge sentenced Kwon Woo Sung on Monday to three years in prison. But the South Korean man was given credit for the past seven months he's spent under house arrest and in federal detainment, leaving 28 months left on his sentence. \n The judge gave attorneys another day to consider home confinement as an alternative for Kwon at the request of his attorney. The hearing will continue Wednesday. \n Kwon had pleaded guilty to interfering with flight crew members and attendants for his behavior on an April flight from Seoul to Guam. \n He is accused of smoking a cigarette in the plane restroom and then fighting with the flight attendant who refused to serve him another beer. Other passengers struggled with Kwon to subdue him and tie him up inside the plane, court documents said. \n Kwon's attorneys had argued that their client suffers from anxiety, depression and anger issues. \n Kwon was initially sentenced to three years on Nov. 8, but his attorneys, Peter Perez and Edward Han, asked the judge for more time to discuss whether Kwon would accept the sentence or withdraw his guilty plea and go to trial. \n During that time, the defense presented more testimony from Kwon, his 70-year-old mother Yang Young Hwa and Kwon's psychiatrist on Monday. They also gave the judge apology letters from Kwon to passengers, flight crew members and the Korean Air CEO. \n But Chief Judge Frances Tydingco-Gatewood handed down the same sentence from earlier this month, despite pleas for leniency from Kwon and Hwa, who cried and fell to their knees at one point during the hearing. Tydingco-Gatewood said it was one of the more emotional sentencing hearings she's experienced in her 22 years as a judge, but cited the seriousness of the crime in giving Kwon the sentence. \n Kwon must also pay a $10,500 fine, including $1,000 for smoking in the plane's restroom. The money will be taken out of Kwon's $100,000 cash bail. \n He still has the option of withdrawing his guilty plea if he does not accept the court's sentence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Korean Air passenger sent to prison over beer fight"}

