{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French President Francois Hollande speaks with a victim after unveiling a commemorative plaque outside the Stade de France stadium, in Saint-Denis, near Paris, France. \n PARIS >> The son of the first victim among 130 people killed in coordinated attacks in Paris a year ago Sunday said his Portuguese-born father was the symbol of integration that is the key to healing the stigmatization that drives some youth to violence. \n President Francois Hollande unveiled a plaque \"in memory of Manuel Dias,\" pulling away a French flag covering it on a wall at one of the entrances to the French national stadium, where he was killed on Nov. 13, 2015, by Islamist extremists. \n Hollande is also unveiling plaques honoring the victims at the bars and restaurants in Paris and the Bataclan concert hall, which reopened on Saturday night with a concert by British pop star Sting. \n Hollande remained silent at the somber ceremony, and Dias' son Michael addressed the crowd of officials, saying his father was \"living proof that integration is possible, necessary\" to end the madness of violence carried out by those who felt excluded. \n He said that learning to live again after extremists killed his father was \"a personal challenge, but it concerns us all.\" He credited the life lessons of his father, who came to France at 18, and stressed the need to gain an education. \n \"It is by knowledge, by intelligence that the children of tomorrow can stop humiliating themselves as cannon fodder in the service of criminal, mafia-style interests \u2026 as is the case today. (They are) incapable of reflection, thinking about the world and expressing the unease and social exclusion they feel.\" \n On Nov. 13, 2015, three teams of attackers struck outside the Stade de France, five bars and restaurants in eastern Paris and the Bataclan concert hall. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attacks. \n In addition to those killed, nine people remain hospitalized from the attacks and others are paralyzed. The government says more than 600 people are still receiving psychological treatment after the attacks. \n The remembrances come after the Sting concert Saturday night that reopened the refurbished Bataclan concert hall \u2014 where 90 people were killed by extremists with automatic weapons and explosive belts in several hours of horror. \n Sting, in a T-shirt with a guitar slung over his shoulder, asked concert-goers in fluent French to observe a minute of silence as he opened the show. \n \"We've got two important things to do tonight,\" the singer said. \"First, to remember and honor those who lost their lives in the attacks a year ago \u2026 and to celebrate the life and the music of this historic venue. \u2026 We shall not forget them.\" \n He then strummed out a string of hits, including \"Fragile\" and \"Message in a Bottle.\" \n Elodie Suigo, who lost six friends in the attack, said that it was a hard night, even though she loved the music. \n \"It was difficult going through that door. I don't think I was the only one\u2026 We cannot say it was a magical moment because of everything that changed in our lives. But (Sting) is a really great man,\" she said. \n Sting, 65, said proceeds from the concert would go to two charities helping more than 1,700 people officially recognized as victims of the unfolding horror a year ago. \n With more than 400 rounds fired within 10 minutes at the restaurants, the coordinated attacks were a wake-up call for France and for Europe. They followed the January 2015 newsroom massacre at the satiric newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris and a Kosher grocery store that left 17 dead. But the complex planning behind the Nov. 13 attacks and the high number of deaths revealed a degree of French vulnerability not previously suspected by authorities. \n Neighboring Belgium, the starting point of the attacks in Paris, was hit a few months later on March 22 with attacks on its airport and a metro station that killed 32 people. \n France declared a state of emergency after the Nov. 13 attacks, which is still in force. Still, that failed to prevent the killing of a police couple in their home last June, the July 14 Bastille Day truck attack in Nice that killed 86 revelers and the slaying of a priest at the altar of his Normandy church in July. \n Prime Minister Manuel Valls has warned this weekend that \"Yes, terrorism will strike us again.\" But, he contended, \"we have all the resources to resist and all the strength to win.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "France remembers the 130 killed in Paris attacks 1 year ago"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jarobi White and Q-Tip of musical guest A Tribe Called Quest pose with host Dave Chappelle, center, on the television show, \"Saturday Night Live,\" in New York. \n LOS ANGELES >> \"Saturday Night Live\" called on host Dave Chappelle's wit for a thoughtful coda to a divisive presidential campaign. \n Chappelle joked about the unrest following Donald Trump's victory over Hillary Clinton, saying he hadn't seen white people so mad since the O.J. Simpson verdict. \n Besides the one-liners, Chappelle talked seriously about giving Trump a chance. In return, the comedian said, the \"historically disenfranchised\" demand a chance as well. \n \"SNL\" opened with cast member Kate McKinnon, the show's Hillary Clinton mimic, singing the late Leonard Cohen's \"Hallelujah.\" Alec Baldwin's Trump was absent from the show. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dave Chappelle, 'SNL' give thoughtful coda to election"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The United States has agreed to resettle an unspecified number of refugees languishing in Pacific island camps in a deal that is expected to inspire more asylum seekers to attempt to reach Australia by boat, officials said on Sunday. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry confirmed that the United States had \"agreed to consider referrals\" from the United Nations refugee agency on Australia's refugees. \n CANBERRA, Australia >> The United States has agreed to resettle an unspecified number of refugees languishing in Pacific island camps in a deal that is expected to inspire more asylum seekers to attempt to reach Australia by boat, officials said on Sunday. \n Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull would not say whether he had discussed the deal with President-elect Donald Trump during their telephone conversation on Thursday. The Obama administration had agreed to resettle refugees among almost 1,300 asylum seekers held at Australia's expense on the island nations of Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Another 370 who came to Australia for medical treatment then refused to return to the islands would also be eligible. \n \"We deal with one administration at a time and there is only one president of the United States at a time,\" Turnbull told reporters. \n Trump has called for a moratorium or tight restrictions on Muslim immigration. Most of the asylum seekers are Muslims from the Middle East, Africa and Asia. \n U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry confirmed that the United States had \"agreed to consider referrals\" from the United Nations refugee agency on Australia's refugees. \n \"We are going to work to protect vulnerable refugees around the world, and we'll share that responsibility with our friends in the regions that are most affected by this challenge,\" Kerry told reporters in New Zealand. \n Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date the tough policy was announced on July 19, 2013. \n Australia pays Nauru and Papua New Guinea to house boat arrivals and has been searching for countries that will resettle them. \n Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in. \n Any refugee who refuses to go to the U.S. would be given a 20-year visa to stay on Nauru, a tiny impoverished atoll with a population of 10,000 people, Immigration Minister Peter Dutton said. \n The Refugee Council of Australia, an advocacy group, welcomed the deal as a vital first step in ending the indefinite detention of asylum seekers on the islands. London-based rights group Amnesty International accused Australia of taking \"an extreme step in shirking responsibility.\" \n U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials are expected in Australia this week to begin assessing refugees. \n Turnbull would not say how many refugees the United States might take, but said the most vulnerable would be given priority. \n \"Our priority is the resettlement of woman, children and families,\" Turnbull said. \"This will be an orderly process. It will take time. It will not be rushed.\" \n Refugees who arrive in the future would not be sent to the United States, he said. \n \"We anticipate that people smugglers will seek to use this agreement as a marketing opportunity to tempt vulnerable people onto these perilous sea journeys,\" Turnbull said. \"We have put in place the largest and most capable maritime surveillance and response fleet Australia has ever deployed.\" \n Australian Border Force Commissioner Roman Quaedvlieg said ships had been positioned to turn boats back to Indonesia if asylum seekers attempt to reach Australia in the hope of being sent to the U.S. \n No people smuggling operation has successfully delivered asylum seekers to Australia by boat since July 2014. \n Turnbull announced at Obama's Leaders' Summit on Refugees in September that Australia would participate in the U.S.-led program to resettle Central American refugees from a camp in Costa Rica. Australia would also increase its refugee intake by 5,000 to 18,750 a year. \n Turnbull said at the time that the agreement to resettle Hondurans and El Salvadoreans was \"not linked to any other resettlement discussions\" involving Australia's refugees getting to the U.S. \n Refugee Action Coalition spokesman Ian Rintoul said some refugees on Nauru were \"hopeful\" of resettlement in the United States, but were frustrated by the lack of detail. There seemed no short-term hope for asylum seekers on Papua New Guinea's Manus Island, a male-only camp holding 873 men. \n \"There are some people who if the United States is offered to them, certainly they will take it,\" Rintoul said, adding that several would prefer Australia where they had family. \n Rights groups have been scathing about conditions on the island immigration camps. Two asylum seekers set themselves on fire on Nauru this year and two local men have been convicted of murdering an Iranian asylum seeker during a 2004 riot at the Manus Island camp. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. to resettle Australia's refugees languishing on islands"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shoppers are directed by a police officer after being evacuated from the Crossgates Mall in Guliderland, N.Y., Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016. \n GUILDERLAND, N.Y. >> Gunfire has erupted at a crowded mall in upstate New York, sending hundreds of shoppers fleeing in a panic. \n The police chief in Guilderland has confirmed that shots were fired but says no one was injured in the incident at Crossgates Mall in suburban Albany. \n Witnesses told police they heard one, possibly two, shots fired around 2:30 p.m. Saturday near the Apple store. \n Chief Carol Lawlor says the mall still was on lockdown about six hours later, protected by more than 100 officers. The chief says a shooter may still be hiding somewhere in the mall, but no suspects had been found. \n Investigators checked security cameras for clues. \n State Police Maj. Bill Keeler told the Albany Times-Union that reports coming in suggested a possible confrontation between two men who fled. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chief confirms shots fired at New York mall"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Harra Kazuo, live-in partner of alleged drug pusher Jaypee Bertes, covers her face to protect her identity during an interview at the Commission on Human Rights office in Quezon City, north of Manila, Philippines. \n MANILA, Philippines >> When police shot to death Harra Kazuo's common-law husband and his father following a drug raid in the Philippines, she sought one thing: justice. \n In a television interview shortly after their deaths in July, the 26-year-old mother accused two officers of killing them in cold blood. She then recounted the allegations before a Philippine Senate committee investigating the country's brutal drug war in testimony broadcast nationwide. \n What Kazuo has gotten instead, though, is a life lesson in the consequences of speaking out. Today, she lives with her three children in hiding, sheltered by an extraordinary witness protection program run by the country's independent Commission on Human Rights, which has feared for her safety while it investigates the case. \n That such a program exists is powerful indictment of the lack of trust many here have in the country's notoriously corrupt police, who are spearheading an anti-drug campaign that has left more than 4,000 people dead in just a few months. It also illustrates the failures of a broken justice system few believe can hold anyone to account. \n Kazuo said she is pushing the case because \"what is happening is not right.\" \n \"I want them to feel how they treated my husband,\" she told The Associated Press. \"I want them to feel what it's like for a family to lose a loved one.\" \n Although both officers have been suspended and have attended preliminary hearings, city prosecutor Orlando Mariano said they remain free and neither has been indicted. If prosecutors determine the evidence is too weak, both men could be end up being absolved. \n Jose Luis Martin \"Chito\" Gascon, who directs the Manila-based rights commission, said no police have been charged criminally in court since the drug war began despite persistent reports of security forces summarily executing drug suspects. National police spokesman Dionardo Carlo, however, said police have been arrested and charged, but he could offer no details. \n Either way, the killing of Kazuo's family members \"is the highest profile case we've had so far, and it's not even in court yet,\" Gascon said. \"So what do you think's going to happen to the rest \u2014 the ones that got no attention and have already been forgotten?\" \n President Rodrigo Duterte unleashed his campaign to rid the country of narcotics immediately after taking office June 30. The effort has been praised by a population exasperated by corruption and crime, but it has been condemned by the United Nations, foreign governments and activist groups because of its staggering death toll and apparent disregard for human life. \n Kazuo acknowledges that her husband, Jaypee Bertes, was small-time methamphetamine dealer. But she insists he only pushed the drug because he could find no other work. \n Just before midnight on July 6, police raided their tiny one-room apartment in a Manila slum. The officers could not find any drugs, but they hauled 28-year-old Bertes away anyway, along with his father, 49-year-old Renato. When Kazuo visited them a police station the next morning, both men were severely bruised. Hours later \u2014 after she left \u2014 they were shot dead at the end of a narrow corridor, each three times. \n Police said the men were killed after one of them attempted to grab a firearm belonging to the officers. But commission officials, who conducted their own forensics investigation, said the detainees had been beaten so badly that they could not have done so. One of Jaypee's arms, they said, had been broken. \n It wasn't the first time a drug suspect was fatally shot in police detention. Last week, a town mayor detained for illegal drugs and gun possession was killed by officers in a purported gunbattle in his jail cell in central Leyte province. Sen. Panfilo Lacson, a former national police chief, called for an investigation and suspects the mayor, Rolando Espinosa Sr., was killed to prevent him from implicating other officials to illegal drugs. \n Gascon said the officers in Kazuo's case may have killed her husband to cover any links that could connect them to drug crimes. Kazuo said Jaypee had met the two officers she accused at least once before, when he bribed them to get out of a previous drug charge. \n The families of most victims in the drug war have stayed silent for good reason. Philippine media reported the story of one man who had doggedly pursued justice for months for his sister, who had been killed by unidentified gunmen in Manila. The man, who was not under the commission's protection, turned up dead in late October. \n The death fits a pattern that has characterized Duterte's \"war:\" those who speak out against it, or are perceived as doing so, often face consequences. They include journalists who've been attacked with hate mail and death threats by internet trolls, and foreign governments, rights groups and critics Duterte has lambasted personally. \n After Sen. Leila de Lima launched congressional probe into reports of extrajudicial killings and called Kazuo to testify in August, Duterte suggested she resign and hang herself. \n De Lima was later kicked off the probe by Duterte's legislative allies, a move Human Rights Watch slammed as \"a craven attempt to derail accountability.\" Shortly afterward, she told journalists she feared for her own life. \"Can I rely on the regular authorities in government? \u2026 Can I rely on the (police) for my security?\" she asked. \n Carlo, the police spokesman, dismissed accusations the drug war was fueling a climate a fear. But he said Kazuo had done the right thing by speaking out, because it helps authorities \"go after the policemen involved.\" \n Kazuo said she is now cut off from friends and family and does not even dare call them for fear her conversations could be tracked. On the few occasions she has met relatives, she's done so at the offices of the rights commission, which delivers groceries every week so she does not have to go out. \n \"I rarely go outside anymore,\" she said. \"I stay inside the house, sometimes I read books, love stories \u2026 I don't even want to go outside and walk.\" \n Kazuo, who has a 2-year-old daughter and a 6-year-old son, gave birth to a boy in September. During a visit for a pre-natal checkup, someone recognized her, prompting commission officials to switch hospitals. \n The commission is now protecting at least seven other witnesses in similar circumstances, several of which also have children. Its investigators are combing over 250 cases, many involving allegations that police carried out extrajudicial killings or other abuses. \n They've received little cooperation from police, though, who've refused to release records for each death recorded so far. An investigator on Kazuo's case said police had refused to release their autopsy report, so the commission conducted its own. \n \"It'll get worse before it gets better,\" Gascon said. \"While Duterte is president, I do not believe people will be charged and held to account \u2026 so what we need to do now is to prepare the evidence for the time we can have a proper reckoning.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Teresa Cerojano contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Speaking out for drug war victims, Filipina goes into hiding"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED RPESS \n Pope Francis delivers a blessing during a Jubilee audience in St. Peter's Square, at the Vatican. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis is advocating policies of inclusion, saying God's plan doesn't exclude people based on their social class, race or religion. \n Francis told a group of faithful on Saturday that Christians should welcome others \"without classifying them on the basis of social condition, language, race, culture, religion.\" \n He added \"mercy is that way of acting, that style, with which we try to include others in our life, avoiding closing up into ourselves and into our selfish securities.\" \n Francis' message comes as anti-immigrant politicians are enjoying a surge in popularity in many developed countries. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope Francis pushes for inclusion in race, class, religion"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protestor waited outside Hamilton County Courthouse on the third day of jury deliberations into Ray Tensing's murder trial on in Cincinnati. \n CINCINNATI >> Jurors failed to come up with a verdict against a white former police officer charged with murder in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black motorist and were leaning toward a lesser conviction, a prosecutor said Saturday after a mistrial was declared. \n The jury spent some 25 hours debating the outcome and indicated several times that they were deadlocked before a judge agreed. \n Prosecutors will decide within the next two weeks whether to retry former University of Cincinnati police officer Ray Tensing. He was fired after shooting 43-year-old Sam DuBose in the head after pulling him over for a missing front license plate on July 19, 2015. \n Tensing, 26, testified he feared he was going to be killed. Prosecutors said repeatedly the evidence contradicted Tensing's story. \n Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters said jurors were leaning toward a conviction of voluntary manslaughter and acquittal on the murder charge. He later told media outlets the vote was deadlocked at 8-4 in favor of the lesser charge. \n Judge Megan Shanahan said the jury of 10 whites and two blacks spent two hours deliberating Saturday morning after getting a night's sleep and still could not reach a decision. \n \"It's obvious to me you have made a sincere and conscientious effort,\" the judge said before setting a new hearing date for Nov. 28 to determine whether the case will be brought back. \n Attorney Al Gerhardstein, who represents the DuBose family, said they want another trial and can't understand why the jury couldn't reach a conclusion. \n \"With the video evidence as clear as it is, they shouldn't have been so stuck,\" he said. \n The city's mayor and police chief said they understood why the family and others were disappointed, but both also expected a peaceful response. \n \"Downtown is safe. The city is safe. We are going to get through this,\" said Mayor John Cranley. \"People are going to be angry, and they have every right to express their First Amendment rights and they will do so peacefully.\" \n The shooting is among those across the nation that have raised attention to how police deal with blacks. \n About 1,000 protesters marched peacefully through downtown chanting \"Black lives matter, Sam's life matters.\" \n The crowd briefly blocked a streetcar line and grew in numbers when they were joined by people leaving a rally opposing the election of Donald Trump as president. The group broke up Saturday afternoon without any trouble. \n Gwen Boggs, a retired high school teacher, joined the mostly young group to \"represent my community and my family and all those who need to have a voice.\" \n She said she was shocked the jury did not find Tensing guilty. \"We have all this compelling evidence. I just can't understand why it was a hung jury,\" she said. \n To convict Tensing of murder, jurors would have had to find he purposely killed DuBose. The charge carried a possible sentence of 15 years to life in prison. The voluntary manslaughter charge means killing during sudden fit of rage and carries a possible sentence of three to 11 years. \n Legal experts say juries generally tend to give police officers the benefit of the doubt because of the inherent dangers of their jobs, but that they will convict if the police actions were clearly unwarranted. \n In tearful testimony Tuesday, Tensing said his arm was stuck in DuBose's car after he tried to stop him from driving away by grabbing the car keys. \n \"I remember thinking, 'Oh my God, he's going to run me over and he's going to kill me,'\" Tensing said. \n An expert hired by prosecutors said his analysis of the former officer's body camera video shows the officer was not being dragged by the car. A defense expert countered that the video shows Tensing was justified in fearing for his life because his body was \"violently twisted\" during the confrontation. \n Deters suggested that Tensing had racial motives, saying a study found that eight of every 10 drivers Tensing pulled over for traffic stops were black, the highest rate of any University of Cincinnati officer. Tensing also made more traffic stops and citations than other UC officers. Deters also pointed to a T-shirt with Confederate flag on it that Tensing was wearing under his uniform the day of the shooting. \n Tensing said he was often unaware of a driver's race, did not single people out unfairly and was not racist. He testified that the Confederate flag on his T-shirt had no meaning to him. \n The trial was conducted under beefed-up security, and city officials had met with civil rights and faith leaders in the weeks before it began in hopes of reducing unrest. The city suffered 2001 riots sparked by the fatal shooting of 19-year-old Timothy Thomas, a black man who was wanted on misdemeanor warrants and was fleeing from police. \n Protesters on Saturday passed the area where Thomas died. \n While the Tensing case concluded, trial continued in South Carolina for white ex-patrolman Michael Slager, charged with murder for the April 2015 death of Walter Scott, a black man shot in the back as he fled for a North Charleston traffic stop. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deadlocked jurors force mistrial in Ohio police shooting"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "HAVANA >> Colombia's government and its largest rebel group signed a new, modified peace accord today following the surprise rejection of an earlier deal by voters in a referendum. \n Chief government negotiator Humberto de la Calle and rebel negotiator Luciano Marin, alias Ivan Marquez, signed the deal in Cuba, moving to end a half-century-long conflict that has claimed more than 220,000 lives. \n President Juan Manuel Santos and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia inked an initial peace deal on Sept. 26 amid international fanfare after more than four years of negotiations. But voters rejected it on Oct. 2 by just 55,000 votes, dealing a stunning setback to Santos who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end Colombia's conflict. \n Santos immediately began looking for ways to rescue the deal and the sides extended a cease-fire until Dec. 31 to get the modified deal done. The rebels insisted they wouldn't go back to the drawing board and throw out years of arduous negotiations with the government. \n \"The meetings with the FARC delegation were intense,\" said De la Calle. \"We worked 15 days and nights to reach this new agreement.\" \n \"The new deal is an opportunity to clear up doubts, but above all to unite us,\" said De La Calle, who described the new text as \"much better\" than that off the September deal. \n It was unclear if or how the modified deal would be submitted to a referendum. \n De La Calle said some of the modifications made were related to punishment and justice for participants in the conflict accused of war crimes. He said the exact details would be released later. \n \"We are convinced that this accord offers roads to peace that are viable and possible,\" he said. \n Hours earlier, conservative former President Alvaro Uribe, who led the opposition to the original deal, called for the confirmation of the accord to be held up until the victims of the conflict and the deal's opponents could review the text. \n Following a meeting with Santos in Colombia, Uribe read a statement to reporters saying he had asked that the \"texts to be announced from Havana\" not be definitive until they had been reviewed. \n Uribe and his supporters had demanded stiffer penalties for rebels who committed war crimes and criticized the promise of a political role for the FARC, a 7,000-strong peasant army that is Latin America's last remaining major insurgency \n Opponents of the initial agreement questioned, among other things, that guerrilla leaders involved in crimes against humanity would be spared jail time and allowed to enter political life. \n \"I want to congratulate the government and people of Colombia on achieving a revised peace agreement,\" said U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in a statement. \"President Santos and his negotiating team, those from the \"No\" campaign, and other important sectors of Colombian society deserve credit for engaging in a far reaching and respectful national dialogue following the plebiscite.\" \n Simultanously, the government is trying to advance peace talks with the country's second-biggest rebel group. But Santos wants the National Liberation Army, known by its Spanish initials ELN, to first free a former congressman it has held captive for six months. \n The ELN is far smaller than the FARC and was founded in the same year, 1964. Inspired by the Cuban revolution, it is ideologically more doctrinaire and recalcitrant than the FARC, which grew out of peasant self-defense forces. It has fewer than 2,000 fighters, making it less than one-third the size of the FARC. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Colombia's government, rebels sign modified peace agreement"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump elicited wild cheers on the campaign trail by pledging to \"drain the swamp\" in Washington but the president-elect's transition team is populated largely with creatures of the capital, including former federal bureaucrats, think-tank academics, corporate lawyers and special interests lobbyists. \n WASHINGTON >> During his triumphant presidential campaign, Donald Trump renounced Republican orthodoxy on a Social Security overhaul. \n \"We're not going to hurt the people who have been paying into Social Security their whole life,\" Trump declared, calling the payment of promised benefits \"honoring a deal.\" \n But the man heading the Trump transition team's Social Security effort? Michael Korbey, a former lobbyist who has spent much of his career advocating for cutting and privatizing the program. \n \"It's a failed system, broken and bankrupt,\" Korbey said as a lobbyist in the mid-1990s. Korbey acknowledged that some of the changes his group backed would hurt retirees, but \"our constituents aren't just senior citizens,\" he told a newspaper in 1996. A decade later, as a senior adviser to the Social Security Administration, Korbey was an advocate for the George W. Bush administration's failed attempt to privatize Social Security. \n Korbey is just one example of apparent discord between Trump's populist economic platform and the people who have been put in charge of planning to carry it out. While there are some true Washington outsiders on the team \u2014 such as Dan DiMicco, a former steel industry executive who is Trump's transition head for the office of U.S. Trade Representative \u2014 many of the players are familiar from the Republican economic establishment. The mix indicates a strong leaning toward rolling back much of the Obama administration's post-financial collapse changes, and a general posture toward deregulation. \n The team will not necessarily carry over into the Trump administration \u2014 though members of past transition teams often have. Instead, they are in charge of putting together hiring recommendations, working with outgoing appointees and laying the groundwork for administration's opening months. \n Bill Walton, one of the two people overseeing the economic transition effort, is the former chief executive for Allied Capital, a financial firm that was sold after nearly failing during the financial crisis. He is both a trustee for the Heritage Foundation and a senior fellow at another conservative organization, the Discovery Institute. \n David Malpass, who is overseeing both the Treasury Department staffing and part of the broader economic issues portfolio, was Bear Stearns' chief economist in the years leading up to its collapse. In August 2007, as U.S. economic growth ground to a halt and the debt markets shuddered, he wrote a Wall Street Journal op-ed titled \"Don't Panic About the Credit Market.\" \n \"Housing and debt markets are not that big a part of the U.S. economy, or of job creation,\" the piece declared, predicting continued economic growth and dismissing concerns that recent growth had been dependent on the housing bubble. \n Eight months later, Bear Stearns collapsed, unable to withstand the toxic combination of overheated home prices and shoddily assembled debt that Malpass dismissed. But Malpass landed on his feet, founding a consulting firm called Encima Partners. \n Since then, he's faulted both the Federal Reserve's monetary response to the financial crisis and regulations intended to prevent future such calamities. \n In a 2010 National Review article titled \"Chris Dodd's Big, Misguided Bill,\" Malpass argued against the value of creating the consumer financial protection bureau, writing that the Obama administration should \"streamline and concentrate\" existing consumer protection regulators, a step that he said \"would result in a reduction of government jobs.\" \n In Paul Atkins, Trump has found a leading proponent of the theory that government should get out of the financial industry's way. \n Appointed to the Securities and Exchange commission in July 2002 at the height of the era's corporate accounting scandals, he was considered the most conservative member of the SEC during his tenure. Atkins objected to stiff penalties imposed on companies for allegedly fraudulent conduct, contending that they don't effectively deter crime. And in 2005, he defended the practice of backdating stock options \u2014 a practice in which executives paid themselves for fictitious outperformance in their companies' stocks. Numerous executives went to jail for those activities \u2014 but Atkins caused a stir by saying he found nothing objectionable about it. \n In the years that led up to the financial crisis, Atkins warned of dangers posed by \"enacting regulations that supplant the market's judgment.\" Among the initiatives he successfully backed at the SEC was a loosening of leverage restrictions on investment banks, a step that allowed firms like Bear Stearns and Lehman brothers to borrow more money and invest it in mortgage-backed securities. \n Atkins resigned in August of 2008, and now runs a financial services industry consulting firm. But he has maintained his vigorously pro-market stance. \n \"We all know that overregulation can \"kill the goose that laid the golden egg,\" he said in a 2012 speech opposing the regulation of money market funds. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump advisers back deregulation, privatized Social Security"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Filmmaker Michael Moore walks in the lobby of Trump Tower, Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump is embarking on the massive undertaking of creating a new administration as a circus-like atmosphere unfolds around his building in Manhattan. \n While he's announced one decision \u2014 putting Vice President-elect Mike Pence in charge of the transition instead of Chris Christie \u2014 Trump must identify other people for top White House jobs and Cabinet posts. He was apparently trying to sort through names as he holed himself up in Trump Tower and protesters swarmed outside behind barricades protecting the building and ritzy stores along Fifth Avenue. \n At one point, documentary filmmaker Michael Moore, a liberal critic of Trump who nevertheless had predicted his victory, entered the tower lobby with a camera crew in tow and asked to see Trump. \"I just thought I'd see if I could get into Trump Tower and ride the famous escalator,\" said Moore, who did just that until he reached the fourth floor and the Secret Service told him he could go no higher. \n Moments later, Nigel Farage, the head of the \"Leave\" movement that won Britain's vote to exit the European Union, also arrived and was allowed up. \n Trump frequently links his campaign to the Brexit movement. Farage would not say if he was playing a role in Trump's transition. \n For Trump, who ran on a pledge to \"drain the swamp\" of Washington insiders, the transition team is strikingly heavy on those with long political resumes. \n Another apparent contradiction emerged Friday as Trump, who repeatedly vowed to achieve the repeal of President Barack Obama's health care law, said he would be open to maintaining portions of it. \n Christie was a loyal adviser to Trump for much of the campaign, offered a key early endorsement and came close to being the businessman's pick for running mate. But Trump ultimately went with Pence, Indiana's governor and a former congressman with Washington experience and deep ties to conservatives, to take the transition forward. \n Christie will still be involved in the transition, joining a cluster of other steadfast Trump supporters serving as vice chairmen: former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions. \n In addition, three of Trump's adult children \u2014 Don Jr., Eric and Ivanka \u2014 are on the transition executive committee, along with Jared Kushner, Ivanka's husband. Kushner was an influential adviser in Trump's campaign. \n The children's inclusion raised questions Trump's ability to sever ties between the administration and the sprawling family business \u2014 after the billionaire repeatedly said during the campaign that his grown children would not follow him to Washington and instead run the Trump Organization. \n Trump told The Wall Street Journal that after speaking with Obama at the White House, he was considering keeping the provision of the health law that allows children to stay on their parents' insurance policies until they turn 26. He said previously he may also keep the prohibition against insurers denying coverage because of patients' existing conditions. \n Presidents-elect don't often appoint their running mates to lead their transition team. Trump and Christie grew apart through the last stretch of the campaign. \n Among the first decisions facing the president-elect is whom to choose as chief of staff, a key post that will set the tone for Trump's White House and be a main conduit to Capitol Hill and Cabinet agencies. \n Trump is said to be considering Steve Bannon, his campaign chairman and a conservative media executive, and Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus for the job. Neither has significant policy experience, though Priebus is well-liked in Washington and has ties with lawmakers. \n Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, is also said to be in the mix for a senior job. Conway is a veteran Republican pollster who formed a strong rapport with the candidate after taking the helm of his campaign in the general election. \n Giuliani, who emerged as Trump's frequent travel partner and close aide, is on the short list for several positions, including attorney general. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump holes up in tower as transition takes shape"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man rides his scooter in front of the Bataclan concert hall in Paris, France, Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016. A concert by British pop legend Sting is marking the reopening of the Paris' Bataclan concert hall, one year after suicidal jihadis turned it into a bloodbath and killed 90 revelers with automatic weapons and explosive belts. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sting performs during a concert at the Java Jazz Festival in Jakarta, Indonesia. A concert by British pop legend Sting is marking the reopening of the Paris' Bataclan concert hall one year after suicidal jihadis turned it into a bloodbath and killed 90 revelers with automatic weapons and explosive belts. \n PARIS >> French security turned out in force Saturday night ahead of a concert by British pop legend Sting marking the reopening of the Bataclan concert hall one year after suicidal jihadis turned the famed Paris site into a bloodbath. \n Hundreds of yards of barricades, extensive body searches and scores of armed police greeted those lucky enough to get a ticket. The Bataclan said all 1,000 Sting tickets sold out quickly and other tickets were given to the families of the 90 revelers slain a year ago by extremists with automatic weapons and explosive belts. \n \"We will not forget them,\" the singer promised. \"Tonight we have two tasks to settle. First, to remember and honor those who lost their life in the attacks. Then, to celebrate life and music.\" \n He then strummed out a string of hits, including \"Message in a Bottle.\" \n Some survivors on Saturday stayed outside the Bataclan in quiet vigil, while others inside stood silently sipping a drink, waiting for the concert to start. The smell of fresh paint from the reconstruction hung over the crowd. \n Aurelien Perrin, 25, survived the Bataclan massacre but his friend Nicolas Berthier did not. \n \"I came alone tonight. It's very emotional, as I keep getting flashbacks of that night. I was standing just there, just the other side of the bar when it happened. Tonight is the first time I've been back here since,\" he said. \n Perrin added that he had not been to any bar or even the cinema since that fateful night. \n \"I'm here because it's important to finally finish a concert that was never allowed to end. It's for the memory of my friend and for all the 90 people who died,\" he said. \n Another survivor, Mariesha Jack Payne, waited across the road from the Bataclan in The Barometer bar, where she was rushed to after the attack. She traveled from Scotland for the commemorations in Paris this weekend. \n \"Even if I'm not inside, it's symbolic for me to be here nearby. The important day is tomorrow. I come back to this bar every time I'm in Paris now,\" she said. \n Juliette Meadel, the French minister for victims' aid and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo were among those at the concert. \n Some who were invited decided against attending the emotionally charged event. \n \"I don't want to put a foot in the Bataclan. Even if Sting is a legend. I'm staying with my family tonight,\" said Jean Marie de Peretti, father of Aurelie de Peretti who died in the concert hall massacre. \n In addition to those killed, nine people remain hospitalized from the attacks and others are paralyzed or otherwise irreparably injured. The government says more than 600 people are still receiving psychological treatment related to the attacks. \n French Prime Minister Manuel Valls, in a commentary given to a half-dozen European newspapers, warned that \"Yes, terrorism will strike us again.\" But, he contended that \"we have all the resources to resist and all the strength to win.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Heavy security as Sting reopens Bataclan after Paris attacks"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "PROVIDENCE, R.I. >> Rhode Island veterans are getting a sneak peek of a World War II documentary that will premiere in Pearl Harbor for this year's 75th anniversary of the Japanese attack. \n The Rhode Island-based World War II Foundation produced the documentary, \"Remember Pearl Harbor.\" \n Tim Gray, the nonprofit's chairman, said he wants to thank local veterans for their service before taking the documentary to Hawaii. It will be shown at 1 p.m. Sunday at the Veterans Memorial Auditorium in Providence. \n Veterans of all conflicts and current service members can go for free. General admission is $13. \n Gray is dedicating the event to Raymond Haerry, one of the last living crew members on the battleship USS Arizona during the attack. Haerry, who was interviewed for the documentary, died Sept. 27 in Rhode Island at the age of 94. \n The 84-minute documentary features interviews with veterans and survivors of the Dec. 7, 1941 attack, with narration by actor Tom Selleck. The Rhode Island event will include a question and answer session with Gray and WWII veterans. \n Gray is expecting about 20 WWII veterans to attend. Raymond Haerry Jr. is also expected to attend to share his father's stories about the Arizona. \n \"We're remembering that day which changed America forever,\" Gray said. \n Ticket sales benefit the foundation and tickets can be purchased through the auditorium. Veterans should present their military ID or something else to indicate that they served, such as a hat that says veteran. \n The documentary's official premiere is Dec. 4 in Pearl Harbor as part of the 75th anniversary ceremonies. It will also air on more than 100 PBS stations nationwide, Gray said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "RI veterans to get a sneak peek of WWII documentary"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Some Facebook users received an unsettling shock Friday, Nov. 11, 2016, when an unexplained glitch caused the social networking service to post a notice that implied they were dead. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Some Facebook users received an unsettling shock Friday, when an unexplained glitch caused the social networking service to post a notice that implied they were dead. \n A number of Facebook users reported that their profile page on the social network was topped with a message that referred to them by name \u2014 as if they were gone \u2014 while linking to a feature that \"memorializes\" the page of someone who has died. The message said Facebook hoped the users' loved ones would find comfort in seeing posts that others shared about them. \n Even Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's page had the death notice for a short time on Friday. But messages had disappeared by midday California time. \n \"This was a terrible error that we have now fixed,\" Facebook said in a statement. The company declined to say what caused the problem or how many users were affected. But the statement added, \"We are very sorry that this happened and we worked as quickly as possible to fix it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook glitch made it appear some users had died"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Danish toy company Lego said Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016 it won't advertise anymore in Britain's Daily Mail, one of several British newspapers targeted by a social media campaign for their anti-immigrant stances. \n COPENHAGEN, Denmark >> The Danish toy company Lego said Saturday it won't advertise anymore in Britain's Daily Mail, one of several British newspapers targeted by a social media campaign for their anti-immigrant stances. \n The maker of multi-colored Lego building bricks tweeted Saturday \"StopFundingHate We have finished the agreement with the Daily Mail.\" \n Roar Rude Trangbaek, a spokesman for the privately-held company, told The Associated Press that Lego has \"no plans to make additional marketing activities with the newspaper.\" \n \"We spend a lot of time listening to what children tell us. And when parents and grandparents take the time to tell us what they think, we listen,\" he said in an email. He declined to elaborate on the advertising. \n The Stop Funding Hate campaign has urged companies to drop advertising in several British newspapers due to their resistance to helping child refugees. \n In 2014, the Danish company said it would not renew its contract with oil group Shell whose logo was on Lego sets sold at gas stations in Europe. The move came after weeks of pressure following a video against oil drilling in the Arctic region. \n The western Denmark-based group has more than 18,000 employees around the world and ranks among the world's biggest toymakers. \n In March, the group said its 2015 revenue soared 25 percent to 35.8 billion kroner, and said some 100 million children played with Lego products or used Lego materials in schools. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lego won't advertise in Britain's Daily Mail anymore"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Afghanistan's National Army soldiers guard, blocking the main road to the Bagram Airfield's main gate in Bagram, north of Kabul, Afghanistan, Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016. An explosion at a U.S. airfield in Afghanistan early Saturday killed four people, the head of international forces in the country said. \n KABUL, Afghanistan >> An explosion at a U.S. airfield in Afghanistan early Saturday morning killed four people, the U.S. military said. \n U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said in a statement that two U.S. servicemen and two American contractors were killed in the explosion. Another 16 U.S. service members and one Polish soldier were wounded. \n \"For those who carried out this attack, my message is simple: We will not be deterred in our mission to protect our homeland and help Afghanistan secure its own future,\" Carter said. \n The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, which they said was carried out by a suicide bomber inside the base. Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the insurgent group, said the attack had been planned for four months. \n The Taliban regularly fire rockets at Bagram from outside its perimeter. \n Abdul Wahid Sediqqi, spokesman for the governor of Parwan province, where the air field is based, told The Associated Press that laborers employed at the base usually line up at the gates around dawn and the attacker could have been among the men entering the base Saturday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Military: Blast at Afghan air base kills 4 Americans"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Obama must use his last major trip abroad to try to calm shocked world leaders about the outcome of the U.S. election, and what comes next when Donald Trump is president. \n WASHINGTON >> It was supposed to be his grand valedictory tour. Now President Barack Obama must use his last major trip abroad to try to calm shocked world leaders about the outcome of the U.S. election, and what comes next when Donald Trump is president. \n Trump's unforeseen victory has triggered pangs of uncertainty at home and grave concerns around the world. Though Obama has urged unity and said the U.S. must root for Trump's success, his trip to Greece, Germany and Peru forces him to confront global concerns about the future of America's leadership. \n \"In some ways, there's nothing to say,\" said Heather Conley, a Europe scholar at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies. \n Conley said Obama's trip, planned when it seemed certain Hillary Clinton would win, had been designed to reassure the world that the U.S. had regained its footing after a toxic campaign that unnerved foreign capitals. \"Now the president has the unenviable task of telling his counterparts and explaining what Europeans are now coining 'the Trump effect,'\" Conley said. \n For months, Obama lent credence to those concerns as he urged Americans to reject Trump. Standing alongside Singapore's prime minister in August, Obama said Trump was \"woefully unprepared\" because he lacked \"basic knowledge\" about critical issues in Europe, Asia and the Mideast. And during a visit to Japan, Obama said he wasn't the only world leader worried about Trump. \n \"They're rattled by him, and for good reason,\" Obama said in May. \"Because a lot of the proposals that he's made display either ignorance of world affairs, or a cavalier attitude, or an interest in getting tweets and headlines instead of actually thinking through what it is that is required to keep America safe and secure and prosperous, and what's required to keep the world on an even keel.\" \n Now, Obama must pivot and reassure the U.S. and other countries that somehow, it will all be OK. \n Ben Rhodes, Obama's deputy national security adviser, said the president fully expects Trump's election to be a dominant theme of the trip, but would emphasize his plans to keep carrying out his approach until Trump takes over. He said Obama would argue that basic U.S. principles like honoring treaty commitments have historically survived even the most dramatic changes of administrations. \n \"He'll want to use these conversations with leaders to express that view that given all the important issues that we face, no matter what our preferred choice may have been in the election, right now we as Americans have a stake in seeing this next administration succeed,\" Rhodes said. \n Obama departs Monday on the six-day trip, stopping first in Athens, where he'll tour the Parthenon, meet with the prime minister, and give a speech about democracy and globalization that will take on new relevance in light of Trump's election. He'll use his visit to Berlin to show gratitude to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, his closest foreign partner, and to meet with key European leaders. \n In Peru, he'll attend a major Asian economic summit in Lima, and also meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Australian Prime Minster Malcolm Turnbull. \n For the most part, foreign leaders have politely if cautiously congratulated Trump on his victory, in public statements and phone calls. \n A few have been more effusive, including Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose perceived sympathies for Trump became an election issue and who now says he wants to fully restore U.S. relations under President Trump. \n In Europe, where Obama has sought unity with allies to counter Russia's growing influence, NATO members are alarmed by Trump's suggestions that the U.S. might pull out of the alliance if other countries don't pay more. Many of the same nations are wrestling with whether last year's historic climate change deal can be salvaged after Trump's threats to pull the U.S. out. \n Conversely, Trump's \"America first\" motto has resonated deeply with nationalists and skeptics of globalization who see Trump as a kindred spirit. After all, it was Trump who dubbed himself \"Mr. Brexit\" after the U.K.'s vote to leave the European Union. \n America's Mideast allies are unsure what Trump's victory means for the nuclear deal with Iran, a foe of U.S. partners Saudi Arabia and Israel, considering Trump's repeated but vague pledges to renegotiate that deal. And misgivings about Trump will certainly follow Obama to Latin America, where Trump has turned off many with his hard-line immigration stance and description of Mexican immigrants as criminals and rapists. \n Asian leaders who painstakingly negotiated a landmark free trade deal with the U.S. are swallowing the reality that Congress will not approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership any time soon. Obama planned to meet with TPP country leaders Peru, but the White House acknowledged the deal is all but dead because Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has ruled out a vote on it before Trump takes office. \n Trump is vehemently opposed to TPP and similar deals. That could benefit China, which is eager to fill any void in regional leadership left by a U.S. and has its own competing free trade scheme. Yet Beijing has reason to be wary, too: Trump has threatened a trade war with China and vowed to go after the Asian powerhouse for what he deems currency manipulation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "On last foreign tour, Obama must find a way to explain Trump"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A concert by British pop legend Sting is marking the reopening of the Paris' Bataclan concert hall one year after suicidal jihadis turned it into a bloodbath and killed 90 revelers with automatic weapons and explosive belts. \n PARIS >> A concert by British pop legend Sting is marking the reopening of the Paris' Bataclan concert hall one year after suicidal jihadis turned it into a bloodbath and killed 90 revelers with automatic weapons and explosive belts. \n The coordinated attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 last year that also targeted bars, restaurants and the sports stadium, leaving 130 people dead and hundreds more injured , were the worst extremist violence ever to hit France. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the bloodbath. \n The Bataclan said all 1,000 Sting tickets sold out in \"less than 30 minutes\" \u2014 for the concert hall that has a 1,500-person capacity. \n Sting, 65, is no stranger to the Paris venue. He played there decades ago in 1979 as lead singer of The Police. The singer's new album \"57th & 9th\" was released Friday. \n Sting said the proceeds from the Saturday night concert would go to two charities helping survivors. More than 1,700 people have been officially recognized as victims of the horror that unfolded at the Bataclan, Paris cafes and France's national stadium. \n The families of those who perished in the Bataclan were given tickets by organizers, contradicting earlier reports that all survivors and their families would be invited. \n Bataclan survivor and \"Life for Paris\" victims' association Alexis Lebrun said he understood the Bataclan's choice \u2014 saying there was not enough space to invite everyone. \n \"We have no problem whatsoever with the Bataclan's practical decision to invite only the families of those who died. The proceeds will go to the associations, and if we'd all been invited there'd have been less money raised,\" Lebrun told the AP. \n Some who were invited decided against attending the emotionally charged event. \n \"I don't want to put a foot in the Bataclan. Even if Sting is a legend. I'm staying with my family tonight,\" said Jean Marie de Peretti, father of Aurelie de Peretti who died in the concert hall massacre. \n The concert hall \u2014 which has been refurbished to its original state \u2014 will remain closed on Sunday's actual anniversary of the attacks, when President Francois Hollande and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo will unveil plaques in memory of victims at the half-dozen sites where revelers died. \n In addition to those killed, nine people remain hospitalized from the attacks and others are paralyzed or otherwise irreparably injured. The government says more than 600 people are still receiving psychological treatment related to the attacks. \n French Prime Minister Manuel Valls, in a commentary given to a half-dozen European newspapers, warned that \"Yes, terrorism will strike us again.\" But, he contended that \"we have all the resources to resist and all the strength to win.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sting to reopen Bataclan hall 1 year after Paris attacks"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police in downtown Portland, Ore., attempt to disperse people protesting the election of President-elect, Donald Trump, Friday, Nov. 11, 2016. In Portland, police used tear gas and flash-bang grenades Friday to try to disperse the crowd after hundreds of people marched through the city, disrupting traffic and spray-painting graffiti. Authorities said \"burning projectiles\" were thrown at police and vandalism and assault had taken place during the rally, which organizers had billed as peaceful earlier in the day. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> As protests of President-elect Donald Trump entered another day, police in Portland, Oregon, say one person was shot by a man who had gotten into a confrontation with a protester. \n Portland police said the person who was shot was taken to a hospital for treatment of injuries that were not life-threatening. Police said they were looking for the shooter, who apparently fled in his vehicle after the attack early Saturday morning on a Willamette River bridge. \n The shooting followed rowdy Friday night protests, when police used tear gas in response to \"burning projectiles\" thrown at officers, police said on Twitter. Hundreds of people marched through the city, disrupting traffic and spray-painting graffiti. \n Authorities reported instances of vandalism and assault during a rally that organizers had billed as peaceful earlier in the day. \n In other parts of the country, spirited demonstrations on college campuses and peaceful marches along downtown streets have taken place since Wednesday. \n Hundreds joined a Friday afternoon \"love rally\" in Washington Square Park in Manhattan. \n Leslie Holmes, 65, a website developer from Wilton, Connecticut, took an hour-long train ride to the demonstration \u2014 her first protest since the 1970s, when she hit the streets of San Francisco to oppose the Vietnam War. \n She described herself as an armchair liberal but declared, \"I'm not going to be armchair anymore.\" \n \"I don't want to live in a country where my friends aren't included, and my friends are fearful, and my children are going to grow up in a world that's frightening, and my granddaughters can look forward to being excluded from jobs and politics and fulfilling their potential, so I'm here for them,\" she said. \n Evening marches disrupted traffic in Miami and Atlanta. \n Trump supporter Nicolas Quirico was traveling from South Beach to Miami. His car was among hundreds stopped when protesters blocked Interstate 395. \n \"Trump will be our president. There is no way around that, and the sooner people grasp that, the better off we will be,\" he said. \"There is a difference between a peaceful protest and standing in a major highway backing up traffic for 5 miles. This is wrong.\" \n More than a thousand protesters took to the streets across California after night fell including downtown Los Angeles, where over 200 were arrested a night earlier. In Bakersfield, where Trump is far more popular than in most of the state, some held signs reading \"Anti-Trump, Pro-USA.\" \n Small protests also were held in Detroit; Minneapolis; Kansas City, Missouri; Olympia, Washington and Iowa City. \n More than 200 people, carrying signs gathered on the steps of the Washington state Capitol. The group chanted \"not my president\" and \"no Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA.\" \n In Tennessee, Vanderbilt University students sang civil rights songs and marched through campus across a Nashville street, temporarily blocking traffic. A protest also occurred in Minneapolis. \n In Chicago, multiple groups planned protests through Saturday. \n Nadia Gavino, 25, learned about the rallies on Twitter and protested Thursday evening. Gavino, whose father is from Peru and whose mother is of Mexican and Lithuanian heritage, said she took Trump's harshest statements about immigrants and Latinos personally. \n \"I obviously agree that he's racist, he's sexist, he's phobic, he's misogynistic. He's all these things you don't want in a leader,\" she said. \n Ashley Lynne Nagel, 27, said she joined a Thursday night demonstration in Denver. \n \"I have a leader I fear for the first time in my life,\" said Nagel, a Bernie Sanders supporter who voted for Hillary Clinton. \n \"It's not that we're sore losers,\" she said. \"It's that we are genuinely upset, angry, terrified that a platform based off of racism, xenophobia and homophobia has become so powerful and now has complete control of our representation.\" \n Demonstrations also took place internationally. About 300 people protested Trump's election as the next American president outside the U.S. Embassy near the landmark Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. \n President Barack Obama meets in Berlin next week with Chancellor Angela Merkel and several other European leaders, and is expected to confront global concerns about Trump's election. \n Demonstrations also were planned Saturday in Las Vegas, Los Angeles and other areas. \n Previous demonstrations drew thousands of people in New York and other large urban centers. The largely peaceful demonstrations were overshadowed by sporadic episodes of vandalism, violence and street-blocking. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "1 shot in Oregon amid nationwide anti-Trump protests"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "TUCSON, Ariz. >> Construction of a privately funded memorial honoring the U.S. service members who died aboard the USS Arizona during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor is underway on the University of Arizona campus in Tucson. \n KGUN-TV reports that officials say the project should be completed in time for a Dec. 4 ceremony, three days before the anniversary of the Dec. 7, 1941 Pearl Harbor attack in which more than 2,400 sailors, Marines and soldiers were killed. \n The memorial honors the 1,177 service members who died on the battleship. The memorial will include bronze medallions inscribed with their names and an outline of the warship's deck. \n The memorial will complement artifacts located at the Student Union, including a bell from the ship. \n There's already a USS Arizona memorial in Pearl Harbor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Construction of USS Arizona memorial on UA campus underway"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The HealthCare.gov 2017 web site home page is seen on a laptop in Washington. President-elect Donald Trump has said he may keep some parts of his predecessor's signature health care overhaul. No final decisions have been made. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump has said he may keep some parts of his predecessor's signature health care overhaul. No final decisions have been made. Based on interviews with congressional Republicans, here's a general idea of what goes, what may stay, and what's in doubt: \n WHAT GOES \n -Mandates on individuals to get coverage or risk fines from the IRS. \n -Mandates on employers to cover workers. \n -All or most of the Affordable Care Act's tax increases on upper-income individuals and the health care industry. \n -Limits on what insurers can charge older customers. Leading Republicans want to loosen them. \n WHAT STAYS \n \u2013 Letting young adults stay on parental health plans until they turn 26. \n \u2013 A ban on lifetime dollar limits for insurance coverage. \n \u2013 Some kind of system to protect people with health problems from being denied coverage. The new approach may include a requirement that people maintain \"continuous\" coverage, which has yet to be legally defined. The government would also fund \"high risk\" insurance pools for patients who fall through the cracks. \n \u2013 Tax credits or tax deductions to help people pay their premiums. The form and level of that assistance is unclear. \n WHAT'S IN DOUBT \n -The Medicaid expansion in President Barack Obama's law, which has provided coverage to an estimated 9 million low-income people. A number of Republican governors have accepted it, and more may want to do so now that the law will no longer be so closely associated with Obama. Most prominent among the GOP governors expanding Medicaid: Mike Pence. Medicaid expansion is a key piece of the puzzle. \n \u2013 Current rules that require women employees of religious-affiliated institutions such as colleges, hospitals and charities, to be offered coverage for contraceptives as a free preventive health benefit. The Trump administration could move to rescind those rules on its own with congressional approval. \n \u2013 The future of online insurance markets like HealthCare.gov, which serve people who don't have access to job-based coverage. \n -Some kind of new limit on the tax-free status of employer-provided health insurance, applying to the most generous plans. It would replace the health care law's widely opposed \"Cadillac Tax.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "What Trump might really do with health care"}

{"date": "November 12, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 10, 2016, photo, President-elect Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis., pose for photographers after a meeting in the Speaker's office on Capitol Hill in Washington. Washington's new power trio consists of a bombastic billionaire, a telegenic policy wonk, and a taciturn political tactician. How well they can get along will help determine what gets done over the next four years, and whether the new president's agenda founders or succeeds. \n WASHINGTON >> Washington's new power trio consists of a bombastic billionaire, a telegenic policy wonk, and a taciturn political tactician. How well they can get along will help determine what gets done over the next four years, and whether the new president's agenda flounders or succeeds. \n President-elect Donald Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell make up an unlikely alliance, one defined in advance mostly by Trump's opposition to the Washington establishment that Ryan and McConnell exemplify. \n Trump and Ryan clashed throughout the campaign, with Trump taking offense when Ryan initially refused to endorse him and later distanced himself over the audio of Trump talking about groping women. \n \"Paul Ryan, a man who doesn't know how to win (including failed run four years ago), must start focusing on the budget, military, vets etc.,\" Trump groused over Twitter last month. \n But that was then, this is now, as Ryan, the GOP's 2012 vice presidential nominee, said Thursday after meeting with Trump at the Capitol. \n \"The past is in the past,\" Ryan said in an interview on Fox News Channel. \"This was an unconventional year, he was an unconventional candidate, but the point is we unified, especially at the right point, at the end. And it worked.\" \n Indeed, thanks partly to Trump's coattails, Ryan and McConnell limited expected losses to their majorities and will enter the new administration with control of both chambers of Congress and the White House. For now the glow of victory appears to be soothing past tensions. And Republicans aligned with all three note they have something very important in common: They need each other. \n \"Ryan needs Trump to accomplish his policy agenda,\" said GOP Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, in comments that apply to McConnell as well. \"Trump needs Ryan to get things to his desk.\" \n There are well-known policy disagreements to navigate on issues like trade, immigration, Medicare and Social Security, where Trump's proposals and campaign rhetoric often flew in the face of Ryan and McConnell's standard business-friendly Republican approach. \n But Trump's own unfamiliarity with the tedious business of legislating, and unformed policy positions in some cases, may give Ryan and McConnell a unique opportunity to fill in the details. That would be a welcome role for both \u2013 McConnell as a deeply experienced legislator and dealmaker, and Ryan as an eager wonk who chaired the Ways and Means Committee before becoming House speaker. Ryan is steeped in details on reforming taxes and reshaping entitlement spending \u2014 although Trump has been critical of Ryan's past budget proposals. \n \"I don't think there's any question that a President Trump will be looking for legislative expertise,\" said Josh Holmes, McConnell's former chief of staff. \"Some of that comes from the staff that he hires, and some of that will come from allies on Capitol Hill.\" \n Moreover, Ryan's personal political future, including potential presidential ambitions of his own, may depend in part on how effectively he manages the relationship with Trump. \n The speaker's tepid embrace of Trump during the campaign angered some conservatives in his conference, stirring talk that he could face a challenge to his speakership. \n But Ryan's enthusiastic response to Trump's victory appears to have diminished any appetite for a leadership coup. The wide majority he will continue to enjoy next year \u2014 with at least 240 Republicans in the 435-member House, compared to 247 now \u2014 also reduces the potential for mischief by a small band of disgruntled conservatives. \n \"Victory soothes lots of differences,\" said GOP Rep. Chris Collins of New York, a top Trump backer. \"The mood of us right now is we can't waste any time with recriminations and finger-pointing. My God, we won!\" \n Unlike Ryan, McConnell was quick to endorse Trump as soon as he clinched the GOP nomination. McConnell never wavered on that, nor provoked Trump's ire over Twitter. At 74, McConnell has reached the long-sought pinnacle of his career as Senate majority leader, and unlike Ryan, 46, has no potential higher ambitions to manage. \n Just as important, McConnell is known for professional relationships that are all business and have nothing to do with personality. So even though the closed-mouth Kentuckian would seem to have nothing in common with a freewheeling, thrice-married Manhattanite like Trump, allies say that doesn't matter to McConnell. \n That said, both men could face opposition from members of Trump's inner circle, particularly Stephen Bannon. Bannon was chief executive of the conservative news site Breitbart before assuming a role in Trump's campaign and is under consideration for a senior spot in Trump's White House. \n Just before Ryan's primary race in July, with Bannon still at the helm of Breitbart, the site called the speaker a hypocrite for building a \"border wall\" around his Janesville, Wisconsin, mansion when he refused to support Trump's southern border wall proposal. Breitbart continued attacking Ryan this fall, publishing a lengthy post titled, \"He's with her: Inside Paul Ryan's months-long campaign to elect Hillary Clinton president.\" \n Breitbart has also slammed McConnell, criticizing him over occasions where he bestowed lukewarm praise on Clinton and criticized Trump's undisciplined campaigning. \n What position Trump gives Bannon versus Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, a Trump confidante and close Ryan ally, may be a signal as to how the incoming president plans to collaborate, or not, with the congressional leadership. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Julie Bykowicz and Alan Fram contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump, McConnell and Ryan: an unlikely new power trio for DC"}

