{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "NORTH CANTON, OH >> Police have charged the parents of a missing 5-year-old Ohio girl after the child's body was found in the family's restaurant. \n Jackson Township Police say the body of Ashley Zhao was found hidden at Ang's Asian Cuisine in North Canton on Tuesday. \n Zhao's mother, Mingming Chen, has been charged with murder. Liang Zhao, the girl's father, was charged with complicity to murder and complicity to commit felonious assault. \n The couple initially reported that Zhao went missing after taking a nap at the back of the restaurant on Monday evening. \n But police say Chen struck the child several times with her fist on Monday morning and the injuries she sustained resulted in her death. \n Court records don't list attorney information for Chen and Zhao. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Missing Ohio girl found dead in restaurant, parents charged"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY GOOGLE MAPS \n A bicyclist was struck at the intersection of Waianae Valley Road and Niihau Street. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified today a 59-year-old man who died after being struck by a van while riding his bicycle as Stanley Simon of Waianae. \n The cause of his death was pending. \n Simon died Monday night after he was struck at the intersection of Waianae Valley Road and Niihau Street at about 10:50 p.m. \n Police said Simon ran a stop sign on Niihau Street and entered Waianae Valley Road directly into the path of a Honda van driven by a 53-year-old Waianae man. \n Simon was struck and thrown from his bike. He died at the scene. \n It was this year's first traffic-related fatality on Oahu, compared to two at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist killed in crash with van identified"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigated Monday outside a house fire at 2934 Kalihi St. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigated Monday after a fire at a house down a walkway in the 2900 block of Kalihi St. \n A 58-year-old man was charged this afternoon with intentionally setting a fire at a Kalihi Valley residence where a man's body was found. \n Daniel Manuel has been charged with first-degree arson and second-degree murder. His bail was set at $1 million. \n Police arrested Manuel after a two-alarm fire broke out at the multi-unit, multi-story dwelling at 2934 Kalihi St. early Monday. Firefighters found the body of a man inside the living room after crews brought the fire under control. \n The victim's name has yet to be released by the Medical Examiner's Office. \n Homicide Lt. Phillip Lavarias said Manuel attacked one of the responding firefighters. Firefighters and a witness detained him until police arrived. Lavarias said the witness told law enforcement he saw Manuel pour a flammable liquid in one of the bedrooms. \n Damage to the structure and its contents was estimated at $240,000. \n Fire investigators returned to the residence Tuesday to continue their investigation. \n Meanwhile, sometime this week an inspector from the Department of Planning and Permitting is expected to visit the property, where owners face a $19,000 fine for violations that had not been corrected as of November for exceeding the number of renters allowed to reside on the property.  \n In March 2016, the city issued a notice of violation requiring the owners to reduce the number of renters. At the time, the multi-family dwelling was occupied by a family and 11 renters, according to the violation notice. Occupancy at the dwelling is limited to a family and only three renters; or five individuals unrelated to the family. \n The city also cited the owners for illegally having tenants in a separate structure on the property. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspect in Kalihi fire charged with arson, murder"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY GOOGLE MAPS \n The latest shooting occurred at Kehalani Makai Parkway and Kamole Street on Dec. 30. \n Maui County officials are asking for the public's help in finding the person or persons involved in shooting at Maui County bus windows. \n County officials believe a BB or pellet gun was used four times in December while the bus was traveling on the Wailuku Loop route, a county news release issued today said. \n Bus personnel discovered the projectile holes and cracked windows after the buses had returned to the Roberts Tour and Transportation headquarters. \n Damages were found on the driver's side of all four buses. \n A police report was filed for each shooting. \n The latest shooting occurred at 5:50 p.m. Dec. 30 when a Maui Bus was making a right turn onto Kehalani Makai Parkway from Kamole Street. A bus passenger heard the impact from the shot and saw the cracked window, and immediately informed the driver. \n \"We are very fortunate that our passengers were not injured by the shots fired, not to mention the cost to the taxpayer to replace these windows,\" Maui County Transportation Director Don Medeiros said in a written statement. \"I don't know if someone thinks this is a game or if they are actually trying to do someone bodily harm, but this needs to stop immediately.\" \n Anyone with information is asked to call police at 244-6400. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Suspect sought in Maui bus window pellet gun shootings"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz delivers an address at the IUCN World Conservation Congress opening ceremony at the Neal S. Blaisdell Center arena on Sept. 1. \n The Democratic leadership in the U.S. Senate has named Sen. Brian Schatz as one of the chief deputy whips, a leadership job Schatz said will give him a greater role in shaping policy and communications for the minority Democrats. \n U.S. Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) was also named chief deputy whip, and the two will join U.S. Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), who already holds that post. \n \"I'm deeply honored to serve in this new leadership role,\" Schatz, a Hawaii Democrat, said in a news release. \"We have a lot of work to do in the Senate, and this new post puts me in a better position to help shape and defend our priorities. I look forward to working with Senators Booker and Merkley and our diverse leadership team on building a stronger future for Hawaii and our country.\" \n Schatz and Booker are two of the youngest members of the Senate, and Minority Whip Dick Durbin said in a written statement that both lawmakers have \"proven their mettle as leading policy minds in our country, and have earned a place helping to shape policy and communications in our caucus. Our team is stronger for their experience and vision.\" \n Schatz faced only nominal opposition in the 2016 election, and winning more than 70 percent of the vote. After the election he was appointed to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, which oversees federal housing and transit agencies. \n Schatz already served on the Senate committees on Appropriations; Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Indian Affairs; and Ethics. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Schatz named to Democratic leadership post in Senate"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n Voggy conditions are forecast through Saturday. \n Southeasterly winds will keep vog lingering around the state, and southerly winds will make for less chilly nights for the rest of the week, the National Weather Service said. \n A light southeast flow has been pushing volcanic emissions from Kilauea across the islands, creating the volcanic haze, the Weather Service said. The breeze will continue through Saturday. \n \"It's hazy out,\" said Ian Morrison, a forecaster with the Weather Service in Honolulu. \"It's going to be hazy or voggy through the week.\" \n The state Department of Health's air quality website showed moderate conditions today at Sand Island, Paia on Maui, and several places on Hawaii island. Conditions were good in Puna, Kihei, West Oahu, and Kauai. \n Southerly winds over Kauai and Oahu will also bring in moisture that keeps overnight temperatures from dropping as much as they have over the past several nights, the Weather Service said. \n Morrison said overnight temperatures over Oahu have been in the low 60s, but will be in the mid- to upper-60s starting from tonight. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Voggy weather, warmer nights forecast for the week"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "\"Star Wars\" creator George Lucas and his team announced Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2017, they have chosen Los Angeles over San Francisco as the home of the museum that will showcase his work. \n LOS ANGELES >> The force, it seems, was with Los Angeles. And San Francisco was left on the dark side. \n \"Star Wars\" creator George Lucas and his team were on the side of the City of Angels over the City by the Bay on Tuesday, choosing LA as the home of a museum that will showcase his life's work along with a huge collection of more general film history and other art. \n After what organizers called \"extensive due diligence and deliberation,\" they announced that the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art will be built in LA's Exposition Park, where it will sit alongside other more traditional museums the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County and the California Science Center, which houses the space shuttle Endeavour. \n Lucas has been trying to build the museum for nearly a decade and is financing the project by himself with plans to spend over $1 billion. \n It had several possible locations but eventually came down to yet another heated rivalry between the two always-competing cities, with San Francisco offering Treasure Island with its scenic views in the middle of the bay as a home that the museum would have had virtually to itself. \n \"We have been humbled by the overwhelmingly positive support we received from both San Francisco and Los Angeles during our selection process,\" the museum organizers said in a statement. \n It will house an extensive personal collection that includes 40,000 paintings, illustrations and film-related items including storyboards and costumes from \"The Wizard of Oz,\" \"Casablanca\" and of course \"Star Wars.\" \n LA Mayor Eric Garcetti emphasized at a news conference after the decision that this is not just \"a Star Wars museum.\" \n \"This is a collection of narrative art in a city that has the best storytellers and story makers in the world,\" Garcetti said. \n LA seemed an obvious choice for Lucas, not just because of its film industry legacy. He is an alumnus and major donor to the film school at the University of Southern California, which is right across the street from the museum site. \n Garcetti was especially happy that, as Lucas had also expressed to him, museum-hoppers at Exposition Park could see the space shuttle or dinosaur bones at neighboring institutions to seeing how they are fictionalized. \n \"You can go from imagining space, to actually seeing how it got done,\" the mayor said. \"You can see how we are inspired by the natural world, and see how we put it on the screen.\" \n But San Francisco would have been a natural choice too. Lucas has lived in the Bay Area for most of his life, and it was home to Lucasfilm until Disney Co. bought it in 2012. \n \"I am disappointed, of course, but must respect the decision,\" San Francisco Mayor Edwin M. Lee said in a statement. \"I am pleased that the museum will be built in California for our state's residents to someday enjoy.\" \n In addition to its two major museums, Exposition Park is home to the LA Memorial Coliseum, where the USC Trojans and Los Angeles Rams play football, and an under-construction stadium for a new Major League Soccer team, LAFC. A light rail line that opened just last year connects the park with downtown Los Angeles and the beaches to the West. \n The project also comes amid a museum boom in Los Angeles that includes The Broad, a buzzing new contemporary art museum downtown. \n And it makes Southern California the definitive home base of the Star Wars galaxy, with Disney having bought the rights to the franchise and now building a Star Wars-themed land within its Magic Kingdom in Anaheim. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Los Angeles beats San Francisco for George Lucas museum site"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Mary Jane Delgado Ponce \n A 53-year-old Waialua woman was sentenced today to five years in prison for committing welfare fraud again. \n First Circuit Judge Shirley Kawamura sentenced Mary Jane Delgado Ponce, also known as Mary Jane Dalumpinis, to the maximum sentence for second-degree theft. \n An Oahu jury found Ponce guilty in October of obtaining thousands of dollars in food stamps benefits from the state by deception. \n As a repeat offender, Ponce must serve a minimum of 20 months before being eligible for parole. \n From April 2010 to April 2014, Ponce was overpaid $3,723 in food stamps benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program because she did not disclose to state officials that she was married. \n State Attorney General Doug Chin said Ponce was convicted of welfare fraud in 2009 and began defrauding the state again one year later. \n \"People should not steal public funds and abuse this important social safety net,\" Chin said in a statement. \n SNAP is administered by the state and provides food and nutritional support to qualifying low-income households. In fiscal year 2014, SNAP helped an estimated 193,600 state residents or 98,400 families. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waialua woman sentenced again for welfare fraud"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alfred Olongo, right, is seen pointing what was later determined to be a bulky electronic cigarette device at El Cajon, Calif., police officer Richard Gonsalves during a confrontation at an El Cajon strip mall. \n SAN DIEGO >> A suburban San Diego police officer won't face criminal charges for fatally shooting a disturbed black man, a prosecutor announced Tuesday, saying the officer had reason to believe he was in danger when the man suddenly raised both hands and pointed what appeared to be a weapon but actually was an e-cigarette device. \n The shooting of 38-year-old Alfred Olango last fall in El Cajon was a reasonable use of force, San Diego County District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis announced. \n \"The law recognizes police officers are often forced to make split-second decisions in circumstances that are tense, uncertain and rapidly evolving,\" Dumanis said. \n Her office determined \"the only reasonable conclusion was the officer's actions were justified,\" she said. \n Olango's shooting in September prompted days of protests and his relatives filed wrongful-death claims with the city, which usually precede lawsuits. They said Olango, a native of Uganda, had a breakdown after the death of a close friend. \n Olango's father and others had said they doubted that the district attorney's office could conduct an impartial investigation and they called for an independent probe. \n The Rev. Shane Harris of the civil rights group National Action Network, who has been in regular contact with the family, said he was disappointed but not surprised by the decision. \n Harris called the decision \"a slap in the face.\" \n Dumanis acknowledged that the shooting had drawn international attention and protests. \n \"We are living in a time where the actions of police officers are under scrutiny more than ever, especially when it comes to police shootings,\" Dumanis said. \n Olango was shot on Sept. 27 in the parking lot of a taco shop after police received 911 calls from his sister and others saying he was acting erratically and walking in traffic. \n Dumanis said Olango repeatedly refused demands by an officer and pleas by his sister to take his hand out of his pocket. \n When he finally did, cellphone and surveillance camera video released by authorities showed him in a shooting stance, with both hands around a metallic, cylindrical object that turned out to be a bulky e-cigarette vaping device. \n Olango extended both arms \"simulating the firing of a weapon directly at the officer,\" who ducked and fired four shots, Dumanis said. \n The officer who was investigated and another officer armed with a Taser both fired within a minute of confronting Olango. \n Olango's sister had described her brother as unbalanced in multiple 911 calls and asked that he be taken to a mental health facility. \n An attorney who announced the family's wrongful-death claim filings in November said they want to send a message that police across the nation must do better when dealing with people in mental crisis. \n The El Cajon Police Department has specially trained officers to help defuse sometimes-volatile situations that involve people in the throes of mental illness. However, officials said none were available to go to the call involving Olango. \n Dumanis also announced at the news conference that four other deadly law enforcement shootings in the county last year were justified. \n They involved a man who fired hunting arrows at sheriff's deputies; a man who fired a gun at a deputy then stole a patrol car and carjacked a driver before being shot; a gang member who was killed because deputies thought he was reaching for a gun in his waistband and was armed with a knife, and a man who held a gun to his ex-wife's head after shooting three of her relatives, including her father, killing two. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Officer won't be charged in killing of unstable black man"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRES \n Syed Raheel Farook, brother of San Bernardino mass shooter Syed Rizwan Farook, removes household items from his brother's townhouse in Redlands, Calif. \n LOS ANGELES >> The brother of one of the shooters in the San Bernardino terror attack pleaded guilty Tuesday in an immigration fraud case stemming from the probe into the killings. \n Syed Raheel Farook entered the plea in federal court in Riverside to one count of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud, the U.S. attorney's office said. \n The 31-year-old is the brother of Syed Rizwan Farook, who was killed along with his wife in a shootout with police after the Dec. 2, 2015 attack in which 14 people were slain and 22 injured. \n Syed Raheel Farook, his wife and Russian sister-in-law were accused last year of conspiring to arrange a fraudulent marriage between the sister-in-law and Enrique Marquez Jr., who is charged with plotting with Syed Rizwan Farook to carry out earlier attacks and with supplying guns used in the 2015 killings. \n U.S. Attorney Eileen M. Decker said her office continues to seek justice for the victims of the San Bernardino killings. \n \"As I have said many times, we are committed to leaving no stone unturned in this investigation,\" she said in a statement. \n Syed Raheel Farook is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 13. He faces up to five years in federal prison, three years of supervised release and a $250,000 fine, the statement said. \n A message was left for defense attorney Ron Cordova seeking comment. \n Federal authorities said the marriage was a sham that sought to help Syed Raheel Farook's sister-in-law Mariya Chernykh obtain legal status in the U.S. after overstaying a visitor visa. \n In court papers, authorities said Marquez confessed to the scheme when authorities questioned him about the shootings and he acknowledged getting $200 a month for the marriage. \n Farook's wife Tatiana and Chernykh are scheduled for trial on March 28, the statement said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brother of San Bernardino shooter guilty in immigration case"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Zacharay Khabir Anam, a Texas man who managed to pull a handgun from his waistband and shoot himself in the head while handcuffed in the back of a police patrol car died of his wound. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> A Central Texas man who pulled a handgun from his waistband while handcuffed in the back of a patrol car talked about suicide before fatally shooting himself, authorities said Tuesday. \n As 19-year-old Zachary Khabir Anam was being driven to jail following his arrest Sunday on suspicion of shoplifting and possessing a controlled substance, he began having conversations with Officer Iven Wall about suicide and his concerns he was suicidal, Austin interim police Chief Brian Manley said at a news conference. \n \"Officer Wall again let him know there would be services and counselors available to him at the jail. At which point he made a comment somewhat to the effect he wasn't sure he could wait that long,\" Manley said. \n Anam managed to pull his arms around his right side, grabbed a handgun hidden in a rear waistband and pointed the weapon at his own head with threats to shoot himself, Manley said. \n Wall stopped the car and after a brief standoff in which the officer ordered Anam to drop the weapon, he shot himself. \n The confrontation was recorded on the dashboard camera of a police patrol car that had followed Wall and was driven by Officer John Ricker. \n Manley declined to comment on whether Anam had been properly searched as Wall has not yet been interviewed by investigators. \n \"There are still questions we are still working through as we conduct this investigation,\" Manley said. \n Wall and Ricker have both been placed on administrative leave. \n The police department has very strict policies that require officers to search individuals taken into custody even if they have been searched and handcuffed by private security officers, Manley said. Anam had initially been detained by security officers with a Macy's store. \n The gun that Anam shot himself with was a Glock .380 semi-automatic pistol that had been reported stolen in a burglary of a vehicle that occurred in Austin in 2016, he said. \n Manley said the police department has offered its condolences to Anam's family. \n Anam had a prior criminal record, including a 2016 drug possession charge. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chief: Handcuffed man talked suicide before shooting himself"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey testified on Capitol Hill before the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on Russian Intelligence Activities. \n WASHINGTON >> Top intelligence officials last week told President-elect Donald Trump about an unsubstantiated report that Russia had compromising personal and financial information about him, a U.S. official says. \n The briefing about the document was first reported by CNN. A summary of the allegations was separate from a classified assessment of Russia's suspected attempts to meddle in the U.S. presidential election. Trump and President Barack Obama were briefed on the intelligence community's findings last week. \n Shortly after news reports were published about the briefing, Trump tweeted: \"FAKE NEWS \u2013 A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT!\" \n And in Moscow, a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin denied the report. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov today dismissed it as a \"complete fabrication and utter nonsense.\" He insisted that the Kremlin \"does not engage in collecting compromising material.\" \n A U.S. official told The Associated Press on Tuesday that intelligence officials had informed Trump about an unsubstantiated report that Russia had compromising personal and financial information about him. Trump was holding a previously scheduled news conference today to discuss his future plans regarding his role with the Trump Organization. The official who discussed the briefing by intelligence figures spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not allowed to publicly discuss the matter. \n The unsubstantiated dossier on Trump was compiled by a former Western intelligence operative as part of an opposition research project originally financed by a Republican client who opposed Trump, and later funded by Democrats, according to Mother Jones, which published an article about the report in October and said the operative had turned over the report to the FBI. The New York Times reported the operative had previously worked for British intelligence. The Associated Press has not been able to substantiate the information in the dossier, which misspelled the name of Russia's largest bank. \n The dossier contains unproven information about close coordination between Trump's inner circle and Russians about hacking into Democratic accounts as well as unproven claims about unusual sexual activities by Trump among other suggestions attributed to anonymous sources. The Associated Press has not authenticated any of the claims. \n It's unclear why the intelligence officials decided to brief the president and Trump on the uncorroborated information at this time, but lawmakers and others have repeatedly noted that Russia collects intelligence on both Democrats and Republicans. \n \"The Russians also hacked systems associated with the Republicans. They just chose not to release that material yet,\" Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the ranking Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, said Tuesday. \"There's nothing that prevents them from doing so at a time of their choosing in the future.\" \n Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said in an interview Tuesday on NBC's \"Late Night with Seth Meyers\" that \"nobody has sourced it. They're all unnamed, unspoken sources in the story.\" She said it may have originated with a Russian investigator or groups that wanted Hillary Clinton to win the White House. \n The report had been circulating in Washington for months. In October, former Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid wrote the FBI asking the bureau to publicly disclose what it knew about the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. Reid was aware of the dossier before he wrote the letter, according to a person knowledgeable about the subject who spoke on condition of anonymity because this person was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter. \n FBI Director James Comey refused earlier Tuesday to say whether the FBI was investigating any possible ties between Russia and Trump's presidential campaign, citing policy not to comment on what the FBI might or might not be doing. \n Comey was pressed by Democrats on the committee about whether the FBI was conducting an investigation. There was no mention during the hearing about the summary of the dossier, which was attached to the classified hacking assessment. \n \"I would never comment on investigations \u2014 whether we have one or not \u2014 in an open forum like this so I can't answer one way or another,\" Comey told the panel during his first public appearance before Congress since the election. In late October, Comey angered Democrats when he announced 11 days before the election that the FBI was looking at more emails as part of its investigation of Hillary Clinton. \n Oregon Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden said the American people had a right to know about whether there is an FBI investigation into the Trump campaign's ties with Russia. \n An active FBI investigation of the next president for ties between his campaign and a nation accused of meddling in the presidential election could further stoke mistrust in the legitimacy of the democratic process. It could also put Trump's own FBI in the awkward position of examining the conduct of those closest to the commander in chief. \n The FBI was among three U.S. intelligence agencies that collaborated on last week's report on Russia's election activity. It tied Russian President Vladimir Putin to the hacking of email accounts of the Democratic National Committee and individual Democrats like Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. It said there was no evidence the Russians tampered with vote tallies; the agencies said they couldn't assess if Russia succeeded in influencing Americans to vote for Trump. \n Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who opposed Trump in the GOP primary, said Russia's activity wasn't guided by its support for Trump, but rather \"to influence and to potentially manipulate American public opinion for the purpose of discrediting individual political figures, sowing chaos and division in our politics, sowing doubts about the legitimacy of our elections.\" \n Democrats at the committee hearing focused their toughest questions on Comey, who was widely criticized for breaking FBI policy in his decision to notify Congress about additional information that came up related to Clinton. He is in the fourth year of a 10-year term, meaning he is expected to stay on in the Trump administration. \n Associated Press writer Kathleen Hennessey contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Trump briefed on potentially compromising report"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "A leader of a ring that conspired to smuggle methamphetamine from San Diego to Hawaii has been sentenced in federal court to 28 years in prison, the U.S. Attorney's office in Honolulu said today. \n Jesse Wade Pelkey, 38, of Imperial Beach, Calif., was sentenced Thursday by Senior District Judge Helen Gillmor. In September, Pelkey pled guilty to conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine, according to a news release from Florence T. Nakakuni, U.S. Attorney for the District of Hawaii. \n Nakakuni said in a statement that evidence presented in court showed that Pelkey was an organizer and leader of a methamphetamine conspiracy that operated in San Diego and Hawaii and involved five or more members. Six people in all were convicted. \n Pelkey was found responsible for the distribution of 424.9 grams of pure methamphetamine and 4,989 grams of generic methamphetamine, according to the U.S. Attorney's office. \n The investigation was conducted by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii-California meth ring leader gets 28 years"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michelle Martens claimed that her daughter was drugged to relax her, but toxicology tests did not turn up any drugs, only alcohol. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. >> A New Mexico girl was strangled to death on her 10th birthday before she was dismembered and her remains set on fire, according to an autopsy released months after police uncovered the sexual abuse they say she suffered at the hands of her mother and others leading up to her killing. \n The slaying of Victoria Martens sent shockwaves across the state in August and made national headlines as her mother, Michelle Martens, the mother's boyfriend and his cousin were charged. They have pleaded not guilty to murder and other charges and are in custody pending an October trial. \n The autopsy results, made public Monday, included evidence of prior sexual abuse and indicated that the girl was raped and strangled before her body was dismembered Aug. 23. Her spine was fractured, and she suffered both blunt and sharp injuries. Some of her organs were removed. \n Police found the girl's body in a bathtub, wrapped in a smoldering blanket. They were initially called to the apartment complex over a disturbance involving the suspects, unaware of what they would find inside the home. \n Michelle Martens claimed that her daughter was drugged to relax her, but toxicology tests did not turn up any drugs, only alcohol. The amount of alcohol in Victoria's system would have been enough to cause cognitive and physical impairment, according to the autopsy report. \n Authorities allege that Michelle Martens watched as Fabian Gonzales raped and killed her daughter. Gonzales and his cousin, Jessica Kelley, are accused of dismemberment, according to court documents. \n Gonzales has denied having anything to do with Victoria's death. \n Martens also told police she looked for men online to have sex with her daughter, according to search warrants. The documents say the mother told investigators that she had set up encounters with at least three men before the girl was killed. \n Albuquerque police have not identified any of those men and it's not clear whether any more arrests have been made. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Autopsy: New Mexico girl was strangled on 10th birthday"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Deodoro Olympic Park canoe slalom circuit, center, and BMX circuit, right, during a flight on an army helicopter in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Wednesday, April 6, 2016. Almost five months after the Rio de Janeiro Olympics ended, the venue is struggling to find a use. \n RIO DE JANEIRO >> Almost five months after the Rio de Janeiro Olympics ended, another venue is struggling to find a use. \n Rio de Janeiro's city hall said Tuesday that the Deodoro Olympic Park, which was to be used as a park and recreation area after the games, has been closed. \n Deodoro was the second-largest venue cluster during the Olympics and is located in Rio's impoverished north. \n The city government said a contract had been terminated with a company operating the park. The statement said \"measures are being taken\" to reopen the park. The city did not say when that would happen. \n Last month, Rio de Janeiro handed over responsibility to the federal government for sports venues in the main Olympic Park after a failed bid to auction them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Another Rio Olympic venue struggling to find a use"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump talks to media as he stands with retired Marine Gen. John Kelly at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. Kelly is likely to be pressed about plans to build a border wall and other steps to boost immigration security at a Senate confirmation hearing on Jan. 10, for President-elect Donald Trump's pick for Homeland Security secretary. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's choice to lead the Department of Homeland Security says closing the border to the \"illegal movement of people and things\" will be his top priority if confirmed. \n Retired Marine Gen. John Kelly outlined his priorities in a detailed questionnaire to senators. The questionnaire was released Tuesday ahead of Kelly's confirmation hearing later in the day. \n Kelly embraced Trump's call for a strong border wall with Mexico. He said that achieving his top priority of shutting down illegal movements \"starts with physical obstacles like a border wall and supporting surveillance technologies.\" He said it will also require constant patrols from federal and local law enforcement. \n The confirmation of Kelly, a retired Marine general, is almost assured, but members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee will likely use the hearing to debate the tough immigration and border security policies that were centerpieces of Trump's presidential campaign. \n Kelly is one of several retired generals tapped for top positions by Trump. That has raised some concerns about undue military influence in his administration, weakening the American tradition of civilian control of government. \n But Kelly is widely respected by Democrats and Republicans alike, and his military experience is applicable to his Homeland Security role. He's the former head of the military's Southern Command, based in South Florida, which routinely works with the Department of Homeland Security to combat human trafficking and drug smuggling. The military command has also partnered with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a part of Homeland Security, to help rescue unaccompanied child immigrants trying to make their way from Central America to the United States alone. \n In the questionnaire, Kelly said he is committed to telling \"truth to power.\" The commitment addresses concerns that some lawmakers have about the president-elect's willingness to take in points of view that clash with his own. \n Kelly told the committee that his that his greatest successes during 40-plus years in the military are: \"taking care of my people, speaking 'truth to power,' and successfully completing every mission I have ever been assigned.\" He said he has worked with many senior U.S. officials during his career. \n \"I never hesitated to disagree with any of them, or make difficult recommendations when appropriate,\" Kelly said. \n Also, in newly released ethics disclosures, Kelly said that if confirmed he will resign positions with multiple consulting and government contractor firms and defense contractor DynCorp. Kelly listed his salary with DynCorp, a company awarded a 2016 contract from DHS to train Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, as more than $166,000. \n In a statement prepared for the Senate hearing, Republican chairman Ron Johnson of Wisconsin praised Kelly as having a \"deep knowledge and understanding of the grave security threats facing our nation and the sacrifices that are required to keep us safe.\" \n Kelly joined the Marine Corps in 1970. He is a battle-hardened, blunt-talking veteran who served three tours in Iraq. He was also the highest-ranking officer to lose a child in combat in Iraq or Afghanistan. His son, Marine 1st Lt. Robert Kelly, was killed in November 2010 in Afghanistan. \n Kelly would be the fifth person to lead the department, which includes agencies that protect the president, respond to disasters, enforce immigration laws, protect the nation's coastlines, stop drug smuggling and secure air travel. \n Kelly, in his statement for the committee, said he has a \"profound respect for the rule of law\" and as secretary \"will always strive to uphold it.\" That is likely to resonate with Republicans, who have complained that President Barack Obama has been too lax in his enforcement of immigration laws and have generally supported Trump's proposals. \n Trump has vowed to deport millions of immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, focusing first on criminals. Kelly is likely to be asked his views on how to accomplish that. \n Trump pledged during the campaign to build a border wall \u2014 and have Mexico pay for it \u2014 though since winning the White House he has softened his stance on both the kind of barrier he wants and how it will be financed. \n Last week, Republicans suggested the wall could be paid for from regular spending legislation authorized by Congress. Trump insists that Mexico would reimburse the United States for the costs, but Mexico says it will not do so. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Alicia A. Caldwell on Twitter at www.twitter.com/acaldwellap \n \u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press staff writer Kevin Freking contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Homeland Security pick cites securing border as top priority"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar, as seen in a Nov. 21 photo. Nassar, who has been accused of sexually abusing gymnasts, was hit with a new lawsuit filed in federal court in western Michigan, on Tuesday, by 18 women and girls who say they were molested by him, mostly at his clinic at Michigan State University. \n DETROIT >> A Michigan doctor accused of sexually abusing gymnasts was sued today by 18 women and girls, the latest legal action over alleged assaults, mostly at his clinic at Michigan State University. \n The lawsuit against Dr. Larry Nassar, Michigan State, USA Gymnastics and a Lansing-area gymnastics club was filed in federal court in western Michigan. It makes claims of civil rights violations, discrimination and negligence. \n The Associated Press usually doesn't name people who allege sexual abuse, but one of the plaintiffs, Rachael Denhollander of Kentucky, talked publicly about the lawsuit. She said she was assaulted by Nassar in 2000 when she was 15 and visited him because of wrist and back injuries. \n Denhollander, who was a gymnast, said she didn't file a complaint at the time because she believed her \"voice would not be heard.\" She said Nassar was held in high esteem at Michigan State. He also was affiliated with USA Gymnastics. \n The abuse alleged by the 18 women and girls occurred over 20 years. Most were minors at the time and \"cloaked with innocence and trust of their youth,\" attorney Stephen Drew told reporters. \n Nassar now faces at least five lawsuits. Through lawyers, he's denied the allegations. He's also charged with possessing child pornography and sexually assaulting a girl at his Holt, Michigan, home and is being held in jail without bond. \n In a statement, Michigan State declined to comment on the lawsuit but said campus police are investigating Nassar with state and federal authorities. Outside lawyers also are advising the university on an internal review of Nassar's clinical work. He was fired in 2016. \n There was no immediate comment from Indianapolis-based USA Gymnastics. The group has cut ties with Nassar. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "18 females sue gymnastics doctor, allege sexual abuse"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry warned about the rise of a \"factless political environment\" in which policy is made on Twitter and said President-elect Donald Trump's \"America First\" policy could lead to a U.S. retreat from the world. He also lamented a lack of contact with the incoming Trump administration. \n WASHINGTON >> Secretary of State John Kerry said today the U.S. may need \"more forceful ways\" of dealing with North Korea if it develops an intercontinental ballistic missile that threatens America. \n Speaking at the U.S. Naval Academy, Kerry said nuclear weapons in the hands of North Korea's \"reckless dictator\" Kim Jong Un pose one of the most serious national security challenges to the United States. \n Kerry urged Donald Trump's incoming administration to work closely with China, Pyongyang's main trading partner, to exert more economic pressure on North Korea. \n He said the aim should be resuming talks on denuclearization that could open the way to economic assistance for North Korea, sanctions relief and a formal peace on the divided Korean Peninsula. \n But Kerry said if the North persists in developing the long-range missile it \"drags the United States into an immediate threat situation to which we may then have to find other ways, more forceful ways of having an impact on the choices that he is making.\" Kerry didn't elaborate. \n Kim announced in his annual New Year's address that the country had reached the \"final stages\" of intercontinental ballistic missile development. Trump responded with a tweet, saying \"It won't happen!\" but did not indicate how his administration would prevent it. \n Over the past eight years, the Obama administration has cranked up sanctions on Pyongyang, invested more in missile defense and staged occasional shows of military force. But its policies have failed to stall North Korea's nuclear weapons and missile programs. \n The North conducted two underground nuclear explosions and more than two dozen missile test launches last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kerry: 'More forceful ways' may be needed with North Korea"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> As a businessman, Donald Trump has kept the courts busy. That's hardly likely to change when he enters the Oval Office, creating an unusual and potentially serious problem for a sitting president. \n Only a handful of presidents have undergone legal depositions during their terms, and even fewer have become embroiled in private lawsuits. Trump is poised to join that small club. \n Those are only some of the pending matters. \n While Trump has said he will turn over management of his company to his adult sons, he has left open the possibility he will keep not only an ownership interest but the legal liability that accompanies it. He is expected to give more details about stepping away at a news conference on Wednesday. \n The details are important because the closer Trump remains to his business while in office, the more he makes himself and the company targets for litigation. Those attacks could include lawsuits brought by deep-pocketed political opponents who could use the courts as one more battleground to fight his administration. \n \"He is going to be not just a litigation magnet, but a litigation vortex that sucks in every political and personal adversary he has,\" said Norman Eisen, the Obama administration chief White House ethics counselor from 2009 through 2011. Eisen has encouraged Trump to sell his assets and put the cash in a blind trust to avoid conflicts of interest and legal pitfalls. \n Under constitutional immunity protections, Trump can't be sued over official acts in the Oval Office. But he could be named in lawsuits for personal actions or those involving his businesses. And the presidency may offer no protection from lawsuits that started before he took office. \n \"Prior litigation related to his business will not be so easy to dismiss,\" said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University. \"Those types of cases are generally not covered by immunity rules.\" \n That raises the prospect of President Trump answering questions under oath in more depositions. Presidents and other high-ranking public officials aren't exempt from them, Turley said, as Bill Clinton discovered in the Paula Jones case that led to his 1998 impeachment by the House of Representatives. \n The danger for Trump is heightened given the sprawling nature of his business, the Trump Organization. The president-elect owns or controls some 500 companies involved in hotels, golf resorts, office buildings and condominium towers in several countries including Scotland, Ireland, Dubai and Indonesia. \n \"We've had presidents before who were rich, but we're in some uncharted territory given Trump's wealth and his myriad of business interests,\" said Saikrishna Prakash, a professor at the University of Virginia School of Law who specializes in constitutional separation of powers. \n Prakash said Trump's businesses could also be tempting legal targets because potential plaintiffs may think he would be more likely to settle cases \u2014 as he did with Trump University fraud lawsuits in the weeks after the election. \n Trump paid $25 million to settle three lawsuits alleging the real estate school misled students into paying as much as $35,000 a year for instruction of little value. Trump said he did nothing wrong and was only settling so he could focus on the presidency. \n The Trump Organization's general counsel, Alan Garten, rejects the idea that the company is now more willing to pay judgments to plaintiffs, noting that Trump sat for a deposition last week instead of settling. Garten said the Trump Organization faces dozens of lawsuits, but most are small \u2014 personal injury lawsuits brought by visitors to Trump hotels and resorts, for example, or lawsuits brought by the company against guests who left without paying. He said no more than a dozen cases are significant. \n Garten also said he wasn't worried about future legal attacks funded by political opponents. \"People will be wasting their time,\" he said. He added he will \"zealously defend\" the company. \n But that instinct to fight has sometimes led to Trump and his businesses dragging out cases. \n Trump has decided to pursue two lawsuits against chefs\u2014 Jose Andres and Geoffrey Zakarian\u2014 who pulled out of restaurant deals in his new Washington hotel after the candidate made disparaging comments during his campaign about Mexican immigrants in the U.S. illegally. \n Garten said that contractors filing liens aren't unexpected given the hotel was such a big project, and that they aren't a big deal. \n Allegations of unpaid work are at the center of another pending dispute. \n In 2014, a Florida paint store filed a lien against Trump's Doral golf resort for $32,000 that it said it was owed for supplies during a renovation. Trump fought back and now, two years later, the store's fees for its lawyers have mounted and added to the bill. In October, a circuit court awarded more than $310,000 to the store, but the case is still pending on an appeal filed by Trump and likely to continue months longer, said store lawyer Daniel Vega of Taylor Espino Vega & Touron. \n Another tactic that may haunt Trump is his use of courts or private arbitration to attack the media, silence his critics and keep employees from talking. \n Throughout his campaign, Trump routinely threatened legal action against news outlets, including The Associated Press, for coverage he claimed was unfair. He sought $10 million in damages against a former adviser he accused of violating a non-disclosure agreement. The matter was settled after the adviser, Sam Nunberg, contested the proceeding in New York state court. \n Trump is also coming in with a state investigation into his charity hanging over his head. \n New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman launched an investigation of The Donald J. Trump Foundation last year after news organizations revealed that Trump used the charity to settle lawsuits, make an illegal $25,000 political contribution to a group supporting Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and purchase items such as a painting of himself that was displayed at one of his properties. \n In December, Trump said he would dissolve the charity to avoid conflicts of interest, but Schneiderman has said the charity cannot close while the investigation is going on. In an email to the AP, spokeswoman Amy Spitalnick said she couldn't say when the investigation will wrap up. Trump does not face the potential for criminal charges in that investigation, but he or the foundation could face fines and other civil penalties. \n Obama ethics lawyer Eisen thinks the best solution is for Trump to divest his assets, as most recent presidents have done. The president-elect has given no indication he is considering such a move. \n \"This is going to be a monumental distraction,\" Eisen said. Litigation facing the next president, he added, is likely to prove \"embarrassing and damaging not just to Donald Trump but to the country.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawsuits over Trump business threaten to tie up presidency"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump listened to a reporters question at Trump Tower in New York on Monday. A New York judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed against Trump by a political strategist who said her reputation was trashed when he called her a \"dummy\" on Twitter. \n NEW YORK >> A New York judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed against Donald Trump by a political strategist who said her reputation was trashed when he called her a \"dummy\" on Twitter. \n Judge Barbara Jaffe said Trump's tweets about Cheryl Jacobus were constitutionally protected expressions of opinion. \n Trump targeted Jacobus after she went on CNN last February and accused him of misleading voters about how he was financing his presidential campaign. \n In a tweet, Trump wrote that Jacobus had \"begged us for a job\" and called her \"a real dummy.\" In a later tweet, he called her a \"major loser.\" \n The judge wrote in her ruling posted today that while Trump's tweets are \"rife with vague and simplistic insults,\" they are protected by the First Amendment. \n A lawyer for Jacobus vowed to appeal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge rules that woman can't sue Trump over insulting tweet"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESEY MAUI POLICE DEPT. \n John Salomon, 41, was sentenced after pleading no contest to sexual assault charges. Salomon apologized to the victim's families during his Friday sentencing and said he felt \"disgusted and ashamed.\" \n WAILUKU >> A former Maui police officer suspected of sexually exposing himself to women and a child in public has been sentenced to 60 days in jail. \n Police said they received several calls about a man exposing himself and touching himself inappropriately at various Pukalani parking lots. Salomon was a three-year veteran of the police force when he was tied to the crimes. \n Salomon apologized to the victim's families during his Friday sentencing and said he felt \"disgusted and ashamed.\" \n \"I am remorseful for exposing myself and wish I could take it back. However, I cannot. I can only learn from my mistakes,\" he said. \"Regardless of whatever mental issues I have, there were other ways of dealing with my stress instead of turning to alcohol. I failed to seek out the proper help and put all of you through a nightmare.\" \n Second Circuit Judge Richard Bissen said he agreed with letters from Salomon's supporters saying he's \"a good man,\" but he still denied the defendant's request to keep the convictions off his record. \n Bissen said Salomon had gone to great lengths to ensure he didn't get caught, \"from wearing his sunglasses to covering his license plate.\" He also said Salomon was selective in choosing his victims. \n \"Every time a male figure got close, he drove off. He only exposed himself to women or girls or minors. This isn't random,\" Bissen said. \n The judge also ordered Bissen to serve one year of probation and receive sex offender treatment. \n Salomon's attorney, David Sereno, said his client is already participating in sex offender treatment, as well as alcohol treatment, and taking medication for bipolar disorder. \n Sereno also said a pending case for Solomon's June 2015 arrest on suspicion of drunken driving is expected to be resolved next week \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-Maui officer jailed for exposing himself in parking lots"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Charleston, S.C., shooting suspect Dylann Roof is escorted from the Cleveland County Courthouse in Shelby, N.C. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. >> An unrepentant Dylann Roof was sentenced to death Tuesday for fatally shooting nine black church members during a Bible study session, becoming the first person ordered executed for a federal hate crime.  \n A jury deliberated for about three hours before returning with the decision, capping a trial in which the 22-year-old avowed white supremacist did not fight for his life or show any remorse. He served as his own attorney during sentencing and never asked for forgiveness or mercy or explained the massacre. \n Hours earlier, Roof threw away one last chance to plead for his life, telling jurors: \"I still feel like I had to do it.\" \n Every juror looked directly at Roof as he spoke for about five minutes. A few nodded as he reminded them that they said during jury selection they could fairly weigh the factors of his case. Only one of them, he noted, had to disagree to spare his life. \n \"I have the right to ask you to give me a life sentence, but I'm not sure what good it would do anyway,\" he said. \n When the verdict was read, he stood stoic. Several family members of victims wiped away quiet tears. \n Roof told FBI agents when they arrested him after the June 17, 2015, slayings that he wanted the shootings to bring back segregation or perhaps start a race war. Instead, the slayings had a unifying effect, as South Carolina removed the Confederate flag from its Statehouse for the first time in more than 50 years. Other states followed suit, taking down Confederate banners and monuments. Roof had posed with the flag in photos. \n Malcolm Graham, whose sister Cynthia Hurd was slain, said the jury made the right decision. \n \"There is no room in America's smallest jail cell for hatred, racism and discrimination,\" he said from his home in Charlotte, North Carolina. \"The journey for me and my family today has come to an end.\" \n Roof specifically picked out Emanuel AME Church, the South's oldest black church, to carry out the cold, calculated slaughter, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Richardson said. \n The 12 people he targeted opened the door for a stranger with a smile, he said. Three people survived the attack. \n \"They welcomed a 13th person that night \u2026 with a kind word, a Bible, a handout and a chair,\" Richardson said during his closing argument. \"He had come with a hateful heart and a Glock .45.\" \n The gunman sat with the Bible study group for about 45 minutes. During the final prayer \u2014 when everyone's eyes were closed \u2014 he started firing. He stood over some of the fallen victims, shooting them again as they lay on the floor, Richardson said. \n The prosecutor reminded jurors about each one of the victims and the bloody scene that Roof left in the church's lower level. \n Nearly two dozen friends and relatives of the victims testified during the sentencing phase of the trial. They shared cherished memories and talked about a future without a mother, father, sister or brother. They shed tears, and their voices shook, but none of them said whether Roof should face the death penalty. \n Jennifer Pinckney testified about huddling under a desk with her 6-year-old daughter, her hand clasped over the girl's mouth to keep her quiet, as Roof started firing. \n Not knowing for certain if the danger had passed, Pinckney dialed 911 and breathlessly told an operator she had heard shots inside the church. \n \"I think there's been a shooting. I'm in the closet, under a desk,\" Pinckney told the operator. \"Please hurry.\" \n On the call, Pinckney tries to comfort her daughter Malana, who had been watching cartoons in her father's office as he participated in Bible study. \n \"Daddy's dead?\" Malana asks. \n \"No, baby, no,\" the mother says. But at that moment, Pinckney said, she knew her husband, church pastor Clementa Pinckney, had been killed. \n The prosecutor reminded jurors that Clementa Pinckney, who was also a state senator, would be remembered for singing goofy songs and watching cartoons with his young daughters. In a sign of perhaps how important that testimony was, jurors re-watched a speech by Pinckney in which he talked about the history of Emanuel and its mission. \n The jury convicted Roof last month of all 33 federal charges he faced, including hate crimes. He never explained his actions to jurors, saying only that \"anyone who hates anything in their mind has a good reason for it.\" \n Roof insisted that he was not mentally ill but did not call any witnesses or present any evidence. \n In one of his journals, he wrote that he didn't believe in psychology, calling it \"a Jewish invention\" that \"does nothing but invent diseases and tell people they have problems when they don't.\" \n His attorneys said he did not want to present any evidence that might embarrass him or his family. \n After he was sentenced, Roof asked a judge to appoint him new attorneys, but the judge said he was not inclined to do so because they had performed \"admirably.\" \n \"We are sorry that, despite our best efforts, the legal proceedings have shed so little light on the reasons for this tragedy,\" the attorneys said in a veiled reference to the mental health issues they wanted to present. \n A judge will formally sentence him during a hearing Wednesday. \n The last person sent to federal death row was Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dylann Roof sentenced to death for killing 9 church members"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sara Packer, left, and Jacob Sullivan. Packer, whose teenage daughter's dismembered remains were found in the woods last fall, has been charged along with her boyfriend Jacob Sullivan with killing the girl in a \"rape-murder fantasy\" the couple shared, a prosecutor said Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sara Packer, center, handcuffed, the adoptive mother of Grace Packer, was led out of District Court in Newtown, Pa., Sunday, by Pennsylvania Constables and taken into custody. Packer, whose teenage daughter's dismembered remains were found in the woods last fall, has been charged along with her boyfriend Jacob Sullivan with killing the girl in a \"rape-murder fantasy\" the couple shared, a prosecutor said Sunday. \n READING, Pa. >> The biological mother of a 14-year-old Pennsylvania girl who authorities say was killed and dismembered by her adoptive mother says she trusted the system would give her child a \"wonderful home\" and she's very angry. \n She says she hadn't spoken to her daughter since then but always imagined Grace was in a good home with a wonderful family. \n She says she knows justice will be served. \n Sara Packer and her boyfriend, Jacob Sullivan, are charged in Grace's death. \n Authorities say Grace was killed in July as part of a rape-murder fantasy the couple shared. Officials say they dismembered the body in October. \n They haven't entered pleas. But Sullivan says what he did \"was wrong.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Biological mom of dismembered teen: I trusted the system"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama wiped away tears while speaking during his farewell address at McCormick Place in Chicago on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama talked to his supporters after giving his presidential farewell address at McCormick Place in Chicago on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama speaks at McCormick Place in Chicago, Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2017, giving his presidential farewell address. \n CHICAGO >> President Barack Obama has bid farewell to the nation in an emotional speech that sought to comfort a country on edge over rapid economic changes, persistent security threats and the election of Donald Trump. \n Forceful at times and tearful at others, Obama's valedictory speech in his hometown of Chicago was a public meditation on the many trials the U.S. faces as Obama takes his exit. For the challenges that are new, Obama offered his vision for how to surmount them, and for the persistent problems he was unable to overcome, he offered optimism that others, eventually, will. \n \"Yes, our progress has been uneven,\" he told a crowd of some 18,000. \"The work of democracy has always been hard, contentious and sometimes bloody. For every two steps forward, it often feels we take one step back.\" \n Yet Obama argued his faith in America had only been strengthened by what he's witnessed the past eight years, and he declared: \"The future should be ours.\" \n Brushing away tears with a handkerchief, Obama paid tribute to the sacrifices made by his wife \u2014 and by his daughters, who were young girls when they entered the big white home on Pennsylvania Avenue and leave as young women. He praised first lady Michelle Obama for taking on her role \"with grace and grit and style and good humor\" and for making the White House \"a place that belongs to everybody.\" \n Soon Obama and his family will exit the national stage, to be replaced by Trump, a man Obama had stridently argued poses a dire threat to the nation's future. His near-apocalyptic warnings throughout the campaign have cast a continuing shadow over his post-election efforts to reassure Americans anxious about the future. \n Indeed, much of what Obama accomplished during his two terms \u2014 from health care overhaul and environmental regulations to his nuclear deal with Iran \u2014 could potentially be upended by Trump. So even as Obama seeks to define what his presidency meant for America, his legacy remains in question. \n Even as Obama said farewell \u2014 in a televised speech of just under an hour \u2014 the anxiety felt by many Americans about the future was palpable, and not only in the Chicago convention center where he stood in front of a giant presidential seal. The political world was reeling from new revelations about an unsubstantiated report that Russia had compromising personal and financial information about Trump. \n Obama made only passing reference to the next president. When he noted he would soon be replaced by the Republican, his crowd began to boo. \n \"No, no, no, no, no,\" Obama said. One of the nation's great strengths, he said, \"is the peaceful transfer of power from one president to the next.\" \n Earlier, as the crowd of thousands chanted, \"Four more years,\" he simply smiled and said, \"I can't do that.\" \n Still, Obama offered what seemed like a point-by-point rebuttal of Trump's vision for America. \n He pushed back on the isolationist sentiments inherent in Trump's trade policies. He decried discrimination against Muslim Americans and lamented politicians who question climate change. And he warned about the pernicious threat to U.S. democracy posed by purposely deceptive fake \"news\" and a growing tendency of Americans to listen only to information that confirms what they already believe. \n Get out of your \"bubbles,\" said the politician who rose to a prominence with a message of unity, challenging divisions of red states and blue states. Obama also revived a call to activism that marked his first presidential campaign, telling Americans to stay engaged in politics. \n \"If you're tired of arguing with strangers on the internet,\" Obama said pointedly, \"try to talk with one in real life. \" \n With Democrats still straining to make sense of their devastating election losses, Obama tried to offer a path forward. He called for empathy for the struggles of all Americans \u2014 from minorities, refugees and transgender people to middle-aged white men whose sense of economic security has been upended in recent years. \n Paying tribute to his place as America's first black president, Obama acknowledged there were hopes after his 2008 election for a post-racial America. \n \"Such a vision, however well-intended, was never realistic,\" Obama said, though he insisted race relations are better now than a few decades ago. \n The former community organizer closed out his speech by reviving his campaign chant, \"Yes we can.\" To that, he added for the first time, \"Yes we did.\" \n He staunchly defended the power of activists to make a difference \u2014 the driving factor behind Obama's optimism in the face of so much anxiety, he said. Though the coalition of young Americans and minorities who twice got Obama elected wasn't enough to elect Democrat Hillary Clinton to replace him, Obama suggested their day was still ahead. \n \"You'll soon outnumber any of us, and I believe as a result that the future is in good hands,\" he said. \n Steeped in nostalgia, Obama's return to Chicago was less a triumphant homecoming than a bittersweet reunion bringing together loyalists and staffers, many of whom have long since left Obama's service, moved on to new careers and started families. They came from across the country \u2014 some on Air Force One, others on their own \u2014 to be present for the last major moment of Obama's presidency. \n Unexpectedly absent was Obama's younger daughter, Sasha, who had been expected to join sister Malia at the speech. The White House said Sasha stayed in Washington due to a school exam this morning. \n After returning to Washington, Obama will have less than two weeks before he accompanies Trump in the presidential limousine to the Capitol for the new president's swearing-in. After nearly a decade in the spotlight, Obama will become a private citizen, an elder statesman at 55. He plans to take some time off, write a book \u2014 and immerse himself in a Democratic redistricting campaign. \n Associated Press writers Ken Thomas and Calvin Woodward in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Yes we did' \u2014 Obama bids farewell in nostalgic last speech"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis., accompanied by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., met with reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, to discuss efforts to replace the Affordable Care Act, following a closed-door meeting with the GOP caucus. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump pushed Congress today to act swiftly to repeal President Barack Obama's health care law, and follow up quickly with a replacement. House Speaker Paul Ryan, after talking with Trump, announced that the House would aim to take both steps \"concurrently.\" \n The push for speed and coordination came as growing numbers of Republicans expressed concerns about GOP leadership's plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act without a replacement in hand, even though the party has had more than six years to come up with one. \n Trump made his comments in an interview with The New York Times. \n \"We have to get to business. Obamacare has been a catastrophic event,\" Trump said. \n Under the congressional timetable, procedural budget votes set for later this week in the House and Senate will put the repeal process in motion. But the vote on repealing Obamacare isn't expected until mid-February at earliest; a full replacement hadn't been expected until months or even years later. \n Trump seemed confused about that schedule, telling the Times that the repeal should be \"probably sometime next week,\" and \"the replace will be very quickly or simultaneously, very shortly thereafter.\" \n Despite his imprecision, Trump was clear that he put an imperative on speed for both repealing and replacing the law. That contradicts the approach sketched out by GOP leaders who've described a transition period of months or years between repealing the law and replacing it with something else. \n But even before Trump's comments today, the notion of a lengthy transition period was running into problems on Capitol Hill from Republicans anxious about waiting too long between repealing the bill and replacing it. \n Ryan addressed reporters this morning and described a new goal. \n \"It is our goal to bring it all together concurrently,\" Ryan said. \"We're going to use every tool at our disposal, through legislation, through regulation, to bring replace concurrent along with repeal, so that we can save people from this mess.\" \n That may be easier said than done. Under arcane budget rules in the Senate, Republicans will likely be able to use their slim majority to push through repeal legislation without Democratic votes. But they would need Democrats' help to write a replacement bill. Ryan indicated Republicans would try to get around that obstacle by passing some elements of the replacement bill using fast-track Senate rules, too. \n Ryan announced the new plan to lawmakers this morning before discussing it with reporters. \"He said we're going to be doing it concurrently with the repeal. He said he had a conversation yesterday with Donald Trump, and they're on the same page,\" said Rep. Dennis Ross, R-Florida. \n GOP lawmakers, particularly House members who face voters every two years, are eager to repeal and replace the mammoth health law before the 2018 midterm elections, and some are frustrated that having finally grabbed the reins of power in Washington, the party is unprepared to act. \n \"We've been at it now for six years and it's time for us to produce a replacement plan and hopefully we'll do that in the very near term,\" said Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., who's among a group of Republicans pushing for a delay in the repeal bill to allow time to write a replacement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump pushes GOP leaders for fast action on health care"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Melba Martinelli tried to keep her balance walking through flood water to her home, Monday, in Guerneville, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vineyards remained flooded in the Russian River Valley, Monday, in Forestville, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jason Williams, left, was rescued by Calfire rescue swimmer Danny Ciecek after Williams got snagged on trees while trying to kayak the Carmel River with a friend near Paso Hondo Road in Carmel Valley on Monday after a large storm passed through Monterey County. \n FORESTVILLE, Calif. >> About 2,000 people in a rural California community near Sacramento were asked to leave their homes Tuesday as a river swollen by days of heavy rain threatened to flood, while north of San Francisco thousands more were urged to seek higher ground. \n Emergency crews and officials worked through Tuesday to try to bolster the levee in Sacramento County along the Cosumnes River, before deciding to ask 2,000 residents of Wilton to voluntarily evacuate before dark. \n Sacramento County emergency services official Mary Jo Flynn said water was expected to spill over the levee before midnight, flooding low-lying roads and buildings with up to 1 foot of water. \n An evacuation center will be opened Tuesday evening in neighboring Elk Grove but some residents said they plan to stay put. \n \"We have no concerns,\" Lill Nichols, who with her husband runs a horse farm near the river, told the Sacramento Bee. \"We have animals and can't evacuate anyway.\" \n In the city of Sacramento, workers wrenched open more than a half-dozen century-old spill gates on the state's biggest river, the Sacramento, to ease pressure on the swollen river and on levees there. California is in a six-year drought, and the last time state workers needed to open the gates was December 2005. \n Some 3,000 Sonoma County residents remained under an evacuation order as the Russian River rose again under pounding rain. Officials red-tagged seven homes, ordering residents out, when a rain-soaked embankment came crashing down. \n Johna Peterson was one of few residents who ventured out in the remote Sonoma County town of Monte Rio. Walking on the bridge across the Russian River, Peterson worried about what the coming hours and days would bring. \n \"I think it's going to go higher,\" Peterson said. \"There's nowhere for this water to go.\" \n In nearby Forestville, Kathy Granados huddled with two other people under an awning at the River Bend RV Park, watching the downpour. \n \"We're waiting it out,\" she said. \"Yesterday the water dropped, but it's going to get higher. We're just sitting here. We have no electricity, no heat.\" \n Tuesday's storm was the latest of back-to-back systems \u2014 buffered by a brief respite Monday \u2014 that have brought the heaviest rain in a decade to parts of Northern California and Nevada. \n The storms are part of an \"atmospheric river\" weather phenomenon that draws precipitation from the Pacific Ocean as far west as Hawaii. Its impact can be catastrophic. \n A blizzard warning was in effect for parts of the Sierra Nevada, the first issued in the past nine years, said Scott McGuire, a forecaster for the National Weather Service based in Reno, Nevada. \n \"This is definitely a dangerous, life-threatening situation going on up there,\" he said. \"People should not attempt to travel at all.\" \n Forecasters warned of up to 10 feet of snow in the highest mountains, with up to 7 feet of snow around the resorts of Lake Tahoe, high risk of avalanches, and wind gusts to 60 mph. The Sierra ridge had gusts of more than 100 mph. \n Many ski resorts shut down Tuesday because of the storm. A number of main roads in the Sierra were closed, including Interstate 80, or required chains. \n Nearly 3 feet of new snow already was reported Tuesday morning at the top of the Mount Rose ski resort between Reno and Lake Tahoe. A series of storms already has added 33 billion gallons of water to Lake Tahoe since Jan. 1. \n Associated Press writers Janie Har in San Francisco, Christopher Weber in Los Angeles, Scott Sonner in Reno, Colleen Slevin in Denver and Scott Smith in Fresno also contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dangerous blizzard, flooding as new storm hits CaliforniaDangerous blizzard, flooding as new storm hits California"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "A strong earthquake struck off the Solomon Island this morning but does not pose a tsunami threat to Hawaii. \n The preliminary magnitude 6.4 earthquake was recorded at 5:27 a.m. Hawaii time, 64 miles south-southwest of Taro'a, Solomon Islands, at a depth of 28.5 miles, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. \n The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said that there was no tsunami threat to Hawaii and a destructive Pacific-wide tsunami was is not expected. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strong quake hits off Solomon Islands, does not pose tsunami threat"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "A 59-year-old man died Monday night after he was struck by a van while riding his bicycle in Waianae. \n The accident occurred at the intersection of Waianae Valley Road and Niihau Street. At approximately 10:50 p.m., police said a 53-year-old Waianae man was traveling south in a 2004 Honda van on Waianae Valley Road. \n The victim, also from Waianae, was riding his bicycle when he disregarded a stop sign on Niihau Street and entered Waianae Valley Road, directly into the path of the vehicle, police said. \n Police said 59-year-old man was struck by the van and thrown from his bicycle. \n He was pronounced dead at the scene. Positive identification is pending. \n Speed and alcohol were not involved. \n This was the first traffic-related fatality on Oahu compared to two at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist dies after he is struck by van in Waianae"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n CodePink activists, including co-founder Medea Benjamin, right, held up signs against Attorney General-designate, Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, as he testified at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General-designate, Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. was sworn in on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, prior to testifying at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General nominee Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., on Capitol Hill, Nov. 20, in Washington. Sessions is set to be questioned by his peers at a Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing on Jan. 10. \n WASHINGTON >> Sen. Jeff Sessions cast himself as a strong protector of law and order at his confirmation hearing today, promising that as attorney general he would crack down on illegal immigration, gun violence and the \"scourge of radical Islamic terrorism.\" \n Sessions, echoing rhetoric used on the campaign trail by President-elect Donald Trump, warned of a country struggling to combat illegal drugs flooding across the border, spikes in violent crime in American cities and low morale among police. \n \"These trends cannot continue. It is a fundamental civil right to be safe in your home and your community,\" the Alabama Republican said in laying out conservative priorities for the Justice Department at the opening of his Senate hearing. \n Politics got its share of attention, too, with Sessions promising to recuse himself from any investigation there might be into Democrat Hillary Clinton, because of comments he'd made during the campaign. Trump said previously that he would name a special prosecutor to look into Clinton's use of a private email server, but has since backed away. The FBI and Justice Department declined to bring charges last year. \n Sessions has solid support from the Senate's Republican majority, but faces a challenge persuading skeptical Democrats that he'll be fair and committed to civil rights as the country's top law enforcement official. Sen. Dianne Feinstein hinted at those concerns, saying \"there is so much fear in this country\" particularly among blacks. \n Sessions, whose 1986 judicial nomination was derailed by allegations of racially charged comments, sought to confront that concern by saying he \"understands the history of civil rights and the horrendous impact that relentless and systemic discrimination and the denial of voting rights has had on our African-American brothers and sisters. I have witnessed it.\" \n \"The office of the attorney general of the United States is not a political position, and anyone who holds it must have total fidelity to the laws and the Constitution of the United States,\" he said. \n At several points, anti-Sessions protesters disrupted the hearing. They were quickly escorted out. \n Sessions smiled amiably as he began his presentation, taking time to introduce his grandchildren, joking about Alabama football and making self-deprecating remarks about his strong Southern accent. \n In a more serious vein, he was asked by committee chairman Chuck Grassley if he could stand up to Trump if he disagreed with the president-elect's actions. Yes, he said, adding that he would be prepared to resign if asked to do something that was \"plainly unlawful.\" \n Democrats were using part of the two days of hearings to challenge Sessions' commitment to civil rights, a chief priority of the Justice Department during the Obama administration. They were also likely to press him on his hard-line stance on immigration policy. \n But Republicans have expressed strong support and are expected to secure more than enough votes needed to confirm him, including from some Democrats in conservative-leaning states. \n Sessions is known as one of the most staunchly conservative members of the Senate, and has already drawn opposition from at least two Democratic colleagues, New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker and Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown. \n In a dramatic turn, Booker \u2014 one of three black senators \u2014 said he will testify against Sessions on Wednesday, in what his office called an unprecedented instance in which a senator has testified against a colleague seeking a Cabinet post. In a statement, Booker accused Sessions of having a \"concerning\" record on civil rights and criminal justice reform and called his decision \"a call to conscience.\" \n If confirmed, the four-term senator would succeed Attorney General Loretta Lynch and would be in a position to reshape Justice Department priorities in the areas of civil rights, environmental enforcement and criminal justice. \n Sessions was first elected to the Senate in 1996 and before that served as state attorney general and a United States attorney. He's been a reliably conservative voice in Congress, supporting government surveillance programs, objecting to the proposed closure of the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, detention facility and opposing a 2013 bipartisan immigration bill that included a pathway to citizenship for the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the U.S. illegally. \n He is trying to turn the page from a confirmation hearing in 1986, when his nomination for a federal judgeship failed amid accusations he had made racially insensitive comments as a prosecutor. \n Civil rights advocates have rallied against his nomination, with protesters staging a sit-in last week at a Sessions office in Alabama and circulating letters opposed to his nomination. Advocacy groups have drawn attention to Sessions positions they suggest could weaken legal protections for immigrants, minority voters and gays, lesbians and transgender people. \n Sessions' supporters have pointed to bipartisan work in the Senate and to supportive statements from some Democrats and even the son of a civil rights activist whom Sessions unsuccessfully prosecuted for voter fraud in Alabama. One of the two senators introducing him at today's hearing was a moderate Republican, Susan Collins of Maine, suggesting a concerted effort to try to cement his appeal beyond the more conservative members. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sessions says he'd be fair as attorney general, defy Trump if necessary"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This April 7, 2011 file photo shows Carrie Fisher at the 2011 NewNowNext Awards in Los Angeles. Fisher's death certificate confirms that the actress died of a heart attack, but it says more investigation is needed to try to determine the underlying cause. \n LOS ANGELES >> Carrie Fisher's death certificate confirms that the actress died of a heart attack, but it says more investigation is needed to try to determine the underlying cause. \n The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health issued the death certificate in the name of Carrie Frances Fisher. It was obtained Monday by The Associated Press. \n Under \"cause of death\" it says \"cardiac arrest/deferred.\" The \"deferred\" designation indicates that more investigation is needed by the county coroner, usually in the form of toxicology tests that can take several weeks to complete. \n Fisher's daughter Billie Lourd is listed as the notifying party. \n Fisher had the heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles on Dec. 23. She died at age 60 on Dec. 27 at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, the certificate says. \n Her mother Debbie Reynolds died the following day at another Los Angeles hospital, after having her own medical emergency while making memorial plans for her daughter. \n The death certificate lists \"writer\" as the occupation in which Fisher spent most of her life. \n It also says Fisher had been in the entertainment business for 46 years, and her highest level of education was 10th grade. \n The information in the certificate was first reported by TMZ. \n Fisher, star of the \"Star Wars\" saga, and Reynolds, the \"Singin' in the Rain\" actress, were mourned in a joint memorial at their neighboring homes on Thursday, and had a joint funeral at a Hollywood Hills cemetery the next day. \n Relatives have said they are now planning a public memorial for them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Carrie Fisher's death certificate confirms heart attack"}

{"date": "January 10, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 25-year-old man after he allegedly stole a vehicle and assaulted two officers in Kalihi early today. \n Officers arrested the suspect at approximately 1:36 a.m. after he and another suspect entered a Young Street residence. Police said they allegedly brandished a weapon, stole the victim's vehicle and property before he fled. \n The victim called police and gave information on his vehicle's location via a tracking device. \n When responding officers spotted the vehicle in Kalihi, police said the suspect attempted to flee and assaulted two officers. \n The officers and the 25-year-old man were treated for minor injuries. \n Police arrested the suspect on suspicion of first-degree robbery, auto theft, assault on a law enforcement officer in the first-degree, assault on a law enforcement officer in the second-degree, unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle, criminal contempt of court and resisting arrest. \n It's unknown at this time whether police arrested the second suspect. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest man in Kalihi for alleged robbery and assault"}

