{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The blaze began at about 11:30 p.m. on Friday during a party at a warehouse in the San Francisco Bay Area city. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> The converted warehouse known as the \"Ghost Ship\" where a deadly fire ripped through a late-night dance party was an artist workspace and illegal home for a rotating cast of a dozen or more residents, those who lived there or visited often said. \n Former residents said it was also a death trap with few exits, a rickety makeshift staircase, piles of driftwood and a labyrinth of electrical cords. The ground floor had five recreational vehicles and other nooks used as living spaces that were rented out to tenants, while the upstairs had space for concerts like the deadly party that drew up to 100 people Friday night. \n With few lights, the place could be pitch black. One staircase led to a boarded up door. The water and electricity were stolen from neighbors and often didn't work. \n \"If you were not familiar with the building and the way that it was, if you were going there for a party, you wouldn't be aware of the maze that you have to go through to get out,\" said Danielle Boudreaux, a former friend of the couple who ran the warehouse. \n Firefighters pulled nine bodies from the charred rubble of the building Saturday and set up massive spotlights to continue a search they said would last at least 48 hours. They estimated at least two dozen remained missing. \n Boudreaux identified the operators of the collective as Derick Ion Almena and Micah Allison. She said she had a falling out with Almena when she persuaded Allison's parents and sister about a year ago that the warehouse was a dangerous place for the couple's three children to live. \n The couple charged tenants enough to cover the warehouse rent and used proceeds from parties to pay their own living expenses, Boudreaux said. \n On Saturday, the artist retreat had turned into a scene of horrors, the 4,000-square-foot structure charred to rubble. The building's roof had collapsed into the second floor, which in places fell to the bottom floor. Firefighters had to temporarily stop their search and rescue operations Saturday when they became too dangerous, taking time to shore up the structure, Oakland deputy fire chief Mark Hoffmann said. \n Oakland officials said they had opened an investigation just last month into the warehouse after repeated complaints from neighbors who said trash was piling up and people were illegally living in the building, which was zoned as a warehouse. \n Darin Ranelletti, of the Oakland Planning Department, said the city opened an investigation Nov. 13 and an investigator went to the premises on Nov. 17 but could not get inside. The city has not confirmed people were living inside. \n Shelley Mack said she lived there about two years ago, staying four or five months. She said she wasn't told the residence was illegal until after she moved in, when she was instructed to tell visitors it was a 24-hour workspace for artists. \n When outsiders or inspectors planned to visit, residents would scurry to hide clothes and bedding, Mack said. \n \"It's like a horror house. Just horrors in there,\" she said, referring to things such as no electricity, running water and freezing temperatures. \n Alastair Boone, 22, a University of California, Berkeley student arrived at the party with five friends around 11 p.m. and had just received a tour of the property and stepped outside before the fire broke out. \n \"In a couple of minutes there were flames coming out of the windows and black smoke was just billowing out of the house,\" she said. \n A man identified as Derick Ion posted a Facebook message early Saturday, saying \"Everything I worked so hard for is gone. Blessed that my children and Micah were at a hotel safe and sound.\" He drew rebukes online from others who said he was warned the building was unsafe. \n Almena did not immediately respond to emails sent to addresses affiliated with him. Phone numbers either rang continually or were disconnected. Authorities declined to talk about the manager when asked by reporters Saturday, saying they were focused on recovering the bodies and consoling the families. \n Online records listed the building's owner as Nar Siu Chor. The Associated Press could not locate a telephone number for her Saturday and efforts to reach her at other Oakland addresses associated with her were not successful. \n A website for the warehouse showed pictures of a Bohemian, loft-like interior made of wood and cluttered with rugs, old sofas and a garage-sale like collection of pianos, paintings, turntables, statues and other items. Advertisements touted various electronic music parties. Friday night's event featured musician Golden Donna's 100% Silk West Coast tour. \n It's unclear what sparked the fire, but officials said the clutter served as a tinderbox and there were no sprinklers inside. \n Alameda County Sheriff's Sgt. Ray Kelly said people either escaped from the building or died inside, where the only way down from the second story was via a stairwell constructed entirely of wooden pallets. \"It appears that either you got out or you got trapped inside.\" \n About 50 to 100 people were believed to have been at the party when the fire started around 11:30 p.m. Friday, officials said. \n \"We know there are bodies in there that we can't get to \u2014 that have been seen but not recovered,\" Kelly said. \n Monica Kat, a paralegal, feared four of her friends were dead. \n \"We we were all checking in looking for them and they're still not accounted for and I can only think the worst at this point,\" she said. \n Dan Vega had been unable to find his 22-year-old brother or his brother's girlfriend. \n \"I just want to go over there. I have my work boots on. I'm ready to go,\" Dan Vega said. \n Oakland police urged those concerned about missing people to call the Alameda County Sheriff's Coroner's Bureau at 510-382-3000. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Site of deadly Oakland warehouse fire an artist space, maze"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "Honolulu police closed all south bound lanes of Likelike Highway at School Street to investigate a moped accident. All south bound traffic is being diverted on to School Street traveling east or west. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "South bound lanes of Likelike Highway closed due to moped accident"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "Maui police say they are investigating alcohol as a possible factor in an early morning moped crash Saturday that nearly killed a 34-year-old Kihei man in Kihei. \n Police said the driver hit a curb while riding his black Sym moped heading north on the southbound shoulder of South Kihei Road. \n He was thrown from the moped and was taken in critical condition to the Maui memorial Medical Center, police said. \n The preliminary investigation shows the man was not wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. \n Speed, drugs and alcohol are being investigated as possible factors in the crash. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui police investigating near-fatal moped crash in Kihei"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "The Coast Guard medevaced a 36-year-old man from a 70-foot fishing vessel to the Queen's Medical Center on Saturday morning. \n The man, who is the master of the Lady J3, was taken to Queen's on Oahu for swelling to his legs and inability to stand. \n The Coast Guard got the request for a medevac Friday morning from a NOAA Fisheries observer aboard the boat, which was then 176 miles north of Kauai and heading to Oahu. \n The Lady J3's crew maintained communication for six hours with Coast Guard Sector Honolulu. \n The man's condition got worse by Friday evening, developing breathing problems. \n A Coast Guard MH-65 Dolphin helicopter crew from Air Station Barbers Point reached the fishing boat Saturday morning 41 miles north of Oahu. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Coast Guard rescues fisherman in distress"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Children stand behind a portrait of the late cuban leader Fidel Castro as they wait for the arrival of the motorcade carrying the ashes of Castro at the Cespedes park in Santiago, Cuba. \n SANTIAGO, Cuba >> About a year ago, trucks full of building materials began arriving at the Santa Ifigenia cemetery in the eastern Cuban city of Santiago. On Saturday, a white cloth was draped over a new structure near the mausoleum for Cuban independence leader Jose Marti. \n Beyond those few clues, the details of Fidel Castro's final resting place have been one of the most tightly kept secrets in Cuba. That is expected to end on Sunday morning, when the revolutionary leader's ashes are interred in a ceremony expected to give the world at least a brief glimpse of a tomb that will immediately become one of the most important sites on the island. \n Cuban officials have said nothing about future access to Castro's tomb, but its apparent location alongside Marti's, a grand site heavily visited by tourists and Cubans alike, indicates that there will be some form of public access to the grave of the man who led Cuba for nearly 50 years and died on Nov. 25 at 90. \n \"It's a privilege to have him here,\" said Cruz Maria Pardo, 64, who worked at the cemetery cleaning the mausoleums for more than 20 years and said she had seen trucks bringing in materials for a little over a year. \n Thousands if not millions of Cubans have lined the central roadway connecting the island's two largest cities over the last four days, chanting and waving banners as the cedar coffin carrying his remains drove by. In the country's vast, rural stretches, Cubans packed into buses and tractor trailers, many as part of work or school groups, to wait hours under a blistering sun to say goodbye. \n On Sunday, his remains reached Santiago, the city where Castro launched his revolution and where a final, mass gathering in the city's Revolution Plaza was held before his ashes are interred at Santa Ifigenia. \n The cemetery is located in the northwestern part of Santiago, about a half-kilometer from the bay. It was founded in 1868 and is the final resting place of some of the most important figures in Cuban history. Beyond a stately, white building at the entrance lies Marti's large mausoleum, a tower where there is a changing of the guard every half hour. Nearby stands a memorial to rebels killed in or executed by Batista's forces after the 1953 attack on the Moncada Barracks, Castro's initial, failed attempt to foment revolution. \n \"It's been a while since they've been bringing materials,\" said Roberto Lamar Herrera, 73, a retired railroad manager. \n \"We are going to take care of him,\" said his daughter, Ileana Lamar Rodriguez, 50. \n Further into the cemetery lies the tomb of Compay Segundo, the singer and guitarist who garnered worldwide fame as a member of the Buena Vista Club. His above-ground tomb bears the image of a golden guitar, cloaked in one of his signature Panama hats. \n Santa Ifigenia also houses the remains of historic figures whose families fled after the revolution and are seldom mentioned by officials, like Emilio Bacardi Moreau, who managed his family's rum dynasty and died in 1922. The Bacardi family left Cuba in the early years of the revolution after their properties were nationalized by the Castro government. \n \"All of the revolution's history is concentrated at that cemetery,\" said Jose Francisco Guillot Castillo, 59, a cook in an oil refinery who lives in a house with a tin roof on the nearby Raul Perozo Avenue. \n Residents along the winding street spent Saturday making signs with revolutionary phrases like \"I am Fidel,\" and hanging Cuban flags from their doorways. The street is named after a revolutionary fighter who residents say was dragged through the street and killed by Batista's forces. Today it is a mix of crumbling brick homes and new cinderblock constructions in bright coats of blue and aqua paint. The residents include a mix of factory workers, retired revolutionary combatants, engineers and students. A few signs for private business, including one specializing in eyeglass repair, line the street. \n Early Saturday morning there were some state security officials on the street, several of which questioned an Associated Press reporter doing interviews with residents on the street and stood watch nearby as she proceeded to report. \n Eugenio Rodriguez Fonseca, 82, who said he was part of the revolution's clandestine operations, stood outside his home, six golden metals commemorating his participation pinned to a worn white collared shirt. \n \"I'm crying inside,\" he said as his great-granddaughter sat nearby, the name \"Fidel\" painted across her forehead. \n When Castro's funeral caravan passes by, he said he planned to render one final salute. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fidel Castro's final resting spot shrouded in mystery"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen speaks with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump through a speaker phone in Taipei, Taiwan. \n BEIJING >> President-elect Donald Trump is unapologetic about roiling diplomatic waters with his decision to speak on the phone with Taiwan's leader, a breach of long-standing tradition that risks enmity from China. \n The U.S. severed diplomatic ties with the self-governing island in 1979 but has maintained close unofficial relations and a commitment to support its defense. \n Trump's conversation with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen drew an irritated, although understated, response from China, as Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Saturday that the contact was \"just a small trick by Taiwan\" that he believed would not change U.S. policy toward China, according to Hong Kong's Phoenix TV. \n \"The one-China policy is the cornerstone of the healthy development of China-U.S. relations and we hope this political foundation will not be interfered with or damaged,\" Wang was quoted as saying. Chinese officials said they lodged a complaint with the U.S. and reiterated a commitment to seeking \"reunification\" with the island, which they consider a renegade province. \n After the phone conversation Friday, Trump tweeted that Tsai \"CALLED ME.\" He also groused about the reaction to the call: \"Interesting how the U.S. sells Taiwan billions of dollars of military equipment but I should not accept a congratulatory call.\" \n The U.S. shifted diplomatic recognition to China from Taiwan in 1979. But the governments in Washington and Taipei have maintained close unofficial ties and deep economic and defense relations. The U.S. is required by law to provide Taiwan with weapons to maintain its defense. \n Since 2009, the Obama administration has approved $14 billion in arms sales to Taiwan. \n The call was the starkest example yet of how Trump has flouted diplomatic conventions since he won the Nov. 8 election. He has apparently undertaken calls with foreign leaders without guidance customarily given by the State Department, which oversees U.S. diplomacy. \n \"President-elect Trump is just shooting from the hip, trying to take phone calls of congratulatory messages from leaders around the world without consideration for the implications,\" said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. \n Over the decades, the status of Taiwan has been one of the most sensitive issues in U.S.-China relations. China regards Taiwan as part of its territory to be retaken by force, if necessary, if it seeks independence. It would regard any recognition of a Taiwanese leader as a head of state as unacceptable. Taiwanese newspapers ran banner headlines Sunday about the call, and two noted on their front pages Sunday that Trump referred to Tsai as \"the president of Taiwan,\" a formulation that would be a huge shift in American policy and infuriate China. \n But Douglas Paal, a former director of the American Institute in Taiwan, which unofficially represents U.S. interests in Taipei, said it was too soon to judge whether Trump was going to lead that shift, or if the incident was just a \"complicated accident.\" \n \"Beijing will watch closely to see which it is,\" said Paal, now vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. \"But until someone from Trump Tower explains further, it is unknowable.\" \n Yang Chih-kai, a 22-year-old university student in New Taipei City, said the call raised Taiwanese hopes for a stronger relationship with the United States. \n \"People will think that the U.S. will keep on helping Taiwan protect itself against China's threat,\" Yang said. \n Taiwan split from the Chinese mainland in 1949. The U.S. policy acknowledges the Chinese view over sovereignty, but considers Taiwan's status as unsettled. \n Ned Price, a spokesman for the White House National Security Council, said Trump's conversation does not signal any change to long-standing U.S. policy on cross-strait issues. \n The Taiwanese presidential office said Trump and Tsai discussed issues affecting Asia and the future of U.S. relations with Taiwan. \"The (Taiwanese) president is looking forward to strengthening bilateral interactions and contacts as well as setting up closer cooperative relations,\" the statement said. \n Tsai also told Trump that she hoped the U.S. would support Taiwan in its participation in international affairs, the office said, in an apparent reference to China's efforts to isolate Taiwan from global institutions such as the United Nations. \n Taiwan's presidential office spokesman, Alex Huang, said separately that Taiwan's relations with China and \"healthy\" Taiwan-U.S. relations can proceed in parallel. \"There is no conflict\" in that, he said. \n China's foreign ministry said Beijing lodged \"solemn representations\" with the U.S. over the call. \n \"It must be pointed out that there is only one China in the world and Taiwan is an inseparable part of Chinese territory,\" Geng Shuang, a ministry spokesman, said in a statement. \"The government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing China.\" \n China is likely to be trying to identify whether this signals any intent on the part of Trump to alter long-standing U.S. policy toward Taiwan, Glaser said. \n \"They will hope that this is a misstep, but I think privately, they will definitely seek to educate this incoming president and ensure that he understands the sensitivity of Taiwan,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump shrugs off fuss over Taiwan call"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl arrives for a pretrial hearing at Fort Bragg, N.C. Bergdahl, a former prisoner of war accused of endangering his U.S. comrades by walking off his post in Afghanistan is asking President Barack Obama to pardon him before leaving office. \n WASHINGTON >> U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, the former prisoner of war who's accused of endangering comrades by walking off his post in Afghanistan, is asking President Barack Obama to pardon him before leaving office. \n White House and Justice Department officials said Saturday that Bergdahl had submitted copies of the clemency request seeking leniency. If granted by Obama, it would allow Bergdahl to avert a military trial scheduled for April where he faces charges of desertion and misbehavior before the enemy. The misbehavior charge carries a maximum penalty of life in prison. \n If the pardon isn't granted, Bergdahl's defense team said it will expand its legal strategy to the new administration by filing a motion arguing President-elect Donald Trump violated his due process rights with scathing public comments about the case. \n The pardon request to Obama, first reported by The New York Times and Fox News, was confirmed by White House and Justice Department officials who weren't authorized to discuss the matter by name. \n Bergdahl, of Hailey, Idaho, walked off his post in Afghanistan in 2009 and was held captive by the Taliban and its allies for five years. \n The Obama administration's decision in May 2014 to exchange him for five Taliban prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, prompted criticism that included some Republicans accusing Obama of jeopardizing nation's safety. Some lawmakers were outraged that the administration didn't give Congress a 30-day notice about transferring the detainees, as required by law. \n Throughout his presidential campaign, Trump was Bergdahl's most vocal critic, saying repeatedly the soldier is a traitor who would have been executed in the \"old days.\" \n During a July speech in Indiana, Trump lamented that Bergdahl could wind up with a light punishment. \n \"Remember the old days? A deserter, what happened?\" he said before pantomiming pulling a trigger and adding: \"Bang.\" \n Bergdahl's lead defense lawyer, Eugene Fidell, declined to comment Saturday on the pardon request. \n But Fidell said he plans to file a motion seeking dismissal of the charges against Bergdahl shortly after the January inauguration, arguing Trump violated Bergdahl's constitutional due-process rights. \n The defense has been noting Trump's comments about Bergdahl in what they've dubbed the \"Trump Defamation Log.\" A version included in the court record lists 40 such instances as of August. \n \"All of these things put together and repeated rally upon rally for basically a year have a cumulative effect that I think is totally at odds with the right to a fair trial,\" Fidell said in a phone interview. \n A spokeswoman for Trump didn't respond to emails seeking comment. \n There is precedent for a military judge to decide a president's comments have tainted a military prosecution. \n In 2013, a Navy judge cited comments by Obama when he issued a pretrial order that two defendants in sexual assault cases couldn't be punitively discharged if they were found guilty. The judge wrote that Obama's public comments about cracking down on sexual assault, specifically referencing dishonorable discharges, appeared to be demand particular results from military courts. \n \"People in the military do what their commanders tell them to do,\" said Eric Carpenter, a law professor at Florida International University who served as an Army lawyer. He said there's a risk that military jurors could punish Bergdahl because they think it's what their commander in chief wants, rather than deciding strictly on the evidence. \n Carpenter said he'd be surprised if the Army judge dismissed the charges entirely, but he could give the defense leeway to question potential jurors and reject them based on their answers about Trump. \n Bergdahl, who faces trial at Fort Bragg, has said he walked off his post in Afghanistan because he wanted to cause an alarm and draw attention to what he saw as problems with his unit. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bergdahl seeks pardon from Obama to avert desertion trial"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein spoke at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on Sept. 21. \n HARRISBURG, Pa. >> Green Party-backed voters dropped a court case tonight that had sought to force a statewide recount of Pennsylvania's Nov. 8 presidential election, won by Republican Donald Trump, in what Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein had framed as an effort to explore whether voting machines and systems had been hacked and the election result manipulated. \n The decision came two days before a court hearing was scheduled in the case. Saturday's court filing to withdraw the case said the Green Party-backed voters who filed the case \"are regular citizens of ordinary means\" and cannot afford the $1 million bond ordered by the court by 5 p.m. Monday. However, Green Party-backed efforts to force recounts and analyze election software in scattered precincts were continuing. \n Stein plans to make an announcement about the Pennsylvania recount Monday outside the Trump Tower in New York, aides said. \n The court case had been part of an effort spearheaded by Stein to force recounts in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, three states with a history of backing Democrats for president that were narrowly and unexpectedly won by Trump over Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n A recount began Thursday in Wisconsin, while a recount could begin next week in Michigan. Trump's victory in Pennsylvania was particularly stunning: the state's fifth-most electoral votes are a key stepping stone to the White House, and no Republican presidential candidate had captured the state since 1988. \n Stein had said the purpose of Pennsylvania's recount was to ensure \"our votes are safe and secure,\" considering hackers' probing of election targets in other states and hackers' accessing of the emails of the Democratic National Committee and several Clinton staffers. U.S. security officials have said they believe Russian hackers orchestrated the email hacks, something Russia has denied. \n Stein's lawyers, however, had offered no evidence of hacking in Pennsylvania's election. They sought unsuccessfully in recent days to get various counties to allow a forensic examination of their election system software. \n Lawyers for Trump and the state Republican Party argued there was no evidence, or even an allegation, that tampering with Pennsylvania's voting systems had occurred. Further, Pennsylvania law does not allow a court-ordered recount, they argued, and a lawyer for the Green Party had acknowledged that the effort was without precedent in Pennsylvania. \n The case also had threatened Pennsylvania's ability to certify its presidential electors by the Dec. 13 federal deadline, Republican lawyers argued. \n On Saturday, a GOP lawyer, Lawrence Tabas, said the case had been meant \"solely for purposes to delay the Electoral College vote in Pennsylvania for President-Elect Trump.\" \n The state's top elections official, Secretary of State Pedro Cortes, a Democrat, has said there was no evidence of any sort of cyberattacks or irregularities in the election. Any recount would change few votes, Cortes predicted. \n As of Friday, Trump's margin of victory in Pennsylvania was 49,000, or less than 1 percent, out of 6 million votes cast, according to state election officials. Final counts were outstanding in some counties, including heavily populated Allegheny County, but state and county officials did not expect any outstanding uncounted votes to change the outcome of the presidential election in Pennsylvania. \n Pennsylvania's automatic statewide recount trigger is 0.5 percent. Stein drew less than 1 percent of the votes cast. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Green Party drops bid for statewide Pennsylvania recount"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "Update 7:25 p.m. \n Weather officials issued a high surf advisory for all east facing shores of Oahu, Kauai, Molokai, Maui and the Big Island until 6 a.m. tomorrow. \n Surf is expected to be between 5 and 8 feet with moderate impacts, strong breaking waves and strong longshore and rip currents which will make swimming difficult and dangerous. \n Beachgoers are urged to take precautions and heed all advice given by ocean safety officials. \n Update 6 p.m. \n The National Weather Service cancelled the flood advisory for Oahu. Kauai is still under flood warning until 7 p.m. \n Update 4:32 p.m. \n The National Weather Service issued a flash flood warning for the island of Kauai until 7 p.m. Oahu is still under flood advisory. \n Doppler radar at 3:57 p.m. showed heavy, stationary rain over interior sections of Kauai. \n Locations of the warning include but aren't limited to Lihue, Kapaa, Kalaheo, Princeville, Kilauea, Wailua Homesteads, Moloaa, Kokee State Park, Haena, Wailua Lawai and Omau. \n A stream gauge on the Hanalei river recorded rapid rises that could lead to flash flooding and possible road closures on Kuhio Highway. \n Weather officials are urging the public to take precautionary actions and move to higher ground as soon as possible. \n The warning may be extended beyond 7 p.m. if heavy rain continues. \n Previous coverage \n Oahu is under flood advisory until 5:45 p.m. today, according to the National Weather Service. \n The advisory is in effect for Honolulu, Kapolei, Waipahu, Mililani, Barbers Point, Kalihi, Aiea, Kunia, Pearl City, Manoa, Waikele and Ewa Beach. \n Radar at about 2:45 p.m. indicated heavy showers along the south shore and interior of the island, producing two to three inches of rain per hour. More heavy showers are expected throughout the afternoon, and officials are warning drivers of potentially hazardous road conditions. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flash flood warning issued for Kauai"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "A 16-year-old boy was arrested Friday night after allegedly threatening a woman with a dangerous instrument in the Kapahulu area, police said. \n The woman, 24, reported that he had threatened her at 8:55 p.m. Police arrested the youth 20 minutes later on suspicion of terroristic threatening in the first degree. \n He was released at 11:30 p.m., pending investigation of the case. No further details were available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Boy arrested after allegedly threatening woman in Kapahulu"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "A 25-year-old man accused of injuring a woman during a robbery late Friday in Kaneohe has been arrested. \n The suspect allegedly used physical force to grab personal property from a 44-year-old woman and injured her during the 5 p.m. attack, according to a police report. He could face charges of second-degree robbery and second-degree assault, police said. \n He was arrested at 5:42 p.m. Friday and put in custody pending investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for robbing woman in Kaneohe"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People chant \"I am Fidel!\" as the motorcade carrying the ashes of the late Cuban leader Fidel Castro leaves the Cespedes park during a tour in Santiago, Cuba, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016. After a four-day journey across the country through small towns and cities where his rebel army fought its way to power nearly 60 years ago, his remains will be interred in Santiago on Sunday. \n SANTIAGO, Cuba >> Fidel Castro's ashes have arrived in the eastern city of Santiago, ending a four-day journey across Cuba. \n Thousands of people welcomed the leader's remains to shouts of \"Fidel! I am Fidel!\" The 90-year-old former president died Nov. 25. He will be remembered in a nationally televised service led by his brother, President Raul Castro, Saturday evening. His ashes will be interred Sunday morning, ending a nine-day mourning period. \n Mourning for Castro has reached near-religious peaks of public adulation across Cuba since his death, particularly in rural eastern Cuba. Huge crowds have been shouting his name and lining the roads to salute the funeral procession carrying his ashes from Havana to Santiago. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fidel Castro's ashes arrive in eastern city of Santiago"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman watches the sunset at the Oceti Sakowin camp where people have gathered to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline in Cannon Ball, N.D., Friday, Dec. 2, 2016. Hundreds of protesters fighting the Dakota Access pipeline have shrugged off the heavy snow, icy winds and frigid temperatures that have swirled around their large encampment. \n FARGO, N.D. >> The head of North Dakota's emergency management services says the state is prepared to respond to Dakota Access pipeline protesters who may need help during a winter storm or some other crisis. \n State Homeland Security Director Greg Wilz said it would be a \"huge challenge,\" especially during a mass evacuation, but his office has winter shelter plans in place and various agencies are ready to respond. \n \"The bottom line here is, if we are in a situation of life and limb, we are going to be humane in anything and everything we do,\" Wilz said. \"We aren't going to let somebody out there freeze. So if they start evacuating en masse looking for shelter \u2014 which I highly suspect will happen \u2014 we would take care of that.\" \n The government has ordered hundreds of protesters to leave the Oceti Sakowin, or Seven Council Fires camp, on federal land in southern North Dakota by Monday, although demonstrators say they're prepared to stay until changes are made to the route of the four-state, $3.8-billlion pipeline. The Standing Rock Sioux tribe and others say the pipeline north of the reservation could pollute drinking water and threatens sacred sites. \n The North Dakota Department of Transportation and Morton County Highway Department will be key players in any evacuation plans, Wilz said, noting that those agencies worked to keep roads clear around the protest site during a recent storm that dumped more than a foot of snow. \n U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said in a statement Friday that the Department of Justice has offered community policing resources to local law enforcement as \"winter begins to take hold.\" \"Our first concern is the safety of everyone in the area \u2014 law enforcement officers, residents and protesters alike,\" Lynch said. \n Morton County Sheriff Kyle Kirchmeier said Lynch contacted him by phone Friday to discuss the situation. \n \"While I appreciate the Attorney General taking the time to reach out to me, neither assistance for law enforcement nor a timeline for resolution was offered,\" Kirchmeier said in a statement. \"I hope the dialogue continues, but it's time for more actions from the federal government, not more words.\" \n The North Dakota National Guard is prepared to help with any emergencies, said Jeff Zent, spokesman for Gov. Jack Dalrymple. The Republican governor issued a \"mandatory evacuation\" Monday for the main encampment, though he said no one would be forcibly removed. \n Cass County Sheriff Paul Laney again encouraged protesters to heed both the governor's order and the federal government's request to leave the land. But, he said at a news conference Saturday, that authorities won't be \"moving on that camp\" on Monday or \"in the future.\" \n Officers at the staging area and traffic control points have temporary warming houses, cold-weather gear and other winterization measures, said Rob Keller, spokesman for the Morton County Sheriff's Department. \n \"All law enforcement personnel who report for duty to the Morton County Sheriff's Department are now from North Dakota agencies and they are more than prepared for our North Dakota winters,\" Keller said. \n Wilz said his office has received no response from emergency management officials at Standing Rock about whether they have any emergency plans or whether they need support from the state. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Emergency officials: We won't let pipeline protesters freeze"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "An 18-year-old man was being held pending investigation today after being arrested at 1 a.m. on suspicion of intentionally entering a home in Palolo without permission, according to a police report. \n A 41-year-old woman found the suspect in her home at 12:40 a.m. Police were summoned and later located the suspect. He was placed under arrest for unauthorized entry into a dwelling unit in the first degree, and placed in custody at 1:04 a.m., according to police. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for allegedly breaking into Palolo home"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo taken from video provided by @Oaklandfirelive shows the scene of a fire in Oakland, early Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016. The blaze began at about 11:30 p.m. on Friday during a party at a warehouse in the San Francisco Bay Area city. Several people were unaccounted for. Oakland Fire Department posted several messages throughout the night on its Twitter social media network account, including the latest one in the morning saying that fire crews would remain on the scene for several more hours to extinguish hot spots. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> Fire tore through an Oakland warehouse converted into artist studios during a late night dance party, killing at least nine people, and officials said Saturday that the death toll could rise as high as 40. \n Officials said people either escaped from the cluttered building or died inside, where the only way down from the second story was via a stairwell constructed entirely of wooden pallets. \n \"It appears that either you got out or you got trapped inside,\" said Alameda County Sheriff's Office spokesman Sgt. Ray Kelly. \n Just last month, the city of Oakland opened an investigation into the warehouse after numerous complaints filed by neighbors complaining of trash piling up outside the property and reports people were illegally living in the building, which was zoned as a warehouse. \n Darin Ranelletti, of the Oakland Planning Department, said the city opened an investigation on Nov. 13 and an investigator went to the premises on Nov. 17 but could not get inside the building. The city has not confirmed people were living inside. \n Firefighters used chain saws and axes Saturday to cut through the debris of the cluttered building in a gritty neighborhood of the San Francisco Bay Area city, where the fire broke out about 11:30 p.m. Friday. \n Aerial images of the warehouse showed the structure was gutted with just the wooden frame remaining. Fire officials said the roof collapsed into the second floor, which in places fell to the bottom floor. \n It's unclear what sparked the fire. \n Oakland fire chief Teresa Deloche-Reed said at least another 25 people were unaccounted for in what authorities were calling the most deadly building fire in the city in recent memory. The victims were believed to be young people in their 20s, Kelly said. He said as many as 40 may have perished and that the coroner is preparing for a \"mass casualty event\" that could include victims from other countries. \n The warehouse was known as the \"Oakland Ghost Ship.\" Its website showed pictures of a bohemian, loft-like interior made of wood and cluttered with rugs, old sofas and a garage-sale like collection of pianos, paintings, turntables, statues and other items. \n The website included advertisements for various electronic music parties. On Friday night, there was an event featuring musician Golden Donna's 100% Silk West Coast tour. \n Panicked friends and family posted messages on the group's Facebook page trying to find out if their loved ones were among the dead. Those searching for the missing were sent to a local sheriff's office, where Dan Vega was anxiously awaiting news. He had been unable to find his younger brother or his brother's girlfriend. Vega said he was not sure if the two were at the party Friday night but that his brother likes to go to raves and he had not been able to reach him Saturday. His girlfriend's car was still parked at a transit station in San Bruno, south of San Francisco. \n Fighting tears, Dan Vega said he's frustrated authorities hadn't been able to tell him anything about his 22-year-old brother. \n \"I just want to go over there. I have my work boots on, I'm ready to go,\" Dan Vega said. \"Just give me some gloves. I'll help out any way, shape or form, I don't care. This is infuriating. I don't know where my brother's at. I just want to find him.\" \n It was not immediately clear what started the fire, but there did not appear to be sprinklers in the building, Deloche-Reed said. She said 50 to 100 people were believed to have been at the party when the fire started and that clutter \"made it difficult for people to escape.\" \n The warehouse was partitioned into artist studios and was packed with furniture, mannequins, statues, lamps, and other objects and did not have a clear entry or exit path, the fire chief said. \n \"There is still a large portion of the building that still needs to be searched,\" she said. \"There is large timber and debris that will need to be removed and it's going to have to be removed in a slow and methodical way.\" \n By midday Saturday, authorities had not yet identified the nine dead. Kelly said crews had removed only one body from the building. \n Investigators were having trouble entering parts of the warehouse to search for any remaining bodies because the structure was deemed unsafe, Deloche-Reed said. \n One survivor said he struggled to find a working fire extinguisher. \n \"It was too hot, too much smoke, I had to get out of there,\" Bob Mule, a photographer and artist who lives at the building and suffered minor burns, told the East Bay Times. \"I literally felt my skin peeling and my lungs being suffocated by smoke. I couldn't get the fire extinguisher to work.\" \n Oakland police urged those concerned about missing people to call the Alameda County Sheriff's Coroner's Bureau at 510-382-3000. \n The office said coroners were also at the scene Saturday morning and unavailable for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fire tears through Oakland dance party, killing at least 9"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "WENDY OSHER / JUNE 2016 \n Steven Capobianco is on trial for the murder of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. \n WAILUKU >> A jury is deliberating the fate of a Maui man on trial for murder in the death of his pregnant ex-girlfriend. \n The Maui News reports that jury deliberations began Thursday in the case of Steven Capobianco, who is accused of killing Carly \"Charli\" Scott in 2014. \n The charge of second-degree murder carries a sentence of life in prison with the possibility of parole but prosecutors say they are seeking an extended sentence that does not include parole. \n Prosecutors argue that Capobianco had been with Scott the night of Feb. 9, 2014, in a remote area in east Maui, where parts of her body and blood-stained clothing were discovered days later. \n Defense attorneys have said Capobianco was uncooperative with authorities because of a marijuana deal, not the murder. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury deliberating in trial over Maui woman's 2014 slaying"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A rainbow appears after a heavy rain over the Aleppo, Syria, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016. \n ALEPPO, Syria >> Syrian warplanes, artillery and mortar rounds pounded areas in eastern Aleppo on Saturday drawing rebel rockets, as government troops gain new ground in the shrinking opposition-held enclave. \n After four years of holding nearly half of the divided city, rebel fighters have been increasingly squeezed into the center of the eastern enclave. Government and allied troops, including Lebanese, Iraqi and Iranian fighters, have concentrated their fight on the northeastern part of the enclave, swiftly taking new districts since their offensive began last week. Another front on the southern outskirts of the city has been slower, as rebel fighters push back government advances there. \n The advances have caused massive displacement. The U.N. estimated that more than 31,000 have already fled their homes, either to government or Kurdish areas, or deeper into the besieged enclave. The fighting has also intensified the rebel shelling of government-held areas in Aleppo. \n The state broadcaster al-Ikhbariya said \"precise operations\" by government and allied troops aim to rout out \"terrorists,\" which is how the government refers to all armed opposition groups. \n The sound of war prevailed in the city early Saturday. Warplanes made several runs overhead, drawing what appeared to be rebel machine gun fire toward the aircraft. \n The Russian Interfax news agency report quoted an unnamed Syrian military official as saying that a light ground attack aircraft, L-39 jet, was shot down near Aleppo, and its crew was killed. The opposition Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which relies on a network of activists on the ground, said two pilots were killed when rebel fighters targeted the aircraft as it approached Aleppo airport to the east of the city. \n Asked about reports of the downed plane, Syrian army spokesman Brig. Gen. Samir Suleiman said \"we have no such information about such an incident and when such things happen the army announces them.\" He was speaking to reporters in Aleppo. \n Suleiman said the Syrian army has regained control of 45-to-50 percent of east Aleppo, and accused insurgents of hiding among civilians. \n Syria's Defense Minister and other senior officers visited newly captured areas in Aleppo on Saturday, according to state-run media. \n The Syrian Civil Defense in eastern Aleppo said six people were killed in bombings of the central al-Shaar neighborhood. Opposition news agency Thiqa also put the death toll at six. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the death toll at three, adding it was likely to rise. In government-held Aleppo, rebel shelling killed five people, according to the state news agency SANA. \n To the south of the city, government cannons could be heard firing toward rebel-held areas. \n Residents in eastern Aleppo also reported intense shelling in al-Sukkari neighborhood on the southern edge of the enclave, where many of the newly displaced have sought refuge. \n \"The noose is tightening quickly,\" said Mohammed Abu Jaafar, a medical official in besieged eastern Aleppo. \"Our resources are also running low and beginning to disappear.\" \n The bombings Saturday came hours after government troops made new advances on eastern parts of the enclave, including in Tariq al-Bab and al-Khaterji districts. State media reported that government and allied troops have moved in on new neighborhoods, pushing one kilometer (0.6 mile) deeper into the enclave from the far east. \n The new advances tighten the government's grip on the enclave and reduce the territory the rebels hold by more than half, according to the Observatory. \n The new advances also secure the airport road east of Aleppo, leading to the city's international airport and a military airbase. The pan-Arab Mayadeen TV station said intense bombing in eastern Aleppo was designed to ensure rebels have been cleared from the airport road. \n Moscow, a main backer of the Syrian government, says its warplanes haven't bombed Aleppo since Oct. 18. But the Russian military has helped fend off rebel attempts to break the siege of the city. \n \"We and the Russians are allies and everything that is happening is coordinated between Russian and Syrian leadership,\" said Syrian army spokesman Suleiman. \n Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Moscow is ready to hold quick talks with the U.S. \"'to ensure the withdrawal of all rebels without exception from eastern Aleppo, ensure humanitarian supplies to the city residents and the restoration of normal life in eastern Aleppo.\" \n Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will meet in Geneva early next week. After their meeting in Rome Friday, Lavrov said Kerry gave him Washington's proposals for settling the situation in Aleppo, which he described as conforming to Russia's longtime offers. Lavrov said Moscow is ready to immediately send its experts to Geneva for talks with the U.S. to coordinate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syrian and allied troops advance in besieged Aleppo"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Donald Trump spoke Friday, Dec. 2, with Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen, a move that will be sure to anger China. \n BEIJING >> President-elect Donald Trump is unapologetic about roiling diplomatic waters with his decision to speak on the phone with Taiwan's leader, a breach of long-standing tradition that risks enmity from China. \n The U.S. severed diplomatic ties with the self-governing island in 1979 but has maintained close unofficial relations and a commitment to support its defense. \n Trump's conversation with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen drew an irritated, although understated, response from China, as Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Saturday that the contact was \"just a small trick by Taiwan\" that he believed would not change U.S. policy toward China, according to Hong Kong's Phoenix TV. \n \"The one-China policy is the cornerstone of the healthy development of China-U.S. relations and we hope this political foundation will not be interfered with or damaged,\" Wang was quoted as saying. Chinese officials said they lodged a complaint with the U.S. and reiterated a commitment to seeking \"reunification\" with the island, which they consider a renegade province. \n After the phone conversation Friday, Trump tweeted that Tsai \"CALLED ME.\" He also groused about the reaction to the call: \"Interesting how the U.S. sells Taiwan billions of dollars of military equipment but I should not accept a congratulatory call.\" \n The U.S. shifted diplomatic recognition to China from Taiwan in 1979. But the governments in Washington and Taipei have maintained close unofficial ties and deep economic and defense relations. The U.S. is required by law to provide Taiwan with weapons to maintain its defense. \n Since 2009, the Obama administration has approved $14 billion in arms sales to Taiwan. \n The call was the starkest example yet of how Trump has flouted diplomatic conventions since he won the Nov. 8 election. He has apparently undertaken calls with foreign leaders without guidance customarily given by the State Department, which oversees U.S. diplomacy. \n \"President-elect Trump is just shooting from the hip, trying to take phone calls of congratulatory messages from leaders around the world without consideration for the implications,\" said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. \n Over the decades, the status of Taiwan has been one of the most sensitive issues in U.S.-China relations. China regards Taiwan as part of its territory to be retaken by force, if necessary, if it seeks independence. It would regard any recognition of a Taiwanese leader as a head of state as unacceptable. \n Taiwan split from the Chinese mainland in 1949. The U.S. policy acknowledges the Chinese view over sovereignty, but considers Taiwan's status as unsettled. \n Ned Price, a spokesman for the White House National Security Council, said Trump's conversation does not signal any change to long-standing U.S. policy on cross-strait issues. \n The Taiwanese presidential office said Trump and Tsai discussed issues affecting Asia and the future of U.S. relations with Taiwan. \"The (Taiwanese) president is looking forward to strengthening bilateral interactions and contacts as well as setting up closer cooperative relations,\" the statement said. \n Tsai also told Trump that she hoped the U.S. would support Taiwan in its participation in international affairs, the office said, in an apparent reference to China's efforts to isolate Taiwan from global institutions such as the United Nations. \n Taiwan's presidential office spokesman, Alex Huang, said separately that Taiwan's relations with China and \"healthy\" Taiwan-U.S. relations can proceed in parallel. \"There is no conflict\" in that, he said. \n China's foreign ministry said Beijing lodged \"solemn representations\" with the U.S. over the call. \n \"It must be pointed out that there is only one China in the world and Taiwan is an inseparable part of Chinese territory,\" Geng Shuang, a ministry spokesman, said in a statement. \"The government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing China.\" \n China is likely to be trying to identify whether this signals any intent on the part of Trump to alter long-standing U.S. policy toward Taiwan, Glaser said. \n \"They will hope that this is a misstep, but I think privately, they will definitely seek to educate this incoming president and ensure that he understands the sensitivity of Taiwan,\" she said. \n Last month, Trump had a call with Chinese President Xi Jinping during which Trump's office described him as saying he believed the two would have \"one of the strongest relationships for both countries.\" \n Despite China's muted response Saturday, concern about Trump's policy toward China is growing, said Shi Yinhong of Renmin University in Beijing, one of China's best-known international relations scholars. \n Tsai was elected in January and took office in May. The traditional independence-leaning policies of her party have strained relations with Beijing. \n The call with Trump could \"convince people in Taiwan that the island can establish good relations with the U.S. and encourage (Tsai) to continue to resist pressure from Beijing,\" Shi said. \n In Beijing, a U.S. business group urged the new U.S. administration to respect the status quo. \n \"The new administration needs to get up to speed quickly on the historical tensions and complex dynamics of the region,\" said James Zimmerman, chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump shrugs off fuss over Taiwan call"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russia's government staunchly denies reports that it tampered in the U.S. election or supported either candidate, but once the results were in, members of President Vladimir Putin's United Russia party didn't hold back. \n WASHINGTON >> Russia's government denies that it tampered in the U.S. election or even took sides. But now that the results are in, members of President Vladimir Putin's United Russia party aren't holding back. \n \"It turns out that United Russia won the elections in America,\" Viktor Nazarov, the governor of Omsk, Russia, declared in a radio interview. \n Long before Donald Trump was on the radar of American voters, Russia had deep interests in the outcome of elections around the world. But 2016 presented a unique window. \n Motivated by years of crippling economic sanctions and decades of post-Soviet setbacks, the Russians were keener than ever to pounce; the race for the White House, plagued by party infighting and scandal, was easy bait. \n For Putin, sanctions relief is a gateway to the ultimate goal of establishing Russia as the political and economic equivalent of the United States. Trump, who has extolled Putin's leadership and called for a tempered approach to U.S.-Russia relations, may be a conduit to achieving that. \n \"It's much more about institutions, not about personalities,\" said Robert Amsterdam, an international attorney who has a number of high-profile Russian clients. Putin \"was seriously impacted by the sanctions because it targeted his closest friends and now they think Trump is going to change that.\" \n U.S. intelligence agencies said in October they are confident that the Russian government hacked the e-mails of U.S. citizens and institutions, including political organizations, and handed them over to DCLeaks.com and WikiLeaks for distribution. Hacked Democratic National Committee emails in July, indicating that DNC leaders were favoring Hillary Clinton over Sen. Bernie Sanders in the primaries, prompted the resignation of chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. \n \"Weaponizing information is really about who gets to write the truth, who gets to write the narrative and who benefits from that narrative \u2014 and that is incredibly powerful,\" said Laura Galante, director of intelligence analysis at cybersecurity firm FireEye, Inc. \n Russia has sought to put itself on an equal footing with the U.S. since the collapse of the Soviet Union, extending its territory where it can, countering U.S. military action and positioning itself as a rival to the world's biggest economy. \n But its ambitions suffered a setback in 2014 when the Obama administration authorized sanctions against sectors of the Russian economy, including financial services, energy, mining and defense. The administration also sanctioned people in Putin's inner circle accused of undermining peace in Ukraine. Add to that falling oil prices and a weak ruble, and Russia's economy was shackled. \n The impact has been extensive. Russia's sovereign wealth fund had $87 billion in assets in December 2013, according to the Russian Finance Ministry. As of June 1, it was down to $38 billion, following sell-offs by the Russian government to make up for budget deficits. U.S. trade with Russia tumbled to $23 billion in 2015, from about $34 billion the previous year. \n Sanctions that impede Russia's ability to acquire equipment for Arctic offshore drilling are of particular concern because they hold the key to Russia's rapid expansion in that sector. \n \"Lifting restrictions on exports of technology, software, things that really help their energy industry extract oil and gas\" would be the top priority, said Boris Zilberman, a Russia expert at the Center on Sanctions and Illicit Finance at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. \n \"Production is dwindling over time, so they're going into new, offshore, deep-water drilling in the Arctic and so on, and to do that, they really need Western technology,\" he said. \n Sanctions relief is important to Russia's broader objective of superpower status, shown by its bullish Syria policy. Syria's Russian-backed military made major gains in rebel-held eastern Aleppo in recent days and rebel resistance appeared to be crumbling. While Moscow and Washington are continuously at odds over Syria, the Obama administration has not imposed any Syria-related sanctions. \n Trump's promise of closer cooperation with Russia has created worries that the U.S. will have diminished leverage. He said during the campaign that under his leadership the U.S. might not come to the defense of some NATO members if Russia were to attack them, indicating he would make that decision based on whether those Baltic republics \"have fulfilled their obligations to us.\" \n But Trump's positions are hard to assess because he's often stepped away from his more controversial proposals. Trump's choice as defense secretary, retired Gen. James Mattis, has called Russia's aggression in Ukraine a problem \"much more severe, more serious\" than Washington and the European Union are treating it. \n Putin and Trump spoke soon after his victory and a statement from Trump's transition team said the president-elect told Putin he looked forward to \"a strong and enduring relationship.\" Observers caution that Putin's interests are self-motivated and Russia's incentive to interfere in U.S. politics won't go away with Trump's victory. \n \"It's not that Putin is against the Democratic Party,\" Zilberman said. \"He's more against the United States and (for) whatever may push Russian interests.\" \n He added: \"There's nothing saying that next time they won't hack Republicans and expose Trump administration emails if it benefits them.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia sees Trump as conduit for eased sanctions"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by Heritage Auctions shows Thomas A. Edison: Keys to His Menlo Park Laboratory on display. Six keys in all from the famous inventor's Menlo Park home and work place will be auctioned Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016 in Dallas, along with five lightbulbs, including two that he created. Heritage Auctions will open the bidding on the two lots. \n TRENTON, N.J. >> Thomas Edison's door key to the 19th century lab in New Jersey where he invented the phonograph goes up for auction this weekend, along with lightbulbs he perfected. \n Six keys in all from the famous inventor's Menlo Park home and work place will be auctioned Saturday in Dallas, along with five lightbulbs, including two that he created. Heritage Auctions will open the bidding on the two lots at 11 a.m. EST. \n The items were acquired by Charlie Knudsen, 69, of Pittsburgh and had belonged to his great-aunt. She was married to one of the attorneys whose law firm represented Edison in patent lawsuits. \n Tags on some of the keys list the doors that they opened, including Edison's 1876 lab that became known as the \"invention factory.\" Another key says \"motor shed,\" and a third \"shop.\" \n Edison had applied for about 400 patents, including improvements to the incandescent bulb, before he left for New York City in 1882, said Kathleen Carlucci, director of the Thomas Edison Center. \n The lab itself was built by Edison's father about 30 miles northeast of Trenton and was the world's largest in its day. Carlucci said it also was \"the first research and development facility.\" \n The bulbs up for auction were part of a collection used in patent infringement lawsuits. \"One bulb in particular was used in a case where he (Edison) was able to prove he had a patent,\" Knudsen said. \n After making lightbulbs commercially viable, the \"Wizard of Menlo Park\" turned his attention to New York City where he worked to develop an electric utility. \n Squatters took over the abandoned Menlo Park property, raising chickens and crops, Carlucci said. Local residents held dances in the lab. \n Today, Menlo Park is a national historic site and a state park. None of the original buildings remain, but a museum and education center highlight Edison's accomplishments. \n A 131-foot memorial tower to commemorate his work on the lightbulb stands on the site. It was restored last year and its 14-foot tall replica bulb shines in the night. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thomas Edison's lab door key, lightbulbs up for auction"}

{"date": "December 3, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/KELLI KENNEDY \n Madonna performs during Art Basel Miami Beach, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016, in Miami Beach, Fla. \n Miami Beach, Fla. \u00bb Madonna kissed Ariana Grande, repeatedly criticized President elect Donald Trump and said she was ashamed to be an American in a magnetic performance in Miami on Friday night where she raised more than $7.5 million for the African nation of Malawi. \n The Material Girl dug deep into her personal treasures, auctioning off pieces from her own art collection, a costume from her tour modeled by Grande and black and white photos from her 1985 wedding to ex-husband Sean Penn shot by the late photographer Herb Ritts. The trio of wedding photos sold for $230,000. \n Penn, who attended the fundraiser and bid on several pricey items when the auction stalled, handcuffed Madonna and crawled through her legs at one point as the two tried to coerce the audience to bid higher. \n \"For once, he's not the one being arrested,\" she joked. \n The party lasted until early Saturday morning when Madonna took the stage for an hour-long performance before a star studded crowd that included Leonardo DiCaprio, Chris Rock, Dave Chappelle, James Corden, ex-boyfriend A-Rod and Courtney Love. The fundraiser was just one of the many parties during Art Basel Miami Beach, a contemporary art fair. \n Madonna, who performed in a pink sequined clown top and fishnet stockings, seemed to hold nothing back, especially her opinions on the election, joking with the audience that she had promised to perform sexual favors for those who voted for Hillary. \n She coyly said she'd been in Donald Trump's bed, but later revealed it was for a magazine photo shoot and that Trump wasn't even there \u2014 and she criticized his cheap sheets. \n \"They won't be Egyptian cotton because we all know how he feels about Muslims don't we,\" she said as some audience members gasped. \n She gyrated to a slowed-down version of Britney Spears' \"Toxic\" and seductively sang, \"You know that you're toxic,\" as images of Trump appeared on a large screen behind her. \n At one point, she walked into the audience, climbing on tables and giving one man a lap dance. She abruptly stood up at another point, grabbed the chair on which she had performed and said she also wanted to auction it, noting $600 could send a girl in Malawi to secondary school and $2,000 would cover her university expenses. The chair sold for $10,000. \n Other notable items included a Damien Hirst painting, a private performance by magician David Blaine, who was also at the event, and a weeklong stay at DiCaprio's home in Palm Springs, which fetched $140,000. A print by artist Tracey Emin from Madonna's personal art collection, sold for $550,000. \n Madonna adopted her 11-year-old son David from an orphanage in Malawi more than a decade ago. At the time, she said, \"I didn't know where Malawi was\" on the map. David had pneumonia and malaria. His mother died in childbirth and his siblings were also dead. \n He was on hand to introduce his mother, telling audience members who paid at least $5,000 per plate, \"I realize I'm one of the lucky ones.\" \n The pop star showed videos of Malawi, asking for help to build a pediatric surgery and intensive care unit at a hospital there. Fifty percent of the population there is under the age of 15, according to her foundation Raising Malawi. \n The night was punctuated by her sardonic humor, corny clown jokes, controversial political statements and heartfelt moments about how much the hospital project means to her. She divulged a few personal details, lamenting that she was very single and hadn't had sex in a long time and saying she'd always had a fascination with clowns which she said are \"profoundly misunderstood.\" \n She spoke passionately about the plight of Native Americans and asked why their land was being destroyed. \n \"It just really makes me feel ashamed, ashamed to be an American, ashamed to be a human being really,\" she said before launching into \"American Life.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Madonna raises $7.5M for Malawi, slams Trump in Miami show"}

