{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "A 38-year-old woman died this morning from injuries she suffered in a fireworks incident in Kapolei. \n The Honolulu Fire Department said it received a medical emergency call at a Komohana Street address at 12:08 a.m. When firefighters arrived they found a man and a woman with apparent blast injuries and that bystanders were performing CPR on the woman. \n City Emergency Medical Services officials say they transported a 36-year-old man to a trauma hospital and a 38-year-old woman to an area hospital. Both were in critical condition. \n Honolulu police say the woman died shortly after 1 a.m. \n Police said they are investigating the case for the possible use of prohibited explosive devices. Police said no arrests or citations had been issued as of this afternoon. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "1 dead, 1 injured in fireworks-related incident in Kapolei"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "President Barack Obama and his family started New Year's Day with a morning trip to the East-West Center, a short visit to Punchbowl and another day at Bellows Beach. \n The president met with Richard R. Vuylsteke, the incoming president of the East-West Center at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The East-West Center provides grants and scholarships to students and fellows from around the world. Obama has made several trips to the center during his time as president. His mother, Ann Dunham, studied there while working toward a doctorate degree from the University of Hawaii. \n Obama and Vuylsteke were joined by the president's daughters, Sasha and Malia, as well as his sister Maya Soetoro-Ng, a UH faculty member. \n The president and his daughters then went to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific at Punchbowl where his grandfather, Stanley Dunham is buried. \n They followed the visit with a trip to Bellow Beach where they spent several hours for the second time in a week. \n The Obamas are spending their last winter vacation as first family on Oahu. They have made the two-week trip an annual tradition. The family returns to Washington D.C. tonight. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff & Associated Press", "title": "Obamas visit East-West Center, Punchbowl, Bellows on last vacation day"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> The State Department is confirming that the 35 Russian diplomats President Barack Obama ordered out of the country have departed the United States. \n Obama expelled the diplomats, saying they were really spies, and ordered new sanctions on Russian spy agencies for alleged Russian hacking of political sites during the presidential election. Obama also shuttered two Russian compounds in Maryland and New York. \n The State Department said Sunday that the 35 Russian diplomats, along with their family members, have left the United States. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State Department: 35 Russian diplomats leave U.S."}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump's skepticism of technology marks a sharp contrast from Obama, whom he'll replace on Jan. 20. \n WASHINGTON >> As Barack Obama began preparing to leave office, the first smartphone-toting U.S. president ordered his team to upgrade the White House's aging technology for his successor. New computers were purchased and faster internet was installed. \n Not included in the modernization plans? A courier service. \n But that delivery method of a bygone era may be in for a comeback under Donald Trump. Despite his voracious use of Twitter, the president-elect appears to be leaning toward old tech to ensure the security of sensitive messages. \n \"It's very important, if you have something really important, write it out and have it delivered by courier, the old-fashioned way because I'll tell you what, no computer is safe,\" Trump told reporters Saturday in response to questions about Russia's alleged hacking of Democrats during the presidential election. Trump, who doesn't email or surf the internet, said days earlier that computers \"have complicated lives very greatly.\" \n Trump's skepticism of some technology marks a sharp contrast from the president he'll replace on Jan. 20. Obama, who was a youthful 47 years old when he took office, carries a specially outfitted Blackberry, emails with a small number of friends and aides, and has received some of his daily security briefings on an iPad. He celebrated technological innovations at an annual science fair, created the job of chief technology officer in the White House and viewed technology as key to making the sprawling federal government more efficient and responsive to the public. \n But technology has also been a burden for Obama. Online sign-ups for his health care law were crippled by massive technical issues, resulting in one of the most embarrassing episodes of his presidency. National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden stole classified information that he leaked to journalists, revealing the Obama administration's bulk collection of millions of Americans' phone records, as well as U.S. spying on some friendly foreign leaders. \n Trump, 70, rarely uses a computer and sifts through stacks of newspapers, magazines and printed articles to read the news. He panned candidates' reliance on data and technology in presidential campaigns, preferring to make decisions in part based on the reaction from audiences at his rallies. While Trump's tweetstorms are already legendary, he utters some of his messages out loud and leaves the actual typing to aides. \n Incoming White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he expects Trump to continue using Twitter and other social media sites as president, casting it as an effective way to communicate with Americans. \n \"Absolutely, you're going to see Twitter,\" Spicer said Sunday on ABC's \"This Week.\" \"I think it freaks the mainstream media out \u2014 that he has this following of 45-plus million people that follow him on social media\" and he \"can have a direct conversation\" with them. \n Trump has shown some interest in technology since winning the White House. Billionaire tech investor Peter Thiel has been working with Trump's transition team and could serve as an adviser to the administration. Trump met with several Silicon Valley executives last month, telling them his administration was \"here to help you folks do well.\" \n As Trump heads into the White House, some of the biggest questions surrounding his relationship with technology will involve security. U.S. intelligence agencies say Russia hacked the Democratic National Committee and a top aide to Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton during the election, exposing the vulnerabilities of systems in Washington. Revelations that Clinton used a personal email and private internet server during her four years as Obama's secretary of state highlighted the lax practices that exist in government. \n As a candidate, Trump called for an immediate review of U.S. cyber defenses and vulnerabilities, though he has not detailed specific steps he plans to take to bolster cybersecurity and has not publicly accepted the intelligence community's conclusion that Russia was behind the election year hacking. Nor has Trump outlined any changes in the way he expects the White House to use technology for day-to-day work. \n Bruce Schneier, a technology security expert, said Trump was right to question the safeguards that exist for protecting his own communications as president. \n \"If the Russian spies want to get at his data, no computer is probably safe,\" said Schneier, a fellow at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. \"Everything is vulnerable.\" \n Of course, the courier system Trump suggests is hardly foolproof, either. After the U.S. killed 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden, administration officials said they had gleaned crucial information on his whereabouts by tracking the al-Qaida leader's courier. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama boosted White House technology; Trump sees risks"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "NASHVILLE, Tenn. >> Sean Henry, the president of Tennessee's NHL team, is stunned he even has to explain why he hopes state legislators will snub bills similar to North Carolina's transgender bathroom law, which has consumed that state for months and scared off businesses and sporting events. \n The Nashville Predators team is among about 300 companies, ranging from health-care giant HCA to FedEx, joining under the moniker Tennessee Thrives to oppose bathroom and religious objection bills, which they consider discriminatory and bad for business. Companies in other GOP-led states have had success voicing opposition under similar names: Georgia Prospers, Opportunity West Virginia, Missouri Competes. \n \"I honestly cannot believe that in 2016 I'm actually asked a question as to why I would support anti-discrimination groups,\" Henry said. \"I think the real question is: who hasn't joined?\" \n After the United States Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in 2015, social conservatives turned to statehouses, seeking state laws to let businesses, pastors and government refuse services to LGBT people based on their religious objections to same-sex unions. \n Social progressives hoping to hold back that tide appealed to citizens' sense of equality and people's pocketbooks. \n Despite the political and economic repercussions that erupted in North Carolina, the American Civil Liberties Union expects an increase in statehouse proposals limiting LGBT protections in 2017. \n Frank Cannon, president of the socially conservative American Principles Project, encouraged Republicans to push back against those trying to cast North Carolina's bathroom bill as a financial liability. He pointed to a GOP wave led by President-elect Donald Trump as proof that the public still embraces social conservatism. \n \"Republicans must keep fighting because, while the left was able to successfully define HB2 as an economic issue and convince elite corporations and celebrities to punish the state of North Carolina for protecting the privacy of young girls, their overreach clearly backfired in the presidential race in a big way,\" he said. \n North Carolina's law omits LGBT people from state anti-discrimination protections and orders transgender people to use bathrooms in schools and government buildings that align with the sex on their birth certificate. Businesses, conventions and sports events have avoided North Carolina in protest, and Republican Gov. Pat McCrory lost his re-election under heavy criticism for signing the law. \n Now, as lawmakers begin their work this winter, some Republicans are heeding business groups' warnings to steer clear of the laws, even in some of Trump's more favorable turf. \n Kentucky looks on paper like a state likely to embrace a law like North Carolina's: the GOP won control of both legislative chambers in November for the first time in a century, and Republican Gov. Matt Bevin joined a lawsuit this year challenging the federal government's directive that public schools allow students to use the bathroom of their gender identity. Yet Bevin, a staunch social conservative, has dismissed calls for a bathroom bill. \n \"Why would we?\" he said. \"Is there anyone you know in Kentucky who has trouble going to the bathroom? The last thing we need is more government rules. I'm cutting red tape, not creating it.\" \n This spring, Georgia's legislature passed a bill aimed at shielding religious people who deny services because of a moral objection. Within days, Coca-Cola and other big-name Georgia companies joined prominent Hollywood figures calling for a veto. The Walt Disney Co., Marvel Studios and Salesforce.com threatened to take business elsewhere. The NFL said the potential law would factor into whether Atlanta hosts the 2019 or 2020 Super Bowl. \n Georgia's Republican Gov. Nathan Deal vetoed it. \n In West Virginia, where Trump won every county and more than 68 percent of the popular vote, the incoming state Senate President said his poor state desperately needs economic opportunity and should not wade into controversial social issues in 2017. \n \"Putting forth solutions to problems that don't exist is not going to be on our agenda,\" Republican Sen. Mitch Carmichael said. \n Still, bathroom bills have been introduced in Republican states that include Alabama, South Carolina and Missouri, where the governor's mansion changed from Democratic to Republican control. And in South Dakota, where GOP Gov. Dennis Daugaard vetoed a bathroom bill in 2016, the bathroom issue could make the 2018 ballot. \n Tennessee is in wait-and-see mode while the U.S. Supreme Court considers the federal bathroom guidance for schools, which state Republicans think Trump would ditch anyway, said Tennessee Rep. Glen Casada, the GOP caucus chairman. \n The state has faced backlash for passing a 2016 law that lets therapists decline to see patients based on religious values and personal principles. As a result, the American Counseling Association canceled a Nashville convention, calling the law discriminatory. \n Tennessee Thrives says it'll advocate for policies of inclusivity and nondiscrimination. The group hopes its formation serves as warning shot to state lawmakers as the agenda takes shape for the session starting Jan. 10. \n Dale Walker, president of the Tennessee Pastors Network, said the business opposition will only motivate conservative religious groups to push harder for bathroom bills and \"religious freedom\" measures. \n \"They've done us a great favor,\" Walker said. \"They're going to galvanize the conservative churches in Tennessee like they have never seen before.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In red states, businesses gearing up to fight bathroom bills"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n With just weeks left in office, the pressure is mounting for President Barack Obama to do something to solidify the future of hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the country as children who could face imminent deportation under the Trump administration. \n WASHINGTON >> Barack Obama is under pressure during his final weeks as president to do something \u2014 anything \u2014 to secure the future of hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the U.S. as children who could face deportation under the Trump administration. His options appear few. \n At least 50 congressional Democrats are pushing Obama to take the rare if not unprecedented step of granting pardons to the young immigrants who have stepped forward to identify themselves in exchange for a promise that they'd be safe from deportation. The White House, though, has repeatedly ruled that out. \n Several Republican lawmakers are crafting legislative proposals to solidify the place of these immigrants, sometimes called Dreamers, before Donald Trump takes office Jan. 20. Similar efforts have repeatedly failed, even with Democratic majorities in both chambers of Congress, so the likelihood of a legislative Hail Mary isn't great. \n That leaves more than 741,000 immigrants wondering what's next. \n Trump's plans for Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program are unclear. As a candidate, he pledged an immediate end to what he called an \"illegal executive amnesty.\" But as the president-elect, he has softened that stance. \n \"We're going to work something out that's going to make people happy and proud,\" Trump told Time magazine last month. \"They got brought here at a very young age, they've worked here, they've gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they're in never-never land because they don't know what's going to happen.\" \n Obama's program allowed young immigrants who came to the United States as children to come forward and go through background checks in exchange for a promise they would be safe from deportation and allowed to apply for work permits. They must reapply for the program and work permits every two years. \n While the government promised approved immigrants that they wouldn't face deportation, the program does not provide a legal immigration status. Under Trump, their personal information, and that of some relatives, could soon be readily accessible to immigration enforcement officials. \n When Obama announced the plan in 2012, he said he was taking executive action because Congress hadn't acted. \n \"This is not amnesty, this is not immunity,\" Obama said at the time. He called the program a \"stopgap measure\" that would protect young immigrants from deportation while his immigration agencies focused enforcement efforts on criminal immigrants and those who pose a threat to public safety. \n The Homeland Security Department made clear then that a future administration could do away with the program. \n The pardons being pushed by Democratic lawmakers are seen as a non-starter. \n \"Ultimately, it wouldn't protect a single soul from deportation, so it's not an answer here,\" Cecilia Munoz, Obama's top immigration adviser, told the Center for Migration Studies. \"I know people are hoping for an answer, but by its very nature, the use of executive authority in this way is subject to the will of the executive\" \u2014 soon to be Trump. \n Even if Obama was inclined to offer pardons for immigration violations, that alone wouldn't change the predicament these young immigrants are in because the president doesn't have the power to grant someone legal immigration status on his own. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama has few options to protect young immigrants"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Turkish police officers block the road leading to the scene of an attack in Istanbul, early Sunday, Jan. 1, 2017. An assailant believed to have been dressed in a Santa Claus costume opened fire at a crowded nightclub in Istanbul during New Year's celebrations, killing dozens of people and wounding tens of others in what the province's governor described as a terror attack. \n ISTANBUL >> A manhunt is on in Turkey for an assailant who unleashed a salvo of bullets in front of and inside a crowded Istanbul nightclub during New Year's celebrations Sunday, killing at least 39 people before fleeing. \n Foreigners were among the fatalities, including an 18-year-old Israeli woman, three Indian citizens, a 26-year-old man from Lebanon and a Belgian national, according to the countries' respective foreign ministries and a relative. \n Close to 70 others were injured in what authorities described as a terror attack. Three of the wounded were in critical condition, Turkey's prime minister said. \n President Recep Tayyip Erdogan vehemently condemned \"the terror attack in Istanbul's Ortakoy neighborhood in the first hours of 2017\" and offered condolences for those who lost their lives, including \"foreign guests.\" \n The attacker, armed with a long-barreled weapon, killed a policeman and a civilian outside the popular Reina club at around 1:15 a.m. before entering and firing on people partying inside, Gov. Vasip Sahin said. \n \"Unfortunately, (he) rained bullets in a very cruel and merciless way on innocent people who were there to celebrate New Year's and have fun,\" Sahin told reporters. \n There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack and authorities did not name any suspects. The bloodiest attacks that Turkey endured in 2016 were the work of the Islamic State group or Kurdish militants. \n Turkey is a member of NATO and a partner in the U.S.-led coalition against the Islamic State group. The country is also facing renewed conflict with Kurdish rebels in the southeast, and across the border in Syria and Iraq. \n Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said a suspect has not been identified and that the gunman remains at large. Soylu, describing the attack as a \"massacre, a truly inhumane savagery,\" said three or four of the Turkish victims may have been employees at the nightclub. \n \"Our security forces have started the necessary operations. God willing, he will be caught in a short period of time,\" Soylu said. \n Private NTV news channel said the assailant entered the upscale nightclub, on the shores of the Bosporus, on the European side of the city, dressed in a Santa Claus outfit. \n Security camera footage obtained by The Associated Press from Haberturk newspaper, shows the male assailant dressed in black and carrying a backpack as he shoots down a police officer outside the Reina nightclub. \n Footage taken by a different camera shows him inside the venue wearing different clothes and a Santa Claus hat. \n However, Turkey's prime minister denied that the gunman wore a Santa Claus outfit. \n \"There is no truth to this. He is an armed terrorist as we know it,\" Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told reporters. \n Yildirim said the attacker left a gun inside the venue and escaped by \"taking advantage of the chaos\" that ensued. \n Some customers reportedly jumped into the waters of the Bosporus to escape the attack. \n Mehmet Dag, 22, was passing by the club and saw the suspect shoot at a police officer and a bystander. He said the suspect then targeted security guards, gunning them down and entering the club. \n \"Once he went in, we don't know what happened. There were gun sounds, and after two minutes the sound of an explosion,\" Dag said. \n Turkish media said the victims include a 22-year-old police officer and a 47-year-old travel agent, both of whom were shot outside the club. \n The nightclub area remained sealed off on Sunday afternoon. \n Heavily armed police blocked the snowy street in front of the nightclub where the entrance was covered with blue plastic sheeting below a Turkish flag. Police patrolled the Asian side of the Bosporus on the other side of the club. \n Crime scene investigators were seen inside the club searching through piles of mingled chairs, tables and pieces of clothing left behind during the panic among the guests. \n And there were emotional scenes in front of a city morgue where those shot dead were brought for identification. Some relatives cried out and fell to the ground as they apparently learned the fate of their loved ones. \n Turkey's Minister of Family and Social Policies Fatma Betul Sayan Kaya said citizens of Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Lebanon and Libya were among those hurt in the attack. \n The U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul on Sunday warned American citizens to keep their movements in the city \"to an absolute minimum.\" \n A statement reminded U.S. citizens that extremists \"are continuing aggressive efforts to conduct attacks in areas where U.S. citizens and expatriates reside or frequent.\" \n The United States also denied reports in Turkish new outlets and on social media that its security agencies knew in advance that the nightclub in Istanbul was at risk of a terror attack. \n The U.S. Embassy in Ankara said in a statement issued Sunday that \"contrary to rumors circulating in social media, the U.S. Government had no information about threats to specific entertainment venues, including the Reina Club.\" \n Major attacks carried out by IS or Kurdish militants killed more than 180 people in Istanbul and Ankara alone in 2016. \n On Dec. 10, a double bomb attack outside a soccer stadium near the Reina nightclub killed 45 people and wounded some 150 others. The attack was claimed by Turkey-based Kurdish militant group, the Kurdish Freedom Falcons. \n \"Turkey continues its combat against terror and is absolutely determined to do whatever is necessary in the region to ensure its citizens safety and peace,\" President Erdogan said in a written statement Sunday. \n Prime Minister Yildirim vowed to keep fighting terror organizations, but noted that, \"The terror that happens here today may happen in another country in the world tomorrow.\" \n The nightclub attack drew quick condemnation from the West and Russia. \n Russian President Vladimir Putin sent his Turkish counterpart a telegram of condolences, saying \"it is hard to imagine a more cynical crime than killing innocent people during New Year celebrations.\" \n \"However, terrorists don't share moral values. Our common duty is to combat terrorists' aggression,\" Putin said. \n The White House condemned what it called a \"horrific terrorist attack\" and offered U.S. help to Turkey. \n An estimated 600 people were celebrating inside the club that is often frequented by famous locals, including singers, actors and sports stars. Several shocked revelers were seen fleeing the scene after the attack and the music fell silent. \n The prime minister's office issued a media blackout on the events and asked media to refrain from broadcasting and publishing anything that may cause \"fear in the public, panic and disorder and which may serve the aims of terrorist organizations.\" \n Security measures had been heightened in major Turkish cities, with police barring traffic leading up to key squares in Istanbul and the capital Ankara. In Istanbul, 17,000 police officers were put on duty, some disguised as Santa Claus and others as street vendors, Turkey's Anadolu news agency reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspect in Istanbul club attack who killed 39 still at large"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Hollywood sign is seen vandalized Sunday, Jan. 1, 2017. Los Angeles residents awoke New Year's Day to find a prankster had altered the famed Hollywood sign to read \"HOLLYWeeD.\" \n LOS ANGELES >> No, Los Angeles residents, it wasn't your hangovers playing tricks on you. The Hollywood sign really did read \"HOLLYWeeD\" for a few hours on New Year's Day. \n Police were investigating Sunday after a prankster used giant tarps to turn two of the iconic sign's white Os into Es sometime overnight. \n The vandal, dressed in all black, was recorded by security cameras and could face a misdemeanor trespassing charge, said Sgt. Robert Payan. \n The person scaled a protective fence surrounding the sign above Griffith Park and then clambered up each giant letter to drape the coverings, Payan said. \n The prank may be a nod to California voters' approval in November of Proposition 64, which legalized the recreational use of marijuana, beginning in 2018. \n Hikers and tourists in the hills spent the morning snapping photos of themselves in front of the altered sign before park rangers began removing the tarps. \n \"It's kind of cool being here at the moment,\" Bruce Quinn told KABC-TV. \"I thought we came to see the Hollywood sign, not the' Hollyweed' sign. But hey it's OK with me!\" \n While attention-grabbing, the prank was not exactly original. Forty-one years ago to the day \u2014 Jan. 1, 1976 \u2014 a college student similarly altered the sign, using curtains to make it read \"HOLLYWEED.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Vandalized Hollywood sign briefly reads 'HOLLYWeeD'"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mariah Carey performs at the New Year's Eve celebration in Times Square on Saturday, Dec. 31, 2016, in New York. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mariah Carey performs at the New Year's Eve celebration in Times Square on Saturday, Dec. 31, 2016, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> After a brief, flawless \"Auld Lang Syne,\" it was all downhill for Mariah Carey on New Year's Eve. \n A representative for the million-selling superstar cited technical difficulties for a disastrous appearance on \"Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest,\" which aired on ABC and was the subject of widespread mockery on social media. \n Carey's mood seemed to range from frustration to resignation as she struggled with the pre-recorded musical tracks. Telling the revelers jammed into Times Square that there had not been a sound check for her hit song \"Emotions,\" she lamented that \"we're missing some of these vocals, but it is what it is.\" \n \"Let the audience sing,\" she decided as she paced the stage. \n \"I'm trying to be a good sport here,\" she said, adding her own sarcastic review of the performance. \"That was \u2026 amazing.\" \n The next song, \"We Belong Together,\" went no better. At times, she lowered the microphone from her mouth and the music, vocals and all, kept playing, making it clear she was lip-synching. \n \"Unfortunately there was nothing she could do to continue with the performance given the circumstances,\" Carey spokeswoman Nicole Perna said Sunday. \n A representative for Dick Clark productions did not immediately return an email seeking comment. \n Carey later tweeted about the night, starting with a brief profanity, throwing in a couple of sad emojis and concluding with, \"Here's to making more headlines in 2017.\" \n On Twitter, commentators called the fiasco a fitting end to a traumatic year for the music industry, marked by the deaths of Prince, David Bowie and George Michael among others. One tweeter, referring to the 2016 presidential campaign, joked that Carey's show had been hacked by the Russians. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mariah Carey rep: Technical problems bungle New Year's show"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Buckingham Palace said Sunday Jan. 1, 2017 that Queen Elizabeth II will not be well enough to attend a New Year church service because of a lingering heavy cold. \n LONDON >> Queen Elizabeth II missed a traditional New Year's Day church service Sunday because of the effects of a lingering cold. \n Buckingham Palace said the queen \"does not yet feel ready to attend church as she is still recuperating from a heavy cold.\" There was no indication she is suffering from a more serious illness. \n It was unusual for Elizabeth not to attend the service, long part of her New Year's Day routine. The inclement weather may have been a contributing factor in her decision to stay indoors. It was cold with a steady rain in the Norfolk area 110 miles (175 kilometers) north of London where the queen maintains a private estate called Sandringham. \n Elizabeth also missed the Christmas church service last week for the first time in decades. She is recuperating out of the public eye in one of her favorite homes. \n The 90-year-old queen, the longest reigning monarch in British history, had earlier delayed her departure for Sandringham for the Christmas holidays because both she and her husband, Prince Philip, were suffering from intense colds. \n She traveled one day later than planned and used a helicopter rather than a train to shorten the travel time. \n Her prolonged illness has raised some concerns because colds and flus can be dangerous for elderly people. The queen has generally been in good health in recent years, although she has cut down somewhat on her traveling and public appearances. \n Philip, 95, has also reduced his schedule, but managed to attend more than 100 public events in 2016. \n He and other members of the royal family attended the New Year service Sunday at the church on the grounds of Sandringham estate. \n Philip was driven to the church in a royal Range Rover. He used to arrive by foot when he was younger. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Queen Elizabeth II misses church due to 'heavy cold'"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "A New Year's resolution to save just one percent more a year can make a big difference when it comes time to retire, according to financial experts. \n New Year's resolutions can be invigorating. \n It's a brand new year and a chance to do things right. As such, some resolutions tend to show up again and again on lists, such as save more, spend less and lose weight. \n A key to making resolutions stick though is to make the goals concrete. So if saving more is your aim this year, try this more specific goal on for size \u2014 set aside just 1 percent more for retirement. \n Here are a few reasons why: \n IT'S EASY \n \"People sometimes get overwhelmed thinking about it (retirement saving), so we are trying to chunk it up for them,\" said Christine Marcks, president of Prudential Retirement, which is urging people to pledge, in person or online, to save one percent more in 2017 toward their retirement. \n The general rule of thumb is to save 10 to 15 percent toward retirement, but that is often too much off the bat. So start small and try it out \u2014 you can add another percent each year if you want. \n It doesn't take much time either. You can have withdrawals automatically made from your paycheck or checking account, and setting up the process can take just minutes. \n IT WORKS \n \"The fact is, people who make resolutions on money matters tend to feel better about the state of their finances and are generally in better financial shape than those who don't,\" said Ken Hevert, senior vice president of Retirement at Fidelity Investments. \n Saving just 1 percent more can make a big difference. \n Fidelity gives the example of someone at age 25 who earns $40,000 a year. If they add an extra one percent monthly to a 401(k), that's only an extra $33 a month, but it will mean an added $3,970 at retirement. And it adds up, no matter the age. At age 45, someone earning $70,000 a year is going to have an added $1,880 each year in retirement if they increase their savings by 1 percent now. \n This minor adjustment also removes another major hurdle for some savers: affordability. The 1 percent savings, which may be pretax, is often so small that it the change is barely detectable in your monthly income. \n IT'S SCALABLE \n This is a goal you can build on. \n If you are already saving, great. But odds are good you could be saving more, so why not nudge it up? If you aren't saving at all, this is an easy place to begin. You can easily add another 1 percent each year. Or if it feels comfortable, bump it up a notch later in the year. It doesn't have to be painful. \n Plus you get the bonus of seeing your contributions grow, which can provide the positive feedback you need to make better choices down the road. \n \"Make a New Year's resolution to fund your future,\" Marcks said. \n Remember: saving for retirement is never going to happen unless you start. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Saving a little extra makes a big difference to retirement"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "The U.S. Coast Guard supsended its search at sunset Sunday for a small aircraft carrying three Oahu residents that disappeared from radar Friday night off of Molokai. \n \"Unfortunately, right now we really have nothing to go on,\" said Coast Guard spokeswoman Tara Molle, noting that officials hadn't found any debris from the plane or oil slicks. She said that the search could be resumed if there is a development in the case. \n Those aboard the Cessna included pilot Michael Childers and passengers John Mizuno and Whitney Thomas, all in their twenties. \n Responders conducted a total of 29 searches covering more than 1,400 square miles, according to a Coast Guard press release sent out to the media on Sunday evening. \n \"Our most heartfelt condolences go out to the families and friends of Michael, Whitney and John,\" said Lt. Nic Iannarone, Coast Guard Joint Rescue Coordination Center command duty officer, in a press release. \"Suspending a search is an incredibly difficult decision to make, especially during the holiday season. Our crews along with Maui County Fire Department and the National Parks Service have completely covered the search areas on ground and sea and have found no trace of the Cessna.\" \n Rescuse personnel had been patrolling both the ocean and the shore in search of any sign of the plane or the passengers, at times battling low visibility, high seas and and windy conditions. \n Coast Guard crews searched by air with a C-130 Hercules airplane and MH-65 Dolphin helicopter. Crews were also deployed on cutter Kittiwake and a patrol boat called the Galveston Island. Personnel from the Molokai and Maui County fire departments assisted in the search. \n The Hawaii Control Faciltity at Honolulu Airport reported the Cessna 172 as missing at 7 p.m. on Friday shortly after it had departed Molokai for Oahu. Officials believe that the plane may have crashed about 4 miles east of Ilio Point. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Search suspended for missing plane off Molokai"}

{"date": "January 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean President Park Geun-hye makes a televised live address in Seoul, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> Impeached South Korean President Park Geun-hye vehemently rejected accusations Sunday that she conspired with a longtime friend to extort money and favors from companies, accusing her opponents of framing her. \n In a meeting with a selected group of reporters, Park denied that she gave her jailed friend, Choi Soon-sil, extraordinary sway over government decisions and also refuted allegations that her administration blacklisted thousands of artists for their political beliefs, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported. \n It was the first time Park spoke to the media since South Korea's opposition-controlled parliament voted on Dec. 9 to impeach her over the scandal, which has seen millions of people protest in recent weeks. \n In her meeting with reporters, Park denied the accusations, saying she was \"totally framed,\" according to Yonhap. \n \"The matter is under investigation, so I can't make detailed explanations that might put both sides in trouble, but what I can assure you is that I have never conspired with anyone or did anything to give favors to someone, not even by a bit,\" Yonhap quoted Park as saying. \n The Constitutional Court has up to six months to decide whether Park should be permanently removed from office or be reinstated. On Friday, the court said Park cannot be forced to testify at her impeachment trial, which is about to enter its argument phase. \n Park's downfall came after state prosecutors in November accused her of colluding with her friend to bully companies into giving tens of millions of dollars to foundations controlled by Choi and also allowing Choi to interfere with government decisions from the shadows. \n They have now handed over the investigation to a special prosecution team that has been focusing on proving bribery suspicions between Park and the Samsung Group, which is suspected of sponsoring Choi in exchange for government favors. \n A former health ministry official was arrested on Saturday over suspicions that he forced the National Pension Service to support a merger between two Samsung affiliates last year. \n The deal shaved the fund's stake in one of the companies by an estimated hundreds of millions of dollars, but allowed Samsung scion Lee Jae-yong to promote a father-to-son succession of leadership and increase the group's corporate wealth. \n Investigators are trying to confirm whether Park instructed government officials to help the merger go through and then had them press Samsung to provide Choi money and favors. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Impeached South Korean leader rejects accusations against her"}

