{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Google vice president Mario Queiroz gestures while introducing the new Google Home device during the keynote address of the Google I/O conference in Mountain View, Calif. on May 18. On Tuesday, the search giant will ramp up its consumer electronics strategy with expected announcements of new gadgets. \n SAN FRANCISCO \u00bb Google may be getting serious about selling its own hardware gadgets.  \n On Tuesday, the search giant will ramp up its consumer electronics strategy with expected announcements of new gadgets including new smartphones and an internet-connected personal-assistant for the home similar to Amazon's Echo speaker. All are intended to showcase Google's software and online services. \n A new virtual reality headset and other devices, such as a home router, could also be on tap, according to analysts and industry blogs. Google has declined to confirm any specifics, although it previously described some of these products back in May . \n Google makes most of its money from online software and digital ads. But it's putting more emphasis on hardware as it faces rivals like Apple, Amazon and South Korea's Samsung. \n HARDWARE IS HARD  \n New devices could help Google keep its services front and center in the battle for consumers' attention, said analyst Julie Ask at Forrester Research. Unlike a new mobile app or other software, she noted, it can be an expensive gamble to build and ship new hardware products. \"But if you're Google, you can't afford to stop placing bets.\" \n Google already sells smartphones and tablets under the Nexus brand, which it launched in 2010 as a way to show off the best features of its Android software. But it's spent relatively little effort to promote those devices, which have mostly ended up in the hands of Google purists. Tech blogs are reporting the company is now planning to launch two smartphone models under a new brand, Pixel, and Google has hinted it may invest in an extensive marketing campaign intended to introduce the phones to the mass market. \n Android already powers the majority of smartphones sold around the world. But Samsung, the biggest maker of Android phones, has increasingly been adding more of its own software \u2014 even its own Samsung Pay mobile wallet \u2014 on the phones it sells. Another big rival, Apple, has built its own services, such as online maps and its own Siri personal assistant, to replace Google's apps on the iPhone. \n HOME, BUT NOT ALONE  \n Google is also likely to begin selling a voice-activated \"smart speaker\" called Home, apparently modeled on Amazon's Echo . Analysts are expecting Google will announce more details, including price and availability, at Tuesday's event. \n The \"Home\" device will feature Google's digital \"Assistant\" service, a voice-activated personal butler that can search the internet, play music or perform other useful tasks. \"Assistant\" is the company's answer to similar concierge services from rivals, including Siri, Amazon's Alexa and Microsoft's Cortana. The leading tech companies are all competing to assist consumers in their online activities such as shopping, since that gives the companies a better chance of selling advertising or other services. \n Home-based systems like the Echo are taking on more importance with the advent of improved voice technology, said Forrester's Ask. \"You can't assume somebody is going to go sit down at a computer or pick up a phone and type in a question anymore,\" she said. \n Google may also provide a closer look Tuesday at some other products, including a new virtual-reality headset that it teased in May. Like the other devices, Google's virtual reality system could be a platform for a wide range of games and applications that are built on Google's software. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Google readies new phones, gadgets featuring its software"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Marines Brig. Gen. John Jansen, on the stage at left, of the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade and Maj. Gen. Andre Costales, center, Commandant of the Philippine Marines Corps, watch the colors at the opening ceremony for the 33rd joint U.S.-Philippines amphibious landing exercises dubbed PHIBLEX at the marines corps in suburban Taguig city, east of Manila, Philippines on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Marines Brig. Gen. John Jansen, third from left front row, of the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade and Maj. Gen. Andre Costales, third from right front row, Commandant of the Philippine Marines Corps, pose with other military officers following the opening ceremony for the 33rd joint U.S.-Philippines amphibious landing exercises dubbed PHIBLEX at the marines corps in suburban Taguig city, east of Manila, Philippines on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Marines Brig. Gen. John Jansen of the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade and Maj. Gen. Andre Costales, Commandant of the Philippine Marines Corps, salute the flags at the opening ceremony for the 33rd joint US-Philippines amphibious landing exercises dubbed PHIBLEX at the marines corps in Taguig city east of Manila, Philippines on Tuesday. \n MANILA \u00bb U.S. and Philippine forces opened joint combat exercises under some uncertainty on Tuesday, days after the Philippines' new leader said they would be the last such drills of his six-year presidency.  \n Marine commanders from both sides said at the opening ceremony that the exercises, involving 1,100 American and 400 Filipino military personnel, are aimed at improving readiness by the two countries to respond to a range of crises while deepening their historic ties. \n Angered by U.S. criticism of his deadly anti-drug campaign, President Rodrigo Duterte said last week that the maneuvers would be the last of his term, which began in June. His foreign secretary later said the decision was not final, sparking questions as to whether other annual U.S.-Philippine military exercises would proceed as planned. \n U.S. Embassy officials said Washington has not been formally notified by the Philippine government of any move to scrap other planned drills. Such a move by the Philippines would impede Washington's plans to expand the footprint of U.S. forces in Southeast Asia to counter China. \n A Philippine military spokesman for the ongoing exercises, Capt. Ryan Lacuesta, sidestepped the question of whether Duterte's remarks have affected the troops and the atmosphere of the drills, partly staged to improve camaraderie between the two combat forces. \n \"As much as I would like to answer that question, I would leave that to higher authorities,\" Lacuesta said Tuesday. \n U.S. Marine Brig. Gen. John Jansen said that aside from promoting regional security, the exercises have helped save lives in terms of fostering more rapid and organized responses to disasters like the deadly 2013 devastation wrought by Typhoon Haiyan in the central Philippines. \n Citing a much-awaited drill that involves American and Filipino marines wading ashore in an amphibious beach landing and in boat raids, Jansen said the exercise \"is not just about projecting power from the sea, it is about growing a capability.\" \n Duterte, who describes himself as a leftist leader, has had an uneasy relationship with the United States, a key treaty ally. He has said he is charting a foreign policy not dependent on the U.S., and has taken steps to revive ties with China that had been strained under his predecessor over long-standing territorial conflicts. \n Duterte has announced publicly that he will not allow the Philippine navy to conduct joint patrols with the U.S. military in the disputed South China Sea because it could spark an armed conflict in Philippine territory. He has also said he wants U.S. forces out of the southern Philippines, where he said minority Muslims resent the presence of American troops. \n Still, Duterte has said he will not abrogate a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty with the U.S. and will maintain the long alliance with America. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.-Philippine drills open in uncertainty: Are they the last?"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / AUG. 2015 \n Flowers bloom in front of the Salt Lake Temple, at Temple Square, in Salt Lake City. In 15 videos posted online Sunday, during the final day of the religion's twice-yearly conference, Mormon leaders discussed concerns about the growth of the gay rights movement and heard from a former U.S. senator and church member who tells them the Iraq war could open the door for new converts, according to the footage that pulls back the curtain on a religion that is closely guarded about its inner workings. \n SALT LAKE CITY \u00bb In leaked videos, Mormon leaders discuss concerns about the growth of the gay rights movement and hear from a former U.S. senator and church member who tells them the Iraq war could open the door for new converts, according to footage that pulls back the curtain on a religion that is closely guarded about its inner workings. \n The 15 videos were posted online Sunday during the final day of the religion's twice-yearly conference. They show top leaders hearing presentations and discussing topics at meetings from 2007 to 2012. \n The Salt Lake City-based Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints says the videos show briefings that senior church leaders receive from religious, political and other experts on a number of topics. \n \"The purpose is to understand issues that may face the church, and is in pursuit of the obligation church leaders feel to be informed on and have open discussion about current issues,\" spokesman Eric Hawkins said in a statement. \n Church officials didn't provide further details, but the videos don't appear to be secretly recorded. They were most likely videotaped so leaders not in attendance could watch, said Matthew Bowman, a Mormon scholar. \n Though the videos don't reveal information that is necessarily surprising or damning, they have generated widespread interest because people are curious about how the religion's top leaders \u2014 considered apostles \u2014 make decisions, Bowman said. \n \"It doesn't matter necessarily what the content is, it's looking behind the veil that gets people excited,\" said Bowman, associate professor of history at Henderson State University. \n The leaked videos come nearly a year after an internal memo about banning baptisms for children of parents in same-sex marriages was released by a Mormon who had been excommunicated. \n A message to the person who posted the videos was not immediately returned. \n Here are some highlights from the footage: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n GAY RIGHTS \n In a 2011 meeting , the conversation turned to gay issues after leaders heard a report about cybersecurity issues and how WikiLeaks had published diplomatic cables leaked by Chelsea Manning, a transgender former Army intelligence analyst. \n \"I'm suspicious that the news media cover up anything involving homosexuals when it would work to the disadvantage of the homosexual agenda,\" says Dallin H. Oaks, a member of the church's highest leadership council, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. \"I just wondered if there was some of that in this.\" \n Later, another leader asks if WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is gay though the presenter wasn't discussing Assange's sexual orientation. \n In another video three years earlier , the conversation turned to gay rights during a presentation about the results of November 2008 elections. Another member of the Quorum of the Twelve, Boyd Packer, asked how the gay and lesbian coalitions were moving forward. The Mormon church was a major backer of California's gay marriage ban that passed that year. \n The presenter, Brigham Young University political scientist David Magleby, told senior leaders that gay rights groups would continue a media barrage to make laws against same-sex marriage about hate and intolerance. \n \"They will be very aggressive. Frankly, they are very smart in their usage of the media,\" Magleby said. \"If this becomes a vote of the gays versus the Mormons, we are going to lose twice. \u2026 They are choosing to disparage us because in the public eye, we're less understood and more negatively viewed than are African-Americans or Latinos or the Catholic Church.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n IRAQ WAR, POLITICS AND RELIGION \n Shortly after he left the U.S. Senate in early 2009, Gordon Smith, an Oregon Republican and a Mormon, told church leaders that he voted for the Iraq war \"because I felt the Lord's hand in it.\" \n He said that if the war ultimately succeeds, \"there will be an opportunity to begin building the church in the Middle East, which is a deeply troubled place.\" \n In response to a church leader's question about the biggest threats of concern to the faith, Smith first listed \"secularism, which is fueled by socialism,\" followed by weapons of mass destruction in the hands of \"a fanatical branch of a great religion.\" \n Smith also discussed how devout Mormons in the Senate and other public office offer the church access and influence. \n He describes how a former Indian ambassador to the U.S. helped him secure 200 visas for Mormon missionaries to establish \"a pattern of dealing\" in order to circumvent Indian bureaucracy. He suggests they use other Mormon senators \u2014 Mike Crapo of Idaho, Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett of Utah, and Harry Reid of Nevada \u2014 in similar ways. \n After the church faced backlash for supporting California's gay marriage ban, he suggested the church lower its profile by working with leaders of other faiths who have strong ties to lawmakers who are able to kill legislation they find threatening. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Videos can be seen here: http://bit.ly/2dmRyt1 . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In leaked videos, Mormon leaders discuss gays, Iraq"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "A Salt Lake Elementary School employee has been charged with sexual assault. \n Greg Hirashiki, an educational assistant at the school, was charged last week with three counts of third-degree sexual assault and released after posting $100,000 bail. He has a court appearance scheduled for Wednesday. \n According to the criminal complaint, Hirashiki fondled a boy under 14 on three separate occasions, in January and March, and on Sept. 13. \n Donalyn Dela Cruz, Department of Education spokeswoman, said today Hirashiki has been on leave since Sept. 19, pending an investigation. She said the department had no further comment because there were ongoing school and police investigations. The school will inform parents when information becomes available, she said. \n Last month, Michael Wright, 33, a Jefferson Elementary School teacher, pleaded not guilty to five sexual assault charges involving a minor victim, including two first-degree sexual assaults. \n The alleged crimes happened from July 2010 to July 2015. Wright was freed after posting $200,000 bail, and his trial was set for Nov. 21. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Salt Lake school employee charged with sexual assault of boy"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "RALEIGH NEWS & OBSERVER/ TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n A section of Highway 12 at the edge of Rodanthe, North Carolina, was destroyed by Hurricane Irene in 2011. Such damage is expected to become more common as sea levels rise. \n MCCLATCHY / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n A photo taken from the natural water level above a square in the Dutch city of Almere. The city was built on land reclaimed from the Zuiderzee and is protected by dikes and other water defenses. The United States faces a coastal threat with rising sea levels due to global warming. But the Netherlands provides lessons in how to adapt and live with the water. \n MIAMI HERALD / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n The sidewalk along Alton Road was under water at 10th Street, October 18, 2012. Scientists and activists held a news conference at the corner that day to draw attention to sea level rise. \n ALMERE, Netherlands \u00bb A 68-year-old Dutch man with an impossibly long name and a small dog is walking along the edge of a new lake when he stops and points upward. \n \"Naturally, the water would be up there, you know,\" says Erik van Tienhoven van Weezel, pointing at an invisible spot about 10 feet above his head. \"We live under the sea level, by quite a bit. And we know the water is a little higher each year. Do we lose sleep over what could happen if the dikes break? Do we worry about how we will survive as the climate gets warmer and the sea gets even higher? No. We have adapted for centuries. We will continue to adapt.\" \n As far as Dutch adaptation to rising water goes, van Tienhoven van Weezel is at ground zero. Almere, a city of 190,000, used to be covered by the Zuiderzee, a well-known bay of the North Sea that once cut a 60-mile hole out of the northern part of the Netherlands. But the Netherlands has been using windmills and dikes and a network of canals for centuries to expand the tiny nation into the often violent sea, and the Zuiderzee is now dry land. Almere is an example of Dutch success; about 15 percent of the Netherlands used to be covered by ocean waters. \n And that lesson, say European climatologists, is an important one for the United States, where studies indicate that large areas of coastal cities such as Miami are likely to disappear under rising seawaters, not in centuries, but in decades. The key, they say, is for U.S. politicians to stop debating the cause of sea level rise and start planning and funding the works that can stave it off. \n \"Adapt or die,\" says the T-shirt of a man walking through Almere's town square. The initials NAP are bricked into a staircase nearby, marking where the Normal Amsterdam Peil, or normal Amsterdam water level, would be, way above his head, were it not for the pumps and dikes that hold back the sea. \n In Potsdam, Germany, climate scientist Anders Levermann is chatting about how the world will change in a future of rising seas when he is asked about Miami. \n \"Miami? Miami is already doomed,\" he says. \n The sea level expert at Germany's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, pauses, then starts to correct himself. \"That's probably not fair,\" he says. \"Miami is, ah. \u2026 No, it's just doomed.\" \n Among climate scientists, Miami has earned the nickname \"New Atlantis,\" a reference to the legendary lost continent that slipped below the sea. But Miami is hardly alone among at-risk cities. A World Bank study listed it second among cities facing a risk of \"overall cost of damage.\" It trailed only Guangzhou in southern China, and it's expected to fare only a bit better than New York and New Orleans. \n The list of cities facing issues over the next 100 years rings the United States. An interactive map on the website of the U.S. climate scientist group ClimateChange gives an idea of what might be in store over the next 100 years. \n South Carolina, for example, would see a sea level rise of 4 feet within 100 years. Hilton Head Island would be further isolated. The Waccamaw River would spread out, leaving southern Myrtle Beach as a peninsula. Texas might see a 3-foot rise before the end of this century, flooding sections of Galveston and other coastal lowlands. \n In Miami, the sea is expected to rise a foot perhaps as soon as 2040, and reach 5 feet as early as 2080. At that point, the water starts taking over low-lying areas along the Miami River. Within 100 years, it could wash over most of Miami Beach and start swamping neighborhoods along the river. \n Such increases are further off on the West Coast, though not by much. \n Too far in the future to take seriously? The Dutch have already approved spending a billion dollars a year for the next 100 years to deal with the threat of the sea. \n \"This is not a time, yet, for panic,\" Levermann says. \"This is, however, a time to be making plans, for deciding what we are going to do to protect people and cities and nations around the world from the rising water. We do have options. But we need to be making plans.\" \n Unfortunately, in the United States, there is no central planning or discussion of how to cope with such sea level rise. People are too busy arguing about whether water levels are actually rising, and what is causing it, though the science is pretty much settled. Sea levels are going up.  \n Asked whether the United States has a plan for how to deal with rising seas, Ernesta Jones, a spokesperson for the Environmental Protection Agency, wrote in an email: \"The short answer is no. There is no national program (or EPA program) or overall plan to decide what places will be protected using which techniques, or \u2026 decide which will not be protected.\" \n Levermann and others say that is a mistake, even if you aren't a believer that global warming is a man-made phenomenon. They liken it to the idea of buying door locks, alarms and other anti-burglary defenses for a home. Nobody does this with definite knowledge that their home will be burglarized. Instead, these things are purchased and installed in the hopes that a home can avoid, or thwart, burglars. \n \"We can protect ourselves against sea level rise, if we aren't stupid, if we don't deny there is a problem and if we take this problem seriously,\" Levermann says. \"All coastal cities are threatened.\" \n But that doesn't mean that any coastal cities are doomed. Half of the Netherlands exists below sea level. The nation has thrived for hundreds of years because of what the Dutch call \"water defenses.\" \n Paul Olsen, a sea level expert at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., is running a program that's looking at how the United States can adapt. He emphasizes that while the water is rising, there are options. Current U.S. strategies, he says, are \"fledgling.\"  \n \"They don't have the funding or the national attention that's needed,\" he says. \"I don't think we're ignoring it. We've had other priorities. We've focused on terrorism, and al-Qaida and ISIL (the Islamic State). These are the wolves that are closest to the sled. Sea level rise? That wolf is a long ways away. But he is coming.\" \n Olsen says there is no simple and one-size-fits-all solution to the problems that sea level rise will bring. There is no way the United States will be able to surround all of its cities with sea walls.  \n \"The United States is just too big. There's too much coastline,\" he says. The U.S. has about 12,000 miles of ocean and sea coastline. By comparison, the Netherlands protects 270 miles of seacoast. \n The American reality is that some cities will probably be sacrificed. Parts of cities certainly will be sacrificed. \n \"The U.S. coasts will look very different in 50 years,\" Olsen says. \"We're going to have to learn to be like Venice, to learn to live with water.\" \n More land will be returned to wetlands, he predicts. Cities will move to higher ground and abandon neighborhoods in lowlands. People who elect to stay on the coast will have to adapt their homes for high water. \n \"You may have to defend a harbor, if a community relies on shipping or fishing. But do the fishermen need to live next to the harbor?\" he says. \"No. So maybe you defend the harbor and roads to that harbor, but you don't have to save the neighborhoods in low-lying areas. If a community relies on the tourism attracted by its beaches, they may have to modify and save their beaches, and access to the beaches. But sacrifices will have to be made.\" \n The solution will rely on an overarching federal plan \u2014 one that does not yet exist \u2014 but also on local and state planning. Coastal cities, he believes, have four options: Defend, adapt, retreat and avoid.  \n \"Defend\" means sea walls, keeping the sea out. The Dutch approach. \"Adapt\" means creative thinking, raising buildings, raising neighborhoods, living with canals. This is Venice. \"Retreat\" is simply heading inland. Already, on a small scale, Alaskan Inuit tribes are employing this strategy. They don't have the means to keep the sea at bay, so they take advantage of one of the great advantages of the United States, lots of higher ground. \"Avoid\" is simply making sure that new construction, roads, sewer and water systems are built with sea level rise in mind. \n Incredible things are possible. Consider the lake surrounding Almere. It is a freshwater lake, separated from the North Sea by a 16-mile-long dike, one that was built into the sea. Elsewhere, Dutch water defenses include robotic dams that move into place only when needed, and that rise and fall with the water to protect the nation during storms. These defenses are the result of centuries of practice, and they have taken decades to plan and years to construct. \n While no plan exists in general for the United States, the federal government has been readying a plan for dealing with its own properties, according to Kate White, an Army Corp of Engineers civil engineer specializing in climate change issues. A plan for how the government should react to sea level rise is nearing completion.  \n Federal agencies for the past several years have been \"assessing their own exposure to climate change, dealing with everything from the changes in snowmelt to sea level rise.\" One precaution: The federal government no longer is building in floodplains. \n Of 5,000 existing construction projects, reviewers determined that 1,400 were likely to be affected by sea level rise. Of those, they \"determined 100 that were in high or very high impact zones. In a couple years, we will have recommendations from that list. At that point we will be able to say what is possible.\" \n She says that given the early stage of all such planning, she isn't able to release a list of the projects, but the ways the risks will be dealt with will likely encompass a range of solutions: construction of sea walls and pumping systems, changes of policy and the incorporation of natural features, such as mangroves and coastal wetlands. \n To understand how completely a nation can commit to this sort of project, consider the Netherlands. The Dutch have been fighting to hold back the water since the end of the Iron Age, 3,000 years ago.  \n In the 1700s a wood-eating mollusk started destroying Dutch dikes at an astonishing rate, so the dikes were converted to stone and clay. Windmills churned night and day to pump out excess water. As land was recaptured, it became a patchwork of fertile fields and canals for drainage. It even fed the global image of the nation, most famously in Mary Mapes Dodge's story of the Little Dutch Boy, who plugged a leaking dike with his finger. \n That system held the nation together until 1953, when rising seas and flooding rivers led to bursting dikes and a flood that submerged half the country and left 1,800 dead. \n The dikes were rebuilt, stronger and bigger. Today the Netherlands spends almost 0.2 percent of its annual economic output \u2014 about $1.1 billion \u2014 on what it calls \"water defense.\" Converting that to an equivalent American amount would be about $35 billion a year. For comparison, that's about 6 percent of the 2015 U.S. defense budget of $560 billion. \n \"What we, the Dutch, are doing is quite rational,\" says Jarl Kind, a water economist for the Dutch Delta Commission, which oversees keeping the nation dry. \"There are two ways to deal with the threat of floods: Wait for the floods and repair what is lost. Or build an infrastructure to mitigate flood damage. Given what we could lose, it's not a lot of money to spend.\" \n The U.S. economy, of course, is much bigger \u2014 and the potential losses are, too. A 2014 report on the economic risks of sea level rise chaired by former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former U.S Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. warned that by 2050 as much as $106 billion worth of coastal property could be underwater. By 2100, flooding would have reclaimed another $507 billion worth of property, with another $730 billion in property under threat during high tides.  \n The U.S. Department of Commerce and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration put out a fact sheet saying U.S. businesses along the \"coast produce 45 percent of the nation's gross domestic product.\" In 2015, for instance, that would have meant $8.3 trillion of production would have been in threatened areas. \n \"Our legal and political systems are built for a world in which sea levels and property and land are constants,\" says Ben Strauss, vice president for sea level and climate impacts at Climate Central. \"We are entering an age where they are not.\" \n In Almere, Gennil Dijkink, 60, explains that once climate change is accepted as reality \u2014 and there is no debate here \u2014 getting around to the business of adapting and living with the water only makes sense. \n \"My house is below the water level,\" he says. \"In fact, I'm only about a kilometer away from a dike. If it broke, I am dead. But I sleep very comfortably at night. We have a saying here: As the water rises, so must the dikes. It's quite simple, really.\" \n Olsen, at Old Dominion University, thinks it won't be long before sea level rise becomes a U.S. national priority. Too much is at stake for it to be put on a back burner for long. Unlike Levermann, he does not think Miami is lost. There's too much at risk. Buildings will be lifted, neighborhoods will be walled, beaches will somehow be saved. Canals will crisscross the area.  \n \"Miami will find a solution. I am confident of this,\" he says. \"I'm more worried about poorer, less organized coastal communities. Coastal cities are all at risk, and many won't have the investment needed for creative solutions.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 McClatchy Washington Bureau  \n ", "author": "By Matthew Schofield McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "America's coastal cities don't have to drown, Dutch experience shows"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Civil protection workers asks residents to evacuate their homes located near the the Grise river, in Tabarre, Haiti today. The center of Hurricane Matthew is expected to pass near or over southwestern Haiti on Tuesday, but the area is already experiencing rain from the outer bands of the storm. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Residents secure the roof of their wooden house prior the arrival of Hurricane Matthew, in the village Paraguay, Guantanamo, Cuba today. A hurricane warning is in effect for Jamaica, Haiti, and the Cuban provinces of Guantanamo, Santiago de Cuba, Holguin, Granma and Las Tunas - as well as the southeastern Bahamas. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman protects herself from the rain with a piece of plastic prior the arrival of Hurricane Matthew, in Tabarre, Haiti today. The center of Hurricane Matthew is expected to pass near or over southwestern Haiti on Tuesday, but the area is already experiencing rain from the outer bands of the storm. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A girl watches as the authorities arrive to evacuate people from her house in Tabarre, Haiti today. The center of Hurricane Matthew is expected to pass near or over southwestern Haiti on Tuesday, but the area is already experiencing rain from the outer bands of the storm. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People stand on the coast watching the surf produced by Hurricane Matthew, on the outskirts of Kingston, Jamaica today. A hurricane warning is in effect for Jamaica, Haiti, and the Cuban provinces of Guantanamo, Santiago de Cuba, Holguin, Granma and Las Tunas - as well as the southeastern Bahamas. \n PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti \u00bb The leading edge of dangerous Hurricane Matthew drenched Haiti on Monday night, flooding streets and sending people scrambling to emergency shelters as the Category 4 storm threatened to batter the hemisphere's poorest nation overnight with life-threatening winds, rains and storm surge. \n A slightly strengthened Matthew had sustained winds of 145 mph (230 kph) late Monday, up from 140 mph (220 kph) earlier in the day. Its center was expected to pass near or over the southwestern tip of impoverished Haiti after dawn on Tuesday, then head for another landfall in eastern Cuba, the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said. \n \"We are looking at a dangerous hurricane that is heading into the vicinity of western Haiti and eastern Cuba,\" said Richard Pasch, a senior hurricane specialist with the center. \"People who are impacted by things like flooding and mudslides hopefully would get out and relocate because that's where we have seen loss of life in the past.\" \n In the Port-au-Prince suburb of Tabarre, officials spent Monday urging shantytown residents living next to a muddy river to take shelter at a local school where cots were set up. While some went, many refused in fear their few possessions might be stolen. \n \"If we lose our things we are not going to get them back!\" Toussaint Laine said as police and officials from the mayor's office urged the jobless man and his family to evacuate. \n Haiti's civil protection agency reported the death of a fisherman in rough water churned up by the storm. Agency chief Marie Alta Jean-Baptiste said another fisherman was missing. \n The confirmed death in Haiti brought the total for the storm to at least three. One man died Friday in Colombia and a 16-year-old was killed in St. Vincent and the Grenadines on Sept. 28 when the system passed through the eastern Caribbean. \n Authorities went door to door in Haiti's south coast cities of Les Cayes and Jeremie to make sure people were aware of the storm. At least 1,200 people were moved to shelters in churches and schools. \n \"We are continuing to mobilize teams in the south to move people away from dangerous areas,\" Jean-Baptiste said. \n There is no shortage of people with flimsy houses set up in risky places in Haiti. In an unregulated sprawl of shacks built on hillsides near the northern edge of Haiti's capital, some poor families did what they could to reinforce their tin-and-tarp houses. But most were just hoping for the best. \n \"I know my house could easily blow away. All I can do is pray and then pray some more,\" Ronlande Francois said by the tarp-walled shack where she lives with her unemployed husband and three children. \n In Port-au-Prince, schools were closed while cars lined up at gas stations and shoppers cleared shelves at supermarkets as rain fell. \n Some worried the crowded capital might not fare well. \"We are not prepared,\" unemployed mason Fritz Achelus said as he watched water pool on a downtown street. \n Forecasters said the storm could dump as much as 40 inches (100 centimeters) of rain on some isolated areas of Haiti, raising fears of deadly mudslides and floods in the heavily deforested country. \n In Jamaica, which lowered a hurricane warning to a tropical storm warning as Matthew tracked closer to Haiti, many people chose to stick out the rough rain and winds at home. Local Government Minister Desmond McKenzie said all but four residents of the Port Royal area near the Kingston airport refused to board buses and evacuate. \n Matthew briefly reached the top classification, Category 5, becoming the strongest hurricane in the region since Felix in 2007. \n The U.S. hurricane center said the storm appeared to be on track to pass east of Florida through the Bahamas, but it was too soon to predict with certainty whether it would threaten the U.S. East Coast. \n \"Although our track is to the east of Florida, interests there should remain vigilant and we can't rule out the possibility of impacts,\" Pasch said. \n A hurricane warning was posted for much of the Bahamas, where the storm was expected to move along the eastern length of the island chain starting early Wednesday. \n As of 11 p.m. EDT (0300 GMT), the storm was centered about 100 miles (155 kilometers) south of Tiburon, Haiti, and 190 miles (310 kilometers) southwest of Port-au-Prince. It was moving north at 7 mph (11 kph). \n Cuba's government declared a hurricane alert for six eastern provinces and removed traffic lights from poles in the city of Santiago to keep them from falling due to heavy wind. \n Matthew's center was expected to make landfall in Cuba about 50 miles (80 kilometers) east of the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, where authorities evacuated about 700 spouses and children of service members on military transport planes to Florida. \n The U.S. installation has a population of about 5,500, including 61 men held at the detention center for terrorism suspects. Navy Capt. David Culpepper, the base commander, said emergency shelters had been set up and authorities were bracing for storm surge and heavy rain that could threaten some low-lying areas, including around the power plant and water desalination facility. \n \"We have no choice but to prepare ourselves to take a frontal assault if you will,\" Culpepper said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hurricane Matthew drenches Haiti, threatens catastrophe"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "A 22-year-old male visitor was in critical condition today after being found under water off Ala Moana Beach Park. \n Lifeguards and firefighters began searching the water at about 3:30 p.m. after the victim's friend reported his friend missing, an Emergency Medical Service report said. \n Lifeguards found the victim underwater about 60 to 80 feet from shore and paddled him back to the beach, where first responders performed CPR. \n Paramedics took over advanced treatment and took the man to a hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Male visitor in critical condition after being found under water off Ala Moana"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Aedes Aegypti mosquito larvae swim in a container at the Florida Mosquito Control District Office in Marathon, Fla. on Aug. 24. \n PITTSBURGH \u00bb Amid the growing surge of Zika research, the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine has announced early success with two experimental vaccines that prevented the pups of immunized female mice from becoming infected with the virus.  \n Both vaccines, with one more effective than the other, succeeded in producing an immune response to the virus that was transferred from mother to her pups. That would represent an important goal in a human vaccine, given the severe neurological birth defects including microcephaly (an abnormally small head) and Guillan-Barre syndrome that the viral infection can cause. \n \"We've not only developed a promising vaccine candidate to move toward larger pre-clinical and, eventually, human clinical trials, but also a delivery format that would be inexpensive to produce and distribute to hundreds of thousands of people,\" said Andrea Gambotto, an associate professor of surgery at the medical school who was senior author of the study, published online Monday in the EBioMedicine journal. \n Congress recently allocated $1.1 billion for Zika research, money that Pitt researchers hope to tap to advance their vaccines to human clinical trials, potentially within a year, Gambotto said. \n The Pitt focus is creating a vaccine given to the mother that protects the fetus and newborn against birth defects. So far, so good. \n \"Pups born to mice immunized with (the one Pitt vaccine) were all protected against lethal challenge infection without weight loss or neurological signs,\" while 50 percent of the pups born to dams immunized with the second Pitt virus were protected, the study says. \n One vaccine involved a standard injection. The other used crystals affixed to a patch similar to a Band-Aid to keep them in contact with the skin until they dissolved. \n The vaccines generate an immune response against an antigen \u2014 a protein \u2014 on the outer shell of the virus. The Pitt study describes the immunization as \"a promising candidate vaccine\" for the prevention of Zika virus disease. \n Bites from mosquitoes of the Aedes species represent the key method of viral transmission, with sexual transmission also possible. Various South American, Central American and Caribbean nations are experiencing epidemic levels of infection, while Florida has reported Zika infections contracted from local mosquitoes. The virus already has spread to 50 nations, with 6,400 cases in the United States and its territories, the National institute of Health reports. \n The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases currently is working on five Zika vaccines, with the Aug. 2 launch of a human clinical trial. \n Once a vaccine is developed, it typically is tested in mice then monkeys. If successful, the next step is three phases of human clinical trials to determine safety and effectiveness before it goes before the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for approval. Even if the institute's vaccine proceeds on the current fast track, its effectiveness on humans won't be clear until early to mid-2018, said institute director Anthony S. Fauci. Consider, however, that vaccines typically take seven to 10 years to be developed and approved. \n Developing a Zika virus poses no serious difficulties in vaccine science, given that similar flavivirus vaccines already have been developed for yellow fever and several types of encephalitis. \n Besides the five NIH vaccines, pharmaceutical companies, universities and others also have reported their development of vaccines. \n \"The more shots on goal you have, the better the chance of getting a vaccine,\" Fauci said. \"If history holds true, there should be an effective vaccine against Zika.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette  \n ", "author": "By David Templeton Pittsburgh Post-Gazette", "title": "Researchers announce Zika vaccine success with mice"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a town hall with the Retired American Warriors today in Herndon, Va. \n HERNDON, Virginia \u00bb Donald Trump is drawing scorn from veterans' groups after he suggested that soldiers who suffer from mental health issues might not be as strong as those who don't. \n Trump was speaking at an event organized by the Retired American Warriors political action committee today when he was asked about his commitment to faith-based programs aimed at preventing suicides and helping soldiers suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury and other issues. \n \"When you talk about the mental health problems \u2014 when people come back from war and combat, and they see things that maybe a lot of the folks in this room have seen many times over, and you're strong and you can handle it. But a lot of people can't handle it,\" he said. \n \"And they see horror stories. They see events that you couldn't see in a movie, nobody would believe it,\" he added. \n The comment drew condemnation from critics as well as veterans' groups that have been working for years to reduce the stigma associated with mental health issues in an effort to encourage soldiers to seek treatment. \n David Maulsby, the executive director of the Texas-based PTSD Foundation of America, told The Associated Press that, at first, he hoped Trump's remarks had been taken out of context. But after watching a recording of the exchange, he said the Republican nominee's words were detrimental to veterans struggling with PTSD symptoms. \n \"At the very least, it's a very poor choice of words. PTSD is basically a rewiring of the brain as the result of trauma or prolonged trauma. That is not a reflection of a person's strength, character, stamina \u2014 any of that,\" Maulsby said. \n \"Our veterans who are struggling with post-traumatic stress as a result of their combat need to be encouraged to seek help, and not be told they are weak or deficient in character in any way, shape or form,\" he said. \n Zach Iscol, a Marine veteran and executive director of the nonprofit Headstrong Project, which helps provide free care for veterans suffering from PTSD, said Trump's comments weren't \"just wrong, they're dangerous.\" \n \"The biggest barrier we have to people getting help is the stigma of getting help,\" he said. \"It just shows a complete misunderstanding of what post-traumatic stress disorder is.\" \n Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, a top Trump adviser, responded with a statement that accused the media of taking the GOP nominee's words out of context \"to deceive voters and veterans.\" \n Flynn said Trump has been highlighting the challenges veterans face when returning home and \"has always respected the service and sacrifice of our military men and women.\" \n Trump has vowed to make improving veterans' mental health services a top priority if he makes it to the White House. \n Trump previously angered veterans when he suggested that Sen. John McCain, a former POW, was only considered a war hero because he was captured. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump angers with suggestion that vets with PTSD are weak"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION VIA AP \n Cobb County Senior Assistant District Attorney Chuck Boring points out the defendant in a surveillance video taken from the parking lot of Harris' work, during his opening remarks in the Justin Ross Harris trial at the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., today Harris is charged with murder after his toddler son died two years ago while left in the back of a hot SUV. \n ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION VIA AP \n Justin Ross Harris listens to Cobb County Senior Assistant District Attorney Chuck Boring's opening remarks during his trial at the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., today. Harris is charged with murder after his toddler son died two years ago while left in the back of a hot SUV. \n BRUNSWICK, Ga. \u00bb A Georgia man intentionally left his toddler son to die in a hot SUV as he sought to escape the responsibilities of family life and focus on sexual liaisons with prostitutes and young women \u2014 even teenagers \u2014 he met online, a prosecutor told jurors as the father's murder trial opened today.  \n Justin Ross Harris, 35, is charged with malice murder and other crimes in the June 2014 death of his 22-month-old son, Cooper. The case captured national attention two years ago after authorities revealed the father had been sending lewd messages to a woman as his son sweltered for seven hours in a parking lot outside Harris' metro Atlanta workplace. \n Prosecutor Chuck Boring told the jury in his opening statement today that Harris sent an online message minutes before locking his door with his son still strapped in his car seat. \n Boring said the message read: \"I love my son and all, but we both need escapes.\" \n \"Hold this man responsible for trying to escape from one life into another by killing a child in one of the most horrible, unimaginable ways possible,\" Boring told the jury. \n Harris' defense lawyers won't deliver their own opening statement until Tuesday morning. Superior Court Judge Mary Staley Clark recessed court Monday evening after a 90 minute delay. She did not say what caused it. \n Harris' attorneys have previously called the boy's death a tragic accident. Harris told police he watched cartoons with his son that morning, took him to breakfast at a Chick-fil-A restaurant and kissed Cooper while strapping him into his car seat. But Harris said he forgot to drop his son off at day care and drove to work, forgetting the boy was in the back seat. \n Boring told the jury Harris' account doesn't make sense. He said the restaurant is just over half a mile from the Home Depot office where Harris worked as a computer technician, and Harris parked his SUV by backing up between two vehicles \u2014 which would have required looking over his shoulder toward the backseat where his son sat. \n Later that day, Harris opened his vehicle to toss in a bag of lightbulbs he bought during his lunch break, Boring said. After leaving work, he drove a few miles to a shopping center without stopping, the prosecutor said, though police later reported the SUV reeked from \"sweat, a dirty diaper, the smell of death.\" \n \"The facts of this case only make sense if the defendant had planned on intentionally killing his son,\" Boring said. \n Boring said on the day Cooper died, his father sent more than 30 messages on his phone \"mostly to women, mostly about sex.\" \n He said Harris was unhappy in his marriage to the boy's mother and was obsessed with finding other sex partners. The month before his son died, Boring said, Harris met a prostitute for sex at a hotel. He had also been trying to persuade an underage, 17-year-old girl to send him a photo of her genitals. Harris was also charged for sending the girl sexually explicit text messages and photos. \n Sixteen total jurors \u2014 eight men and eight women \u2014 were seated Monday morning to hear the case. Four of them will serve as alternate jurors, who will have a final say in the trial only if one more of the 12 main jurors are dismissed. The judge did not specify which jury members were alternates. \n The trial is being held 275 miles from the Atlanta suburb of Cobb County, where Harris lived and worked after moving from Tuscaloosa, Alabama in 2012. The judge moved the case to the coastal city of Brunswick because of pretrial publicity. \n Harris faces life in prison if he's convicted of murder. Prosecutors decided not to seek the death penalty. \n Boring said jurors will see that Harris showed little emotion when he was taken by police for questioning following the discovery of his son's death. \n \"Is he screaming, 'Can I see my son? What is going on here?'\" Boring said. \"No. He complains that it's hot in the back of the patrol car.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutor: Georgia dad let son die in hot SUV to 'escape'"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The rail construction on Kualakai Parkway near Kroc Center. \n Local rail leaders delivered to their federal partners today an \"interim\" plan that outlines in broad strokes what they intend to do about the island's beleaguered, cash-strapped transit project. \n The official Interim Plan, which was put together at the Federal Transit Administration's request, actually outlines two basic plans. \n >> Under \"plan A,\" the city can find the money to close what's now estimated to be at least a $1.8 billion gap and build to Ala Moana Center as planned. \n >> Under \"plan B,\" it can significantly reduce rail's size and scope to build a system on its existing $6.8 billion budget. \n Local officials with the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation say they \"clearly\" prefer plan A \u2014 building a full 20-mile, 21-station system from East Kapolei to Kakaako. To do that, they've requested the FTA give the city until June 30 to deliver its final \"recovery plan\" for what to do about rail. That would give rail officials enough time to try to secure more funding from state and city elected leaders through mid-2017. \n However, the HART interim plan states that its officials will also start looking this month at ways to accomplish plan B. \n As the plan notes, federal officials have already told HART and the city that stopping rail at Middle Street is not an option. That means HART will have to come up with other ideas that could work on a $6.8 billion budget. \n \"For example, HART is presently undertaking a detailed cost estimate and schedule analysis of one Plan B option, an alignment that would end at the Downtown Station,\" the interim plan notes. Under that idea, HART would likely have to defer building rail's Pearl Highlands Transit center, as well as its Kalihi, Kapalama, Iwilei and Chinatown stations. \n The elevated guideway then would not run far enough to build rail's Civic Center, Kakaako and Ala Moana stations. \n HART's interim plan also notes that the rail could use some combination of plans A and B, where it finds more funds but would still have trim back the project. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Cash-strapped HART offers feds 2 options for rail's size, scope"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / APRIL 2016 \n Police said the man and girl were seen inflicting fatal injuries to themselves with a handgun at about 8:30 p.m. Friday at Turtle Bay Resort. \n A 17-year-old girl who died in a double suicide at Turtle Bay Resort last week was identified today by the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office as Tiana Pascual Dias of Kapolei. \n She died of injuries from a gunshot wound to the head, and her death was listed as a suicide, the office said. \n A 44-year-old man who died in the same incident has not been identified, the Medical Examiner's Office said. His cause of death was also listed as injuries from a gunshot wound to the head and ruled a suicide. \n Police said the man and girl were seen inflicting fatal injuries to themselves with a handgun at about 8:30 p.m. Friday at Turtle Bay Resort. \n Paramedics arrived and found both people on the ground in the parking lot, each with a gunshot wound to the head. The two victims were taken to Kahuku Hospital, where they died. \n Police said the two were not related, but knew each other and may have been in a relationship. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Girl who died in double suicide at Turtle Bay is identified"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "NTSB PHOTO VIA AP \n This Saturday photo provided by the National Transportation Safety Board shows damage done to the Hoboken Terminal in Hoboken, N.J., after a commuter train crash that killed one person and injured more than 100 others last week. \n NTSB PHOTO VIA AP \n This Saturday photo provided by the National Transportation Safety Board shows damage done to the Hoboken Terminal in Hoboken, N.J., after a commuter train crash that killed one person and injured more than 100 others last week. \n HOBOKEN, N.J. \u00bb It could be days before federal investigators working in 12-hour shifts clear enough debris to recover the data recorder from a train that crashed into a station, killing a woman and injuring more than 100 others.  \n National Transportation Safety Board spokesman Chris O'Neil described the effort as \"complex\" and said workers are going as \"quickly as possible to make that happen.\" \n The effort comes as investigators learned that a separate device that was supposed to record the New Jersey Transit train's speed and braking information wasn't functioning, according to the National Transportation Safety Board Vice Chair T. Bella Dinh-Zarr. \n The remaining data recorder, which officials said was likely to be newer than the nonworking device, is in the cab control car in the front of the train and has not been recovered because it is under a collapsed section of the station's roof. \n Officials say they hope to access that device \"in a matter of days,\" O'Neil said. The NTSB did not respond to questions or provide an update on its progress Monday. \n \"You hear all the machinery in the background. They are working around the clock, in 12-hour shifts, to remove the debris as quickly and safely as possible,\" he added. \n Federal regulations require commuter trains to have a working recorder in the lead car, according to Jim Southworth, the NTSB's lead investigator for the crash. \n The regulations also require the recorders to be inspected every year. It was unclear when the recorders in the train were last inspected. \n Federal officials said the recorder that didn't work was an older device installed in 1995. An unknown number have had to be replaced over the years as they failed. \n Investigators have said the train's engineer, Thomas Gallagher, told them he was going only 10 mph as he approached the station, but he had no memory of the crash, according to Dinh-Zarr. \n He said he only remembered waking up on the floor of the engineer's cab, she said. \n Gallagher also told investigators that he was fully rested and that the train was operating properly Thursday morning before it crashed in Hoboken. \n Months before Thursday's deadly train crash, federal rail officials found dozens of violations during an audit that focused on NJ Transit's safety and operations, a U.S. official confirmed to The Associated Press. \n The official, who was familiar with the Federal Railroad Administration audit, wasn't authorized to speak publicly about an ongoing investigation and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity. \n The audit was launched after the federal regulatory agency noticed an uptick in rail incidents and found \"dozens of safety violations\" that needed to be fixed immediately, the official said. The commuter rail agency was fined as a result. \n A spokesman for NJ Transit hasn't responded to requests for comment. \n On Monday, Democratic Assemblyman John McKeon called on federal and state railroad officials to give a public accounting of the agency's safety violations. \n \"It's very disturbing to learn that a data recorder pulled from the crashed NJ Transit train in Hoboken wasn't working. This is inexcusable,\" he said. \n Since 2011, NJ Transit trains have been involved in more than 150 accidents that caused more than $4.8 million in damage to tracks or equipment and has paid more than $500,000 to settle safety violations, according to federal data. \n Information from the Federal Railroad Administration shows that NJ Transit has settled 183 safety violations \u2014 ranging from employee drug and alcohol use to violations of railroad operating rules or practices \u2014 since Jan. 1, 2011. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Recovering train data recorder could take days"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A photo of a handgun that was found next to the body of Carnell Snell Jr., a man who was fatally shot by police, is displayed during a news conference at Los Angeles police headquarters in Los Angeles today. Police Chief Charlie Beck said today that Snell Jr., who was fatally shot during the weekend foot pursuit, was holding the loaded semiautomatic gun in one hand and turned toward officers. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This evidence photo on display at a news conference today at Los Angeles Police headquarters shows a fake gun that was found after the fatal shooting of a hispanic man on Sunday. \n THE PASADENA STAR-NEWS / SCNG VIA AP \n The family of Reginald Thomas gathered to share witness accounts of the death of Thomas at a press conference in front of the Pasadena Police Department in Pasadena, Calif., today. On Friday, Thomas died after being shot with a Taser by police in Pasadena. He was armed with a knife and his wife described him as mentally ill. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters demand the firing of Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck over a police-involved shooting of a black man over the weekend during a news conference at LAPD headquarters on today. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb The Los Angeles police chief today defended the use of deadly force against two men in separate fatal shootings over the weekend, saying one turned toward officers with a gun and the other pointed what looked like a real gun at police.  \n LAPD Chief Charlie Beck released new details of Saturday's shooting of 18-year-old Carnell Snell in South Los Angeles and a fatal police shooting of an unidentified Hispanic man on Sunday. \n The shootings come amid heightened tensions over police actions involving black people and other minorities across the country. \n In Snell's shooting, officers tried to pull over a car he was in because it had paper plates that didn't match the year of the vehicle \u2014 a possible indication of a stolen car and something commonly seen in drive-by shootings, Beck said. \n Snell, seated in the back, looked at officers and then ducked down \"as if to hide from them,\" Beck said. \n When officers tried to pull the car over, Snell jumped out holding his waistband and the foot pursuit began, he said. \n After a chase of several hundred yards, Beck said, Snell took a gun from his waistband and turned in the direction of the pursuing officers, prompting the shooting. \n Snell died at the scene and police recovered a fully loaded semi-automatic gun with one round in the chamber within 5 feet of where Snell lay, Beck said, adding that the weapon had not been fired. \n Beck did not say whether one or more officers fired, how close they were to Snell, or whether the car turned out to be stolen. \n The officers were not wearing body cameras, but a surveillance video from a business clearly showed Snell was armed, Beck said. \n The shooting occurred in a Los Angeles neighborhood where nearly 450 people have been shot this year, making it the worst in the city for gun violence, Beck said. \n \"We are doing our absolute best to take guns out of the hands of those that would use them against others, and sometimes that leads to circumstances where Los Angeles police officers are put into peril and have to defend themselves,\" the chief said. \n A group of people protested outside Beck's news conference, chanting, \"No justice, no peace, no racist police.\" Three were arrested for unlawful assembly after refusing orders to leave police headquarters and take their demonstration to a public street. \n The protesters rejected the police department's description of the shooting and called on them to release the video if they have nothing to hide, something Beck said was being considered but could only happen when all the evidence has been collected and analyzed. \n \"We're so tired,\" said protester Jade Daniels, 24. \"These kids don't want to die. What black person would point a gun at a group of cops?\" \n Snell was on probation after pleading no contest to one felony count of assault likely to produce great bodily injury, according to court records. \n If Snell did turn toward police with a gun, then the fatal shooting would be justified, said Samuel Walker, a retired criminal justice professor at the University of Nebraska-Omaha. \n \"A reasonable person could assume he's going to shoot,\" Walker said. \"He has a gun, he's turning to face the officer. That shooting would be justified at every police department I'm aware of.\" \n Officers are trained to shoot to kill when they perceive an imminent threat, rather than aim for the hand holding a gun or other extremities, Walker added. \n \"Hitting them in the arm or leg, that only happens in the movies,\" he said. \"It's pure Hollywood.\" \n In the other shooting Beck addressed, a man was shot when he pointed what turned out to be a replica handgun at police in another high-crime area on Sunday, the chief said, adding that an orange tip had been colored black to make the replica look real. \n The man remained unidentified. He was only described as Hispanic. \n Beck said both officers involved in that shooting were wearing body cameras and the footage supports their accounts while refuting claims that the man was shot on the ground. \n The officers were responding to reports of a man with a gun. \n \"In both these instances the officers feared for their lives because of the actions of the individuals that they were pursuing,\" Beck said. \n Snell was the third black man in five days to die in confrontations with police in Southern California. \n Last Tuesday, Alfred Olango was fatally shot by an officer in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon when Olango took a \"shooting stance\" and pointed at an officer with what turned out to be a 4-inch vape pen \u2014 an electronic cigarette device. \n On Friday, Reginald Thomas died after being shot with a Taser by police in Pasadena. He was armed with a knife and his wife described him as mentally ill. \n Meanwhile, the family of a black man killed by police in Sacramento in July demanded murder charges today against two officers heard on a dash-cam video talking about trying to hit the man with their police cruiser before he was shot 14 times. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Los Angeles chief defends 2 fatal weekend shootings"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "COURTESY KITV / SEPT. 2008 \n Lincoln Phillips \n The Hawaii Supreme Court has reversed an appellate court decision to overturn the attempted murder conviction of a 43-year-old former Schofield Barracks soldier accused of beating his wife with a hammer. \n On Friday, the Supreme Court issued a written decision reversing a Aug. 30, 2013 state appeals court ruling that overturned the conviction of former Sgt. 1st Class Lincoln Phillips who was charged with beating his wife Tara Phillips, 38, at their Ewa Beach home in September 2008. She suffered severe head and brain injuries and died about a year and half later at a Florida hospital. \n The appeals court held that a hammer that was found in the garage and supposedly used in the beating should not have been admitted in the trial. The majority held that Circuit Judge Karen Ahn erred in not suppressing the hammer that was seized by police without a warrant. \n However, the state Supreme Court found that the hammer and clothing with traces of the victim's blood on both items were recovered by police following proper procedures. \n Lincoln Phillips was sentenced to life with possibility of parole for the attempted murder conviction. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State Supreme Court reverses appeal in attempted murder case"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "A pedestrian was seriously injured in an accident at about 11:30 a.m. today on Kapiolani Boulevard. \n The woman, 76, was hit by a vehicle at 1580 Kapiolani and transported to a hospital by Emergency Medical Services personnel. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pedestrian injured on Kapiolani Boulevard"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "MARTIN COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE VIA AP \n This booking photo photo provided by the Martin County Sheriff's Office shows Austin Harrouff today in Stuart, Fla. Harrouff was charged Sunday with two counts of first-degree murder and one count of attempted first-degree murder for the Aug. 15 slayings of John Stevens, 59, and Michelle Mishcon, 53, at their Tequesta, Fla. home. Deputies say they caught Harrouff biting the dead man's face after stabbing him and his wife to death. \n BEACH POST VIA AP \n Austin Harrouff is transported by detectives to the Martin County Jail from St. Mary's Hospital today. The college student who deputies say bit a dead man's face after stabbing him and his wife to death outside their Florida home was released from the hospital today and taken to jail almost two months after the attack. \n PALM BEACH POST / TNS \n Austin Harrouff, in a 2015 Suncoast High School yearbook photo during his senior year. Harrouff played nose tackle for the varsity football team and was a member of the wrestling team. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. \u00bb A college student who deputies say bit a dead man's face after stabbing him and his wife to death outside their Florida home was released from the hospital today and taken to jail almost two months after the attack. \n Shackled and noticeably thinner, Austin Harrouff, 19, answered no questions from reporters as law enforcement officers led him from the hospital to an SUV for the trip to the Martin County jail, where he arrived Monday afternoon. \n Martin County Sheriff William Snyder said Harrouff was charged Sunday with two counts of first-degree murder and one count of attempted first-degree murder for the Aug. 15 slayings of John Stevens, 59, and Michelle Mishcon, 53, at their Tequesta home, and the stabbing of their neighbor. Snyder had chosen not to charge him until he was released so his hospital stay would be covered by his parents' insurance and not the county. \n Harrouff had been hospitalized and sedated since shortly after the attack. Snyder has said Harrouff may have ingested caustic chemicals from the couple's garage during the attack. Harrouff's father, Dr. Wade Harrouff, a dentist, had said last month that his son's liver was failing, he had fluid in his lungs and his esophagus was bleeding. \n \"He will probably continue to need therapy,\" Snyder said today. \"We made it clear to the hospital that this is a jail, it is not a therapeutic place to be. We will do the best we can. We do have a medical unit but, for the most part, he is coming here for jail and not for therapy.\" \n Wade Harrouff did not return a call or text message today seeking comment. \n Snyder said today that the FBI is still conducting tests on Harrouff's blood to determine if he had taken any drugs. \n Deputies say they found the then-muscular former high school football player and wrestler in his underwear, making animal noises and biting Stevens' face as he pinned his victim's body to the driveway. \n Snyder said it took numerous deputies, jolts from a stun gun and a police dog to pry him off. The sheriff said deputies didn't shoot because they feared striking the victim, not knowing that he was likely already dead. They found Mishcon's body in the garage. If convicted of first-degree murder, he could face the death penalty or life in prison. \n Harrouff is also accused of stabbing the couple's neighbor, Jeff Fisher, who tried to come to their aid before retreating, wounded, to call 911. Fisher was later released from a hospital. \n Harrouff used a switchblade knife and \"weapons of opportunity\" from the couple's garage in the attack, creating what experienced homicide detectives called the most gruesome crime scene of their careers, the sheriff said. \n The Florida State University exercise science major told deputies arresting him that he was drug-free. \"Test me. You won't find any drugs,\" he declared. \n He has made no comments to investigators since, Snyder said Monday. He was incoherent when he was taken to the hospital and was soon put on a ventilator. \n In a video he posted online five days before the attack, Harrouff suggested he may have taken steroids in the past, but said he doesn't use them now. If true, that could raise the possibility of \"roid rage,\" which usually happens when a user is not actively taking the drug, said Jim Hall, an epidemiologist at Nova Southeastern University who tracks illegal drug usage. \n The FBI has been running tests to determine whether he was under the influence of hallucinogenic drugs such as flakka or bath salts, both of which have been linked to violent outbursts. Snyder said there were no traces of common street drugs \u2014 including cocaine, marijuana and methamphetamine \u2014 in Harrouff's blood after the stabbings. \n The toxicology reports will provide \"a big piece of the unknown,\" Snyder has said. \n What investigators do know is that Harrouff was having dinner with his father, sister and a friend at a restaurant about 4 miles from the victims' house when he apparently had words with his father. Surveillance video shows him calmly walking out about 45 minutes before the stabbings, and his family was concerned. \n His mother, unaware of the attack, called police to report him missing; she said he had been acting strangely for about a week, claiming to have superpowers and to have been sent here to help people. \n The victims lived a short distance from Harrouff's father and were known to sit in their garage with the door open, watching television and chatting with passers-by. \n Harrouff's parents issued a statement days after the slayings expressing their condolences to the Stevens family and their apologies to Fisher. \n ", "author": "By Associated Press", "title": "Florida face-biting slaying suspect taken to jail"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "RALEIGH, N.C. \u00bb A North Carolina prosecutor said today that criminal charges will not be filed against a white police officer whose own department said he violated its \"use of force\" policy when he arrested and punched a black man sitting on the front porch of his mother's home. \n Guilford County Chief Assistant District Attorney Howard Neumann said neither Travis Cole, an eight-year veteran of the Greensboro Police Department, nor six-year veteran Charlotte Jackson committed any crimes when they arrested Dejuan Yourse on June 17. The officers were dispatched to the home of Yourse's mother in Greensboro after neighbors reported a possible break-in. \n The case erupted into public view last week after video of the arrest taken from the body cameras worn by Jackson and Cole was shown at a Greensboro City Council meeting. The incident had been under internal police investigation since Yourse's arrest. Neumann originally announced that no charges would be filed against the officers in August. \n The footage captures Cole questioning Yourse amicably for several minutes. Seated on the porch, Yourse explains that he is waiting for his mother to return home. He doesn't have a house key or identification, but he says neighbors know who he is. Yourse answers the officer's questions with a respectful \"Yes, sir.\" \n Yourse at one point then stands up, apparently thinking he would lead Cole to a familiar neighbor, but the officer touches his chest and presses Yourse backward and into his seat. Yourse fails to reach his mother by cell phone. He calls someone else and urges that person to come over because police are hassling him. \n Cole then grabs Yourse's phone, wrestles him to the floor of the porch, punches him and, with Jackson's help, places handcuffs on him. Yourse says, \"I'm not resisting! I'm not resisting!\" Cole insists that Yourse is resisting arrest and had assaulted the officer. Yourse was charged with both crimes. \n Greensboro Police Officers Association attorney William Hill said in a statement that the use of force was reported to the officers' supervisor at the scene. An administrative investigation of the arrest then filtered up several levels until it was brought to Police Chief Wayne Scott's attention on Aug. 9. \n Cole resigned 10 days later, and the charges against Yourse were dropped. Jackson resigned last week. \n An internal investigation completed Aug. 30 determined that Cole violated police department policies including use of force, courtesy toward the public, and search and seizure, department spokeswoman Susan Danielsen wrote in an email today. \n At a meeting on Sept. 26, city council not only showed the body camera video; officials also apologized to Yourse and his mother, Livia. \n \"It was ugly. It was brutal. It was completely unnecessary,\" Mayor Nancy Vaughan said. \n Scott, the police chief, expressed dismay. \n \"We're very unhappy with what's contained in that video,\" Scott said. \n In a letter released Friday, Hill criticized city council's action, accusing it of pursuing \"a politically motivated witch hunt\" in how it handled the matter. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N.C. officer who violated 'use of force' policy won't be charged"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton greeted a member of the audience as she arrived at a rally at the Downtown Toledo Train Station in Toledo, Ohio toda. \n TOLEDO, Ohio \u00bb Hillary Clinton tore into Donald Trump's tax maneuvering, business skills and trustworthiness Monday as she sought to capitalize on news that the New York real estate mogul may have paid no federal taxes for years. Unfazed, he boasted of using U.S. tax laws \"brilliantly\" and cast himself as a savvy business survivor poised to save a reeling nation. \n Campaigning at a Toledo train station, Clinton castigated Trump as a cold-hearted and bungling businessman who \"represents the same rigged system that he claims he's going to change.\" She called for a new law requiring presidential candidates from major parties to release their tax returns, as Trump has refused to do, and she accused him of shirking his responsibility as a taxpayer. \n \"He's taken corporate excess and made a business model out of it,\" she said. \"It's Trump first and everyone else last.\" \n The Democrat's broadside was her first response to a weekend New York Times report that Trump claimed a loss of nearly $916 million in a single year on his personal tax filings. The Times said the size of the loss could have allowed him to avoid federal taxes for nearly two decades, an assertion his campaign neither confirmed nor disputed. \n Nor did Trump. \n Instead, at a Colorado rally, he portrayed himself as a man who bounced back from financial losses, will recover from a currently difficult stretch of the campaign and propel the nation to a similar turnaround. \n \"On Nov. 8, America's comeback begins,\" he told cheering supporters in Pueblo. \n As for questions about his tax history, Trump said he had \"brilliantly used those laws \u2026 legally used the tax laws to my benefit and to the benefit of my company, my investors and my employees.\" \n \"The unfairness of the tax laws is unbelievable. It's something I've been talking about for a long time, despite, frankly, being a big beneficiary of the laws,\" Trump told the crowd in Pueblo. \"But I'm working for you now. I'm not working for Trump.\" \n He acknowledged business failures as well as successes but declared, \"I'm still here.\" \n He said that \"our country is in need of a major comeback,\" just like the one he was able to pull off after near-financial collapse in the 1990s \u2014 and the one, he implied, he would make from his recent drop in the polls after a difficult campaign week. \n Several of Trump's surrogates also rallied to note that the Times report did not allege wrongdoing and they contended the Republican presidential candidate was a \"genius\" for using the tax system to rebuild his fortune. \n At the same time, the Clinton campaign seized on the comment with a new TV ad, asking, \"If not paying taxes makes him smart, what does that make the rest of us?\" \n In her remarks in Ohio, Clinton mocked: \"What kind of genius loses a billion dollars in a single year?\" \n Other Trump troubles mounted. \n Former cast and crew members from the reality TV show \"The Apprentice\" described for the first time his treatment of women on the set. Show insiders told The Associated Press that Trump rated female contestants by the size of their breasts and talked about which ones he'd like to have sex with. \n The campaign issued a broad denial, calling the claims \"totally false.\" \n Also Monday, the New York attorney general's office ordered the Trump Foundation to immediately stop fundraising in the state, saying it isn't registered to do so. \n The back-to-back bad news piled on a week of Trump missteps and his increasingly aggressive personal attacks on Clinton. Since a rocky debate last week, Trump has engaged in a distracting feud with a former beauty queen he called \"Miss Piggy\" because she gained weight during her reign. He seemed to try to shift the conversation Saturday night when he suggested, without evidence, that Clinton may have cheated on her husband. \n Trump's campaign is searching for a way to rattle Clinton \u2014 while also getting control of its own message. The new revelations only make that harder. While the incomplete tax records published by the Times show no irregularities, the size of Trump's loss cuts at a core tenet of his presidential bid \u2014 his remarkable business success. Meanwhile, his boorish comments are threatening to turn away female voters. \n Trump was more disciplined Monday both in Pueblo and at a forum in Virginia hosted by the Retired American Warriors PAC. \n Seizing an opportunity he missed on the debate stage last week, Trump went after Clinton's commitment to fighting cybersecurity threats and pointed to her use of a private, email server when she served as secretary of state. \n He said Clinton's handling of classified emails on the server makes her \"totally unfit\" for the Oval Office. \n But Trump's taxes dominated the conversation. \n In a story published over the weekend, the Times said it received the first pages of Trump's 1995 state income tax filings in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut from an anonymous person. The filings showed a net loss of $915,729,293 in federal taxable income for the year \u2014 losses of a magnitude that they might have allowed Trump to avoid paying taxes for years. \n His campaign said that he had paid \"hundreds of millions\" of dollars in other kinds of taxes over the years. \n ", "author": "Bloomberg News", "title": "Clinton tears into Trump on taxes; He says he 'brilliantly used' system"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un listened during the party congress in Pyongyang, North Korea on May 9. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A U.S. Air Force B-1B bomber from Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, landed at Osan Air Base in Pyeongtaek, South Korea, on Sept. 21. The United States flew a pair of supersonic bombers over ally South Korea for the second time in as many weeks in a show of force following North Korea's latest nuclear test earlier this month. \n TOKYO \u00bb Since North Korea's latest nuclear test, Pyongyang and Seoul have been openly trading threats of decapitation strikes and annihilating capitals populated by millions of civilians. And the talk of how each side might throw that first pre-emptive punch has become more detailed than ever. \n Seoul and Pyongyang are now making a point of claiming they are justified, and capable, of striking hard if an attack by the other appears imminent: North Korea with its rapidly developing nuclear arsenal, Seoul with conventional missile attacks and commando operations explicitly aimed at killing Kim Jong Un and his top commanders. \n Swings of tension from crisis levels to business as usual, with the white noise of bellicose rhetoric always in the background, have been a fact of life for decades on the divided Korean Peninsula. But with pre-emptive strike scenarios now coming out in the open, there may be new cause for real concern. \n Here's a look at why, from the perspectives of the North, the South and the United States: \n PYONGYANG DOUBLES DOWN \n Since assuming power in late 2011, Kim has made major strides toward making his country a credible nuclear threat. \n This year alone, the North has conducted two nuclear tests, its latest and biggest on Sept. 9. It has test-launched several long-range missiles, including at least one from a submarine, and generally demonstrated it's moving toward a stealthier, deployment-ready nuclear and missile arsenal. \n Pyongyang may now be capable of launching a nuclear attack on Seoul, which is only about 60 kilometers (35 miles) south of the Demilitarized Zone, and on the roughly 28,000 U.S. troops deployed in the South. Also possibly within striking distance are Japan, home to another 50,000 U.S. troops, and even the U.S. territory of Guam, a key Pacific military hub about 3,000 kilometers (1,900 miles) away. \n It's closer than ever to having nuclear-tipped missiles able to reach the U.S. mainland. \n Having the weaponry and being able to successfully use it are two different things. Experts have mixed opinions on whether the North can actually mount nuclear weapons on its long-range missiles, and on how reliable either would be. \n North Korea has effectively held Seoul hostage for decades with dug-in, well-hidden artillery that could cause massive damage on the crowded South Korean capital and its suburbs. But the immediate U.S.-South Korean counterattack would be devastating. \n But by introducing nuclear weapons into the equation, Pyongyang is trying to strengthen its hand \u2014 in deterrence, in an actual contingency or at the negotiating table should meaningful talks with Washington resume. \n It's a risky, costly and extremely dangerous gambit, and North Korea appears to be doubling down. \n In March, its state media reported that Kim personally supervised a drill simulating an attack on the Blue House, South Korea's presidential residence. Late last month, the North's military issued a statement threatening to use nuclear weapons to reduce Seoul to ashes and \"sweep Guam, the base of provocations, from the surface of the earth.\" On Sunday, state media again warned the North is ready to act at the \"slightest sign of intrusion.\" \n SOUTH KOREA PREPS TO TAKE OUT KIM \n Obviously, a \"decapitation strike\" scenario aimed at North Korea's leadership is something the South would quietly consider \u2014 that's what military strategists are paid to do. North Korea attempted one against South Korean President Park Chung-hee in 1968; it was a disaster. \n But Seoul is now showing its cards. \n South Korean media started talking about them in August 2015, when a South Korean defense official said \"beheading operations\" would be part of a new joint wartime plan. U.S. and South Korean troops reportedly conducted such training during joint exercises in March. Some military experts say such exercises aren't new, but the reports outraged Pyongyang. \n Seoul's rhetoric is now even more pointed. Shortly after last month's nuclear test, its Joint Chiefs of Staff announced plans to strengthen its ability to conduct pre-emptive strikes. And it said a \"Korea Massive Punishment and Retaliation\" system would use special forces, the Hyunmoo-2 ballistic missile and the Hyunmoo-3 cruise missile \u2014 now under development \u2014 to, as one South Korean newspaper put it, \"obliterate areas where Kim Jong Un and the rest of North Korea's leaders are located.\" \n Kim Dae Young, a military expert at South Korea's Korea Defense and Security Forum, questioned whether the South could pull off a pre-emptive strike without nuclear weapons. \n \"Pyongyang's subways run 100 to 150 meters (328 to 492 feet) deep. South Korea could fire all of its cruise missiles and ballistic missiles onto Pyongyang and it would still be difficult to break the tunnels,\" he said. \"If you're able to take out Kim Jong Un on the first try, good. But if you fail, then you come under a nuclear attack.\" \n Conservative lawmakers, scholars and media agencies are calling for South Korea to develop its own nukes and ask the U.S. to reintroduce tactical nuclear weapons into South Korea. Officials say they have no plans for such changes, which would infuriate neighbors China, Russia and Japan and fly in the face of longstanding U.S. military policy. \n PATIENCE AND WORRY IN WASHINGTON \n With presidential elections just over a month away, Washington has been sticking to President Barack Obama's longstanding policy of \"strategic patience\" \u2014 keeping Pyongyang at arm's length, building regional alliances and isolating the North's government. \n It has recently flown B-1B bombers over the Korean Peninsula and is moving ahead with the deployment of its top-of-the-line THAAD missile defense system in South Korea, though China sees THAAD as a threat to its own defense. \n Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Russel, the top U.S. diplomat for East Asia, assured Congress last week the U.S. has plans in place for \"de-escalating and defusing\" a crisis. He said South Korea's official statements on pre-emption did not show it has any intent \"to take precipitous or provocative action.\" \n Even so, some in Washington view the escalation as disconcerting. \n \"Discussions of things like pre-emption in public obviously add a troubling element to peninsular dynamics,\" said Evans Revere, a former State Department official and East Asia expert. \n Revere blamed Pyongyang for its rapid nuclear and missile buildup. He said Seoul's logic in allowing stories about exercise scenarios to leak out is to \"maximize the deterrent message\" and to reassure South Koreans. \n That, too, is a risky game. \n Democratic Sen. Ed Markey, also at last week's Senate hearing, warned that if North Korea believes the South intends to use pre-emptive force to kill its leaders, Kim Jong Un would be under pressure to delegate control over nuclear weapons to front-line military commanders. If the North believes Seoul plans to pre-emptively take out its nuclear weapons, he added, that could also create pressure to \"use them or lose them in a crisis.\" \n \"Both of those pressures could drastically increase the risk of inadvertent nuclear war on the peninsula,\" he said. \n Talmadge has been the AP's Pyongyang bureau chief since 2013. AP writers Kim Tong-hyung and Hyung-jin Kim in Seoul, South Korea, and Matthew Pennington in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North, South Korea trade threats over pre-emptive strike"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "A 47-year-old Kula man was killed Sunday night when he lost control of the car he was driving on Kula Highway and hit a rock embankment. \n Maui police identified the driver as Manuel Lopes III. \n Lopes was driving a white 1995 Honda Civic heading north on Kula Highway at 9:45 p.m. when he lost control of the vehicle at about the 16-mile marker in Kula. \n Lopes' car left the roadway, collided with a rock embankment and came to rest against a guardrail. He was pronounced dead at the scene. \n He was not wearing a seat belt at the time of the crash. \n The involvement of speed, drugs and alcohol are under investigation. \n This is Maui County's 13th traffic fatality in 2016, compared to 18 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kula man dies after crashing into embankment on Maui"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 16, 2015 photo, Donald Trump, host of the reality television series \"The Celebrity Apprentice,\" poses for photographers at the NBC 2015 Winter TCA Press Tour in Pasadena, Calif. \n NEW YORK \u00bb In his years as a reality TV boss on \"The Apprentice,\" Donald Trump repeatedly demeaned women with sexist language, according to show insiders who said he rated female contestants by the size of their breasts and talked about which ones he'd like to have sex with. \n The Associated Press interviewed more than 20 people \u2014 former crew members, editors and contestants \u2014 who described crass behavior by Trump behind the scenes of the long-running hit show, in which aspiring capitalists were given tasks to perform as they competed for jobs working for him. \n The staffers and contestants agreed to recount their experiences as Trump's behavior toward women has become a core issue in the presidential campaign. Interviewed separately, they gave concurring accounts of inappropriate conduct on the set. \n Eight former crew members recalled that he repeatedly made lewd comments about a camerawoman he said had a nice rear, comparing her beauty to that of his daughter, Ivanka. \n During one season, Trump called for female contestants to wear shorter dresses that also showed more cleavage, according to contestant Gene Folkes. Several cast members said Trump had one female contestant twirl before him so he could ogle her figure. \n Randal Pinkett, who won the program in December 2005 and who has recently criticized Trump during his run for president, said he remembered the real estate mogul talking about which female contestants he wanted to sleep with, even though Trump had married former model Melania Knauss earlier that year: \"He was like 'Isn't she hot, check her out,' kind of gawking, something to the effect of 'I'd like to hit that.' \" \n The Trump campaign issued a general denial. \"These outlandish, unsubstantiated, and totally false claims fabricated by publicity hungry, opportunistic, disgruntled former employees, have no merit whatsoever,\" said Hope Hicks, Trump's campaign spokeswoman. \"The Apprentice was one of the most successful prime-time television shows of all time and employed hundreds of people over many years, many of whom support Mr. Trump's candidacy.\" She declined to answer specific questions that were emailed and declined an interview request. \n Former producer Katherine Walker said Trump frequently talked about women's bodies during the five seasons she worked with him and said he speculated about which female contestant would be \"a tiger in bed.\" \n A former crew member who signed a non-disclosure agreement and asked not to be identified, recalled that Trump asked male contestants whether they would sleep with a particular female contestant, then expressed his own interest. \n \"We were in the boardroom one time figuring out who to blame for the task, and he just stopped in the middle and pointed to someone and said, 'You'd f\u2026 her, wouldn't you? I'd f\u2026 her. C'mon, wouldn't you?'\" \n The person continued: \"Everyone is trying to make him stop talking, and the woman is shrinking in her seat.\" \n Other cast and crew interviewed said they had positive, professional experiences with Trump, and added that they had never heard comments that made them uncomfortable. \n \"He was extremely supportive. You could tell there was so much respect there on all sides, especially with the female athletes,\" said contestant and U.S. softball star Jennie Finch, a two-time Olympian. \"Obviously, he was complimentary, but never in an inappropriate way.\" \n Contestant Poppy Carlig, who performed the twirl, said she considered Trump's request \"playful banter.\" She added: \"I don't immediately jump to the conclusion that people are having bad intentions with what they are saying. He said I reminded him of his daughter and I thought that was really touching because I know how much he values his family.\" \n Twelve former contestants or members of the crew spoke on the record about what they described as Trump's inappropriate behavior. Another nine spoke to the AP about their concerns regarding Trump's treatment of female colleagues but said they did not want to be identified because they signed non-disclosure agreements, or were concerned about wrecking their careers or retaliation from Trump. \n Most offered no opinion on the November election in the course of their interviews, but the majority of those who did said only that they were not supporting Trump. \n Trump points to his record of hiring women, but he has often been accused of sexist behavior; at the first Republican debate, in August 2015, Fox anchor Megyn Kelly asked whether a man who has called women \"fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals\" has the temperament to be president. After that debate, Trump attacked Kelly and her questioning, \"You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever.\" \n The remarks of former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, who said Trump called her \"Miss Piggy\" because she'd gained weight during her reign, became campaign fodder last week following the first presidential debate. Trump used to own the pageant. \n NBC, which broadcast the hit series, referred questions to executive producer Mark Burnett, whose studio referred calls to a public relations firm. The public relations firm did not respond to multiple voicemails and emails seeking comment. AP previously asked Burnett to provide original footage for review, but those calls were not returned. \n Debuting in 2004, \"The Apprentice\" and a spinoff, \"Celebrity Apprentice,\" propelled Trump to national stardom following a string of bankruptcies and bad business deals in the 1990s that had splintered his New York-based real estate empire. The series, meant to showcase Trump's business acumen, became a major hit and Trump's name became a global brand that helped launch his political career. \n But on the set, usually inside Trump Tower, the former cast and crew members say, the businessman's treatment of women was sometimes far from professional. \n Walker, who said she was the only high-level female producer during the first season, said Trump turned to her during a break outside of the control room to ask who he should fire. Walker demurred, she said, but noted that team members had told her one contestant had caused her team to lose their business task. Trump raised his hands and cupped them to his chest to ask whether it was a contestant with large breasts, she said. \n \"He said, 'You mean the one with the' \u2014 and he puts his hands out in a gesture to signal the girl with the giant boobs. He didn't even know her name,\" Walker said, adding that the contestant, Kristi Frank, was fired at the end of the episode. \n \"I thought he noticed my hard work, but I guess he didn't,\" said Frank, a former restaurant owner who studied industrial engineering. \n She said that after Trump delivered his punch line \"You're fired!\" he told her fianc\u00e9 that \"of all the girls,\" she was the contestant he would have chosen to marry. \n \"It makes me a little sick,\" Frank said. \"It's kind of sweet, but it makes me feel like 'OK, he's checking me out again.'\" \n In portions of boardroom sessions never broadcast, Trump frequently would ask male contestants to rate the attractiveness of their female competitors, former crew members and contestants said. \n \"If there was a break in the conversation, he would then look at one of the female cast members, saying 'you're looking kind of hot today, I love that dress on you,' then he would turn to one of the male cast members and say 'wouldn't you sleep with her?' and then everyone would laugh,\" said a former crew member who spoke on condition of anonymity because of a non-disclosure agreement. \"There would be about 10 or 12 cameras rolling and getting that footage, which is why everybody was like, this guy just doesn't care.\" \n Trump would carry on with the questions even if all involved were married, said Gene Folkes, who appeared on the program in 2010. \n \"If you didn't answer, he would dig in and say, 'Do you think so and so is attractive? Would you sleep with her? Well, what about if you really had to, would you?'\" Folkes said. \"It was so bizarre, because he (otherwise) seemed so professional.\" \n Folkes said he also remembered that Trump \"asked one of the women their breast size at one point, or said, 'are those real or natural?'\" \n Jim Dowd, who did public relations for Trump, NBC and \"The Apprentice\" shows between 2003 and 2009, said Trump was a \"lover of women\" and a \"guy's guy.\" \n \"Was he complimenting the women? Of course. Was he behind closed doors with just the guys rating the women, who were the hotter ones on the show? Yes, he certainly was prone to that,\" Dowd said. \n \"I never heard him say anything about women's bodies, but he was definitely unscripted,\" said former producer Michael Dietz. \n Eight former crew members said Trump took a fancy to a particular female camera operator, and frequently gave her attention that made many on the set feel uncomfortable. Two former crew members said the woman made it clear to them privately that she did not like Trump's comments. \n Walker, the former producer, said it was clear Trump was attracted to the camera operator as far back as 2003. \n \"He said something like she was cute and she had a nice ass, and it was brought to my attention by someone else that he had a crush on her,\" Walker said. \"We all knew, so that's uncomfortable in and of itself. I remember it being too much, that he made it obvious.\" \n Rebecca Arndt, a camera assistant who worked on the show following Trump's 2005 marriage, said Trump would stop production to make comments about the camera operator's looks in front of the crew. \n \"I remember being in the foyer once with eight or 10 cameras set up and he said something about her being so pretty,\" Arndt said. \"He would make it about his line of sight, like 'There is a beautiful woman behind that camera, so I only want to look at that.' It was supposed to be considered a compliment, but of course it was inappropriate.\" \n German Abarca, another former camera operator, said most of the camera crew knew that Trump was attracted to their colleague. \n Abarca said the woman was the frequent subject of ribbing by others in the crew, almost all of whom were much younger than Trump. \"I think she mostly tried to ignore it.\" \n Arndt said that Trump would publicly discuss the woman's beauty and how her blue eyes and blonde hair compared to his daughter Ivanka's looks. \n \"He would just mention it all the time. I remember him comparing Ivanka to her and saying that only Ivanka was prettier,\" she said. \n The woman did not respond to a voicemail seeking comment. The AP spoke in person twice with her husband, who said his wife did not wish to be interviewed, \"doesn't have a problem with Donald Trump\" and denied she had been subjected to repeated, unwanted attention from Trump. \n One former contestant, Tyana Alvarado, said she wasn't offended when Trump told her she was attractive \u2014 but noted that he played by his own rules. \n \"Most men have to behave because they are in a workplace, but he could do what he wanted,\" Alvarado said. \"In all jobs, people have to sign sexual harassment paperwork, but Mr. Trump was putting on a TV show so he got to do it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Apprentice' cast & crew say lewd Trump demeaned women"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "Big Island police believe speed, inattention and alcohol were factors when a man failed to make a turn on Mamalahoa Road in South Kona early Sunday morning and was killed when he was ejected from his car after it hit a utility pole. \n The accident occurred at 2:36 a.m. Sunday just south of the 114-mile marker near Honalo when the driver of a 2013 Subaru station wagon failed to negotiate a turn in the roadway. The vehicle then ran off the mauka shoulder of the roadway and collided with a utility pole. The driver was ejected from the vehicle, and was taken in critical condition to Kona Community Hospital, where he died. \n An autopsy has been ordered to determine the cause of death. \n Police have initiated a coroner's inquest investigation and are asking for anyone who may have witnessed the crash to call Officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646, ext. 229. Tipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300. \n This is the Big Island's 22nd traffic fatality this year compared with 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Driver dies after crashing into utility pole on Big Isle"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "PUNA GEOTHERMAL VENTURES / NOV. 2012 \n Puna Geothermal Ventures produces 38 megawatts of electricity at its plant in Kilauea's East Rift Zone. \n Today was the fourth time in four days that Big Island firefighters responded to reports of a possible explosion and gas release at the geothermal power plant in Puna, which turned out to be a malfunction in the system, according to fire officials. \n Firefighters and department's hazardous materials team responded to reports of an explosion and gas release at the geothermal power plant at 2:52 a.m. \n However, arriving firefighters were told by employees that there was a system malfunction and no explosion occurred and no steam was released. \n Firefighters monitored the air quality in area for two hours, but did not detect any dangerous gas. \n On Thursday, Puna Geothermal Venture reported a release of steam Thursday afternoon from one of its wells, Hawaii County Civil Defense reported. \n Monitors in the community did not detect any of the dangerous gas, he said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Report of steam release at Puna geothermal plant is another false alarm"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry spoke in New York on Sept. 22. The State Department said today the U.S. is suspending bilateral contacts with Russia over Syria. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb In a sharp deterioration of relations, the U.S. today suspended diplomatic contacts with Russia over Syria, while Moscow halted cooperation on a joint program for disposal of weapons-grade plutonium. \n The U.S. move followed a threat last week from Secretary of State John Kerry after new Russian and Syrian attacks on the city of Aleppo. The State Department said Russia had not lived up to the terms of an agreement last month to restore the cease-fire and ensure sustained deliveries of humanitarian aid to besieged cities. \n \"This is not a decision that was taken lightly,\" State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement. \"Unfortunately, Russia failed to live up to its own commitments \u2026 and was also either unwilling or unable to ensure Syrian regime adherence to the arrangements to which Moscow agreed.\" \n \"Rather, Russia and the Syrian regime have chosen to pursue a military course, inconsistent with the Cessation of Hostilities, as demonstrated by their intensified attacks against civilian areas, targeting of critical infrastructure such as hospitals, and preventing humanitarian aid from reaching civilians in need, including through the September 19 attack on a humanitarian aid convoy,\" he said. \n An airstrike last month hit a United Nations humanitarian aid convoy, killing 20 people. The United States has accused Russia of hitting the convoy, but both Russia and Syria deny it. \n Today's announcement came just hours after Russian President Vladimir Putin suspended a Russia-U.S. deal on the disposal of weapons-grade plutonium, in a move that also underscored rising tensions between Washington and Moscow. \n Putin's decree cited Washington's \"unfriendly actions\" and the United States' inability to fulfill its obligations under the 2000 deal as reasons for the move. Under the agreement, which was expanded in 2006 and 2010, Russia and the U.S. each were to dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium, enough material for about 17,000 nuclear warheads. \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest said patience had run out with Russia. \n \"What is clear is that there is nothing more for the United States and Russia to talk about with regard to stopping the ongoing violence in Syria and that is unfortunate,\" he told reporters. \n He said the U.S. would withdraw personnel that it had dispatched to take part in the creation of a joint U.S.-Russia center that was to have coordinated military cooperation and intelligence had the cease-fire taken hold. The suspension will not affect communications between the two countries aimed at de-conflicting counter-terrorism operations in Syria. \n Last week, amid the deteriorating conditions, Kerry threatened to suspend contacts with Russia unless \"immediate\" action was taken to ease the situation. Despite no improvements, however, he did not order the suspension until today. \n Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Moscow. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. suspends contacts with Russia on Syria"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during a town hall with the Retired American Warriors, today, in Herndon, Va. \n ALBANY, N.Y. \u00bb The New York attorney general's office has ordered Donald Trump's charitable foundation to immediately stop fundraising in the state, saying it isn't registered to do so. \n The head of the attorney general's Charities Bureau, James Sheehan, wrote in a letter to a lawyer for the Republican presidential nominee's foundation that the failure to stop immediately and answer demands for all delinquent financial reports within 15 days \"shall be deemed a continuing fraud upon the people of the state of New York.\" The letter was dated and sent Friday. \n Democratic Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has been investigating the Donald J. Trump Foundation following Washington Post reports that foundation spending personally benefited the presidential candidate. The newspaper, citing tax records, also reported that the charity has been funded entirely from outside donations since 2008, when the candidate made his last contribution to it. \n The attorney general's office said the Trump Foundation had a registration for an organization with assets in New York but the law requires a different registration for those that solicit more than $25,000 a year from the public. \n \"Based on information received by the Charities Bureau to date, the Trump Foundation was engaged in solicitation or fundraising activities in New York State in 2016 and was not registered with the Charities Bureau pursuant to Article 7-A, and thus was not permitted to engage in such activity during this period,\" Sheehan wrote. \n The Trump campaign has said the foundation intends to cooperate with the investigation. The campaign previously called Schneiderman \"a partisan hack who has turned a blind eye to the Clinton Foundation for years and has endorsed Hillary Clinton for president.\" \n \"While we remain very concerned about the political motives behind A.G. Schneiderman's investigation, the Trump Foundation nevertheless intends to cooperate fully with the investigation,\" Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said. \n In September interviews, Schneiderman told Politico that in June his office had communicated with foundation lawyers about what appeared to be an unlawful campaign contribution and didn't make a public fuss about it and hold a press conference. \n \"If I'm a traffic cop, but I'm a Democrat, and (Trump) speeds by me, I have to give him a ticket. It's that simple. Charities have to follow the rules,\" Schneiderman told \"CBS This Morning.\" \n His spokesman Eric Soufer said, \"The attorney general's office is the sole regulator of charities in New York State, and when evidence of clear misconduct is brought to our attention, we take action.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Attorney general orders Trump Foundation to stop fundraising in N.Y."}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A French police officer entered the residence of Kim Kardashian West in Paris today. Kardashian West was unharmed after being robbed at gunpoint of more than $10 million worth of jewelry inside a private Paris residence Sunday night, police officials said. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n TV personality Kim Kardashian attended the Cannes Lions 2015, International Advertising Festival in Cannes, southern France in June 2015. Armed robbers forced their way into a private Paris residence where Kardashian West was staying, and stole more than $10 million worth of jewelry, police officials said Monday. \n PARIS \u00bb Armed robbers forced their way into a private Paris residence where Kim Kardashian West was staying, tied her up and locked her in a bathroom before making off with more than $10 million worth of jewelry, police officials said today. \n A spokeswoman for Kardashian West said the reality TV star, who was in Paris attending fashion week shows, was badly shaken but physically unharmed. \n She left Paris this morning a few hours after the incident, and flew to Teteboro Airport in New Jersey. From there she traveled in a motorcade to her apartment building in downtown Manhattan, where there was a heavy security presence. \n Paris police are hunting for five suspected assailants after the incident, which has raised new concerns about security in the French capital after a string of deadly extremist attacks. \n The thieves entered the 19th-century luxury residence in Paris' chic eighth district after the concierge let them in around 2:30 a.m. local time, according to two police officials. Handcuffed and at gunpoint, the concierge led them to the starlet's flat. \n The robbers tied up Kardashian West and locked her in the bathroom before escaping on bikes, the officials said. They were not authorized to be publicly named speaking about ongoing investigations. \n The officials said the five stole a jewelry box containing valuables worth 6 million euros ($6.7 million) as well as a ring worth $4.5 million. In a message to The Associated Press, the Paris prosecutor's office said that only two of the five suspects forced their way into the apartment. \n Kardashian's stylist was also in the residence at the time, and alerted police, but Kardashian's bodyguard was not present according to the prosecutor's office. \n The couple's two children, 3-year-old daughter North and 10-month-old son Saint, were not with Kardashian West when the robbery happened. It's unclear if they accompanied her on the trip to France. \n Police said the actress' family was placed under police protection at the George V hotel after the incident. Her sister Kendall Jenner appeared with Kardashian at Paris fashion shows in recent days and often appears on the catwalk herself. \n Kardashian's husband, Kanye West, abruptly ended his performance at the Meadows Music and Arts Festival in New York on Sunday night. \n \"I'm sorry, family emergency, I have to stop the show,\" West told the audience. \n Kardashian West has the habit of showing her jewels and whereabouts in her social media, including in recent days when she posted pictures of her attending fashion week shows. A few days ago, she also flashed a big ring on Twitter and Instagram \n Kardashian West was ambushed last week by a serial celebrity accoster who attempted to assault her as she was entering a restaurant. She was also attacked outside of a Paris fashion week show in 2014. She wasn't hurt in either incident. \n Paris has been a special place for Kardashian West and her husband, who spent the weekend there before marrying in Florence in May 2014. \n With France under a state of emergency following extremist attacks that left more than 200 people dead in the last 20 months, news of the robbery immediately sparked criticism from political opponents of the Socialist government. \n Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, a right-wing member of Paris council and a potential candidate in next year's presidential election, said the robbery was proof that \"there is a general emergency on security\" in the French capital. \n \"Regardless of all the very expensive advertising we do to promote 'I Love Paris,' tourism and the image of Paris, all these ads have been brutally canceled by the Kim Kardashian case,\" Kosciusko-Morizet told Europe 1 radio. \n Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, a close ally of Socialist president Francois Hollande, condemned the assault and said Kardashian West will \"always be welcome in Paris.\" \n Hidalgo said she is confident police will quickly identify and arrest the suspects and that the \"very rare\" incident \"in no way calls into question police work or security of public space\" in Paris. \n Hidalgo also urged politicians across the spectrum not to exploit the incident for political gains in the lead-up to the presidential election. \n \"In a complicated context for tourism, in which boosting attendance must be the priority of all, using this incident for polemical purposes would amount to directly harming the tourism sector, which represents 500,000 jobs\" in the Paris region, Hidalgo said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Armed robbers take $10 million in jewelry from Kardashian West in Paris"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin visited a reserve for wild horses near the Urals city of Orenburg, about 800 miles southeast of Moscow today. \n WASHINGTON >> Already testy, relations between the United States and Russia plummeted Monday as Washington suspended diplomatic contacts with Moscow over failed efforts to end the war in Syria and President Vladimir Putin put on hold a deal with the U.S. on disposing weapons-grade plutonium. \n On the surface, the suspensions were unrelated. But both underscored deep mistrust and rising tensions between the former Cold War foes, who are increasingly at odds on a number of issues, particularly Syria and Ukraine. In the short term, the end of discussions on Syria deals a potential death blow to efforts to slow the civil war and begin negotiations on possible elections in the country that could mean the ouster of President Bashar Assad. \n Underscoring the deterioration between the U.S. and Russia, Putin suspended a deal on plutonium disposal hours before the U.S. announcement. The two powers will still continue discussions on the Iran nuclear deal, Ukraine and other non-Syria issues. \n The Russian Foreign Ministry said the U.S. has \"done all it could to destroy the atmosphere encouraging cooperation.\" It cited U.S. sanctions on Moscow over its annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine and NATO's deployment of forces near Russian borders. \n U.S. officials said that despite the suspension of talks with Russia, they would continue to work for a truce and aid deliveries to Syria in other gatherings, including the International Syria Support Group, a collection of nations, including Russia. \n The Obama administration said it decided to cut off discussions on Syria because Russia had not lived up to the terms of last month's agreement to restore a tattered cease-fire and ensure sustained deliveries of humanitarian aid to besieged cities, such as Aleppo, which has been under bombardment from Russian and Syrian forces. \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest said, \"What's clear is that there is nothing more for the United States and Russia to talk about with regard to trying to reach an agreement that would reduce the violence inside of Syria and that's tragic.\" \n \"This is not a decision that was taken lightly,\" State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement. \"Unfortunately, Russia failed to live up to its own commitments \u2026 and was also either unwilling or unable to ensure Syrian regime adherence to the arrangements to which Moscow agreed.\" \n Kirby's statement said that Russia and Syria are pursuing military action in violation of the cease-fire agreement, and pointed to their targeting of hospitals as well as the Sept. 19 airstrike on a United Nations humanitarian aid convoy. The U.S. accused Russia of bombing that convoy, a charge both Russia and Syria have denied. \n Russia intervened on behalf of its close ally Syria on Sept. 30 last year, joining Assad's bombardment of both anti-Assad rebel groups and militant groups such as the Islamic State and Fatah al-Sham Front, an al-Qaida spinoff formerly known as the Nusra Front. Russia is interested in propping up Assad in part because Russia's only naval facility outside the former Soviet Union is on the Syrian coast. \n If it had been implemented, the cease-fire deal would have created a joint U.S.-Russian center to coordinate military and intelligence operations. President Barack Obama had overruled Pentagon objections to such cooperation and Secretary of State John Kerry made the offer. \n According to a senior U.S. official, the Pentagon has ordered troops who had been deployed to set up the joint implementation center \u2014 fewer than 20 \u2014 to return to their bases. The official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly so spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The suspension will not affect communications between the two countries aimed at keeping their planes from bumping into each other over Syria. \n In Moscow, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova voiced regret about the U.S. move and blamed Washington for the failure to persuade the moderate Syrian rebels it backs to cut ties with extremist groups. \n \"And now, after failing to fulfill the agreements they worked out themselves, they are trying to shift the blame,\" she said. \n The U.S. had agreed to separate the rebel groups but noted it was an extremely slow process. The U.S. has relatively few personnel on the ground in Syria and even the moderate rebels have said they are frustrated with the pace of U.S. help. \n Putin's decree on plutonium cited the \"emerging threat to strategic stability as a result of U.S. unfriendly actions,\" as well as Washington's failure to meet its end of the cease-fire deal. It said, however, that Russia will keep the weapons-grade plutonium covered under the agreement away from weapons programs. \n Under the agreement, which was expanded in 2006 and 2010, Russia and the U.S. each were to dispose of 34 metric tons of plutonium, enough material for about 17,000 nuclear warheads. When it was signed in 2000, the deal was touted as an example of successful cooperation between Washington and Moscow. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.-Russia relations plummet further over Syria, Ukraine"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nobel Prize winner Yoshinori Ohsumi smiled as he spoke with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on a mobile phone during a press conference at the Tokyo Institute of Technology in Tokyo on Monday. \n STOCKHOLM \u00bb Japanese biologist Yoshinori Ohsumi won the Nobel Prize in medicine today for discoveries on how cells break down and recycle content, a garbage disposal system that scientists hope to harness in the fight against cancer, Alzheimer's and other diseases. \n The Karolinska Institute honored Ohsumi for \"brilliant experiments\" in the 1990s on autophagy, a phenomenon that literally means \"self-eating\" and describes how cells gobble up damaged content and provide building blocks for renewal. \n Disrupted autophagy has been linked to several diseases including Parkinson's, diabetes and cancer, the prize committee said. \n \"Intense research is now ongoing to develop drugs that can target autophagy in various diseases,\" it said in its citation . \n Ohsumi, 71, from Fukuoka, Japan, is a professor at the Tokyo Institute of Technology. In 2012, he won the Kyoto Prize, Japan's highest private award for global achievement. \n Ohsumi said he never thought he would win a Nobel Prize for his work, which he said involved studying yeast in a microscope day after day for decades. \n \"As a boy, the Nobel Prize was a dream, but after starting my research, it was out of my picture,\" he told reporters in Tokyo. \n \"I don't feel comfortable competing with many people, and instead I find it more enjoyable doing something nobody else is doing,\" Ohsumi added. \"In a way, that's what science is all about, and the joy of finding something inspires me.\" \n Nobel committee secretary Thomas Perlmann said Ohsumi seemed surprised when he was informed he had won the Nobel Prize. \n \"The first thing he said was 'ahhh.' He was very, very pleased,\" Perlmann said. \n Nobel judges often award discoveries made decades ago, to make sure they have stood the test of time. \n The term autophagy was coined in 1963 by Belgian scientist Christian de Duve, who shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in medicine for discoveries on cell structure and organization. \n But before Ohsumi's research, scientists \"didn't know what it did, they didn't know how it was controlled and they didn't know what it was relevant for,\" said David Rubinsztein, deputy director of the Institute for Medical Research at the University of Cambridge. \n Now \"we know that autophagy is important for a host of important mammalian functions.\" For example, it protects against starvation in the period when a newborn animal hasn't yet started breastfeeding, by providing energy, he said. \n It also removes proteins that clump together abnormally in brain cells, which is important in conditions like Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases and some forms of dementia. If autophagy didn't do that job, \"the diseases would appear more early and be more aggressive,\" he said. \n Animal studies suggest that boosting autophagy can ease and delay such diseases, said Rubinsztein, whose lab is pursuing that approach for therapy. \n \"As time goes on, people are finding connections with more and more diseases\" and normal cellular operations, he said. \n The fundamental significance of autophagy was only recognized after Ohsumi's \"paradigm-shifting research\" on yeast in the 1990s, the Nobel committee said. It said he published his \"seminal discovery\" of 15 genes crucial to autophagy in 1993, and cloned several of those genes in yeast and mammalian cells in subsequent studies. \n \"He actually unraveled which are the components which actually perform this whole process,\" Rune Toftgard, chairman of the Nobel Assembly, said. \n Deficiencies in autophagy are linked to diseases associated with aging like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, as well as with Type 2 diabetes, Toftgard said. Researchers are now trying to find out whether such diseases can be fought by boosting or suppressing the process. \n \"There are now over 40 to 50 clinical trials ongoing internationally to test different inhibitors or activators of autophagy,\" he said. \n In Tokyo, Ohsumi said many details of autophagy are yet to be understood and that he hoped younger scientists would join him in looking for the answers. \n \"There is no finish line for science. When I find an answer to one question, another question comes up. I have never thought I have solved all the questions,\" he said. \"So I have to keep asking questions to yeast.\" \n It was the 107th award in the medicine category since the first Nobel Prizes were handed out in 1905. \n Last year's prize was shared by three scientists who developed treatments for malaria and other tropical diseases. \n The announcements continue with physics on Tuesday, chemistry on Wednesday and the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday. The economics and literature awards will be announced next week. \n Each prize is worth 8 million kronor ($930,000). The awards will be handed out at prize ceremonies in Stockholm and Oslo on Dec. 10, the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel's death in 1896. \n Online: \n http://www.nobelprize.org/ \n Associated Press writers Keith Moore in Stockholm, Malcolm Ritter in New York and Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nobel Prize for Japanese biologist who unraveled cell recycling system"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n Radar this morning showed an area abundant moisture and an upper level disturbance south of the Big Isle. \n The National Weather Service issued a flood watch for Hawaii island and Maui until Wednesday. \n Heavy rain and possible thunderstorms are possible beacause of tropical moisture related to former Tropical Storm Ulika and unstable atmospheric conditions. \n \"We may have another round of enhanced trades showers and possible thunderstorms for the Big Island Tuesday night into Wednesday,\" forecasters said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flash flood watch in effect for Big Isle, Maui"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of law enforcement investigated an area at Townville Elementary School in Townville, S.C. on Sept. 28. A 6-year-old boy who was critically wounded in the school shooting died Saturday, days after a 14-year-old boy opened fire on the school playground, authorities said. \n TOWNVILLE, S.C. \u00bb The family of a 6-year-old boy shot at a South Carolina elementary school says a superhero funeral is planned for Jacob Hall, a week after he was shot along with a classmate and a teacher as his first-grade class left for recess. \n The family says the service will be at 11 a.m. Wednesday at Oakdale Baptist Church in Townville. Visitation is set for Tuesday evening at the church. \n Family members tell local news outlets that pallbearers will dress as superheroes and people attending also are encouraged to wear costumes. \n A GoFundMe effort has raised more than $126,500 for the family and their expenses. \n A drive organized by the town's volunteer fire department had collected more than 200 units of blood late Sunday afternoon. Firefighters decided to go ahead with the blood drive Sunday even though Jacob died Saturday at a Greenville hospital. \n \"You think about that happening in other towns \u2014 not here,\" Phyllis Grant said as she waited to donate. \"It's so sad. It's really about the only thing we can think about right now.\" \n The two students and the teacher were shot at Townville Elementary School last Wednesday. The other student and teacher were treated and released from an Anderson hospital. \n The 14-year-old suspect also is charged with killing his father shortly before the shooting at the nearby school. Updated charges are expected against the teenager following Jacob's death. \n Classes are to resume Thursday. Teachers will report to work Tuesday for counseling and class preparation on Wednesday before classes resume. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Boy shot at South Carolina school to have superhero funeral"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by KARE, a person is brought into an emergency vehicle after a shooting early Monday, Oct. 3, 2016, in Minneapolis. Minneapolis police said multiple people have been wounded in shootings in downtown Minneapolis. \n Minneapolis \u00bb A Minneapolis police say six people have been wounded in two separate shootings in downtown Minneapolis. \n Police say two people were injured in the first shooting about 1 a.m. Monday. One person was found at the scene. The other went to Hennepin County Medical Center. \n Authorities say the second shooting happened about 15 minutes later, also downtown. Police say four people were injured and all were found at the scene. \n KSTP-TV (http://bit.ly/2dLRSj4 ) reports the injuries to five of the six victims are not believed to be life-threatening and the sixth person is in serious condition. Police are investigating whether the two shootings are connected. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "6 people injured in 2 downtown Minneapolis shootings"}

{"date": "October 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A worker from the Production Resource Group unrolls a large photo of the late singer Selena Quintanilla for the unveiling of the MAC Selena makeup collection, Thursday, Sept. 29, 2016, at the American Bank Center in Corpus Christi, Texas. Known simply as Selena, the Mexican-American queen of Tejano music was shot to death in March 1995 by a former employee. \n Corpus Christi, Texas \u00bb Some fans of slain Tejano star Selena have flooded social media with complaints after her new makeup products sold out on the first day of online sales. \n MAC Cosmetics launched its Selena collection on Friday in Corpus Christi, Texas, the singer's hometown. The collection went on sale Saturday on the company's website. Frustrated fans soon took to Twitter to complain about being greeted by error messages when they tried to complete their purchases. MAC announced Saturday night that they were sold out. \n MAC says the collection will be available through the websites of several major retailers beginning Monday. It will make its debut in stores Thursday. \n Selena Quintanilla-Perez was fatally shot by her fan club's president, Yolanda Sald\u00edvar, in 1995. Saldivar is serving a life sentence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fans frustrated after Selena makeup line sells out"}

