{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n A man died today after he was found floating unconscious in the water off Waikiki. \n Beachgoers found the man, possibly in his 30s, at about 6:15 p.m. behind the Barefoot Beach Cafe at the Queen's Surf Beach, Department of Emergency Services spokeswoman Shayne Enright said. \n Emergency Medical Services paramedics responded to a call in the area of 2699 Kalakaua Ave. and pronounced the man dead at the scene, Enright said. \n She said the man had no identification. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man found unconscious in water off Waikiki dies"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, Jordan Chelton, of Harrington, Del., poses with his state-record 36 lb., 3.2 oz blue catfish in Seaford, Del. \n SEAFORD, Del. >> A man has set a new Delaware state fishing record by landing a 36-pound, 3.2-ounce blue catfish. \n Delaware fish and wildlife officials said today that Jordan Chelton of Harrington caught the fish on June 20 in the upper Nanticoke River in southwestern Delaware on a 12-pound test line with a chunk of Atlantic menhaden. \n The fish was 38\u00bd inches long and had a girth of 27\u00bd inches. \n The record catch was initially confirmed by a fish and wildlife police officer and verified at a Seaford tackle shop. \n The previous state catfish record holder was Gavin Spicer, who caught a 25-pound, 5.6-ounce blue catfish from the Nanticoke just two months earlier. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Delaware man lands huge catfish, shatters state record"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2013 \n Female recruits stand at the Marine Corps Training Depot on Parris Island, S.C. \n WASHINGTON >> The U.S. Marine Corps for the first time is eyeing a plan to let women attend what has been male-only combat training in Southern California, as officials work to quash recurring problems with sexism and other bad behavior among Marines, according to Marine Corps officials.  \n If approved by senior Marine leaders, the change could happen as soon as next spring. And it could be the first step in a broader campaign to give male Marines who do their initial training on the West Coast the opportunity to work with female colleagues early in their career. \n Marine leaders are also considering allowing women to attend boot camp in San Diego, the officials said. Currently all women recruits go through boot camp at Parris Island, South Carolina, while male recruits go either there or to San Diego. The combat training comes after troops have finished boot camp, and is done both in South Carolina and at Camp Pendleton in Southern California, but women attend the course only on the East Coast. \n The officials were not authorized to publicly discuss the matter because final decisions have not been made, so they spoke on condition of anonymity. The boot camp decision is still under discussion. \n Asked about the ongoing discussions, Gen. Glenn Walters, assistant commandant of the Marine Corps, said today that all options are being considered, and decisions will depend on the analysis, including logistics, personnel and cost benefits. \n \"If we're going to change the culture of the Marine Corps, we need to change how we're organized. Our recruit training is a component of that,\" he said, adding that Marine leaders want to go after any \"unconscious bias\" that may exist in the Corps. \n Marine leaders have come under persistent criticism from members of Congress because the Corps is the only military service to separate men and women for portions of their boot camp. And only the Marine Corps allows half of its recruits to go through initial training without any female colleagues. \n Because there are only a small number of female Marines, they all go through boot camp at Parris Island, where they are separated from the men for portions of the training. Congress members have been highly critical of that policy and demanded changes, and the Corps has been reviewing the issue. \n Marines have argued that the separation from the men is needed so the women can become more physically competitive before joining their male counterparts. They also have argued that it gives the female Marines the support they need during their early weeks of boot camp. Women make up 8.4 percent of the Marine Corps, and that is the smallest percentage of all the armed services. \n But Marine Corps officials are now suggesting that training half of their recruits on the West Coast with no females in their units could be contributing to some of the disciplinary problems they've had. Giving the male Marines greater exposure to females during training could foster better relations and greater respect over time, some have suggested. \n Over the last several years, Marine leaders have battled persistent accusations that the Corps is hostile to women. The Marines were the only service to formally request an exception when the Pentagon moved to allow women to serve in all combat jobs. That request was denied in late 2015 by then-Defense Secretary Ash Carter. \n More recently, the service was rocked by a nude-photo sharing scandal in which Marines shared sexually explicit photos on various social media and other websites and included crude, derogatory and even violent comments about the women. A task force led by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service is looking into the matter. \n Today, Maj. Iain Pedden, the Marine Corps' head of military justice, said that so far 33 Marines have faced some type of punishment or administrative action in connection with the ongoing investigation into the nude-photo sharing. No action was taken against 12 others, and two more have cases pending. \n Walters added that separately, five Marine lieutenant colonels have been relieved of duty this year, and two of those cases involved problematic behavior involving women. \n A Marine task force has been reviewing a range of options and changes for several months to try and reduce the problems. \n Months ago, Gen. Robert Neller, the Marine Corps commandant, told Congress that the service has been looking at the recruit training issue. But to date, no major changes have been made. \n The nude-photo sharing investigation represents a broader military problem. In a report issued earlier this year, the Pentagon said that nearly 6,200 military members said that sexually explicit photos of them were taken or shared against their will by someone from work, and it made them \"uncomfortable, angry or upset.\" But, across the services, female Marines made up the largest percentage of women who complained. \n More than 22,000 service members said they were upset or angry when someone at work showed or sent them pornography. Again, female Marines represented the highest percentage of complaints from women. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Marines eye plan to put women in West Coast combat training"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "SANDPOINT, Idaho >> Tragedy has struck again for an Idaho family after a second child died stemming from a swimming incident in the river in Morton Slough. \n The Bonner County Daily Bee reports 17-year-old Issac Grasser died on Friday after remaining on life support for three days. \n The boy's 11-year-old brother, Michael Grasser, died at the scene last week after trying to help Issac Grasser who began having a difficult time swimming due to the current. \n The Bonner County Sheriff's Office states the boys and their mother were swimming near the boat launch when their mother realized she could not find either child. Officials said the boys were inexperienced swimmers who started out wearing life vests, but took them off believing the water was shallow and were unaware of the current in the river. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "17-year-old Idaho boy dies 3 days after brother drowned"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks during a briefing on the opioid crisis today at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J. \n BRIDGEWATER, N.J. >> President Donald Trump has retweeted a Fox News report based on anonymous U.S. intelligence sources, despite his attorney general's pledge to clamp down on government leaks. \n Today, Trump retweeted a story that said U.S. spy agencies have detected North Korea \"loading two anti-ship cruise missiles on a patrol boat on the country's east coast just days ago.\" The story was attributed to anonymous U.S. officials. \n Trump has repeatedly complained about leaks of government information to the press. Last week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions vowed a crackdown, arguing such leaks could harm national security. \n Asked about the story on \"Fox & Friends,\" U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley said, \"I can't talk about anything that's classified and if that's in a newspaper, that's a shame.\" \n It's unclear if the information is classified. The U.S. military routinely discloses information about North Korea missile movements and launches. The type of missile movements in the story appears fairly routine. \n Pressed on whether this was a leak, Haley said: \"It's one of these things I don't know what's going on. But I will tell you that it's incredibly dangerous when things get out into the press like that.\" \n The White House did not respond to questions about why Trump retweeted the story or whether he was confirming the information. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump retweets Fox report based on anonymous sources"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Passenger jets stack up over Reagan National Airport, in Washington in November. Following widespread outrage over a passenger who was violently dragged off an overbooked plane, U.S. airlines are bumping customers at the lowest rate in at least two decades. \n DALLAS >> Following widespread outrage over a passenger who was violently dragged off an overbooked plane, U.S. airlines are bumping customers at the lowest rate in at least two decades. \n The Transportation Department said today that just one in every 19,000 passengers was kicked off an overbooked flight in the first six months of this year. \n That's the lowest rate since the government started keeping track in 1995. \n The biggest decline took place between April and June, partly because airlines began paying many more passengers to give up their seats. \n Airlines have routinely overbooked flights for years in the expectation that some passengers won't show up. When a flight is overbooked, airlines typically offer travel vouchers to encourage a few passengers to take a later flight. \n That practice backfired in April when United employees, whose offers of vouchers were ignored, asked Chicago airport officers to help remove four people from a United Express flight to make room for airline employees commuting to their next flight. \n A 69-year-old man was dragged forcibly down the airplane aisle and other passengers captured the spectacle on camera phones, turning the incident into a public-relations disaster for United. \n Since then, United and other large U.S. airlines have introduced new measures to reduce overbooking, and raised the maximum amount that passengers can be offered to give up a seat. \n Passengers still get bumped, however. Besides instances in which airlines sell too many seats, passengers may get booted when a mechanical breakdown causes an airline to use a smaller aircraft, or when the plane's weight must be reduced for safe takeoff. \n United Airlines spokeswoman Megan McCarthy said the carrier has sharply reduced bumping since the April incident. United booted 1,964 passengers in the first six months of 2017, with more in the second quarter than the first. \n However, McCarthy said, bumpings dropped from 957 in April to 61 in May and 46 in June. The Transportation Department did not provide a monthly breakdown. \n Travelers were least likely to be bumped on JetBlue Airways, Hawaiian Airlines and Delta Air Lines. Spirit Airlines had the highest rate of booting passengers, although Southwest Airlines, a much bigger carrier, bumped the most people, 2,642 in six months. United's rate exactly matched in the industry average. \n United, JetBlue, Delta and Southwest all convinced more passengers to give up their seats than they had in the same period a year ago. \n The Transportation Department issued the latest numbers of bumped passengers as it released its monthly report card on airline performance. The department said 76.2 percent of flights in June arrived on time, down from 78.0 percent in June 2016. The government counts a flight on time if it arrives within 14 minutes of schedule. \n Hawaiian Airlines had the best rating among the 12 largest U.S. airlines, and JetBlue Airways had the worst rate \u2014 two of every five flights arrived late. \n Consumer complaints about U.S. airlines ticked up 3 percent to 1,115 in June. That is a tiny fraction of the millions of airline travelers, but most people who complain go straight to the airline, not the government. \n United had more complaints than average but not the worst rate. That belonged to discount carrier Spirit Airlines by a wide margin. Alaska Airlines had the lowest rate of complaints. \n The on-time ratings will be expanded next year to cover 18 airlines, including Allegiant Air, a discount carrier, and Envoy Air, a major operator of American Eagle flights. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. airlines bump fewer passengers after dragging backlash"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "Maui Fire Department investigators could not determine the cause of a fire Monday that destroyed a house and its contents valued at $1.17 million in the Maui Meadows subdivision in Wailea. \n No one was home at the time, the fire department said today in a news release. \n The fire destroyed the 3,535-square-foot home. A 2013 BMW and a 2007 Mercedes Benz, parked in the garage, also were destroyed, and were valued at $18,303 and $17,920, respectively. \n A cottage next to the main house also received $5,000 in damage to its roof. \n The fire broke out at about 4:28 p.m. on the 3200 block of Keha Drive. Firefighters found the house fully engulfed in flames that spread to the brush outside the house and up a hillside. \n The fire also burned about 4,000 square feet of brush and trash in a vacant lot. No neighboring homes were damaged. \n Firefighters extinguished it at 12:25 p.m. today. \n The owners, part-time Maui residents, are currently living in Massachusetts. A tenant in the cottage was at home, and managed to escape without injury. \n Area residents reported thick, black smoke and flames pouring from the house. \n A battalion chief, 31 firefighters, seven companies and two water tankers responded to the blaze. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui fire causes more than $1 million damage"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image made from video taken on Sunday, model Chloe Ayling speaks with the media outside of her house in Surrey, England. The 20-year-old says she was lured to Italy with the promise of a photo shoot, then drugged and kidnapped by a man who advertised her as a sex slave on the criminal \"dark web.\" \n MILAN >> A model who claimed she was kidnapped in Italy and held captive in a remote farmhouse was spotted shopping with her alleged captor during the time she said she was being held, according to court documents obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press. \n Chloe Ayling initially told Milan police she was held for six days, at times with her hands and feet cuffed to a dresser, until one of her kidnappers released her at the British consulate in Milan on July 17. \n But on the second day of questioning, detectives presented the 20-year-old with a statement from a saleswoman who said she sold shoes to the model and the main suspect in her abduction the day before Ayling turned up at the consulate. \n In tears, the young woman told investigators she couldn't give a \"reasonable explanation\" for why she had omitted the shopping trip, but said she considered the man who accompanied her the best chance of gaining freedom. \n The arrest of a suspect in the alleged abduction and Ayling's account of a startling ordeal have garnered international media attention since details about the case emerged over the weekend. \n Police released a dramatic narrative about how the woman was allegedly lured to Milan with the promise of a modeling job, then drugged at a supposed photographer's studio on July 11, zipped inside a canvas bag and transported to a farmhouse near Turin. \n The young woman said when she regained consciousness in the trunk of a station wagon, her jeans and sneakers were missing and she was wearing just her pink body suit and gray socks. She said she was told later she had been photographed so she could be auctioned off online, according to her deposition. \n Milan police, citing Ayling's description of the events, said her kidnappers also informed her she had been captured by a criminal group called \"Black Death\" and that she would be held for ransom or sold on the clandestine \"dark web.\" \n The main suspect, Lukasz Pawel Herba, freed her at the British Consulate in Milan. He has been arrested on charges of kidnapping to extort money and falsifying documents, pending an indictment. \n Police said they are looking for as many as four accomplices. \n Both Ayling's Italian lawyer and the talent agent who sent her to Italy lashed out Tuesday at skeptics who have expressed doubts about her story. The lawyer and agent said the incredible details have borne out under prosecutorial and investigatory scrutiny. \n \"I can assure everybody that it was real and very frightening for all concerned,\" agent Phil Green of the Supermodel Agency said. \n The lawyer, Francesco Pesce, said his client had been threatened with death throughout the ordeal and decided it was better to cooperate with Herba. \n \"She did testify that she went with her captor to buy shoes and buy groceries, and this does appear to be strange. I understand this and I will continue to respond to this,\" Pesce said. \"She was told by this man that there were many people of this 'Black Death' organization around her, and even if she tried to flee, she was going to die.\" \n Ayling is what in Britain is called a \"glamour model,\" specializing in scantily clad or topless photo shoots. She has appeared in British tabloids and worked around Europe. \n She told Italian police she does about four photo sessions a month, often abroad, and had just returned from Dubai when the Milan job was scheduled. \n Green said the Milan photo shoot seemed legitimate. The person who made the booking had \"a website, previous pictures, details of his studio, details of what the shoot was going to be, times, locations, fee \u2014 everything,\" he said. \n But the day after Ayling was due to return, Green says he received a ransom demand for $300,000. \n Ayling told police she first met Herba, a 30-year-old Polish national, briefly when she was brought to Paris for another modeling job, to promote motorcycles, earlier this year and he came to pay her cab fare at the airport. \n After his arrest in Milan, Herba told police that he cancelled the Paris job when he realized that a group of three Romanians affiliated with the alleged criminal group intended to kidnap Ayling, his official statement says. \n He said he called the model's hotel, pretending to be the photographer hired to work with her, to say his equipment had been stolen. \n Herba, who has British residency and speaks English, provided an account just as detailed as Ayling's and more incredible. \n He told investigators that the Romanians hired him to rent properties around Europe to store garments they intended to sell. He said he was drawn into the kidnapping scheme to raise money to treat his leukemia. \n The Milan investigators expressed incredulity at the 500,000 pounds ($649,000) Herba said he was paid to rent the properties. They also said he did not provide the names of doctors or other evidence he illness. \n The suspect also claimed he did not participate in Ayling's kidnapping. He told police he came to her aid when he saw her photos posted with an online auction. He said she was free to go once the Romanians had abandoned the farmhouse, but that she stayed. \n Ayling told police that after a couple of days, Herba removed the handcuffs. From that point on they slept in the same double bed, but he did not assault her or demand sex, she said. She said she did not flee because Herba told her members of the group were watching and she feared for her life. \n Herba told Ayling that higher-ups in Black Death were upset she had been abducted because she is the mother of a small child, according to court documents. \n He also reassured her he would find a way to free her. At one point, he told her he had bid 250,000 euros for her in the dark web auction, the model told investigators, and that she would have to pay another 50,000 euros once she was released. \n Her captor also informed her of Black Death's supposed conditions for her release: publicizing its activities, never speaking ill of the group and getting British police to drop any investigations of it. \n Pesce said the reported ordeal had left Ayling traumatized and that she is cooperating fully with police \"not only for her case,\" but to help if the group has other victims. \n \"She understands that there is a bigger picture,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Model's reps say her ordeal was real despite shoe shopping"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Passengers walk near the departure gates at Simon Bolivar International Airport in Maiquetia, near Caracas, Venezuela in 2013. Venezuelan authorities said a man was killed Tuesday at the ticket counter of Caracas' international airport in the latest tragedy to befall the country's main connection to the world. \n CARACAS, Venezuela >> Venezuelan authorities say a traveler has been shot to death at the ticket counter of Caracas' international airport in the latest tragedy to befall the country's main connection to the world. \n Local media say the victim arrived from the Dominican Republic and was switching terminals for a connecting flight when unknown assailants shot him Tuesday. The chief prosecutor's office says an employee of local airline La Venezolana was also shot in the arm before the assailants fled. \n Colombian airline Avianca last month became the latest foreign carrier to pull out of Venezuela over security concerns as the country struggles with crime and political turmoil. \n The almost always empty Maiquetia airport was voted the eighth worst in the world in a recent survey of travelers by the Sleeping in Airports website. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Traveler shot dead at ticket counter in Venezuelan airport"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tourists stand outside of a hotel after being evacuated following an earthquake in Ruo'ergai in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Tuesday. A strong earthquake shook a mountainous region in southwestern China near a famous national park, killing people and knocking out power and phone networks. \n BEIJING >> A strong earthquake shook a mountainous region in southwestern China near a famous national park, killing 13 people, injuring 175 others and knocking out power and phone networks. \n At least five of the dead were tourists, China's official Xinhua News Agency said. At least 28 people had serious injuries, according to the Aba prefecture government in Sichuan province. \n Chinese President Xi Jinping called for rapid efforts to respond to the quake and rescue the injured. Authorities sent medical teams, rescuers and other resources. \n The quake around 9:20 p.m. Tuesday struck a region bordered by the provinces of Sichuan and Gansu. The area is on the edge of the Tibetan Plateau and home to many Tibetan and other ethnic minority villages. It's also near Jiuzhaigou, or Jiuzhai Valley, a national park known for spectacular waterfalls and karst formations. \n The U.S. Geological Survey said it was magnitude-6.5 and just 5.5 miles deep, while the China Earthquake Networks Center measured the earthquake at magnitude-7.0 and said it struck at a depth of 12 miles. Shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage than deeper ones. \n A man surnamed Song who answered the phone at a local emergency office in Aba prefecture, where the Jiuzhaigou national park is located, said the nearby town of Zhangzha reported the deaths and injuries. Song did not say where the five tourists who died were from. \n The epicenter was about 24 miles from the county of Jiuzhaigou, which has a population of around 80,000, and was 177 miles from Chengdu, the densely populated capital of Sichuan province, according to the Chinese quake center. \n Xinhua said strong tremors could be felt in Chengdu. The Sichuan provincial government's news website said that after the quake struck, a number of train services to Chengdu and other cities were suspended. \n Jiuzhaigou county had a massive power outage following the quake, Song said. Local officials were being sent to the town of Zhangzha, which was closest to the quake's epicenter. \n \"The tremors were very strong,\" said a woman in Jiuzhaigou town who gave only her surname, Wang, and said she worked for a travel company. She said the damage in the town center seemed minimal other than the suspension of electricity. \n \"People from other regions are a pretty frightened,\" Wang said. \n Xinhua said more than 30,000 tourists at Jiuzhaigou were relocated to safety with help from tourist buses and private vehicles. \n Yu Qian, a local taxation bureau official, told Xinhua that she felt strong shaking that sent her and her two children rushing from their home on the fifth floor. Yu said the quake cut off power in her neighborhood and disrupted telephone service. \n \"I was getting into a car at the time of the quake, and it felt like a heavy-duty truck roaring past,\" said Liu Yanrong, a local township official, told Xinhua. \n Xinhua cited a worker at the Jiuzhaigou park named Sangey as saying that some houses in the tourist site collapsed or cracked following the quake and that authorities were organizing evacuations of residents. \n Images on Chinese social media sites showed rocks scattered on roads and people running out of bars and cafes in Jiuzhaigou town onto the street. \n A report on the news site's official microblog also cited Zhao Wei, the party secretary of the Communist Youth League's Jiuzhaigou division, as saying some telephone communications networks were down, making it difficult to determine the scale of the damage. \n On Wednesday morning, another strong earthquake struck in far northwestern China, some 1,360 miles away. It was measured at magnitude 6.3 by USGS and 6.6 by China's agency and was in a sparsely populated area of the Xinjiang region near the Kazakhstan border. There were no immediate reports of casualties or damage. \n Earthquakes are common in China's west, although the low population density there often means casualties are low. China's deadliest earthquake this century, a magnitude-7.9 temblor, struck Sichuan province in May 2008, killing nearly 90,000 people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strong quake strikes southwest China, 13 dead, 175 injured"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2013 \n Metro North Railroad engineer William Rockefeller is wheeled on a stretcher away from the area where the commuter train he was operating derailed, killing four people, in the Bronx borough of New York. \n U.S. officials are abandoning plans to require sleep apnea screening for truck drivers and train engineers, a decision that safety experts say puts millions of lives at risk. \n The Federal Railroad Administration and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration said late last week that they are no longer pursuing the regulation that would require testing for the fatigue-inducing disorder that has been blamed for deadly rail crashes in New York City and New Jersey and several highway crashes. \n The agencies argue that it should be up to railroads and trucking companies to decide whether to test employees. One railroad that does test, Metro-North in the New York City suburbs, found that 11.6 percent of its engineers have sleep apnea. \n The decision to kill the sleep apnea regulation is the latest step in President Donald Trump's campaign to drastically slash federal regulations. The Trump administration has withdrawn or delayed hundreds of proposed regulations since he took office in January \u2014 moves the Republican president has said will help bolster economic growth. \n Late last year, the FRA issued a safety advisory that was meant as a stopgap measure urging railroads to begin sleep apnea testing while the rules made their way through the regulatory process. Without a regulation mandating testing, which would have needed approval from Congress, regulators couldn't cite trucking companies or railroads if a truck or train crashed because the operator fell asleep at the helm. \n Sleep apnea is especially troubling for the transportation industry because sufferers are repeatedly awakened and robbed of rest as their airway closes and their breathing stops, leading to dangerous daytime drowsiness. Treatments include wearing a pressurized breathing mask, oral appliances or nasal strips to force the airway open while sleeping. Severe cases require surgery. \n \"It's very hard to argue that people aren't being put at risk,\" said Sarah Feinberg, the former administrator of the FRA, who had issued the safety advisory in December. \"We cannot have someone who is in that condition operating either a train going 70 mph or operating a multi-ton truck traveling down the interstate. It's just not an appropriate level of risk to be exposing passengers and the traveling public to.\" \n The National Transportation Safety Board said it was disappointed the agencies decided to scrap the \"much-needed rulemaking.\" \n \"Obstructive sleep apnea has been in the probable cause of 10 highway and rail accidents investigated by the NTSB in the past 17 years and obstructive sleep apnea is an issue being examined in several, ongoing, NTSB rail and highway investigations,\" NTSB spokesman Christopher O'Neil said. \n The NTSB has long recommended sleep apnea testing for engineers, and Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road started requiring it after finding the engineer in a 2013 Metro-North crash had fallen asleep at the controls because he had a severe, undiagnosed case of sleep apnea. The engineer, William Rockefeller, told investigators he felt strangely \"dazed\" right before the crash, which occurred as he sped through a 30 mph curve at 82 mph. \n The engineer of a New Jersey Transit train that slammed into a station in Hoboken last September, killing a woman, also suffered from undiagnosed sleep apnea, according to his lawyer. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said he will push the federal agencies to reconsider withdrawing the proposed regulation. \n \"We know from recent examples that if there had been testing for sleep apnea there would be people alive walking the face of the earth today who are not, unfortunately, because the engineer had sleep apnea,\" he said today at a news conference on Long Island. \n When asked by The Associated Press in a separate interview about the government's contention that businesses could enact their own testing policies, the New York Democrat said: \"Tell that to the families of the people who died in Spuyten Duyvil,\" referring to the neighborhood where the Metro-North train crashed in 2013, killing four people. \n Train engineers are currently required to undergo vision and hearing testing at least every three years. Some railroads require annual physicals, but there are no federal standards for comprehensive medical exams. Many of the largest passenger railroads, including Amtrak, require engineers to undergo sleep apnea screening. \n The Association of American Railroads, an industry group, said railroads are continuing to take steps to combat worker fatigue, including confidential sleep disorder screening and treatment. \n Marc Willis, a spokesman for the FRA, said the agency sought information from the public about sleep apnea and \"believes that current railroad and FRA safety programs sufficiently address this risk.\" \n Feinberg said that isn't sufficient and the government shouldn't rely on industries regulating themselves. \n A notice posted in the Federal Register said the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration would consider updating a 2015 bulletin to medical examiners about the physical qualifications standard and respiratory dysfunction. Duane DeBruyne, a spokesman for the agency, declined to answer questions about the NTSB's concerns. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Experts: Lives at risk if no sleep tests for train engineers"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Residents line up to cast their votes at Kondele Polling Centre in Kisumu, Kenya, today. Kenyans are going to the polls to vote in a general election after a tightly fought presidential race between incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta and main opposition leader Raila Odinga. \n NAIROBI, Kenya >> James Kamau got up at 2 a.m. today and rushed to the polling station in Kibera slum four hours before it opened so that he could be one of the first to vote in favor of the president he worships, Uhuru Kenyatta.  \n Carolly Obonyo, 23, got to a polling station in another Kibera neighborhood at 4 a.m. to find a long queue. He waited six hours to cast his vote for change, supporting opposition candidate Raila Odinga in a closely fought election that some fear could reprise the postelection clashes of nearly a decade ago. \n Turnout appeared to be high among the 19.6 million registered voters in a nation where people often vote according to ethnic allegiance, and amid ethnic favoritism in government and public sector posts that feed long-held grievances among groups that feel excluded. \n Kenyatta represents the Kikuyu, the nation's largest ethnic group, and his deputy and running mate, William Ruto, is a member of the Kalenjin, another of Kenya's biggest tribes. Both men were indicted by the International Criminal Court on charges of crimes against humanity after the 2007 election when violence flared across the country. But after government obstruction of the investigation and witnesses were killed, disappeared or withdrew their evidence, the prosecution was forced to drop both cases. \n Odinga, 72, a Luo, is running for the fourth time, but his ethnic group has never produced a president. He has pledged to create jobs, end poverty and address the endemic corruption that has stifled Kenyan progress. There are six other candidates, none expected to poll more than a few percent of the vote. \n The election is being closely watched for signs of voting fraud and violence after the results are announced, should the losing candidate fail to concede defeat. The result is expected within two days of the election. \n Voting largely went smoothly, said Wafula Chebukati, chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. In northern Kenya, election officials and voting materials had to be flown in by helicopter because of heavy rains. Some polling stations opened late, but voting was extended at those stations. \n \"We are happy to report that there are no major hitches reported from the 40,833 polling stations throughout the country apart from a few issues affecting some of the polling stations across the country, and we are addressing them accordingly,\" he told journalists. \n But some voters complained of long delays, problems with biometric equipment to identify voters and names missing on the voter register. \n Odinga tweeted that election officials had been frustrating opposition agents at polling stations. \n Kenya, with a population of more than 46 million, is a major transport hub in East Africa with economic growth of nearly 6 percent a year. It relies on agriculture and tourism for most of its income, with 75 percent of the population reliant on farming or livestock herding. \n A candidate needs 50 percent of the vote and more than 25 percent of votes in at least 24 of Kenya's 47 counties to avoid a second-round vote. In the 2013 election, Kenyatta narrowly avoided a runoff, a result Odinga challenged in court without success. \n Obonyo, a nursing student who grew up as an orphan in Kibera, said the government did little for slum dwellers. \n \"Tribalism is making the people angry. We don't want one of the two tribes to be in power forever,\" he said. \"People get employed according to their tribe. Most of the people in the government are Kalenjin or Kikuyu,\" he said, referring to the ethnic groups of Kenyatta and Ruto. \"It's been that way for a long period.\" \n He hoped that if Odinga was elected, people would be appointed to government and public sector jobs on merit and ethnicity would play no role. \n Kibera is a sprawling slum of rusted corrugated iron houses, open gutters, street traders and drifting smoke from cooking fires. The neighborhood buzzes with entrepreneurial energy, with micro businesses on every corner, such as women frying dough cakes or fish, barbershops, bars, furniture makers, shoeshine men, butchers and secondhand-clothing sellers. \n But formal jobs are hard to find and the youth unemployment rate is high. The costs of rent, food, water and school fees are high, and traders complain that no one has money to spend. \n \"I blame the government because the economy has been low and has remained low while prices have continued escalating,\" said Ruth Agumba of Kibera, a 45-year-old vegetable seller with three children. \"There are no jobs. Youth are idle all over, including my children. They have no jobs. \n \"I can never get ahead because my situation is hand-to-mouth,\" said Agumba, who voted for Odinga. \n She wasn't concerned about possible violence after the election, even though her sister was shot dead by riot police in western Kenya in the violence that followed the 2007 election. If Kenyatta was announced the winner in a vote that Odinga did not accept, she would support protests, despite fears they could turn violent. \n \"Everyone dies, after all. We need democracy, so if the youth take part in demonstrations in order to get democracy, it's OK. If it turns violent, it's OK because we're fighting for democracy.\" \n Ann Wafula, 41, an opposition supporter, said her hairdressing business of 19 years had never struggled as much as it has lately.  \n \"Business is very bad. It's difficult to support four children as a single mother. The problem is clients. They don't come because they don't have any money. We have to do without some things. Sometimes you cannot even afford money for food and school fees are a problem. \n \"We need a change of government because Kenya is heading in the wrong direction.\" \n But Kamau, a government supporter and commuter minibus driver, said Kenyatta had brought many benefits to Kenya, including improvements to roads and infrastructure, and moves to stop corruption. \n \"The economy is good, according to me, because corruption has gone down. Although salaries vary, those who are paid more get to lift the others who are poor out of poverty.\" \n He said for most Kenyans, the most important result was a peaceful election. \n \"First of all, we are peace-loving people, and there's no bad or good government, but what is important is peace among Kenyans.\" \n Still he doubted that opposition supporters would accept the result if Odinga was defeated by Kenyatta. He feared the possibility of a contested result and violence. \n \"Odinga is like that. I've never seen him concede defeat. The main problem Kenya has is the opposition. Whether they win or lose, they always bring controversies. \n \"We don't know what will befall the country or what he will do.\" \n Kenyatta said he was confident of victory after casting his vote today.  \n \"I feel very positive,\" he told journalists. \"We have run a very positive campaign telling Kenyans what we have done, what we intend to do, and I believe Kenyans have the ability to choose and reflect on the direction that they want us to go. I believe they want us to move forward, they want us to continue living in peace harmony and unity, and I believe they want us to have progress.\" \n Odinga said he had prepared a victory speech but not a concession speech. \n \"I have a universal speech because I am confident that I am going to win, but in the unlikely event that I lose, I don't need a speech as I will speak from the heart,\" he said. He said the opposition was conducting its own tally of votes to ensure the result was not rigged. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kenyans vote in fiercely contested presidential election"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2015 \n Water flows through a series of sediment retention ponds built to reduce heavy metal and chemical contaminants from the Gold King Mine wastewater accident in the spillway about a quarter mile downstream from the mine outside Silverton, Colo. \n Utah is asking the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for $1.9 billion in damages after the EPA inadvertently triggered a multi-state spill from an old gold mine in Colorado, the Utah Attorney General's Office confirmed today.  \n The state filed the claim in February but never publicly announced it, said Dan Burton, a spokesman for the attorney general. Word of the claim first surfaced Friday when the EPA made a passing reference to it in a news release. \n It is by far the largest known claim stemming from the August 2015 spill from the inactive Gold King Mine in southwestern Colorado, and it brings the total to at least $2.3 billion. \n The Navajo Nation filed a claim for $162 million and the state of New Mexico sought $130 million. \n Burton initially declined to say what Utah's claim included or how state officials arrived at the $1.9 billion figure but said details would be released later. \n \"It's a function of looking at the damages, and the cost of cleanup and the long-term maintenance in the area,\" he said. \n Asked why the state had not made the claim public earlier, he said, \"I think our general policy has been to solve the problem and take care of it\" rather than create a media stir. \n An EPA-led contractor crew was doing exploratory excavation at the mine in preparation for a possible cleanup when workers accidentally breached a pile of debris that was holding back water inside the mine. \n About 3 million gallons of wastewater spewed from the mine, sending a mustard-color plume of pollution into waterways in Colorado, New Mexico and Utah. Indian lands were also affected. \n Farmers and utilities suspended water diversions, and rivers were temporarily closed to rafters during the busy tourist season. The EPA said water quality quickly returned to pre-spill levels. \n Compensation for damages has been a contentious issue. At least 144 government agencies, businesses and individuals filed claims for lost wages and income, crop damage and other losses. \n The EPA accepted responsibility for the spill but said in January that federal law prevented it from paying any damage claims. \n That brought down vehement criticism from members of Congress and local officials. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who took over the agency after the election of President Donald Trump, promised to reconsider the decision. \n On Friday, Pruitt said the EPA would review at least some of the claims. But the EPA said the law prevented it from reconsidering claims from anyone who had filed a lawsuit against the federal government. That ruled out a review of claims filed by New Mexico and the Navajo Nation, which have sued. \n Utah also filed suit, but it named mine owners and EPA contractors as defendants, not the government. \n New Mexico Environment Secretary Butch Tongate said today he was optimistic his state's lawsuit would be successful. \n The EPA did not respond to emails asking how it would pay for any damage claims it accepted or any court judgments it was ordered to pay. The White House has proposed slashing EPA's budget by 31 percent, to $5.7 billion. \n After the spill, the EPA designated the Gold King and 47 other mining sites in the area a Superfund district and is reviewing options for a broad cleanup. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah seeking $1.9 billion from EPA over mine-waste spill"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated booking photo provided by the Ventura County Sheriff shows Andrew David Jensen, 42, of Ventura, Calif., who was arrested on July 28, on suspicion of committing a burglary. California investigators say Jensen, a suspect who stopped for a mid-burglary bathroom break left DNA evidence in the toilet that led to his arrest. \n VENTURA, Calif. >> A man accused of burglarizing a Southern California home took a bathroom break and left DNA evidence in the toilet that led to his arrest, an investigator said today. \n The suspect \"did his business and didn't flush it\" during the October break-in in the city of Thousand Oaks, said Detective Tim Lohman of the Ventura County Sheriff's Office. \n That allowed investigators to collect evidence to conduct a DNA profile. It matched another profile in a national database and detectives tracked down the suspect at his home in the nearby city of Ventura. \n Andrew David Jensen was arrested July 28 on suspicion of first-degree residential burglary, a felony. His bail was set at $180,000. Lohman did not know if Jensen, 42, has an attorney. \n Efforts to reach Jensen for comment today were unsuccessful. \n Lohman said it's the first DNA burglary match case he knows of with fecal evidence collected from a toilet. \n \"When people think of DNA evidence, they usually think of hair samples or saliva,\" Lohman said. \n Jensen was scheduled to make his first court appearance Wednesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Accused burglar doesn't flush toilet, leaves DNA for police"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "DES MOINES, Iowa >> An increasing number of people have been sickened by eating papaya now traced to a farm located in southern Mexico, U.S. public health officials said in an update on the outbreak first reported more than two weeks ago. \n Salmonella has now sickened 109 people in 16 states and 35 were serious enough to be hospitalized, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on its web page dedicated to the outbreak. One person in New York City died. \n Papaya traced to the Carica de Campeche farm in Campeche, Mexico, appears to be the likely source, the FDA said Monday. The farm is located on the Gulf of Mexico side of the Yucatan Peninsula. \n The company did not immediately respond to an email and phones went unanswered today. A storm warning was posted for the area as Tropical Storm Franklin was making its way across the Yucatan Peninsula. \n Papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm tested positive for five different strains of salmonella bacteria, which can cause diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain and fever. Young children, older adults and people with weakened immune systems are the most likely to have severe infections. \n Cases in New York nearly tripled to 36 since the last report on July 21 and New Jersey cases have more than doubled to 26. Virginia has had 11 cases, Pennsylvania seven and Maryland has had six. \n Connecticut and Minnesota each have four cases, and Massachusetts has had three. \n Iowa, Kentucky, North Carolina and Oklahoma have reported two cases and Delaware, Louisiana Michigan and Wisconsin have had one each. \n The FDA said it is working with Mexican food safety authorities to conduct inspections and other follow up activities. \n The Campeche farm has been added to an import alert which allows FDA field personnel to stop fresh produce from entering the U.S. from the farm until it's proven to have resolved issues that caused the bacterial contamination. It was not immediately clear how the papaya was contaminated, an FDA spokesman said. \n \"The investigation is continuing and we'll post more information when it's available,\" said Peter Cassell. \n The CDC said laboratory evidence using genetic testing has connected some of the illnesses to papaya from the farm. \n So far the Caribena, Cavi and Valery brands of maradol papayas have been recalled but the CDC now recommends that consumers not eat, restaurants not serve, and retailers not sell maradol papayas from Mexico. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "109 U.S. salmonella cases now linked to papayas from Mexico"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the Fresno County Sheriff's office shows a car in the middle of Kings River near Fresno, Calif. on Saturday. The Fresno County Sheriff's Office has been working since July 26 on a plan to remove the car that has two bodies in it. Efforts to remove the car and retrieve the bodies are hampered by rugged terrain. \n FRESNO, Calif. >> Rescuers are struggling to recover a pair of bodies from a car that crashed down a cliff two weeks ago and became lodged in the middle of a California river raging with snowmelt, officials said today. \n Thailand's Consulate in Los Angeles said it believes the bodies belong to two Thai exchange students vacationing in California who were reported missing after they didn't return to their motel. \n The Fresno County Sheriff's Office said it can't confirm the crash victims' identities, but it is working with the California Highway Patrol and Thai authorities to find a way to retrieve the car and bodies, sheriff's spokesman Tony Botti said in a statement. \n The car went off the road 75 miles east of Fresno in the steep Sierra Nevada mountains. It crashed 500 feet below into the Kings River, swollen with snowmelt after a record breaking winter, officials said. \n The two students were believed to be headed to Kings Canyon National Park. A hotel where the students had been staying called police on July 28 to report that the pair hadn't returned. \n California and Thai consulate officials haven't identified the students but Thailand's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Busadee Santipitaks told media that Thiwadee Saengsuriyarit, 24, and her male friend Pakkapol Chairattanasongporn, 28, also known as Golf, were driving along Highway 180 when their car went off a cliff. They had been enrolled at the University of South Florida. \n \"The water is very fast-running and the geography is inaccessible, so authorities have not been able to investigate the area where the vehicle fell,\" Busadee told the Bankgkok Post. \n The students' relatives arrived in Los Angeles on Saturday and were taken to the scene of the accident where a monk led them in Buddhist prayer, the Thai consulate said. \n The families are urging authorities to retrieve the bodies, it added. \n The Fresno County Sheriff's search and rescue team is assessing the weather and river levels each day to come up with a plan that is safe for rescuers, Botti said. \n A recovery date hasn't been set. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thai students believed killed in crash; bodies stranded"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Walt Disney Co. logo appears on a screen above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. \n NEW YORK >> With new streaming services in the works, Disney is trying to set itself up for a future that's so far largely been framed by Netflix: stuff I want to watch, when I want it. \n The Magic Kingdom is launching its own streaming service for its central Disney and Pixar brands and another for live sports. That would allow it to bypass the cable companies it relies on \u2014 and Netflix \u2014 to charge consumers directly for access to its popular movies and sporting events. \n \"They're bringing the future forward. What they talked about were things that looked inevitable, at some point,\" said Pivotal Research Group analyst Brian Weiser. What's less clear is if Disney will be able to make big bucks from it, he said. \n This is important as the decline in cable households and the shift to smaller, cheaper bundles pressures the profitability of Disney's cable networks. Fewer subscribers and fewer viewers mean less money. In the nine months through July 1, cable networks' operating income fell 13 percent from the year before, to $4.12 billion. \n KID STUFF  \n Starting in 2019, the only subscription streaming service with new animated and live-action Disney and Pixar movies will be the Magic Kingdom's own app. That will include \"Toy Story 4\" and the sequel to the huge hit \"Frozen.\" Older movies will be there too, as well as shows from TV channels Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD, and original TV and films. That could be hugely attractive for families with young children in the U.S. \n Disney is ending an exclusive earlier movie deal with Netflix, and the streaming giant's shares tumbled in after-hours trading. Netflix today has grown into an entertainment juggernaut in its own right, however, as it focuses more on its own exclusive programming. \n Netflix already seemed to be bracing for the potential loss of the Disney movie rights earlier this week when it announced its first-ever acquisition \u2014 the purchase of Millarworld , a comic book publishing company that will develop films and kids shows based on its portfolio of character. \n Disney might bring more of its properties \u2014 particularly its Marvel superheroes and the Star Wars franchise \u2014 under its wing, and could even offer them as separate streaming services. CEO Robert Iger said Disney is considering whether it should continue licensing Marvel and Star Wars movies to outside services like Netflix, move them into the Disney app or develop individual services for them. \n The Disney service will be available in \"multiple markets\" outside the U.S. as well, taking advantage of Disney's global name recognition. \n SPORTS  \n Disney had already said it would be launching a streaming ESPN service. It's not meant to compete with the company's TV channels. \n The sports service is coming in early 2018, a little later than previously announced, and will air baseball, hockey and soccer games, tennis matches and college sports through ESPN's popular mobile app. Notably, ESPN will not be streaming pro football or basketball, at least initially. \n Customers will also be able to buy fuller streaming packages from the baseball, hockey and soccer leagues, and watch them on the ESPN app. \n \"Ultimately, we envision this will become a dynamic sports marketplace that will grow and be increasingly customizable, allowing sports fans to pick and choose content that reflects their personal interests,\" Iger said on a conference call with analysts. \n Disney will have to be careful that it doesn't transfer too much sports programming from its TV channels to the app. Getting the balance wrong could upset cable companies and weigh on the price they pay Disney for ESPN, Weiser said. \n THE BACK END  \n To roll out its streaming services, The Walt Disney Co. will take majority control of BAMTech, a streaming arm of Major League Baseball spun off last year from Baseball Advanced Media, for $1.58 billion. When the deal closes, Disney will own 75 percent of BAM Tech, up from the 33 percent stake it acquired for $1 billion as part of an agreement announced last year. \n The acquisition and the new services will be \"an entirely new growth strategy\" for Disney, Iger said. \n The new streaming services will likely \"accelerate the erosion\" of Disney's TV networks, especially if other major cable networks make similar moves, said Moody's analyst Neil Begley. \n But Iger argues that BAMTech gives Disney \"optionality\" if the cable ecosystem changes further, Iger said on a conference call with analysts today. If there's greater \"erosion\" \u2014 say, if more people drop cable bundles or choose cheaper bundles without key Disney channels \u2014 the company has more ways to get its entertainment directly to customers, Iger said. \n He said there are no current plans to sell the Disney or ESPN TV channels directly to customers on the apps. \n But having a direct relationship with customers tells Disney exactly what they're watching, giving it powerful tools and information that could help feed decision-making and, on the sports side, sell advertising. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Disney to launch streaming services for movies, live sports"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Visitors to the American Museum of Natural History examining a replica of a 122-foot-long dinosaur on display at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. A study proclaims a newly named species the heavyweight champion of all dinosaurs. At 76 tons, the behemoth was as heavy as a space shuttle. \n WASHINGTON >> A study proclaims a newly named species the heavyweight champion of all dinosaurs, making the scary Tyrannosaurus rex look like a munchkin. \n At 76 tons, the plant-eating behemoth was as heavy as a space shuttle. \n The dinosaur's fossils were found in southern Argentina in 2012. Researchers who examined and dated them said the long-necked creature was the biggest of a group of large dinosaurs called titanosaurs. \n \"There was one small part of the family that went crazy on size,\" said Diego Pol of the Egidio Feruglio paleontology museum in Argentina, co-author of the study published today in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. \n The researchers named the dinosaur Patagotitan mayorum after the Patagonia region where it was found and the Greek word titan, which means large. The second name honors a ranch family that hosted the researchers. \n Six fossils of the species were studied and dated to about 100 million years ago, based on ash found around them, Pol said. The dinosaur averaged 122 feet long and was nearly 20 feet high at the shoulder. \n A cast of the dinosaur's skeleton is already on display at the American Museum of Natural History. It's so big that the dinosaur's head sticks out into a hallway at the New York museum. \n Legendary T. rex and other meat-eaters \"look like dwarfs when you put them against one of these giant titanosaurs,\" Pol said. \"It's like when you put an elephant by a lion.\" \n Scientists have known titanosaurs for a while, but this is a new species and even a new genus, which is a larger grouping, Pol said. Another titanosaur called Argentinosaurus was previously thought to be the largest. \n \"I don't think they were scary at all,\" Pol said. \"They were probably massive big slow-moving animals.\" \n \"Getting up. Walking around. Trying to run. It's really challenging for large animals,\" he said. \n The big question is how did these dinosaurs get so big, Pol said. Researchers are still studying it, but said it probably has to do with an explosion of flowering plants at the time. Along with a forest, it was like an all-you-can-eat buffet for these dinosaurs and they just got bigger. \n \"It's hard to argue this isn't a big deal when it concerns the (probable) largest land animal ever discovered,\" University of Maryland paleontologist Thomas Holtz, who wasn't part of the study, said in an email. \n Kristi Curry Rodgers, a paleontologist at Macalester College who wasn't part of the study, praised the work as important. She said the fact that Patagotitan's bones show signs that they haven't completed their growth \"means that there are even bigger dinosaurs out there to discover.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Meet the new heavyweight champion of dinosaurs: Patagotitan"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A row of trees are damaged and covered in ash after a wildfire in October, due to drought conditions, broke out on Bone Dry Road in Kimberly, Ala. A draft federal science report on the effects of global warming breaks down how climate change has already hit different regions of the United States. \n WASHINGTON >> A draft federal science report on the effects of global warming breaks down how climate change has already hit different regions of the United States. It also projects expected changes by region. \n Further reading: \n \u00a0 \n \u2014The annual average temperature is already 1.18 degrees warmer the last 30 years than it was from 1901 to 1960, with daytime highs 1 degree warmer and nighttime lows 1.35 degrees higher. \n \u2014If carbon pollution continues unabated, temperatures are projected to rise another 4.83 degrees by mid-century and 8.72 degrees by the end of the century, or a few degrees less if emissions are cut somewhat. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The annual average temperature, which has already risen about 1.37 degrees since 1901-1960, is expected to go up another 5.09 degrees by mid-century and 9.11 degrees by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If emissions are somewhat controlled, temperatures would go up another 3.98 degrees by mid-century and 5.27 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme precipitation \u2014 rain and snow \u2014 has already gone up 17 percent compared with the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up another 22 percent by the end of the 21st century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon dioxide emissions are somewhat reduced, it would only go up 14 percent. \n \u2014The northeast heat wave of July 2012 was made worse because of man-made climate change. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The annual average temperature has only gone up about 0.4 degrees since 1901-1960, the lowest of any region in the nation. It is projected to rise another 4.3 degrees by mid-century and 7.72 degrees by the end of century, if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would rise another 3.4 degrees by mid-century and 4.43 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme rain has already increased by 8 percent compared with the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up another 21 percent by the end of the 21st century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon pollution is somewhat reduced, it would only go up 13 percent. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The annual average temperature has already gone up 1.18 degrees since 1901-1960 and is projected to rise another 5.29 degrees by mid-century and 9.49 degrees by the end of the century, if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would go up by 4.21 degrees by mid-century and 5.57 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme rainfall has already jumped 9 percent compared with the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up another 20 percent by the end of the 20th century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon pollution is somewhat reduced it would only increase 11 percent. \n \u2014An extremely wet spring in 2013 and a March 2012 heat wave were found to be connected to man-made climate change. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The annual average temperature has already gone up 1.62 degrees \u2014 the most of any region \u2014 since 1901-1960. It is projected to rise another 5.1 degrees by mid-century and 9.37 degrees by the end of the century, if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would go up by 4.05 degrees by mid-century and 5.44 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme rainfall has already gone up 6 percent since the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up another 16 percent by late century, if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced it would be 10 percent. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The average annual temperature has already gone up 0.7 degrees since 1901-1960 and is projected to rise another 4.61 degrees by mid-century and 8.44 degrees by the end of the century, if carbon emissions continue unabated. If carbon pollution is somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would go up by 3.62 degrees by mid-century and 4.78 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme rainfall has already gone up 6 percent since the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up another 20 percent by late century, if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced it would be 12 percent. \n \u2014A hot summer 2011 in Texas and Oklahoma was found to be connected to man-made climate change. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The average annual temperature has already gone up 1.56 degrees since 1901-1960 and is projected to rise another 4.8 degrees by mid-century and 8.65 degrees by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would go up 3.72 degrees by mid-century and 4.93 degrees by late century. \n \u2014Extreme rainfall has only increased 1 percent since the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up 20 percent by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced it would be 13 percent. \n \u2014California's three-year spell of hot dry weather has been connected to climate change. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u2014The average annual temperature has already gone up 1.51 degrees since 1901-1960 and is projected to rise another 4.67 degrees by mid-century and 8.51 degrees by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced, the annual temperature would go up 3.66 degrees by mid-century and 4.99 degrees by the end of the century. \n \u2014Extreme rainfall has increased 3 percent since the first half of the 20th century and is projected to go up 19 percent by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. If carbon emissions are somewhat reduced it would be 10 percent. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ALASKA \n \u2014The average annual temperature in Alaska has gone up 1.52 degrees since 1925-1960 and is projected to increase by 10 degrees by the end of the century if carbon pollution continues unabated. That's the most in the United States. \n \u2014The frequency of cold spells will decrease the most in Alaska in the future. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n HAWAII \n \u2014The average annual temperature in Hawaii has gone up 0.75 degrees since 1925-1960. \n \u2014The extremely active 2014 Hawaiian hurricane season has been connected to man-made climate change. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Science report: Who gets hotter, wetter with climate change"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A haul truck with a 250-ton capacity carries coal in November from the Spring Creek strip mine near Decker, Mont. Federal scientists are warning that burning fossil fuels is already driving a steep increase in the United States of heat waves, droughts and floods. \n WASHINGTON >> As President Donald Trump touts new oil pipelines and pledges to revive the nation's struggling coal mines, federal scientists are warning that burning fossil fuels is already driving a steep increase in the United States of heat waves, droughts and floods. \n It is the latest example of collisions between Trump's environmental policies and the facts presented by his government's experts. \n Contradicting Trump's claims that climate change is a \"hoax,\" the draft report representing the consensus of 13 federal agencies concludes that the evidence global warming is being driven by human activities is \"unambiguous.\" That directly undercuts statements by Trump and his Cabinet casting doubt on whether the warming observed around the globe is being primarily driven by man-made carbon pollution. \n \"There are no alternative explanations, and no natural cycles are found in the observational record that can explain the observed changes in climate,\" says the report, citing thousands of peer-reviewed studies. \"Evidence for a changing climate abounds, from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans.\" \n Faced with reams of evidence compiled by federal scientists that conflicts with their policy positions, Trump and his advisers frequently cite the work of industry-funded think tanks. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt and Energy Secretary Rick Perry have championed the formation of a \"red-team, blue-team\" exercise where climate-change skeptics would publicly debate mainstream climate scientists. \n Submitted as part of the upcoming National Climate Assessment, the draft federal report sends the overriding message that failing to curb carbon pollution now will exacerbate negative consequences in the future. That assessment calls into question the wisdom of Trump's environmental and energy policies, which seek to boost U.S. production and consumption of fossil fuels even as the world's other leading economies promote cleaner sources of energy. \n An early version of the report, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, was distributed widely in December for review by leading scientists. The New York Times published a copy Monday. \n The U.S. Global Change Research Program, which will edit and produce the final climate report, did not respond to phone calls and emails seeking comment today. \n White House press secretary Sarah Sanders criticized the Times for reporting on the draft document \"without first verifying its contents with the White House or any of the federal agencies directly involved with climate and environmental policy.\" \n She then declined to comment on the report. \n \"The White House will withhold comment on any draft report before its scheduled release date,\" Sanders said. \n The assessment has generally been released every four years under a federal initiative mandated by Congress in 1990. The current draft for 2018, targeted for release later this year, largely builds on the conclusions of the 2014 assessment released under the Obama administration. \n The assessment said global temperatures will continue to rise without steep reductions in the burning of fossil fuels, with increasingly dire effects on the lives of every American. \n Worldwide, 15 of the last 16 years have been the warmest years on record. Today, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said 2017 is on track to be the second warmest for the United States. \n Scientists from all over the world have documented warming in the air and water, melting glaciers, disappearing snow, shrinking sea ice and rising sea level. The report said the United States will see temperature increases of at least 2.5 degrees over the next few decades, even with significant cuts to carbon pollution. \n Even if humans stop spewing heat-trapping gases today, the world will warm another half a degree, the report said, citing high confidence in those calculations. Scientists, such as Stanford University's Chris Field, say that even a few tenths of a degree of warming can have a dramatic impact on human civilization and the natural environment. \n \"Every increment in warming is an increment in risk,\" said Field, who wasn't part of the report but reviewed it for The National Academy of Sciences. \n Trump, who has called climate change a \"total con job\" and \"hoax\" perpetrated to harm U.S. economic competitiveness, has spearheaded a wholesale scrapping of Obama-era initiatives that sought to reduce carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants and other sources. Last week, Trump's administration formally told the United Nations that the U.S. intends to pull out of the international climate accord signed in 2015, in which nearly 200 nations pledged to reduce carbon emissions. \n U.S. climate scientists have watched these policy developments with increasing alarm, with some expressing concern the Trump administration might seek to bury or significantly water down the quadrennial climate assessment. \n Four co-authors of the science assessment, who spoke to AP on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue, said they have not heard of or witnessed any attempt by the White House to suppress or censor the scientific document. \n \"It was under the radar and we were fine about that,\" one author told AP today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. scientists contradict Trump's climate claims"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Rocky and her pup Kaimana swim inside the Waikiki Natatorium pool last week. State officials said today they will relocate the Hawaiian monk seal pup to a remote, undisclosed location for her own safety. \n DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Rocky and her pup Kaimana on Kaimana Beach last week. State officials said today they will relocate the Hawaiian monk seal pup to a remote, undisclosed location for her own safety. \n Kaimana, the Hawaiian monk seal pup officially known as PO3, will be moved to a \"remote, undisclosed shoreline area\" so she can grow up wild and with less human interaction than she's having in Waikiki, state officials announced today. \n \"The determination was made that the risks of leaving this now famous seal in place are too great,\" Department of Land and Natural Resources Chairwoman Suzanne Case said in a statement. \"The team considered a number of factors and the risks of leaving 'Kaimana' at her natal beach outweighed the risks of relocating her.\" \n At least three times \u2014 including Monday night \u2014 Kaimana has swum nearby into the dilapidated Waikiki Natatorium pool, which has \"unseen, underwater hazards,\" according to DLNR. \n Robert Farrell, chief of DLNR's enforcement officers, said, \"This decision to relocate is not made lightly, as there are human-caused dangers elsewhere too, not the least of which is illegal unattended lay gill nets that have caused the sad drownings of four seals in recent years. We know lay gill nets are a real problem for monk seals, turtles and other animals that all too frequently get entangled in them and die because they can't breathe. We ask everyone to help us be extra-vigilant in reporting these dangers through our new app, DLNRtip or by calling the DOCARE hotline at 643-DLNR.\" \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Monk seal pup to be relocated from Waikiki to undisclosed location"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This file image made from video of a news bulletin aired by North Korea's KRT on July 4, shows what was said to be North Korea leader Kim Jung Un, center, watching the launch of a Hwasong-14 intercontinental ballistic missile, ICBM, in North Korea's northwest. \n WASHINGTON >> Commentators laughed last year when a photograph emerged of Kim Jong Un standing next to an orb, which a North Korean newspaper stated was a miniaturized nuclear weapon. \"That's a weird looking disco ball,\" joked one intelligence contractor on Twitter. \n Not many are laughing anymore. \n Today, The Washington Post reported that a U.S. intelligence assessment concluded North Korea has successfully produced a miniaturized nuclear warhead, a disclosure that rapidly intensified an already tense standoff with the rogue nation. Soon after the report, President Donald Trump warned Kim against making further threats, saying North Korea \"will be met with the fire and the fury like the world has never seen.\" \n Whether Kim truly possesses the ability to miniaturize a nuclear warhead \u2014 and successfully launch it on an intercontinental ballistic missile \u2014 is unknown and remains hotly debated. Yet there is no doubt now that Kim has scored one major achievement: He is finally being taken seriously by the foreign policy establishment and intelligence agencies, evidenced by the latest assessment on his nuclear capabilities. \n Kim came to power in 2011, and was immediately mocked for his funny haircut and pudgy appearance. Some Korea hands questioned if, at the age of 27, he could maintain his hold on power, speculating he would be dominated or pushed out by senior officials in the military. \n But Kim has proven his skeptics wrong. He has eliminated potential rivals, including his uncle, whom he executed in 2013. He's improved North Korea's economy, in spite of international sanctions. And he's steadily advanced North Korea's nuclear and missile technologies, including the successful test of an ICBM on July 28 that showed a capability to travel as far as New York or Washington, D.C. \n Moon Chung In, a national security adviser to South Korea's president, said that Kim has taken rational steps to shore up his regime, with a goal of deterring any form of U.S. attack or intervention. \n \"North Korea is very, very stable,\" Moon said during a recent interview in Seoul. \"Kim Jong Un has consolidated power fully.\" \n Jonathan D. Pollack, a Korea specialist and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, recalled how Sen. John McCain of Arizona this year labeled Kim Jong Un as a \"crazy fat kid.\" He said seeing North Korea's leader this way is risky. \n \"I treat it seriously,\" Pollack said of North Korea. \"It's not a cartoon because of its increasing capabilities.\" \n If North Korea can now claim successful miniaturization of a nuclear weapon, it would bring it a step closer to credibly threatening the United States with nuclear attack, and by the same token, being able to credibly deter any attack on its territory and the Kim regime. Yet analysts warn against exaggerating North Korea's capabilities, noting the country's mixed success in missile launches, and the fact that it has yet to demonstrate it can pass a missile through the upper atmosphere without damaging one of its warheads. \n For many in the West, Kim's development of nuclear weapons is the work of a deranged dictator, an image reinforced by North Korea's bellicose messages. On Sunday, for instance, Pyongyang's state-run KCNA news agency warned the United States against \"believing that its land is safe across the ocean\" with North Korea's steady missile advances. \n The warning came after the United States successfully urged the U.N. Security Council to adopt a new set of economic sanctions on North Korea. \n Yet some North Korea watchers say Kim has pragmatic reasons for accelerating development of nuclear weapons. For one, he wants to be in a stronger negotiating position with the United States, its archenemy since the Korean War cessation of hostilities in 1953. \n Joo Seong Ha, a North Korean defector and journalist in Seoul, said that Kim hopes to use his nuclear weapons program to leverage economic concessions from South Korea and the United States. The nuclear weapons program is \"the most powerful bargaining chip that North Korea has.\" \n Speaking on CNN today, Sen. Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat who sits on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Kim and other North Korean leaders have been steeped in the belief that the United States is preparing to launch regime change. \"I think this paranoid, militaristic and capable young leader is someone whose threats we should take very seriously.\" \n It's not clear that all of Trump's aides view Kim that way. Speaking on Fox Business on Monday, Sebastian Gorka, a national security adviser, called North Korea a \"Lilliputian nation\" that was engaged in bluster and blackmail. \n Trump's \"fire and fury\" statement also provoked a strong reaction today. McCain told an Arizona radio station that he took exception to Trump's comments because \"you've got to be sure that you can do what you say you're going to do,\" referencing Roosevelt's words about walking softly, but carrying a big stick. \"That kind of rhetoric, I'm not sure how it helps.\" \n Pollack said that Trump needs to show that he can't easily be goaded into verbal battles with Kim. U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., also was critical of the president's comments. \n \"Isolating the North Koreans has not halted their pursuit of nuclear weapons,\" said Feinstein in a statement. \"And President Trump is not helping the situation with his bombastic comments.\" \n ", "author": "McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "America no longer sees Kim Jong Un as a joke"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maine Gov. Paul LePage pauses on May 10 during a meeting to discuss the state's efforts to fight the opioid epidemic at the State House in Augusta, Maine. The American Civil Liberties Union of Maine sued LePage today for blocking critics on his official Facebook page and deleting their comments. \n AUGUSTA, Maine >> Republican Gov. Paul LePage was sued today by the American Civil Liberties Union of Maine for blocking critics on his official Facebook page and deleting their comments. \n The ACLU filed the federal lawsuit on behalf of two women, saying their First Amendment rights were violated. The lawsuit seeks attorney fees, a court declaration that the governor's use of his page violates the women's freedom of speech and a court order preventing LePage from continuing his censorship. \n LePage's office didn't immediately make him available for comment. \n The civil liberties organization recently filed similar lawsuits against Republican Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin and Republican Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan. The Knight First Amendment Institute is suing President Donald Trump for blocking people on Twitter. \n LePage has long been at odds with the civil liberties organization. The group last fall called for a federal investigation into LePage's call to \"verify\" college students who voted in Maine, and LePage in 2015 joined a brief opposing the national ACLU's lawsuit on behalf of a transgender student. \n The governor has called the Facebook account a political page, and the page's \"about\" section describes itself as LePage's \"official page- but not managed by gov't officials.\" The ACLU, meanwhile, says LePage has posted to it in his official capacity as governor on several occasions. \n The ACLU's lawsuit references a remark LePage made in a recent radio appearance about his efforts to bypass the news media by using the Facebook page. \n \"They're so bad,\" LePage said, referring to journalists. \"And you know what we found that works? We go Facebook Live and we ignore them and they get even angrier.\" \n The lawsuit is filed on behalf of Kelli Whitlock Burton, a Waldoboro resident, and Karin Leuthy, a Camden resident and the co-founder of Suit Up Maine, a statewide liberal grassroots network. \n \"I am a constituent, and was commenting as a constituent, not as a member of any group,\" Leuthy said. \n The ACLU is arguing that the state's policy on the use of social media for state business doesn't allow blocking users or deleting comments from critics of a government official. The group said the \"Paul LePage, Maine's Governor\" Facebook page is verified by Facebook, a process that requires his approval. \n The governor's official state website linked to the Facebook page until July 24, when the ACLU sent LePage a letter demanding he stop deleting comments. The governor's office has referred news outlets to the Facebook page, which last month featured video addresses from LePage during the three-day government shutdown. \n \"Free speech must be protected from government censorship on Facebook just\" like any other public forum, said Meagan Sway, an ACLU of Maine attorney. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maine governor sued by ACLU for blocking critics on Facebook"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / FEB. 2012 \n Glen Campbell, center, Kim Woolen, left, and Ashley Campbell arrived at the 54th annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles. Campbell, the grinning, high-pitched entertainer who had such hits as \"Rhinestone Cowboy\" and spanned country, pop, television and movies, died today. He was 81. \n NASHVILLE, Tenn. >> Glen Campbell, the grinning, high-pitched entertainer whose dozens of hit singles included \"Rhinestone Cowboy\" and \"Wichita Lineman\" and whose appeal spanned country, pop, television and movies, died today, his family said. He was 81. \n Campbell's family said the singer died this morning in Nashville and publicist Sandy Brokaw confirmed the news. No cause was immediately given. Campbell announced in June 2011 that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and that it was in its early stages at that time. \n In the late 1960s and well into the '70s, the Arkansas native seemed to be everywhere, known by his boyish face, wavy hair and friendly tenor. He won five Grammys, sold more than 45 million records, had 12 gold albums and 75 chart hits, including No. 1 songs with \"Rhinestone Cowboy\" and \"Southern Nights.\" \n His performance of the title song from \"True Grit,\" a 1969 release in which he played a Texas Ranger alongside Oscar winner John Wayne, received an Academy Award nomination. He twice won album of the year awards from the Academy of Country Music and was voted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2005. Seven years later, he received a Grammy for lifetime achievement. \n He was among a wave of country crossover stars that included Johnny Cash, Roy Clark and Kenny Rogers, and like many of his contemporaries, he enjoyed success on television. Campbell had a weekly audience of some 50 million people for the \"Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour,\" on CBS from 1969 to 1972. He gained new fans decades later when the show, featuring his cheerful greeting \"Hi I'm Glen Campbell,\" was rerun on cable channel CMT. \n \"I did what my Dad told me to do \u2014 'Be nice, son, and don't cuss. And be nice to people.' And that's the way I handled myself, and people were very, very nice to me,\" Campbell told The Telegraph in 2011. \n He released more than 70 of his own albums, and in the 1990s recorded a series of gospel CDs. A 2011 farewell album, \"Ghost On the Canvas,\" included contributions from Jacob Dylan, Rick Nielsen of Cheap Trick and Billy Corgan of Smashing Pumpkins. \n The documentary \"Glen Campbell \u2026 I'll Be Me\" came out in 2014. The film about Campbell's 2011-12 farewell tour offers a poignant look at his decline from Alzheimer's while showcasing his virtuoso guitar chops that somehow continued to shine as his mind unraveled. The song \"I'm Not Gonna Miss You\" won a Grammy for best country song in 2015 and was nominated for an Oscar for best original song. \n Campbell's musical career dated back to the early years of rock 'n roll. He toured with the Champs of \"Tequila\" fame when the group included two singers who formed the popular '70s duo Seals & Crofts. He was part of the house band for the ABC TV show \"Shindig!\" and a member of Phil Spector's \"Wrecking Crew\" studio band that played on hits by the Ronettes, the Righteous Brothers and the Crystals. He played guitar on Frank Sinatra's \"Strangers In the Night,\" the Monkees' \"I'm a Believer\" and Elvis Presley's \"Viva Las Vegas.\" \n \"We'd get the rock 'n' roll guys and play all that, then we'd get Sinatra and Dean Martin,\" Campbell told The Associated Press in 2011. \"That was a kick. I really enjoyed that. I didn't want to go nowhere. I was making more money than I ever made just doing studio work.\" \n A sharecropper's son, and one of 12 children, he was born outside of Delight, Arkansas, and grew up revering country music stars such as Hank Williams. \n \"I'm not a country singer per se,\" Campbell once said. \"I'm a country boy who sings.\" \n He was just 4 when he learned to play guitar. As a teenager, anxious to escape a life of farm work and unpaid bills, he moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico to join his uncle's band and appear on his uncle's radio show. By his early 20s, he had formed his own group, the Western Wranglers, and moved to Los Angeles. He opened for the Doors and sang and played bass with the Beach Boys as a replacement for Brian Wilson, who in the mid-'60s had retired from touring to concentrate on studio work. In 1966, Campbell played on the Beach Boys' classic \"Pet Sounds\" album. \n \"I didn't go to Nashville because Nashville at that time seemed one-dimensional to me,\" Campbell told the AP. \"I'm a jazzer. I just love to get the guitar and play the hell out of it if I can.\" \n By the late '60s, he was a performer on his own, an appearance on Joey Bishop's show leading to his TV breakthrough. Tommy Smothers of the Smothers Brothers saw the program and asked Campbell if he'd like to host a summertime series, \"The Summer Brothers Smothers Show.\" Campbell shied from the Smothers Brothers' political humor, but still accepted the offer. He was out of the country when the first episode aired. \n \"The whole lid just blew off,\" Campbell told the AP. \"I had never had anything like that happen to me. I got more phone calls. It was awesome. For the first couple of days I was like how do they know me? I didn't realize the power of television.\" \n His guests included country acts, but also the Monkees, Lucille Ball, Cream, Neil Diamond and Ella Fitzgerald. \n He was married four times and had eight children. As he would confide in painful detail, Campbell suffered for his fame and made others suffer as well. He drank heavily, used drugs and indulged in a turbulent relationship with country singer Tanya Tucker in the early 1980s. \n He is survived by his wife, Kim; their three children, Cal, Shannon and Ashley; and his children from previous marriages, Debby, Kelli, Travis, Kane and Dillon. He had 10 grandchildren. \n In late 2003, he was arrested near his home in Phoenix after causing a minor traffic accident. He later pleaded guilty to \"extreme\" DUI and leaving the scene of an accident and served a 10-day sentence. \n Among Campbell's own hits, \"Rhinestone Cowboy\" stood out and became his personal anthem. Written and recorded by Larry Weiss in 1974, \"Rhinestone Cowboy\" received little attention until Campbell heard it on the radio and quickly related to the story of a veteran performer who triumphs over despair and hardship. Campbell's version was a chart topper in 1975. \n \"I thought it was my autobiography set to song,\" he wrote 20 years later, in his autobiography, titled \"Rhinestone Cowboy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Legendary country singer Glen Campbell dies at 81"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Blaisdell Park this morning. \n A special city clean-up crew this morning began dismantling dozens of homeless encampments on Navy land fronting Blaisdell Park from Hawaiian Electric Co.'s Waiau power plant to Waimalu Stream. \n The crew started this morning by clearing the most persistent encampments near the power plant that were dug into the shoreline and was expected to take most of the day clearing out tents and tarps along the popular bike path. \n \"It is quite sad to see the condition that some of these people are living in,\" said City Councilman Brandon Elefante, who represents the area. \n Bunny Boisjolie, 64, has been living along the bike path for more than two years. Boisjolie said she has limited housing options, especially since she recently adopted a pitbull mix puppy named Cleopatra that had been abandoned at the park. \n \"What else can we do?\" she asked. \"I guess we gotta go.\" \n Elefante said he hopes the people being swept today decide to take advantage of ongoing offers of assistance, including shelter beds or, possibly, long-term housing. \n But he said it's likely that some of the people will just set up camp in someone else's neighborhood. \n \"We have a severe housing crisis and a homeless crisis,\" Elefante said. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "City sweeps homeless from Blaisdell Park area"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "Firefighters extinguished a fire that heavily damaged an unattended 22-foot Boston Whaler at the Waikiki Yacht Club. \n Six companies and 23 firefighters responded to the yacht club at 1599 Ala Moana Boulevard shortly after 7:30 a.m. today. When they arrived, firefighters observed the motorboat moored to the dock and engulfed in flames. \n Firefighters used compressed foam and brought the blaze under control by 7:58 a.m. and extinguished by 8:04 a.m., said Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins. \n No injuries were reported. Jenkins said the boat was considered to be a \"total loss.\" \n No damage was reported to other vessels and no fuel leaks were detected. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation and a damage estimate has yet to be determined. \n The Department of Land and Natural Resources which has jurisdiction of the Ala Wai Boat Harbor used by the yacht club has also responded. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire destroys boat at Waikiki Yacht Club"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 25-year-old man after he allegedly threatened his 30-year-old sister with a knife in Kailua. \n Just before 9:20 a.m. Monday, police said the suspect and his sister got into an argument that escalated when the suspect got a knife from the kitchen and threatened to kill her and her dog. \n Police responded shortly afterward and arrested the 25-year-old man on suspicion of first-degree terroristic threatening. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police: Knife-wielding man threatened to kill sister, dog"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Kawelo Nakamura, 21, was charged Monday with stealing a county bus on Hawaii island. \n A 21-year-old Hilo man has been charged with stealing a county bus on Hawaii island. \n Kawelo Nakamura was charged Monday with first-degree theft, accident involving vehicle/property damage, first-degree criminal property damage, unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle and driving without a commercial driver's license. \n He is scheduled to make his initial court appearance today in South Hilo District Court. Nakamura is in custody in lieu of $13,000 bail. \n Police responded to a hit-and-run involving the county bus Saturday afternoon on Railroad Avenue in Hilo. No injuries were reported. Police were informed the bus was stolen from the Hilo base yard that morning. \n Officers spotted the bus on Route 130 and arrested the driver, later identified as Nakamura, after they stopped the bus in Pahoa. \n Anyone with information on the theft is asked to call the police department's non-emergency number at 935-3311 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hilo man charged for stealing, crashing county bus"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 37-year-old man after he allegedly robbed a 19-year-old Japanese visitor in Waikiki. \n Shortly after 10:30 p.m. Monday, police said the suspect approached the victim and brandished an unspecified dangerous instrument. He grabbed the victim's property, described as some type of bag. \n Police said the victim was dragged as she held onto the bag, causing abrasions to her knees. Police were called and the man was arrested on suspicion of first-degree robbery. \n Police said the bag was recovered nearby and returned to the woman. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested in Waikiki after he allegedly takes bag from woman"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This file photo distributed by the North Korean government shows what was said to be the launch of a Hwasong-14 intercontinental ballistic missile, ICBM, in North Korea's northwest, on July 4. Independent journalists were not given access to cover the event depicted in this photo. \n SEOUL >> North Korea and the United States traded escalating threats, with President Donald Trump warning it would be met \"with fire and fury like the world has never seen\" and Pyongyang claiming it was examining its plans for attacking Guam. \n The comments follow reports today that North Korea has mastered a crucial technology needed to strike the United States with a nuclear missile. \n Despite regular North Korean threats against Guam, a U.S. territory about 2,100 miles from the Korean Peninsula, it is extremely unlikely that Pyongyang would risk the assured annihilation of its revered leadership with a pre-emptive attack on U.S. citizens. \n Further reading:\u00a0 \n \u00a0 \n Still, the competing threats and Trump's use of North Korea-style rhetoric \u2014 Pyongyang has long vowed to reduce Seoul to a \"sea of fire\" \u2014 raise the already high animosity and heightens worries that a miscalculation might spark conflict between the nuclear-armed nations. \n The North Korean army said in a statement distributed by the state-run news agency that it is studying a plan to create an \"enveloping fire\" in areas around Guam with medium- to long-range ballistic missiles. The statement described Andersen Air Force Base on Guam as a \"beachhead\" for a potential U.S. invasion of North Korea it needed to neutralize. It was unlikely the North's threat was a direct response to Trump's comments to the camera at his golf course in Bedminster, N.J. \n Trump spoke hours after reports were published that indicate North Korea can now wed nuclear warheads with its missiles, including its longest-range missiles that may be able to hit the American mainland. The North has strived for decades to have the ability to strike the U.S. and its Asian allies, and the pace of its breakthroughs is having far-reaching consequences for stability in the Pacific and beyond. \n The nuclear advances were detailed in an official Japanese assessment today and a later Washington Post story that cited U.S. intelligence officials and a confidential Defense Intelligence Agency report. The U.S. now assesses the North Korean arsenal at up to 60 nuclear weapons, more than double most assessments by independent experts, according to the Post's reporting. \n \"North Korea had best not make any more threats to the United States,\" said a stern-looking Trump, seated with his arms crossed and with his wife beside him. \"They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.\" \n \"He has been very threatening beyond a normal state. And as I said they will be met with fire, fury and frankly power the likes of which this world has never seen before.\" \n The remarks appeared scripted, with Trump glancing at a paper in front of him. They evoked President Harry Truman's announcement of the U.S. atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, in 1945, in which he warned of \"a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth.\" \n But it wasn't clear what Trump, who is prone to hyperbole and bombast in far less grave situations, meant by the threat. White House officials did not elaborate. \n Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer issued a statement afterward saying, \"We need to be firm and deliberate with North Korea, but reckless rhetoric is not a strategy to keep America safe.\" \n The Trump administration considers North Korea to be America's greatest national security threat and tensions have steadily escalated this year. \n Pyongyang responded angrily to the U.N. Security Council's adoption this weekend of new, tougher sanctions spearheaded by Washington. The sanctions followed intercontinental ballistic missile tests last month, the second of which was estimating as having a range that could reach more of the U.S. mainland. The newly revealed U.S. intelligence assessment indicates those missiles can carry nuclear warheads. \n Denouncing the U.N. sanctions through state media, the North warned: \"We will make the U.S. pay by a thousand-fold for all the heinous crimes it commits against the state and people of this country.\" \n For North Korea, having a nuclear-tipped missile that could strike America would be the ultimate guarantee against U.S. invasion. \n It is an ambition decades in the making. North Korea began producing fissile material for bombs in the early 1990s and conducted its first nuclear test explosion in 2006. Four subsequent nuclear tests, the latest a year ago, have accelerated progress on miniaturizing a device \u2014 something North Korea already claimed it could do. Over that span, multiple U.S. presidents have tried and failed to coax or pressure Pyongyang into abandoning its nuclear ambitions. \n The secrecy of the North's nuclear program and the underground nature of its test explosions make it very difficult to properly assess its claims. But the new assessments from Japan and the U.S. suggest that doubts over the North's abilities are receding. \n In an annual report, Japan's Defense Ministry today concluded that \"it is possible that North Korea has achieved the miniaturization of nuclear weapons and has developed nuclear warheads.\" Japan, a key U.S. ally, is a potential, front-line target of North Korean aggression. \n The Post story, citing unnamed U.S. intelligence officials, went further. It said the Defense Intelligence Agency analysis, completed last month, assessed North Korea has produced nuclear weapons for ballistic missile delivery, including by intercontinental missiles. \n Officials at the agency wouldn't comment today. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence also wouldn't discuss the report. \n It's unclear how North Korea's new capabilities will immediately affect how the U.S. approaches the country's regular missile launches and occasional nuclear tests. The U.S. military has never attempted to shoot a North Korean missile out of the sky, deeming all previous tests to pose no threat to the United States. The U.S. could weigh military action if the threat perception changes. \n The calculation of North Korea's nuclear arsenal at 60 bombs exceeds other assessments, which range from around one dozen to about 30 weapons. The assessments are typically an estimate of the amount of plutonium and enriched uranium North Korea has in its inventory rather than how much of that material has been weaponized. It's unclear how many, if any, miniaturized warheads North Korea has built. \n Last month's ICBM tests highlighted the growing threat. Both missiles were fired at highly lofted angles and landed at sea near Japan, but analysts said the weapons could reach Alaska, Los Angeles or Chicago if fired at a normal, flattened trajectory. \n North Korea threatened to hit Guam with its Hwasong-12 missiles, which it says can carry a heavy nuclear warhead and before the two ICBM launches had demonstrated the longest potential range of the missiles test-fired by the North. \n Not all technical hurdles have been overcome, however. North Korea is still believed to lack expertise to ensure a missile could re-enter the Earth's atmosphere without the warhead burning up. And it's still working on striking targets with accuracy. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N.Korea threatens attack on Guam after Trump vows 'fire and fury'"}

{"date": "August 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The entrance to Trump National Golf Club is shown in Bedminster, N.J., as seen on May 7. As President Donald Trump spends much of August at his New Jersey golf club, Democratic lawmakers are making a new push for information about how much money the federal government is spending at his for-profit properties. \n WASHINGTON >> As President Donald Trump spends much of August at his New Jersey golf club, Democratic lawmakers are making a new push for information about how much money the federal government is spending at his for-profit properties. \n Democrats on the House Oversight Committee today asked departments to hand over information about their Trump-related spending by Aug. 25. \n \"The American people deserve to know how their tax dollars are spent, including the amount of federal funds that are being provided to private businesses owned by the president and the purposes of these expenditures,\" reads the lawmakers' letter to Elaine Duke, the acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. The lawmakers sent similar requests to all Cabinet secretaries. \n Their request seeks documents about any payments the departments made to the Trump Organization or any business in which the Trump organization has an ownership stake. \n Trump hasn't shied away from his homes away from the White House. He's visited his own properties 48 times since his inauguration, including a dozen overnight stays such as the one he's on now, according to an Associated Press tally. \n He's planning an excursion to New York City next week, raising the possibility he'll stop by Trump Tower, where he lived for decades until moving into the White House. \n Most presidents have maintained and visited their personal homes while in office. Think George W. Bush's Crawford, Texas, ranch and Barack Obama's Chicago house. \n The difference with Trump is that his residences are part of his business empire. That means when the Defense Department and Department of Homeland Security spend money to move and protect the president around his own properties, some taxpayer money makes its way into Trump Organization coffers. \n Trump turned over company leadership to his adult sons and a senior business executive, but he did not divest as previous presidents have done. The trust in which he placed his business assets includes a clause that he can draw down money at any time. \n The Democratic Oversight letter cites reports about the State Department booking rooms at a new Trump hotel in Vancouver, British Columbia, where his adult sons were on site for the grand opening, and the Defense Department and Homeland Security renting space at Trump Tower, where first lady Melania Trump and the couple's 11-year-old son lived until the end of the school year. \n \"President Trump also makes frequent trips to properties he owns, and these trips may result in U.S. taxpayers' money flowing into President Trump's pockets,\" the letter to Duke reads. \n The new effort is one of many to understand how much money the Trump-led government is spending on businesses that he still owns. The Government Accountability Office is undertaking the most comprehensive study. \n The office agreed to a congressional request earlier this year to analyze all government spending involved in several weekend trips Trump made to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. \n A GAO spokesman said today there's no estimate yet for when that report will be ready. \n Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democratic lawmakers seek federal payments to Trump business"}

