{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "No tsunami was generated by a strong earthquake south of the Philippines this evening. \n A magnitude-7.3 earthquake rocked an area of the Celebes Sea near the Philippines at 7:13 p.m., the U.S. Geological Survey's National Earthquake Information Center said. \n The epicenter was 117 miles south-southeast of Tabiauan, Philippines. \n The temblor was 389 miles deep, too deep to generate a tsunami, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "No tsunami from magnitude-7.3 quake south of Philippines"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The famed Hollywood sign is seen altered to read \"HOLLYWeeD,\" in Los Angeles. Los Angeles police said in a statement that 30-year-old Zachary Cole Fernandez was arrested in connection with the vandalism. \n LOS ANGELES >> Los Angeles police have made a \"HOLLYWeeD\" bust. \n Zachary Cole Fernandez, 30, was arrested today, just over a week after a prankster used white tarps to make the \"HOLLYWOOD\" sign read \"HOLLYWeeD,\" the LAPD said in a statement. \n Fernandez turned himself in with his attorney and was booked on suspicion of misdemeanor trespassing, police said. \n The prankster was dressed in black and was recorded by security cameras in the area changing the sign early New Year's Day. \n Fernandez, an artist, had already claimed credit for the stunt in a Vice magazine interview, but police had not previously confirmed his involvement. \n Fernandez told the Vice he had heard someone pulled the same prank in the 1970s, and he sought to repeat it to \"bring positivity into the world.\" \n Fernandez will be released on his own recognizance and must return to court Feb. 15, police said. \n Contact information to request comment could not be found for Fernandez or his attorney. \n David Ryu, the city councilman for the area of the Hollywood sign, said such pranks \"deplete the resources of our valuable public safety personnel, in both responding to the prank and in responding to the increased crowds and copycat attempts that these incidents generate.\" \n He added, \"While the Hollywood Sign is an internationally recognized icon, it is located in a large urban wilderness park next to thousands of residential homes.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man arrested in the case of the 'HOLLYWeeD' sign"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRES \n The Washington Monument is framed by a window at the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. The monument's lights have gone out for the second time in a week. \n WASHINGTON >> The Washington Monument's lights are back on after going out for the second time in a week. \n National Park Service spokesman Mike Litterst said in an email that power went out at the marble and granite obelisk about 5:30 p.m. Monday. He says power was restored after 7 p.m. \n Unlike last week's outage, Monday's outage included the red aviation warning lights on top of the 555-foot-tall structure. \n Litterst says electricians traced the outage to a ground fault. Further investigation will continue Tuesday. \n The lights went out on the monument about 7 p.m. Jan. 3; officials said the lights were on when electricians arrived the next morning. The outage was blamed on the monument's automated lighting system being out of sync. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Washington Monument lights back on after being on the blink"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Anna Johnson poses for photo at her office in Phoenix. The Associated Press has named Johnson as regional news director for the west, a new position overseeing AP's journalism and news operations across formats in 13 western states. \n PHOENIX >> The Associated Press has named Anna Johnson as regional news director for the U.S. West, a new position overseeing AP's journalism and news operations across formats in 13 western states. \n The appointment was announced Monday by Brian Carovillano, AP's vice president for U.S. News. Johnson is based in Phoenix, AP's regional hub for the West. \n The job merges all text, photo, video and interactive journalism under one regional news leader for the first time in the United States, the first step in a reorganization that follows a similar restructuring internationally. The reorganized AP will be fully cross-format, with multimedia journalists and integrated editing desks that emphasize video and social media, along with a streamlined management structure. \n \"Anna is the best type of news leader \u2014 one who makes everyone around her perform at a higher level,\" said AP executive editor Sally Buzbee. \"Her commitment to AP's news mission, her aggressiveness at aiming to make AP dominant on big stories and her strong communication skills make her the ideal person to lead the West operation through this process of change.\" \n Johnson has been based at the West Desk since 2014, first as deputy regional editor and then as acting regional editor. She has extensive experience as an AP reporter, editor and newsroom leader in the United States and in the Middle East. \n Johnson, 40, an Illinois native, joined AP in 2004 as a reporter in Chicago. From 2006 to 2009 she was a reporter and editor based in Cairo, traveling throughout the region to cover Iranian elections, the Iraq war, Egyptian archaeology and Dubai's economic boom, among other stories. \n In 2009, Johnson moved to Chicago to be the assistant editor on the AP's Central editing desk, where she was part of a team that won consecutive Associated Press Managing Editors awards for deadline reporting for coverage of the Joplin, Missouri, tornado and the shooting at a military base in Fort Hood, Texas. \n In Phoenix, she has helped transform the West region into a center of innovation at AP, pioneering the use of social media as a reporting tool and leading efforts to generate more video for social and digital platforms. She was a key editor at last year's Olympics in Rio, overseeing regular news updates on all top Olympic stories. She led coverage of the recent Oakland, California, warehouse fire and was a core leader of AP's 2016 campaign and elections coverage. \n \"Anna's form of leadership is positive and infectious,\" Carovillano said. \"She is ambitious, and approachable, and she understands better than anyone how to report and tell great stories that are insightful and visual and interactive.\" \n The AP's West region encompasses news in 13 states: California, Colorado, Arizona, Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, New Mexico, Utah, Nevada, Hawaii and Alaska. \n She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and a master's from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Anna Johnson named regional news director for U.S. West"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People protest against the Fort Worth Police Department at the Tarrant County Courthouse in Fort Worth, Texas. \n DALLAS >> A white Texas policeman was suspended without pay for 10 days, but will not be fired, after an incident in which he was caught on video wrestling a black woman and her daughter to the ground, Fort Worth Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald announced Monday. \n Fitzgerald said the officer, identified by department officials as William Martin, violated policy, is sorry for his behavior and is eager to resume active duty at the end of the suspension. He said he has asked Martin, who will also be required to undergo additional training, to go back into the same community when the suspension ends \"to repair relationships.\" \n \"We are not sanctioning bad behavior \u2026 People make mistakes. We have levels of mistakes that every police officer makes,\" Fitzgerald said. \"Some things deserve punishment; some do not. Some deserve termination and some do not.\" \n The incident on Dec. 21 happened after Jacqueline Craig complained that a neighbor choked her 7-year-old son for allegedly littering in his yard. One of her daughters filmed the interactions between Craig and Martin. \n In the video, Martin questions why Craig hadn't taught her son not to litter and later asks why the neighbor shouldn't have put his hands on her son. One of Craig's daughters tries to push her mother away from Martin, but the officer forces Craig and the daughter to the ground. He thrusts a stun gun into Craig's back and later points it at the daughter telling her to stay back. \n He arrested Craig and her daughters on charges that include disorderly conduct and resisting arrest. \n The disciplinary report submitted to the Civil Service Commission, says Martin violated department policy by using excessive force and failing to thoroughly investigate. Other findings included neglect of duty, being discourteous to the public and conduct prejudicial to good order. \n \"Officer Martin violated state and departmental rules and policies by using excessive force, being disrespectful, and failing to thoroughly investigate a criminal offense,\" Fitzgerald writes in the letter. \n Terry S. Daffron, an attorney representing Martin, said he has appealed the suspension. \n \"Clearly, we do not agree with the findings contained in the Chief's disciplinary letter,\" she wrote in an emailed statement. \"We look forward to a fair, neutral, and impartial hearing process, free from political pressure and influence, one where Officer Martin will finally have a 'voice' and all of the evidence will be considered by the arbitrator.\" \n Craig's attorney had demanded that Martin be fired and criminally charged, that all charges against the Craig family be dropped and that the neighbor be charged with assaulting her son. The attorney, S. Lee Merritt, did not immediately return a phone call Monday seeking comment, but he posted a video statement to Facebook Monday afternoon calling the suspension \"intolerable\" and describing it as a vacation. \n \"They are understandably in disbelief, shocked and upset,\" Merritt said of the Craig family. \"There are still charges pending against the Craig family.\" \n Fitzgerald said some members in the police chain of command did not agree with his disciplinary decision, but the ultimate decision was his to make. He referred questions about possible criminal charges to the Tarrant County Criminal District Attorney's Office. \n A spokeswoman for the district attorney said the office will send the entire incident file including the department's investigation to a grand jury to determine if criminal charges should be filed against any of the parties involved. \n \"The report on the Craigs, the officer and the neighbor will all come together before the grand jury,\" spokeswoman Sam Jordan said. \"They could find to press charges against all or no one.\" \n Jordan said the office will not make any recommendations to the grand jury about charges for any of the parties. She said there is no set date, but the grand jury that was just seated will hear the case in the \"next few months.\" \n The video was viewed millions of times on Facebook, and letters and emails have been rolling into the department and to city officials asking that Martin be fired. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White policeman suspended but not fired after video incident"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo delivers one of his State of the State addresses in New York's One World Trade Center building. \n ALBANY, N.Y. >> A plan to close the aging Indian Point nuclear power plant by 2021 removes a long-held fear of an accident occurring miles from the nation's most populous city. \n Although the plant provides about a quarter of the electricity in New York City and suburban Westchester County, experts agree that taking he plant offline should have a negligible long-term impact on supply. Whether electric rates climb as a result remains an open question. \n \"It's hard to know how likely it will impact rates, because terms of the shutdown haven't been laid out in any detail yet,\" said Peter Bradford, a former chairman of the state's Public Service Commission. \n Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday the state will be able to make up for lost electricity generation after announcing a deal with plant owner Entergy Corp. to close the facility in five years. \n Cuomo has long called for the plant's closure, saying operating a nuclear plant so close to a major population center is a potential safety hazard. \n \"The state is fully prepared to replace the power generated by the plant at a negligible cost to ratepayers,\" the Democrat said in a statement. \n It will take some time, however, to ramp up other energy sources to take the place of Indian Point, said Entergy Wholesale Commodities President Bill Mohl. \n \"Clearly right now they don't have the ability to replace the 2,000 megawatts,\" he said, referring to the state. \"Obviously they're going to need to add a substantial amount of capacity.\" \n Transmission upgrades and efficiency measures already are in service, Cuomo said, adding that other generation resources ready to come online by 2021 will help generate more than enough electrical power to replace Indian Point's capacity. In its announcement of the closure, Cuomo's administration wrote that closing the plant \"will have little to no effect on New Yorkers' electricity bills.\" \n Dr. Robert Brinkmann, founder of the Sustainability Studies program at Hofstra University, agrees. He predicted the closure would have little impact and said the remainder of the state's electric grid would be able to supply the power lost from Indian Point. \n \"The state has been quite aggressive with other renewables, we have quite a lot of energy coming from hydroelectric plants, and there has been a lot of work to boost other green energy, including wind and solar,\" Brinkmann said. \n He said the way utilities obtain electricity has changed during the past several decades. \n \"You can't think of the energy grid as being within one state,\" Brinkmann said. \"It expands to the whole continent. There are a lot of other electric energy sources that can provide support.\" \n The plant's two reactors went online in 1974 and 1976. Mohl said increasing operational costs and low natural gas prices have cut into revenues. \n \"This decision was truly based on economics,\" he said. \"We were going to have to make a decision regardless of the settlement with the state.\" \n The agreement requires Entergy to make repairs and upgrades to Indian Point and its storage system for the radioactive waste that remains after the fuel is used. It would give the state time to find an alternative source of electricity and allow the closure deadline to be delayed a few years if the state and Entergy agree. \n In exchange, the state and the environmental group Riverkeeper agree to drop legal challenges, and the state will support the plant's request for a new federal operating license. \n Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat whose office signed onto the deal, said his office will ensure Entergy lives up to its end of the agreement. \n \"My office will vigorously monitor Entergy's compliance with today's agreement to ensure its terms are met,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NY can absorb closing of Indian Point nuke plant"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "Maui Electric Company and Hawaii Electric Light Co submitted requests today with state regulators to begin the process of finding developers for renewable energy projects on Maui, Lanai, Molokai and Hawaii island. \n The electric utilities requested the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission open the formal review process of request for proposals so MECO and HELCO can find potential developers. The utilities said once the PUC approves the request for proposals, each will provide details to prospective bidders on the type of renewable energy projects needed for each island. \n The electric utilities said they plan to appoint an independent observer to oversee the process. Each island would have its own request for proposals to which developers can respond. \n Hawaiian Electric Co. said the company is targeting projects that can be in service by the end of 2020. HECO's updated renewable energy plan outlined Molokai achieving 100 percent renewable energy by 2020, Lanai by 2030, and Maui and Hawaii Island by 2040. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui, Big Island utilities looking for renewable energy partners"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama speaks during a news conference in the briefing room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump says that President Barack Obama's health care law \"will fall of its own weight.\" \n House Speaker Paul Ryan says the law is \"in what the actuaries call a death spiral.\" \n And Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says that \"by nearly any measure, Obamacare has failed.\" \n The problem with all these claims: They are exaggerated, if not downright false. \n As congressional Republicans prepare to repeal the health law, they are working to portray it as a mess of Democrats' making, and themselves as the ones who will clean up that mess. \n In the process they are exaggerating the law's very real problems, according to health care experts, who largely believe that the Affordable Care Act's troubles with high prices and lack of competition could be addressed with bipartisan solutions. \n Republicans, who've gained political advantage from campaigning against the law since its passage in 2010, aren't interested in playing along. Instead they've denounced the law and made the case to repeal it, although there are signs some are getting cold feet now that the reality is upon them. \n Democrats, too, are guilty of rhetorical excesses around the health care law, often claiming that it's working as intended while downplaying its flaws. \n But with Republicans in the majority and driving the agenda, here's a look at some of the GOP claims about the law, and how they compare with the facts: \n But some say that if the current situation continues, that is a likely or possible scenario. Health care premiums are jumping by double digits this year, and the health care marketplaces created by the law are short on the healthy consumers who make insurance companies profitable. \n \"It's not a failure in that 20 million people or more have insurance that didn't used to have insurance. Everything else, it's too early to judge,\" said economist Gail Wilensky, who ran Medicare under former President George H.W. Bush. \n \"To say that the exchange markets remain unstable and in turmoil is an appropriate statement,\" she said. \"To say that they're in a death spiral really depends on what happens.\" \n The American Academy of Actuaries itself disputed the \"death spiral\" claim Monday. The group provided a statement from its senior health fellow asserting that high premium increases in many states this year \"do not necessarily indicate that a premium spiral is occurring\" and could be a one-time adjustment. \n Some predict that when Republicans get through with their repeal-and-replace effort, what it will really amount to will be an improved Obamacare \u2014 even if they don't admit it. \n The health care exchanges, for example, could be improved with changes aimed at getting more young and healthy people to sign up, such as giving insurers more flexibility to charge older people higher prices. \n \"You could, I think, relatively simply address the issues that the exchanges have,\" said Dan Mendelson, president of Avalere Health, a health consulting firm, noting that other major programs including Medicare have been tweaked repeatedly since their creation. \"If you freeze a program in a point of time, it is likely to have problems, and that's exactly what's happening.\" \n Bob Laszewski, a health care consultant, predicted: \"Before this all ends they're going to fix it \u2026 The Republicans are going to say they repealed and replaced, and the Democrats are going to say they fixed it.\" \n The first five years of Obama's presidency saw historically slow growth in U.S. health care spending, though experts differ on whether the law had anything to do with that. Some credit the global recession. Individual consumers in the law's marketplaces, meanwhile, face higher premiums this year, though subsidies protected most customers from the increases. \n And while the Affordable Care Act did increase choice initially in the individual market, that is not the case now with brand-name insurers bailing out of the online state markets, although the many Americans with employer-based health coverage have been insulated from such changes. \n In about one-third of U.S. counties, consumers in the individual markets don't have a choice of plans. \n \"It depends for whom you're talking about,\" said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation. \"For people with pre-existing conditions, choices are infinitely more abundant because they couldn't get coverage at all. For someone who's young and healthy there are likely fewer choices available now than before.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Despite woes Obamacare not in 'death spiral'"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRES \n The ruins of the Pioneer Cabin tunnel tree, a giant, centuries-old sequoia in Calaveras Big Trees State Park near Arnold in California's Sierra Nevada, after it came crashing down during a storm earlier Sunday. \n ARNOLD, Calif. >> Fans are mourning a giant sequoia in California famous for a \"drive-thru\" hole carved into its trunk after a massive storm toppled the mighty tree. \n The tree shattered on impact when it went down Sunday, Calaveras Big Trees State Park volunteer Jim Allday said. \n \"It was majestic,\" he said. \"Now it's basically a pile of rubble.\" \n A tunnel was carved into the tree's trunk in the 1880s to allow tourists to pass through, though weakening the giant. The tunnel had allowed cars to pass, but it only was allowed to be crossed by foot in recent decades. \n Generations of locals and tourists have visited the tree for centuries, posing for photos and carving their names into it. Many of them took to social media Sunday and Monday, posting their memories of the tree. \n \"It's kind of like someone in the family has died,\" said Joyce Brown, a 65-year-old retired middle school teacher who has been visiting the tree since she was 12 and owns a cabin in nearby Arnold. \n Brown said four generations of her family spent countless hours at the tree and often took out-of-town visitors there, some from as far away as Turkey. \n \"Everyone who went there was shocked at how big a tree could be,\" she said. \"As a child you think you had come to a land of giants, that there must be giant people and giant animals living there because of the diameter of these trees.\" \n Sumner Crawford remembers every detail of his first visit to the tree as a kid in the early 1990s. \n \"I remember I was walking through the tree and thinking 'I'm inside of the tree right now!' \" he said. \"It was madness.\" \n He was stunned by the sequoia's size \u2014 when his family of four tried to join hands around the tree they discovered they couldn't even come close. \n \"It was so different and so odd,\" said Crawford, who grew up on a farm in Virginia and now lives in Charleston, South Carolina. He recently visited the tree again, reliving those memories. \n \"I feel like it's part of my personal history. So it's a bummer to see it go,\" he said. \n John Ripper, a 55-year-old printer in Northville, Michigan, said he and his wife visited the tree in May 2015. \n \"I was blown away,\" Ripper said. \"I've traveled to 70 countries, But that particular tree and being able to walk underneath it and touch it was quite a memorable moment and something I won't soon forget.\" \n Ripper said he can't believe such a massive and sturdy-looking tree was felled by a storm. \n \"In the blink of an eye it's gone,\" he said. \"There's this giant tree everyone remembers, and it's going to be laying there in plain sight. The dead giant.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California's famous 'drive-thru' sequoia toppled by storms"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "Two people died in separate vehicle accidents on Molokai over the weekend. \n The first accident occurred about 10:43 p.m. in Kaluakoi on Friday. \n A male driver was traveling east on Kaula Road in a 2013 Kia multi-purpose vehicle when the vehicle drifted off the roadway and struck a rock embankment, according to a news release from the Maui County Police Department. The vehicle flipped over and landed on the passenger side. \n Police said the driver was pronounced dead at the scene. His name has yet to be released pending notification of next of kin. \n The second accident occurred about 6:05 p.m. Saturday in Hoolehua. \n Police said John Kalua, 36, of Kalae, was traveling east on Puu Kapele Avenue in a 1991 Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle when the vehicle failed to a negotiate a turn at the intersection of Lihi Pali Avenue. The vehicle veered onto the grassy shoulder and struck several trees before it rolled over on its roof. \n Kalua was pronounced dead at the scene. \n Police are continuing their investigation on the crashes. \n The fatalities are the first and second traffic-related fatalities in Maui County for the year, compared with none at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Vehicle crashes kill 2 on Molokai"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sara Packer and Jacob Sullivan. Packer, whose teenage daughter's dismembered remains were found in the woods last fall, has been charged along with her boyfriend Sullivan with killing the girl in a \"rape-murder fantasy\" the couple shared, a prosecutor said Sunday. \n EASTON, Pa. >> A woman charged with killing and dismembering her adoptive daughter as part of a rape-murder fantasy she and her boyfriend shared had previously worked as an adoption supervisor for a children's welfare agency, authorities said Monday. \n Sara Packer worked as a supervisor for the Northampton County Children, Youth and Families Division for adoptions from 2003 to 2010, when she was suspended, the county said. \n Packer was arraigned Sunday on charges including criminal homicide, rape and abuse of a corpse. Her boyfriend, Jacob Sullivan, was arraigned on similar charges. \n Packer and Sullivan didn't enter pleas and were denied bail, and no attorney information was available for them. But Sullivan apologized as he was led into court, the Intelligencer newspaper reported. \n \"I'm sorry for what I did,\" Sullivan said. \"It was wrong.\" \n Officials say 14-year-old Grace Packer was beaten, was raped as her mother watched, was poisoned and hours later was strangled in a stifling attic in July. \n Investigators say the couple packed Grace's body with cat litter to mask decomposition smells and stored it in the attic. Officials allege the couple dismembered the body in October after being scared by a police visit. \n The girl's torso was found by hunters in a Luzerne County park on Oct. 31, and K-9 teams found her legs and arms nearby, a criminal complaint said. \n Bucks County prosecutors said the days and hours leading up to Grace's killing \"were probably the most horrible and traumatic that any person should ever have had to experience.\" \n Sara Packer had previously been charged with child endangerment and obstruction. Police say she provided misleading information to investigators when reporting that Grace was missing from their Abington home in July. \n Authorities say after numerous unsuccessful attempts to contact Packer through August, on Sept. 7 investigators learned Grace and her younger brother had been withdrawn from Abington School District. The investigation later revealed Packer had moved about 35 miles north to Quakertown without telling police and her 12-year-old adopted son, Grace's biological brother, had been enrolled in Quakertown School District. \n Authorities said Packer kept cashing her daughter's monthly $700 Social Security checks and updated disability forms in August without mentioning the girl's disappearance. It's unclear what the girl's disability was. \n Sullivan and Packer made a suicide pact and tried to overdose on prescription pills on Dec. 30, a criminal complaint said. They were hospitalized after being found by a woman who lived with them. \n Prosecutors said Sullivan began confessing to the killing overnight Friday into Saturday to workers at the hospital where he was being treated. \n Northampton County Controller Stephen Barron Jr. told Allentown's The Morning Call newspaper on Monday that Sara Packer's employment status with the county was listed as \"suspended\" in 2010. But Barron said he had no details on why she had been suspended. \n According to court records, Packer's ex-husband, David Packer, was charged by Allentown police in two child sex abuse cases, in November 2010 and in January 2011. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months to five years in prison. Records show the couple divorced last June. \n David Packer's lawyer from his 2010 case said he couldn't comment on Monday. \n A man who answered the phone at Sara Packer's father's home declined to comment and hung up. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mom accused in teen's dismemberment was child welfare worker"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump speaks with reporters after meeting French businessman Bernard Arnault at Trump Tower. \n NEW YORK >> Facing a week of high-profile tests for his administration-in-waiting, President-elect Donald Trump predicted Monday that all of his Cabinet picks would win Senate confirmation even as Democrats charged that Trump's team was ignoring standard vetting protocol. \n \"I think they'll all pass,\" Trump said of his would-be Cabinet, describing them as \"all at the highest level\" in between private meetings in his Manhattan sky rise. \n Trump's confidence comes as lawmakers in both parties eagerly await the submission of background material from Cabinet picks, including billionaires whose extensive personal financial dealings have never faced public scrutiny. Senate Democrats urged GOP leaders to slow their aggressive hearing schedule, which includes Trump's picks for the nation's top diplomat, lead law enforcement officer and head of homeland security, among others. \n \"Bear in mind President-elect Trump's nominees pose particularly difficult ethics and conflict-of-interest challenges,\" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said. \"They come from enormous wealth, many have vast holdings and stocks, and very few have experience in government.\" \n Trump's incoming press secretary Sean Spicer insisted Monday, \"Everyone who has a hearing this week has their paperwork in.\" \n It's unclear, however, whether each had submitted the extensive list of requirements that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell requested of President Barack Obama's nominees eight years ago. Those include an FBI background check, detailed questionnaires and financial disclosure statements that include tax returns, according to a 2009 letter from McConnell that Schumer read Monday on the Senate floor. \n \"Everybody'll be properly vetted as they have been in the past,\" McConnell told reporters Monday after meeting privately with the president-elect in Trump Tower. \n On Friday, however, Office of Government Ethics Director Walter Shaub said in a letter to congressional leaders that his office \"has not received even initial draft financial disclosure reports for some of the nominees scheduled for hearings.\" \n Among the committees that haven't yet received the forms was the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which has scheduled a hearing this week for Betsy DeVos, Trump's pick to lead the Education Department. The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee said it had also not received the forms for Trump's pick for commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, though a spokeswoman said they're expected soon. \n Committee aides said they had received ethics forms for Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump's pick for attorney general; Rex Tillerson, Trump's choice for secretary of state; James Mattis, his pick for defense secretary; Rep. Mike Pompeo, his choice for director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and Elaine Chao, his pick for transportation secretary. \n Other confirmation hearings this week include retired Marine Gen. John Kelly for homeland security secretary and Ben Carson for housing secretary. Committees handling those nominations declined to comment on the record. \n McConnell said he's hopeful that up to six or seven of Trump's picks, \"particularly the national security team,\" will be \"in place on Day One.\" \n The Senate cannot vote on any Cabinet pick until after Trump is sworn in on Jan. 20. \n Trump's selections, meanwhile, have been going through extensive preparation in the days leading up to the hearings. \n Transition officials said the nominees have spent more than 70 hours participating in full-blown mock hearings, with volunteers playing the role of senators asking questions. \n \"They're listening, they're learning, they're preparing,\" Spicer said. \n As his Cabinet prospects prepare to disclose their personal business dealings, Trump insisted Monday that there is a \"very simple, very easy\" way to disentangle himself from his global business empire before he takes office. \n The details, he said, would have to wait until Wednesday, when he holds his first formal news conference in nearly six months. \n Trump has pledged to step away from the Trump Organization during his time in office, but amid warnings from government watchdogs and officials in both parties, he has yet to say specifically how he would do that. \n Trump continues to own or control some 500 companies that make up the Trump Organization and has said he intends for his two oldest sons and company executives to run the business while he's gone. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Peoples reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick and Andrew Taylor in Washington contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to show that news conference will be Trump's first in six months, not three. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump predicts all Cabinet picks will win confirmation"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Cincinnati police officer is seen through a window at Our Daily Bread Ministry in Over-the-Rhine in Cincinatti, Ohio after a morning shooting. \n CINCINNATI >> A gunman at a social services mission in Cincinnati killed a man today and critically wounded a woman, police said. \n Lt. Steve Saunders said police questioned the suspect after he was taken into custody just outside of Our Daily Bread, in the city's Over-the-Rhine neighborhood. The mission provides hot meals, daytime shelter and other services. \n Police responded around 8:45 a.m. Saunders said a man was dead at the scene and a woman was taken to a hospital with life-threatening injuries. \n Our Daily Bread released a statement this afternoon saying the shooting appeared to stem from a domestic dispute and didn't involve any people who regularly use its services. Police weren't sure how, or if, those involved in the shooting were related. \n Garland Butts, a chef at the mission, said he heard a pop, then saw \"a guy waving the gun in the air.\" Butts told WCPO-TV people ran toward the kitchen and out the back door. \n The mission serves 400 to 500 people a day. People were directed to nearby shelters. \n Our Daily Bread Executive Director Georgine Getty said staffers were shaken by the shooting. \n \"We just try to be a place of safety and warmth for people who need us,\" she told WCPO. \"I just can't understand why something like this would happen.\" \n She said about 150 people were at the mission at the time of the shooting. \n The mission said it will remain closed for a few days to work with police to increase building safety. \n \"When we re-open, we will work with local trauma teams and the police to ensure that our guests, volunteers and staff receive the support they need to process this terrible occurrence,\" the statement said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 shot, 1 killed, at Cincinnati social services mission"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. talks with reporters at Trump Tower in New York after meeting with President-elect Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> Growing numbers of Republicans showed discomfort Monday over obliterating President Barack Obama's health care overhaul without having a replacement to show voters. Hoping to capitalize on the jitters, Democrats staged an evening Senate talk-a-thon to condemn the GOP push. \n With Donald Trump just 12 days from entering the White House, Republicans have positioned a repeal and replacement of Obama's 2010 health care statute atop their congressional agenda. But GOP lawmakers have never been able to rally behind an alternative, and Republican senators are increasingly voicing reluctance to vote to yank health coverage from millions of people without a substitute. \n That hesitancy was fed as Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., among those who want to delay repeal until a substitute is ready, said Trump telephoned him Friday night and expressed support for doing both together. The president-elect expressed a similar sentiment shortly after his election, but his call to Paul came as GOP congressional leaders have pushed toward an early repeal vote, to be followed by work on alternative health care legislation that could take months or years to craft. \n \"There are gathering voices of people saying, 'Hmm, maybe we should have a replacement the same day as a repeal,'\" Paul told reporters Monday. \n The budding Republican divisions come as the GOP-led Senate pushed toward a final vote this week on a budget that would shield a future bill repealing Obama's law from a Democratic filibuster. \n Once passed by the Senate and later the House, the budget would prevent Senate Democrats from using those delaying tactics against the later legislation repealing Obama's statute. Filibusters take 60 votes to halt in a chamber Republicans control by just 52-48. \n Lawmakers were also focused on confirmation hearings for Trump's Cabinet. \n In Tuesday's initial hearings, committees will examine Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., Trump's pick for attorney general, and retired Marine Gen. John Kelly, his choice for homeland security secretary. Seven others were also set for hearings this week. \n Also Tuesday, the Senate Intelligence Committee planned a hearing on intelligence agencies' conclusion that Russia meddled in the U.S. election by hacking and distributing Democratic party emails to help Trump win the White House. \n Among the witnesses will be FBI Director James Comey. It will be his first public appearance before Congress since he announced just before the election that the FBI was studying additional emails connected to Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, a revelation many Democrats say contributed to her defeat by Trump. \n On the House side of the Capitol, Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., met in his office Monday evening with top Trump transition aides to discuss GOP plans to revamp the tax system. \n Democrats looking to cast themselves as populist defenders of a law that's expanded health coverage to 20 million Americans used speeches to C-SPAN cameras and a nearly empty Senate chamber late Monday to attack Republicans for commencing a repeal effort with no alternative in hand. \n \"The Republicans hate Obamacare. They hate it almost as much as the devil hates holy water,\" No. 2 Senate Democratic leader Richard Durbin of Illinois said, using the law's nickname, as his party's planned hours of speeches began. \n \"They certainly have a plan to repeal it, but when it comes to replacing it, they don't offer anything. But they're going to go ahead with this,\" said Durbin, who said repeal would be \"devastating.\" \n Among GOP senators saying repeal should wait until a Republican alternative is ready is Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Health committee, which will be in the middle of the health-care rewrite. Others voicing that sentiment include Republican Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Bob Corker of Tennessee. \n The budget gives congressional committees until Jan. 27 to produce legislation annulling much of the health care law, though the consequences for missing that deadline are minor. Even so, Corker, Collins and three other GOP senators introduced a budget amendment Monday delaying that target date until March 3. \n Citing Trump's support for a simultaneous repeal and replacement, Corker said allowing more time would provide \"additional time to get the policy right\" and create \"a stable transition\" between striking Obama's law and enacting a new one. \n On CBS' \"Face the Nation\" on Sunday, McConnell said replacement would follow repeal \"rapidly\" but did not define the timetable. \n McConnell met with Trump in New York Monday morning to discuss the GOP agenda. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP hesitancy grows on health law repeal without substitute"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jared Kushner, son-in-law of of President-elect Donald Trump walked from Trump Tower, in New York. Kushner is taking steps to distance himself from his sprawling New York real estate business, in what is the clearest sign yet he is planning to take a position in his father-in-law's administration. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump appointed his influential son-in-law Jared Kushner as a White House senior adviser today, putting the young real estate executive in position to exert broad sway over both domestic and foreign policy, particularly Middle East issues and trade negotiations. \n Trump has come to rely heavily on Kushner, who is married to the president-elect's daughter Ivanka. Since the election, the political novice has been one of the transition team's main liaisons to foreign governments, communicating with Israeli officials and meeting Sunday with Britain's foreign minister. He's also huddled with congressional leaders and helped interview Cabinet candidates. \n Ivanka Trump, who also played a significant role advising her father during the presidential campaign, will not be taking a formal White House position. Transition officials said the mother of three young children wanted to focus on moving her family from New York to Washington, though a person with knowledge of the decision said her business, a clothing line and lifestyle brand, was complicating her move into government. \n Kushner's own eligibility for the White House could be challenged, given a 1967 law meant to bar government officials from hiring relatives. Kushner lawyer Jamie Gorelick argued that the law does not apply to the West Wing. She cited a later congressional measure to allow the president \"unfettered\" and \"sweeping\" authority in hiring staff. \n In a statement, Trump said Kushner will be an \"invaluable member of my team as I set and execute an ambitious agenda.\" \n Kushner will resign as CEO of his family's real estate company and as publisher of the New York Observer. He will also divest \"substantial assets,\" Gorelick said. The lawyer said Kushner would not be taking a salary. Ivanka Trump will also be leaving her executive roles at the Trump Organization \u2014 her father's real estate company \u2014 and her own fashion brands. \n Kushner, who turns 36 on Tuesday, emerged as one of Trump's most powerful campaign advisers during his father-in-law's often unorthodox presidential bid \u2014 a calming presence in an otherwise chaotic campaign. Soft-spoken and press-shy, he was deeply involved in the campaign's digital efforts and was usually at Trump's side during the election's closing weeks. \n He has continued to be a commanding presence during the transition, working alongside incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior adviser Steve Bannon. He's played a key role in coordinating Trump's contacts with foreign leaders and has been talking with foreign government officials himself, according to a person with knowledge of the conversations. \n Last week, Kushner and Bannon \u2014 the controversial conservative media executive \u2014 met with British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson. \n Kushner and Bannon have also worked closely on issues related to Israel, including discussions over moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, which could inflame tensions in the Middle East, and on the Trump administration's response to a United Nations Security Council measure condemning Israeli settlements. \n Kushner is also weighing in on domestic policy. He joined other Trump advisers tonight for a meeting with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., on tax reform. He championed the pick of his friend Gary Cohn, the president of Goldman Sachs, for a top White House economic post, and Cohn's influence within Trump's team is said to be growing. \n Those with knowledge of Kushner's role spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss internal matters. \n The anti-nepotism law had appeared to be the main obstacle to Kushner joining the White House. In arguing that the measure did not apply to the West Wing, Gorelick cited an opinion from two federal court judges in a 1993 case involving Hillary Clinton's work on her husband's health care law. She said Trump planned to seek an advisory opinion on the nepotism law from the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel. \n Gorelick worked in the Clinton administration at both the Pentagon and Justice Department. \n Norman Eisen, who served as President Barack Obama's government ethics lawyer, said there is a \"murky legal landscape\" regarding the anti-nepotism law. But he said Kushner appeared to be taking the proper steps regarding the ethics and disclosure requirements for federal employees. \n Like his father-in-law, Kushner pushed a mid-sized real estate company into the high-stakes battlefield of Manhattan. Though he is often viewed as more moderate than Trump, people close to him say he fully bought into the Trump campaign's fiery populist message that resonated with white, working-class voters. He never publicly distanced himself from Trump's more provocative stances, including the candidate's call for a Muslim-immigration ban and his doubts about President Barack Obama's birthplace. \n Kushner's place in Trump's orbit \u2014 vital but often discreet \u2014 was vividly on display last month, when the president-elect toured the Carrier plant in Indiana to tout the jobs he says he saved. \n Trump marched around the plant with Vice President-elect Mike Pence, shaking hands with workers, posing for photos and flashing his thumbs-up to the traveling press. Kushner stayed away from the cameras, lingering a deferential 10 or 20 feet from Trump while marveling at the scene. \n \"Look at these people,\" Kushner was overheard saying as he watched dozens of workers cheer. \"This is why he won.\" \n AP writer Steve Peoples contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump son-in-law Kushner to take senior White House role"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin listens during a meeting in the Moscow's Kremlin in Moscow, Russia. \n WASHINGTON >> The outgoing Obama administration on Monday blacklisted five Russians, including a senior law enforcement official close to President Vladimir Putin, as the two nations' feud over U.S. election hacking escalated. The founder of WikiLeaks, publisher of the election-related emails, denounced last week's U.S. intelligence report about the hacking as a \"press release.\" \n The economic sanctions against the five Russians are not related to the U.S. intelligence agencies findings, officials said, and instead are connected to a 2012 U.S. law punishing Russian human rights violators. Americans are now banned from doing business with the men and any assets they may have in the United States are now frozen. \n But the symbolic effect of the new penalties was more significant, following weeks of accusations that Moscow spearheaded a campaign designed to help Republican Donald Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton in November's presidential election. And their timing was unmistakable: Just three days after U.S. intelligence agencies connected Putin directly to the hacking of Democratic accounts. \n According to U.S. intelligence agencies, Russia provided the emails to WikiLeaks. The website's founder, Julian Assange, denies that is the case, but Democrat and GOP lawmakers have largely backed the accusation and many have demanded a sterner response for meddling in America's democratic process. Monday's action could go some way to answering those calls. \n Trump, however, could repeal these sanctions when he takes office next week. The billionaire businessman has expressed an interest in warming relations with Russia and has voiced skepticism about the intelligence agencies' conclusions. \n The most prominent individual targeted by the U.S. is Alexander Bastrykin, head of Russia's main investigative agency. Bastrykin and Putin attended the same university together. \n The Investigative Committee under Bastrykin investigated Russian whistleblower Sergei Magnitsky's death in prison in 2009. It determined that Magnitsky died in detention and closed the case after determining that there was no evidence of a crime. \n Two of the Russians placed on the Treasury Department's list Monday have been accused of trying to help cover up Magnitsky's death. Britain blames the two others for the London murder of a former Russian spy. \n Forty-four Russians have now been subjected to U.S. sanctions under the so-called Magnitsky law, the State Department said. \n In late December, President Barack Obama imposed sanctions on Russia directly tied to the election accusations, expelling 35 of the country's diplomats and shutting down Russian retreats in New York and Maryland that the U.S. said were used for intelligence purposes. He also targeted two Russian intelligence services, the GRU and the FSB. The GRU's chief and three deputies were individually blacklisted, too. \n Before the new penalties were announced, Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Monday that the Kremlin still believes the U.S. accusations of election hacking had no substance. \n \"They are amateurish and are hardly worthy of the high professional standards of top intelligence agencies,\" Peskov said. \"We categorically rule out the possibility that Russian officials or official bodies could have been involved. We are tired of such accusations. This is beginning to remind us of a full-fledged witch hunt.\" \n The report accused Russia of hacking into the email accounts of the Democratic National Committee and individual Democrats like Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta. Russia also used state-funded propaganda and paid \"trolls\" to make nasty comments on social media services, it said, although there was no suggestion such operations affected the actual vote count. \n It also explicitly tied Putin to the hackings, calling them the \"boldest effort yet\" to influence a U.S. election. \n WikiLeaks founder Assange on Monday brushed aside the allegations. He called the report a politically motivated \"press release\" that provided no evidence Russian actors gave WikiLeaks hacked material. \n The report lacked details about how the U.S. learned what it says it knows, such as any intercepted conversations or electronic messages from Russian leaders, including Putin. It also said nothing about specific hacker techniques or digital tools the U.S. may have traced back to Russia in its investigations. \n A still-classified version of the report was shared late last week with President Barack Obama, Trump and top lawmakers in Congress. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Amid hacking feud, U.S. hits Russia with new sanctions"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "US NAVY \n USS Mahan fired three warning shots at armed Iranian patrol boats. \n WASHINGTON >> A U.S. Navy destroyer fired three warning shots at armed Iranian patrol boats as they sped toward the American warship at the entrance to the Persian Gulf, marring a recent period of relatively quiet interactions between U.S. and Iranian forces, the Pentagon said Monday. \n Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said a group of four fast-attack boats of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps navy had ignored multiple attempts by the crew of the USS Mahan to warn them away. The Mahan used an audible siren, flashing lights and a ship's whistle to warn the Iranians, and managed to establish radio communication. The initial warnings were not heeded, prompting the decision to fire three warning shots with a .50-caliber machine gun, Davis said. \n The Iranian boats then turned away. \n The incident happened Sunday inside the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow waterway at the entrance to the Gulf. \n \"This was an unsafe and unprofessional interaction,\" Davis said. \n White House press secretary Josh Earnest added: \"These types of actions are certainly concerning and certainly risk escalating tensions.\" \n U.S. relations with Iran are among the tougher foreign policy issues that President-elect Donald Trump will inherit next week when he succeeds President Barack Obama. During the campaign, Trump promised to take a harder line on Iran. The incident could be seen as Iranian probing amid uncertainty over how quickly and severely Trump will turn away from Obama's policy of engaging diplomatically with Iran. \n Revolutionary Guard naval forces have typically acted more aggressively against U.S. ships in the Gulf than the conventional Iranian navy, reflecting the more hard-line side of Iran's leadership. \n Iranian authorities have arrested several Iranian-American dual nationals, and there have been various maritime incidents since the 2015 nuclear deal reached by the U.S., Iran and five other nations. American officials often have interpreted these as hard-liner efforts to undermine Tehran's more moderate president. \n Most confrontations with Iranian naval forces in the Gulf do not usually reach the point of prompting warning shots. The last such incident was August 25 when the USS Squall fired in the direction of an Iranian boat in the northern Gulf. \n A year ago, Iran detained 10 American soldiers for about 15 hours after they wandered into Iranian territorial waters in the Persian Gulf. The incident, while brief, raised tensions between the longtime foes after Iran published images of the soldiers kneeling with their hands on their heads. \n Davis said that in 2015 and early 2016 there were many unsafe and unprofessional Iranian naval moves in the Gulf, but relatively few lately. \n \"It's somewhat out of character, recently anyway, from what we've seen from Iran,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Navy ship fired warning shots at Iranian boats"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "The 37-year-old man who died from injuries sustained in a two-vehicle crash in Pahoa Thursday has been identified as Michael Simmons of O'Brien, Ore. \n The crash occurred on Highway 130 between Leilani Avenue and Malama Street in Pahoa. \n Hawaii County Police ask that anyone who witnessed the crash call Officer Erhard Autrata at 961-8118. Tipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man who died after 2-vehicle crash in Pahoa identified"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "Hawaii County police today identified the victim of a two-vehicle crash in Kona Friday night as 34-year-old Mona Yoshitaro of Ocean View. \n Yoshitaro was driving north on Highway 11 near the 96-mile marker in a 2003 Kia sedan when she crossed the center lane and collided head-on with a 2003 Nissan pickup truck heading south, police said in a statement. \n The occupants of the truck, a 66-year-old man and a 63-year-old woman, both also from Ocean View, were taken to Kona Community Hospital and treated for their injuries. \n Yoshitaro was also taken to Kona Community Hospital where she died at 11:55 p.m. \n The exact cause of death will be determined pending an autopsy but police believe speed and inattention factored into the crash. \n Yoshitaro was the 2nd traffic fatality on the Big Island this year, compared to none at the same time last year. \n Police are urging anyone with may have witnessed the accident to call officer Christopher Kapua-Allison, 326-4646 ext. 229, or Crime Stoppers, 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Victim of 2-vehicle crash in Kona identified"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Markeith Loyd is wanted for killing an Orlando police officer outside a Walmart in Orlando, Fla. Loyd is also accused of murdering his pregnant ex-girlfriend last month. \n ORLANDO, Fla. >> An Orlando police sergeant was shot and killed today after approaching a suspect wanted for questioning in the murder of his pregnant ex-girlfriend, and a second law enforcement officer was killed in a motorcycle crash while responding to a massive manhunt for the suspect. \n More than a dozen schools were placed in lockdown during the manhunt, and authorities were offering a $60,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of Markeith Loyd, the 41-year-old suspect wanted for the murder of Master Sgt. Debra Clayton. \n Officers and deputies focused their manhunt on an apartment complex in northwest Orlando, and dozens of residences had been searched. Residents who were evacuated from their homes sat on a sidewalk along a street with heavily armed officers and deputies and a parked SWAT team truck. \n Clayton, 42, was killed outside a Wal-Mart store in northwest Orlando early today, and an Orange County Sheriff's Office deputy was killed in a crash while responding to a manhunt for Loyd. The deputy wasn't identified because his family hadn't been notified. \n Another Orlando police officer also was involved in a crash while responding to the shooting but only had minor injuries. \n Authorities said Loyd previously was a suspect in the murder of his pregnant ex-girlfriend last December. \n \"He should be considered armed and dangerous,\" Police Chief John Mina said at a morning press conference. Later in the day, the chief said, \"It doesn't matter where he is. We will track him down to the ends of the Earth.\" \n Orange County Sheriff Jerry Demings said deputies had been searching unsuccessfully for Loyd for several weeks and believe he was receiving help from someone. \n At an afternoon news conference, Demings urged Loyd to turn himself in peacefully. \n \"If we have to go in after him, then that jeopardizes and puts at risk the safety of law enforcement officers \u2026 and we cannot control what happens in that situation,\" Demings said. \n Mina lauded Clayton, a 17-year veteran of the force as a \"committed\" officer and \"a hero\" who gave her life to the community she loves. The Orlando Police Department said in a tweet that Clayton always had a smile and a high five for every child she came across. \n Clayton had grown up in the Orlando area and was active in programs that mentored young people, Mina said. \n \"She was always the first to step up and help kids,\" the chief said. \n Clayton was a supervisor for a patrol division in the neighborhood where she was shot, and she previously had worked in investigations and as a school resource officer, said Deputy Chief Orlando Rolon. \n \"She made a point, even outside her working hours, do to things for youth and do things for the community,\" Rolon said. \n She was married and had a college-aged son. She died at 7:40 a.m., less than an hour after she was shot while on duty. \n Police released a video of Clayton's body being taken out of the hospital to a waiting van in a flag-covered stretcher. A line of officers saluted as the stretcher was wheeled out. \n Authorities said 17 area schools were placed in lockdown following the shooting. \n The apartment complex that was the focus of the manhunt and shooting in northwest Orlando was nowhere near Orlando's tourism corridor in the southern part of the metro area. \n \"There will be a large law enforcement presence in that area until we can determine he is not there,\" Mina said. \n Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer declared a day of mourning in the city. \n While at the Wal-Mart this morning, Clayton was tipped off by someone that Loyd was in the area. When she approached him, he fired multiple shots at Clayton, who was wearing body armor, Mina said. \n Clayton returned fire but didn't hit him, he said. \n Sheriff's officials said a deputy spotted Loyd fleeing in a vehicle. The suspect pulled into a nearby apartment complex and then fired at a deputy, striking the deputy's SUV twice. The deputy wasn't harmed, the sheriff's office said. \n Loyd then carjacked another vehicle, drove away and then abandoned the vehicle not far away, according to the sheriff's office. \n The manhunt was being conducted where he abandoned the vehicle. \n The Orange County Sheriff's Office deputy was killed more than two hours after the shooting when a van collided with his motorcycle as he responded to the manhunt, authorities said. \n Gov. Rick Scott cancelled an appearance in Orlando because of the shooting but appeared with Orlando officials at the news conference. \n \"I'm heartbroken and angry,\" Scott said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Manhunt underway for suspect in killing of Orlando officer"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> The Iraq war veteran held in the fatal shooting of five people inside Fort Lauderdale's airport answered questions in a clear voice today as he was appointed public defenders and told he could face the death penalty. \n Esteban Santiago, 26, appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia Valle, who ordered him held until his next hearings. \n Shackled in a red jumpsuit in the heavily guarded federal courtroom, Santiago answered mostly yes or no to questions, and told the judge he understands the charges, which include committing violence against people at an international airport resulting in death, and two firearms offenses. \n She told him the death penalty could apply. \n \"We are telling you the maximum penalty allowed by law so that you understand the seriousness of the charges,\" the judge said. \n He said he had been in the Army, where he made about $15,000 a year. He mentioned expenses including $560 in monthly rent, plus phone and other utility bills. He said he owns no property and doesn't have a vehicle. He said he had worked for a security company, Signal 88, in Anchorage, Alaska, until November, making $2,100 a month, but currently only had $5 to $10 in the bank. \n Valle set a detention hearing for Jan. 17, followed by an arraignment for entering a plea for Jan. 23. \n More than a dozen officers kept watch outside the courthouse, carrying rifles and wearing bulletproof vests. There were also mounted police and K-9 units. \n Santiago has been in custody since Friday's shooting at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport. The FBI said Santiago flew on a one-way ticket aboard a Delta flight from Anchorage to Fort Lauderdale. The 11\u00bd-hour flight has a 2\u00bd-hour layover in Minneapolis, one of the longest itineraries within the U.S. \n He checked a single piece of luggage: a gun box for his Walther 9 mm semi-automatic pistol and two magazines of ammunition, according to an FBI affidavit. Agents say he retrieved the box in baggage claim and loaded his weapon in a bathroom stall before opening fire. \n In November, Santiago walked into an FBI field office in Alaska with a handgun and his infant child, saying the U.S. government was controlling his mind and forcing him to watch Islamic State group videos, authorities said. \n Officers seized the weapon and local officers took him to get a mental health evaluation. His girlfriend picked up the child. On Dec. 8, the gun was returned to Santiago. Authorities wouldn't say if it was the same gun used in the airport attack. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Airport shooting suspect makes initial court appearance"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Traffic crosses the raging Truckee River, Sunday, Jan. 8, 2017, where it runs near the Grand Sierra hotel-casino along a line that divides the cities of Reno and Sparks, Nev. More than 1,000 homes have been evacuated due to overflowing streams and drainage ditches in the area, which remains under a flood warning through Tuesday. (AP Photo/Scott Sonner) \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A vehicle drove past a truck struck on a log, Sunday, near Rancho Murieta, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Santa Clara County Roads and Airport Department worker responded to the scene of a downed tree and mudslide on Summit Road in the Santa Cruz Mountains, Calif. on Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sparks firefighters monitored the rising Truckee River, Sunday, where it runs near the Grand Sierra hotel-casino along a line that divides the cities of Reno and Sparks, Nev. More than 1,000 homes were evacuated due to overflowing streams and drainage ditches in the area, which remains under a flood warning through Tuesday. \n FORESTVILLE, Calif. >> Emergency crews in rescue boats and helicopters rushed to take advantage of a one-day break between storms Monday to rescue stranded people and assess damage after the heaviest rain in a decade overwhelmed parts of California and Nevada. \n A weekend storm dumped more than a foot of water on parts of Northern California, forcing hundreds of people to evacuate and leaving thousands without power. The system raised rivers out of their banks and toppled trees, among them the fabled giant sequoia dubbed \"Pioneer Cabin\" that had a tunnel carved into its base more than a century ago. Another strong storm was bearing down on the region for Tuesday. \n Such gaps between storms are \"what saves us from the big water,\" Fire Chief Max Ming said in the Russian River town of Forestville, where rescuers launched rafts and used a helicopter to search for people cut off by rising water. \"People hunker down and wait for it to get past.\" \n The back-to-back storms that have hit California and Nevada since last week are part of an \"atmospheric river\" weather system that draws precipitation from the Pacific Ocean as far west as Hawaii. That kind of system, also known as the \"pineapple express,\" poses catastrophic risks for areas hit by the heaviest rain. \n \"It's been about 10 years since we've experienced this kind of rainfall,\" said Steve Anderson, a National Weather Service forecaster. \"We're getting a little bit of a break today, but we have another storm system arriving tomorrow that's not quite as potent but could still cause problems.\" \n Parts of California's wine country in Sonoma County were among the hardest hit, with up to 13 inches of rain since Friday, Anderson said. \n The Russian River in Sonoma rose to its highest level since 2006, spilling over its banks and into vineyards and oak groves. Schools and roads were forced to close across the area. \n Avalanche concerns kept some California ski areas closed for a second day Monday in the Sierra Nevada. Forecasters said more snow and rain was on the way. \n The Russian River is prone to flooding, but this year's flood has been particularly worrisome because it threatened to topple trees weakened by six years of drought. \n A flood warning for the Russian River was in effect, along with a high wind watch planned for Tuesday afternoon through Tuesday evening, Anderson said. \n Jeff Watts, an artist, spent an anxious night listening for the sound of falling trees on his property in Forestville. On Monday, he found his drive to work blocked by a car that had slammed into a tree that had fallen across the road. Emergency crews worked to extract the vehicle. \n \"I couldn't get past the tree, so I turned around and I'm doing this,\" said Watts, who had pulled over to photograph oak trees and their reflections in the floodwater. \n Yosemite National Park will reopen the valley floor to visitors Tuesday morning after it was closed through the weekend and Monday because of a storm-swollen river, park spokesman Scott Gediman said. He said guests will be allowed back in starting at 8 a.m. for day visitors. Park workers were checking the extent of damage from the storm to water and sewer systems, he said. \n Over the weekend, toppled trees also crashed against cars and homes and blocked roads in the San Francisco Bay Area. Stranded motorists had to be rescued from cars stuck on flooded roads. The city itself got just over 2 inches of rain. \n A giant tree fell across a highway in Hillsborough to the south of San Francisco, injuring a driver who could not stop in time and drove into the tree. And a woman was killed Saturday by a falling tree while she took a walk on a golf course. \n To the south near Los Angeles, commuters were warned of possible highway flooding and mudslides in hilly areas. \n Emergency workers in Nevada voluntarily evacuated about 1,300 people from 400 homes in a Reno neighborhood as the Truckee River overflowed and drainage ditches backed up. \n Winter storm warnings were in effect in the Sierra Nevada until Thursday morning, with the potential for blizzard and white-out conditions, said Scott McGuire, a forecaster for the National Weather Service based in Reno. \n \"People need to avoid traveling if at all possible,\" McGuire said. \n Four to 8 feet of snow are forecast through Thursday above 7,000 feet, and the Lake Tahoe area could get between 2 to 5 feet of snow, he said. \n Schools were canceled Monday in Reno and Sparks, and Gov. Brian Sandoval told all nonessential state government workers to stay home Monday after he declared a state of emergency. \n Associated Press writers Christopher Weber in Los Angeles and Rebecca Boone in Boise, Idaho, contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rescuers take advantage of break in storms in California"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / DEC. 2011 \n Star of the Sea Early Learning Center students hosted their annual Christmas pageant held at the Star of the Sea Church. Preschool boys sang during their Christmas performance. The Department of Agriculture says the estimated cost of raising a child from birth through age 17 is $233,610, or as much as almost $14,000 annually. \n WASHINGTON >> Expecting a baby? Congratulations! Better put plenty of money in your savings account. \n The Department of Agriculture says the estimated cost of raising a child from birth through age 17 is $233,610, or as much as almost $14,000 annually. That's the average for a middle-income couple with two children. It's a bit more expensive in urban parts of the country, and less so in rural areas. \n The estimate released Monday is based on 2015 numbers, so a baby born this year is likely to cost even more. It's a 3 percent increase from the prior year, a hike higher than inflation. \n Since 1960, USDA has compiled the annual report to inform \u2014 and probably terrify \u2014 budget-preparing parents. State governments and courts also use the information to write child support and foster care guidelines. The main costs include housing, food, transportation, health care, education, clothing and other miscellaneous expenses. \n Things to know about how much it costs to raise a child: \n HOUSING IS EXPENSIVE \n Up to a third of the total cost is housing, accounting for 26 to 33 percent of the total expense of raising a child. USDA comes up with those numbers by calculating the average cost of an additional bedroom \u2014 an approach the department says is probably conservative, because it doesn't account for those families who pay more to live in communities that have better schools or other amenities for children. \n URBAN VS. RURAL DIFFERENCES \n The cost of raising a child varies in different regions of the country. Overall, middle-income, married-couple families in the urban Northeast spent the most ($253,770), followed by those in the urban West ($235,140) and urban South ($221,730). Those in the urban Midwest spent less ($217,020), along with those in rural areas ($193,020). \n USDA estimates the annual housing cost per child in urban areas is $3,900, while it's $2,400 in rural areas. \n There were also differences depending on income. Lower-income families are expected to spend around $174,690 per child from birth through 17; higher-income families will spend a whopping $372,210. \n The average middle-income family earns between $59,200 and $107,400 before taxes. \n CHILD CARE COSTS HAVE RISEN \n After housing, child care, education and food are the highest costs for families. For a middle-income couple with two children, food costs make up about 18 percent of the cost of raising a child. Child care and education costs make up 16 percent. \n Education costs have sharply risen since 1960, when USDA estimated that those expenses were around 2 percent of child-rearing expenses. The report says this growth is likely due to the increased number of women in the workforce, prompting the need for more child care. \n The numbers don't even include the annual cost of college, which the government estimates is $45,370 for a private college and $20,090 for a public college. \n OLDER KIDS ARE MORE EXPENSIVE \n New parents may flinch at the costs of diapers and baby gear, but it's going to get worse. While a child costs around $12,680 when he or she is between 0 and 2, a teenager between 15 and 17 costs around $13,900 annually. \n USDA says food, transportation, clothing and health care expenses all grow as a child ages. Transportation costs are highest for the oldest children, perhaps because they start driving, and child care and education costs are highest for six and under. \n MORE KIDS, LOWER COSTS \n There is some good news for big families. Families with three or more children spend an average of 24 percent less per child. USDA says that's because children often share bedrooms in bigger families, clothing and toys are handed down and food can be purchased in larger and more economical packages. Also, private schools and child care providers may offer sibling discounts. \n In contrast, one-child households spend an average of 27 percent more on the single child. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cost of raising a child grows to more than $233K"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police officers stood in front of the garage of a house that caught fire in Kalihi this morning. \n Police have arrested a 58-year-old man on suspicion of second-degree murder and first-degree arson after a house fire in Kalihi this morning that left one man dead. \n One body, later identified as a man, was discovered at the scene, according to police. The deceased's name was not immediately released. \n When firefighters arrived, they saw the suspect leaving the residence. He allegedly attacked one of the firefighters, said Homicide Lt. Phillip Lavarias. \n Firefighters and a witness detained the suspect until police arrived. \n Lavarias said the witness saw the suspect pour flammable liquid in one of the bedrooms. \n The fire involved a multi-story, multi-family home at 2934 Kalihi Street, and was reported at 1:52 a.m., according to Acting Public Information Officer Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. There are 8 units on the property where the fire occurred. \n Resident Angel Baldonado, 22, who lives next door to the unit where the fire occurred, said she heard a smoke detector go off and people shouting. She then saw flames emerging from the unit. \n \"I was really scared,\" she said. \n Fifty-two firefighters responded to the scene. Multiple residents escaped from the home before firefighters arrived, Mokulehua said. \n Police closed the block around the fire in both directions but reopened the roadway before 6 a.m. \n A damage estimate is pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested on suspicion of murder, arson after body found in Kalihi house fire"}

{"date": "January 9, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a single-vehicle crash in Ewa early today. \n The accident occurred at approximately 2 a.m. near the intersection of North Road and Iroquois Avenue. Police reported downed utility poles resulting from the accident. \n Additional details are pending. \n Motorists are advised to avoid Westloch Drive as police continue their investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Car crash in Ewa downs utility poles"}

