{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Fire investigators believe that a large brush fire near Makua Caves on Oahu's west side may have been intentionally set. \n The Honolulu Fire Department is asking for the public's help in finding the perpetrator, who reportedly was driving a black, lifted pickup truck, fire Capt. David Jenkins said. \n The fire was located at 82-180 Farrington Highway on the Kaena Point side of Makua Caves near a popular trail. \n It scorched 20 acres and encroached into federal property, namely, the Makua Training Area. \n Seven fire companies, including three tankers, were dispatched to the 6:45 p.m. fire, with the first company arriving at 6:51 p.m. \n The fire was contained at 8:43 p.m. \n Anyone with information on the fire is asked to call police. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews battle large brushfire in Makua"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Former U.S. Rep. Charles Djou criticized Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell Monday for refusing to chip in $5,000 so the two of them can hold a televised debate Saturday night, three days before the Nov. 8 general election. \n A Caldwell campaign spokesman called Djou's pitch a last-minute stunt by a desperate candidate. \n There have been no televised debates featuring the two candidates since the primary election on Aug. 13, a situation that has been decried by public policy advocates. Both candidates, meanwhile, blamed each other for missing various debates and candidate forums. \n Djou told reporters Monday afternoon that KITV had agreed over the weekend to provide for one-half hour of air time Saturday night at a cost of $10,000. The challenge was issued to Caldwell's campaign staff Monday morning during a debate sponsored by the Philippine Press Club of Hawaii. Caldwell's staff emphatically denies that it ever agreed to participate in Monday's event. \n Djou said that it was Caldwell who first lamented the lack of debates, and that he agreed with his opponent. \n Mike Darrah, KITV news director, said the station's sales staff gave the two candidates until close of business Monday to come to an agreement, and that the Caldwell side formally declined Djou's proposal. Darrah said he was willing to consider using KITV news resources, but only if the two candidates agreed to participate. (The station held a mayoral debate before the primary that featured Caldwell, Djou and former Mayor Peter Carlisle.) \n Caldwell campaign spokesman Lex Smith, in a statement, said Djou previously confirmed and then cancelled appearances hosted by respected news sources. \"Now at the 11th hour and out of desperation, Charles wants to buy TV time for a paid infomercial on KITV, and wants the Caldwell campaign to pay for half of it,\" Smith said. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Caldwell rejects Djou's invitation to pay for televised debate"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "A fire in Maui sugar cane fields that had not been scheduled for burning consumed about about 315 acres on Monday. \n Maui County officials said Kahului firefighters arrived on Pulehu Road about 12:36 p.m. and found about 5 acres of sugar cane burning just off the south side of Pulehu Road, and a half-mile mauka of the Central Maui Landfill. \n Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar crews used heavy equipment to keep the fire from spreading to the south toward Kihei. Company personnel managed to put it out after it had consumed 315 acres of sugar cane from two separate fields and about 200 acres of brush. \n The cause has been classified as undetermined. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Unscheduled fire burns over 300 acres of sugar cane"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "HAWAII NEWS NOW \n Shawn Ching \n Hawaii News Now said former news anchor Shawn Ching will return to his old job on Monday. \n Ching will co-anchor the 5 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. newscasts with Stephanie Lum. \n Ching anchored the newscast with Lum from 2011 to 2013. He left to practice law. \n Ching is a graduate of Roosevelt High School, the University of Hawaii at Manoa and the William S. Richardson School of Law at UH Manoa. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Shawn Ching returning to Hawaii News Now"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A study published Oct. 26, 2016, in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology says nearly half of those treated with a skin patch for peanut allergy sufferers were able to consume at least 10 times more peanut protein than they were able to consume prior to treatment. \n WASHINGTON >> A wearable skin patch may help children who are allergic to peanuts by delivering small doses of peanut protein, according to a new study that calls for the therapy to be further explored. \n The study, published in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, found that nearly half of those treated with the Viaskin Peanut patch for one year were able to consume at least 10 times more peanut protein than they were able to prior to treatment. \n The biggest benefit came for those from 4 years old to 11 years old. Participants older than 12 didn't see as much of an effect, the study found. \n The therapy works by training the immune system to tolerate small amounts of peanuts, said Dr. Daniel Rotrosen, of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health, which is funding the ongoing clinical trial. \n \"Other recent advances have relied on an oral route that appears difficult for approximately 10 to 15 percent of children and adults to tolerate,\" Rotrosen said. \n While the trial found the immunotherapy treatment to be \"potentially effective,\" it cautioned that the study is limited. Further investigation is needed to find out if \"the modest clinical changes noted will be enhanced after a longer duration of therapy,\" the study said. \n Those long-term results should be available in the future because the trial is continuing. \n The Viaskin Peanut patch hasn't been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Study: Skin patch could help kids with peanut allergies"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama and the first lady Michelle Obama greet children from Washington area and children of military families to trick-or-treat celebrating Halloween at the White House in Washington, Monday, Oct. 31, 2016. \n WASHINGTON >> The next president of the United States will start with a huge following on Twitter but a clean slate of tweets. It's all part of the peaceful transition of power in the social media age. \n The White House said Monday that Obama's official POTUS account will be taken over by the next president. Obama's tweets will move over to a new handle, POTUS44, maintained by the National Archives and Records Administration. \n Similar changes will take place with Obama's Facebook and Instagram accounts, along with other Twitter accounts, including Michelle Obama's FLOTUS and Joe Biden's VP accounts. \n The White House said it has three goals for the digital transition: \n First, all the material published online during Obama's presidency will be preserved with the National Archives and Records Administration, just as previous administrations have done with handwritten notes, faxes and emails. Second, materials will continue to be accessible on the platforms where they were created, allowing for real-time access. Third, the White House is working to ensure the next president can continue to use and develop the digital assets the Obama administration has created to connect directly with the people they serve. \n Obama is leaving office with far more digital content to archive than any previous president. Thousands of hours of video and millions of photos will have to be transferred. Eventually, they'll be available to download in compact form, such as zip files. \n The White House also said in a blog post that it's inviting students, data engineers and others to come up with creative ways to archive the digital content and make it useful and available. The administration said it will make the material available early to people who are interested in building something for the public. \n \"From Twitter bots and art projects to printed books and query tools, we're open to it all,\" the White House said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama to hand over social media accounts to new president"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "A former Kauai police lieutenant who said she stole money from the department because her family was in debt was sentenced to 60 weekend days in jail. \n Karen Kapua, who was a 16-year veteran of the Kauai Police Department, pleaded guilty in July to embezzling, stealing and misappropriating $25,000 from the department. As part of a plea deal, prosecutors agreed to dismiss other charges in the indictment, including money laundering. Even though she pleaded guilty to one event involving the theft of $25,000, she admitted doing it two other times for a total of $75,000, Assistant U.S. Attorney Lawrence Tong said. \n She already paid back all of the $75,000 that she stole, said her defense attorney, Brook Hart. \n In addition to the 60-day sentence, U.S. District Judge J. Michael Seabright imposed a $25,000 fine that must be paid by Nov. 30. Seabright will allow her to serve the incarceration three days a week. She's expected to serve Fridays through Sundays at Honolulu Federal Detention Center. \n Kapua told the judge today that she started stealing money in 2013 to pay down her family's debt. She said she didn't tell her husband about their financial problems because he was suicidal after the sudden 2011 death of their teenage daughter. \n Kapua said she was also dealing with other personal issues including menopause, the death of her mother and having to care for an autistic son. She said she always planned to pay the money back from an anticipated settlement in a lawsuit for her daughter's death. \n \"Therapy has been helping me cope,\" she said. \"I'm learning to cope.\" \n Quoting from Shakespeare and others about the death of a child, Hart, the defense attorney, tried to argue for no jail time. \"In some ways she could not control her behavior because she was in the depths of grief,\" he said. \n Tong, the prosecutor, said he has sympathy for Kapua's tragic experiences, but she committed crimes that erode the public's trust in law enforcement. \"Suffering those losses doesn't give you a get-out-of-jail-free card,\" he said. \n Kapua abused her position of trust to requisition funds that were meant for undercover drug buys or vice squad equipment, he said, instead of simply canceling credit cards her two other sons were using for purchases such as trips to Las Vegas. \n Tong argued for a 10-month sentence. \n Seabright called it one of the saddest and most difficult cases he's seen, noting that Kapua had been the department's officer of the year in 2010. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Weekends in jail for ex-Kauai police officer who stole $75K"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The FBI's disclosure that it was reviewing emails related to Hillary Clinton's email investigation will make no difference to tens of millions of voters who have already cast ballots. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's supporters may hope that last week's FBI revelation about the Hillary Clinton email investigation might give the Republican's campaign a boost. But it's already too late for Trump to win over around a fifth of American voters, including many of the most coveted ones: those in battleground states. \n Tens of millions of voters had already cast ballots before news broke Friday that the FBI was examining newly discovered emails that might be pertinent to the dormant investigation of Clinton's use of a private email server. \n In critical states such as Florida, Nevada and Colorado, one-third or more of the expected ballots have already been cast. The breakdown of those voters by party affiliation, race and other factors points to an advantage for Clinton. That will make it more difficult for Trump to capitalize on the FBI news. \n Overall, early voting \u2014 by mail and at polling stations \u2014 is underway in 37 states. \n At least 24.6 million votes have been cast, far higher than the rate in 2012, according to Associated Press data. That represents nearly 20 percent of the total votes expected nationwide, if turnout is similar to 2012. In all, more than 46 million people \u2014 or as much as 40 percent of the electorate \u2014 are expected to vote before Election Day, Nov. 8. \n A look at voting so far in key states: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n FLORIDA \n More than 3.7 million early ballots have been cast, or nearly half the total votes cast in Florida in 2012. Democratic ballots are now virtually tied with those cast by registered Republicans, each with about 40 percent. Democrats have kept it close during mail balloting, when Republicans historically have done better. GOP analysts say Democrats now hold the advantage because the latter party typically runs up big advantages during early in-person voting, which began last week. Barack Obama won the state in 2008 and 2012. It's a must-win state for Trump. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n NORTH CAROLINA \n At least 1.6 million votes have been cast, or more than one-third of total ballots in 2012. Democratic ballots lead, 44 percent to 31 percent. Democrats had been running ahead of the 2012 pace until last week, when they dipped below 2012 levels. But that may be because fewer polling places were open in the first week of in-person voting compared with 2012. More polling locations have since opened and Democrats are starting to make up ground. Republicans remain slightly ahead of 2012 levels. Republican Mitt Romney won the state in 2012 by 92,000 votes. It's another state Trump can't afford to lose. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n NEVADA \n More than 457,000 residents have voted, nearly half the total 1 million votes cast in 2012. Democratic ballots are currently ahead, 44 percent to 36 percent. That's similar to the lead Democrats held at this point in 2012, when Obama won the state by 6 percentage points. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n COLORADO \n At least 866,000 people have voted, or roughly one-third the total votes in 2012. Democratic ballots lead, 38 percent to 35 percent. That's a change from this point in 2012, when Republicans were slightly ahead in ballots cast. Obama won the state in 2012 by 5 percentage points. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n IOWA \n More than 398,000 ballots have been cast, or about one-fourth the total ballots in 2012. Democratic ballots are ahead, 45 percent to 34 percent. Democrats have been running further behind compared to 2012 levels, although there were indications of some Democratic momentum before Friday's FBI news. The percentage breakdown in ballots cast by party is generally similar to 2012, when Obama won the state based on his strength in the early vote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI news too late to sway millions of early voters"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERITSER.COM \n Clyde Aikau, front, appears with siblings Solomon Aikau, left in back of Clyde, and Myra Aikau, right in back of Clyde, and a few of their surfer colleagues, friends and supporters at a press conference at their home, Monday, October 31, 2016. \n DENNIS ODA / FEB. 2016 \n The Quiksilver in Memory of Eddie Aikau big wave surfing contest was called off due to smaller than expected surf conditions. Traffic on Kamehameha Highway was still very heavy. People lined Kamehameha Highway and Waimea Bay Beach on the North Shore. Traffic moved slowly on this stretch of Kamehameha Hwy. between Waimea Bay and Shark's Cove. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / FEB. 2016 \n Eddie Aikau banners up on scaffolding. \n Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell wants to work with the family of surfing legend Eddie Aikau and the permit holders to find a solution that allows the world famous big-waves surfing competition to take place this year. \n The mayor is expected to issue a statement this afternoon that says that the city is working with its attorneys to find a way to allow the \"the Eddie\" to go this year. \n The family of Eddie Aikau said this morning that they want to continue the world famous big-wave surfing competition this year despite the severing of ties with sponsor Quiksilver. \n At a news conference at the family's Punchbowl home, members of the family called on city leaders to help them resolve ongoing permitting issues related to the annual event at Waimea Bay. \n \"We're fighting really hard to continue the legacy of Eddie Aikau,\" said brother Solomon Aikau, president of the Eddie Aikau Foundation. \n The city approved a permit for the upcoming December-to-February waiting-period but the application was specifically for Quiksilver in Memory of Eddie Aikau, and the permit may no longer be valid with the two sides unable to come to terms on an agreement for continued sponsorship. \n The family's attorney, Seth Reiss, said Quiksilver has made the permit available to family, but it still may not be valid. \n \"We must work with the city to see if that's possible,\" he said. \n Dozens of big-wave surfers and surfing professionals attended the news conference. \n The surf competition was established in 1984 in honor Eddie Aikau, the talented surfer and first North Shore lifeguard who died in 1978 while attempting to get help for fellow crew members of the voyaging canoe Hokule'a, which had overturned in waters off Molokai. \n \"It's very important to keep the status quo,\" Solomon Aikau said. \"The event is important to the state of Hawaii. It's part of our culture. We hope the legacy continues.\" \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Mayor says city will work with Aikau family to help save 'Eddie' surf contest"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "HOLLYN JOHNSON / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Mayor Billy Kenoi held back tears Wednesday as he spoke about his family during his testimony at his trial in Hilo Circuit Court. \n HILO >> It's now up to a Hilo jury to decide whether Mayor Billy Kenoi should be punished on any of five criminal counts against Kenoi for the use of his county issued purchasing card, or pCard. \n Following six days of testimony that spanned two weeks, deputy state Attorney General Kevin Takata told jurors in his closing arguments Monday that \"rules apply to everyone except the mayor. Apathy is the accomplice to political corruption. The verdict is yours. Do justice. Do equal justice.\" \n After Takata's initial closing argument, Kenoi defense attorney Todd Eddins displayed the words \"NOT GUILTY\" on a courtroom screen throughout his own closing argument. \n Eddins ended by telling jurors that \"Mayor Kenoi's an honorable, decent family man who worked tirelessly for this county\u2026 and you're lucky to have him. And he's been wrongfully accused by the state government. \u2026 It's an opportunity and privilege for you to right a wrong. It's an opportunity and privilege for you to tell the state government it's wrong.\" \n Eddins then touched his heart and said, \"Restore a good man. I hand William P. Kenoi over to you.\" \n Kenoi originally faced eight counts related to 15 transactions that he charged to his pCard from 2011 to 2014. \n Following the prosecution's case, Judge Dexter Del Rosario dismissed three counts related to tampering with government documents, leaving Kenoi to face four counts of theft \u2014 two of them second-degree felonies and two third-degree \u2014 and one count of making a false statement under oath. \n The theme of Kenoi's defense has been that the charismatic and personable mayor used his connections from Washington, D.C., to Honolulu to the Big Island to regularly entertain people in government and private business \u2014 often in after-hours gatherings involving alcohol \u2014 to keep money flowing to Hawaii island. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Mayor Kenoi case goes to jury"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / OCT. 2013 \n Albie McCollum, in prison stripes walks with son, Lucas. To his left is Teacher Kelley Martin walking Ethan White, left, and Elijah Akamine. Star of the Sea Early Learning Center students celebrate Halloween with a costume parade. \n Trick-or-treaters can expect a few showers and breezy tradewinds this evening, especially in windward and mauka areas. \n But it won't be as wet as this past weekend. \n The National Weather Service forecast calls for partly cloudy skies with scattered showers in windward and mauka areas and isolated showers in leeward areas with east winds of 15 to 25 mph and lows between 69 and 74 degrees. \n \"It'll be breezy, but otherwise drier tradewind weather than we've been having,\" said Derek Wroe, a meteorologist with the Honolulu office of the National Weather Service. \n The forecast for Waikiki and other areas along the south shore calls for a 40 percent chance of rain. \n \"Most likely it (Waikiki) will be dry, but you can't rule out a brief shower,\" Wroe said. \n Most of the state has started to dry out from the wet tradewind weather over the weekend. But a few showers may linger on the Big Island. \n \"It will be a little bit wetter early in the evening on the windward Big Island, the Hilo side,\" Wroe said. \n Tradewinds should begin to decrease late Tuesday into Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "A few showers expected, but no scary weather for Halloween"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk, right, and Democratic U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, left, face off in their first televised debate in what's considered a crucial race that could determine which party controls the Senate, Thursday at the University of Illinois in Springfield, Ill. \n CHICAGO >> Illinois Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk, already facing an uphill battle for re-election, is entering the crucial final week before Election Day weakened by comments about his opponent that critics attacked as racist and \"beyond reprehensible.\" \n Two organizations whose endorsements Kirk touted as indicators of his independence withdrew their backing over the weekend, issuing blistering rebukes. Both said they're now supporting Democratic U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth. \n Democrats are relying on winning Illinois as they look to regain control of the Senate. The party must pick up four or five seats to do so, depending on whether they retain control of the White House. \n Kirk spent the weekend largely outside the public eye. Though he attended some community events, his campaign didn't advise reporters or the public beforehand \u2014 a highly unusual move for any candidate in the waning days of a campaign, but one that allowed him to avoid rehashing the incident in the media. Duckworth, who graduated from McKinley High School in Honolulu and attended the University of Hawaii at Manoa, had a full campaign schedule, including get-out-the-vote events with civil rights icon and U.S. Rep. John Lewis. \n Kirk, who's seeking his second term, apologized Friday for mocking Duckworth's immigrant background and her family's military service. \n Duckworth, a veteran who lost both legs when the helicopter she was co-piloting was shot down in Iraq, said during a debate Thursday that her family has \"served this nation in uniform going back to the Revolution.\" \n Kirk responded that he'd forgotten the congresswoman's \"parents came all the way from Thailand to serve George Washington.\" \n Duckworth's mother is of Chinese descent, born in Thailand. The congresswoman, who was born in Bangkok, says her father first went to Southeast Asia while serving with the Marines in Vietnam. \n Human Rights Campaign, a gay-rights group, and Americans for Responsible Solutions, a gun-control group led by former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords, both cited the remarks. \n \"Senator Kirk's racist attack on Congresswoman Duckworth is unacceptable and represents a low point, even in this election season,\" said Americans for Responsible Solutions Executive Director Peter Ambler. \n Human Rights Campaign said it was the first time in the group's 36-year history that it had reversed an endorsement. \n \"Attacking someone because of her race and ethnicity is inexcusable for anyone, but especially for a sitting U.S. Senator,\" HRC President Chad Griffin said. \n Kirk Campaign spokeswoman Eleni Demertzis said Monday Kirk is proud of his leadership in fighting discrimination and gun violence. Kirk has an \"F\" rating from the National Rifle Association and was the second GOP senator to support same-sex marriage. \n \"The HRC and ARS decisions are unfortunate because they were based on politics instead of reality and further exemplified just how uncomfortable they were in supporting a Republican who was a leader for their efforts,\" Demertzis said. \n Kirk had frequently pointed to the endorsements from the two groups, which typically back Democrats, as he works to persuade Illinois voters that he's a moderate who can work with both parties. \n Illinois typically elects Democrats to statewide office, and leans particularly Democratic in presidential election years \u2014 factors that led to Kirk being widely considered the GOP's most vulnerable Senate incumbent. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Groups pull endorsements after GOP senator's comment on Duckworth's Thai ancestry"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "SAN ANTONIO \u00bb San Antonio police say an uninvited guest dressed as fictional serial killer Freddy Krueger shot five people at a Halloween party. \n Sgt. Jesse Salame says the partygoers who were wounded in the shooting early Sunday were all treated and released from hospitals. Salame says the suspect remains at large today. \n Police say the shooting happened after two men who were not invited showed up to the costume party. Authorities believe the man in the Krueger costume got into an argument with others and began shooting. \n Both men fled. \n Investigators are trying to determine what prompted the fight. Salame says police believe alcohol played a role in the incident. \n Freddy Krueger is the main character in Wes Craven's \"Nightmare on Elm Street\" horror movies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man dressed as Freddy Krueger shoots 5 people at Texas party"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Choi Soon-sil, center wearing a hat, a cult leader's daughter with a decades-long connection to President Park Geun-hye, was questioned by media upon her arrival at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office in Seoul on Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Choi Soon-sil, a cult leader's daughter with a decades-long connection to South Korean President Park Geun-hye, arrived at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office in Seoul on Monday. \n SEOUL \u00bb Telling reporters Monday that she \"deserves death,\" the woman at the center of a scandal roiling South Korea met prosecutors examining whether she used her close ties to President Park Geun-hye to pull government strings from the shadows and amass an illicit fortune. \n \"Please, forgive me,\" Choi Soon-sil, a cult leader's daughter with a decades-long connection to Park, said through tears inside the Seoul prosecutor's building, according to Yonhap news agency. Using a common expression of deep repentance, she added, \"I committed a sin that deserves death.\" \n Yonhap and other South Korean media later reported that Choi had been detained, and that prosecutors planned to seek an arrest warrant for her. Telephone calls to the prosecutor's office were not immediately answered. \n Choi, wearing a hat and a scarf, her hand pressed to her mouth, was nearly knocked off her feet several times earlier in the day as she tried to walk through a massive crowd of 300 journalists, as well as protesters and security, surrounding the building's entrance. YTN TV said that Choi, 60, lost her shoe as the throng converged on her, and a protester reportedly tried to enter the building with a bucket full of animal feces. \n Other protesters screamed, \"Arrest Choi Soon-sil\" and \"Park Geun-hye should resign.\" \n The scandal exploded last week when, after weeks of speculation, Park acknowledged that Choi had edited some of her speeches and provided public relations help. Widespread media reports say that Choi, who has no official ties to the administration, may have had a major role in government affairs. \n Choi has previously said she helped Park but didn't know if she was seeing confidential information. \n Investigators are trying to determine the scope of access Choi had and whether she was given sensitive presidential documents. They have raided the homes of some officials in the presidential Blue House as part of the investigation. \n Park has fired some of her closest aides to try to contain the fallout. Some lawmakers and the public have called for Park's resignation or impeachment, and thousands of people have protested in the streets. \n It's not clear how much influence Choi had. But many South Koreans believe there is much more to the story than Park has acknowledged, and the frenzy surrounding the scandal threatens her presidency. \n Choi returned home Sunday from seclusion in Germany. It was unclear whether there would be any details revealed from her questioning, or how long she would be in the prosecutor's office. The questioning of Choi's former associates, including a purported former employee of a host bar, lasted two days. \n Choi has been close to Park since Choi's father, the leader of a religious cult, gained Park's trust by reportedly convincing her that he could communicate with her assassinated mother. Choi's father denied this in a 1990 media interview. \n The senior government official who later shot and killed Park's dictator father, President Park Chung-hee, is said to have claimed that he staged his attack in part because Park Chung-hee wouldn't keep Choi's father away from the young Park Geun-hye. \n Elected in 2012, Park has long been criticized for an aloof manner and for relying on only a few longtime confidantes. Most South Koreans, however, assumed those confidantes were in the government. That she may have been outsourcing decisions to someone outside of government, and someone connected with a murky, lurid backstory, has incensed many. \n Media reports said the younger Choi used her connections to Park to pressure businesses to give money to two nonprofit organizations Choi controlled; Choi then allegedly used some of the organizations' official funds for personal purposes. South Korean media speculated that the two foundations collected about 80 billion won ($70 million) in donations from business groups in just a few months. \n The president of Ewha Womans University has resigned amid protests over allegations that Choi used her connections to Park to get her daughter into the elite school and then secure special academic treatment. \n Political and business corruption remains widespread in South Korea, which has had full democracy only since the late 1980s, when it shook off decades of military dictatorship. But the current scandal has struck a chord in a way that previous ones have not. \n Part of it has to do with Park Geun-hye and her past, which is deeply entwined with South Korea's recent, tumultuous history. The legacy of her father is still divisive. Supporters see him as saving South Korea from poverty and irrelevance by building up the economy from the rubble of the Korean War. Opponents say that the economic development came at the expense of massive human rights abuse, including the torture and death of dissidents. \n Associated Press writer Hyung-jin Kim contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman in scandal roiling S. Korea says she 'deserves death'"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Firefighters responded to a three-alarm apartment at 620 Sheridan Street on Sunday. A man and two women were treated for smoke inhalation. \n Honolulu Fire Department investigators have classified the cause of a three-alarm condo fire in the Keeaumoku Street area over the weekend as undetermined. \n Honolulu Fire Capt. David Jenkins, spokesman of the fire department, said there's insufficient information to identify one specific cause of the fire. \n At about 10:30 a.m. Sunday, approximately 50 firefighters responded to a fire on the third floor of a residential building located at 620 Sheridan St. Residents in the 24-unit building were evacuated. Firefighters brought the fire under control in about 15 minutes and extinguished it shortly after. \n Emergency Medical Services treated and transported a 49-year-old man and two women, ages 58 and 88, to a hospital in stable condition due to smoke inhalation. \n Several apartments were damaged by the fire and the entire building was considered unsafe for residents to occupy overnight due to smoke damage and heavy fumes. \n The American Red Cross is assisting residents and most residents will be allowed to return to their apartments by this afternoon, according to Jenkins. \n Damage to the structure and its contents is estimated at $150,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Cause of Ala Moana apartment fire eludes investigators"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An Aedes aegypti mosquito known to carry the Zika virus, was photographed through a microscope at the Fiocruz institute in Recife, Pernambuco state, Brazil on Jan. 27. Zika virus ravages the testes of male mice, sharply reducing sperm counts and fertility, said a study that raises a new specter about its threat to people. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Zika virus ravages the testes of male mice, sharply reducing sperm counts and fertility, says a study that raises a new specter about its threat to people. \n Experiments found testes of infected mice shrank about 90 percent by weight, while their output of useful sperm fell by three-quarters on average, and often more. \n Now it's time to find out if Zika causes similar damage in men, experts said. \n \"We just don't know that yet,\" said Michael Diamond of the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, a senior author of the study. The virus is known to infect a man's reproductive system and persist in sperm and semen, \"so it's in the right place,\" he said. \n Diamond said he suspects that in mice, the damage is permanent. \n But mice are not men, and experts unconnected with the study agreed that it can't be assumed that the mouse results apply to people. \n Shannan Rossi, who studies Zika in mice at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, noted that the researchers had suppressed the animals' immune system defense against the virus. That's a standard step in such experiments but it adds another level of difference from humans, she said. \n Zika, which is transmitted by the bite of a tropical mosquito, is such a mild disease in people that most who get it don't even know they are sick. But it can cause serious birth defects if women are infected while pregnant, so health officials have been concerned mostly with helping women who are pregnant or about to become pregnant avoid the disease. \n Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Maryland, said the study alerts researchers to look for effects in men. \n \"Don't jump to the conclusion right off that this is definitely what is happening to the human,\" he said. But the mouse finding is a \"red flag you need to pursue.\" \n The mouse results appear in a paper released today by the journal Nature. They show the virus attacks the anatomical structure where sperm are made and reach maturity. Testosterone levels also fell. \n The infected mice were able to impregnate females at only about one-fourth the normal rate. And in females that got pregnant, the number of fetuses was less than half of normal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Zika ravages testes of mice; study raises concern for men"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 35-year-old man after he allegedly assaulted two women after snatching a cell phone. \n At approximately 5:15 a.m. Sunday at a residential building in Salt Lake, police said a 48-year-old woman was using her phone when the suspect grabbed it from her without her permission. The victim asked for the phone back when the suspect threw the phone, damaging it. \n Police said a 21-year-old woman intervened and was assaulted by the suspect. He then assaulted the 48-year-old woman. \n Police located the 35-year-old man at another residential building on the same roadway and arrested him on suspicion of second-degree theft, third-degree criminal property damage, third-degree assault and abuse of a household member. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested after 2 women attacked in Salt Lake cell phone snatching"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey testified on Capitol Hill in Washington on Sept. 27. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The FBI will have to sort through thousands of newly discovered emails in its renewed examination of the practices of Hillary Clinton and her aides, a U.S. official said today, raising questions about whether any findings might be released before Election Day. \n The Justice Department, moving to address concerns over the timing of the revelation of the emails and a potential post-election spillover, said today it would \"dedicate all necessary resources\" to concluding the review promptly. \n The timing matters because Donald Trump has been assailing Clinton ever more vigorously since FBI Director James Comey revealed the existence of the emails in a remarkable and ambiguous letter to Congress last Friday. He said agents would take steps to review the messages, which were found on a computer seized during an unrelated investigation involving the estranged husband of a Clinton aide. \n At the White House, spokesman Josh Earnest said he would neither defend nor criticize the timing of Comey's disclosure. But he also said President Barack Obama does not believe Comey was trying to influence the election, or strategizing to benefit one candidate or party. \n \"He's in a tough spot, and he's the one who will be in a position to defend his actions in the face of significant criticism from a variety of legal experts, including individuals who served in senior Department of Justice positions in administrations that were led by presidents in both parties,\" Earnest said. \n It was not immediately clear exactly how many emails have been recovered or what significance, if any, they might have. But the U.S. official who spoke to The Associated Press said the trove numbers in the thousands and the FBI, which had a warrant to begin the review, would be focusing on those deemed pertinent to its earlier Clinton email server investigation. \n In its letter to lawmakers, the department promised to \"continue to work closely with the FBI and together dedicate all necessary resources and appropriate steps as expeditiously as possible.\" \n The FBI and Justice Department closed that investigation, which looked into whether Clinton and her aides had mishandled classified information, without charges in July. \n The official who spoke to the AP was not authorized to discuss an ongoing investigation by name and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The fact that another cache of emails potentially important to the investigation has only recently been discovered raises an immediate question: How could Abedin have been unaware of their existence. \n The answer is not yet clear, but it's possible that either she did not know about the emails on the computer of her estranged husband, forgot about them or for some other reason did not turn them over. \n In a sworn deposition taken in June as part of a lawsuit filed by the conservative legal group Judicial Watch, Abedin was asked about what devices she had used to send or receive messages from her account on the clintonemail.com server. As part of the process in 2015 of returning her work-related emails to the State Department, Abedin said she \"looked for all the devices that may have any of my State Department\" work and provided two laptops and a Blackberry to her lawyers for review. \n Abedin made no mention of there being additional devices where her emails might have been saved. \n \"I was not involved in the process,\" Abedin said. \"I provided them with the devices and the materials and asked them to find whatever they thought was relevant and appropriate, whatever was their determination as to what was a federal record, and they did. They turned materials in, and I know they did so. I couldn't tell you from what device.\" \n Abedin went on to say that she also provided her lawyers with her login and password to access her account on the Clinton server, which she said she used for all work-related matters while serving at the State Department. \n If the FBI finds emails Abedin sent or received through the clintonemail.com server archived on the device recently recovered from her home, that would appear to conflict with what she told the FBI earlier this year. \n In an April interview, Abedin told FBI agents she had turned over two laptops and the Blackberry she used while at the State Department to her lawyers in 2015, and that she was not involved in their review of what to provide. \n However, Abedin added that after she left the State Department in 2013, Clinton's staff transitioned to a different email sever and she \"lost most of her old emails as a result.\" Abedin said she had only accessed her clintonemail.com account through a web portal and that she \"did not have a method for archiving her old emails prior to the transition.\" \n A person familiar with the investigation said the device that appears to be at the center of the new review belonged only to Weiner and was not a computer he shared with Abedin. As a result, it was not a device Abedin searched for work-related emails at the time of the initial investigation, according to the person, who said of Abedin that it was \"news to her\" that her emails would be on a computer belonging to her husband. \n Even if the recovered emails are found to contain classified information, it's not clear what impact that would have on the investigation. Comey has already described Clinton and her aides as \"extremely careless\" and has said agents found scores of classified emails on Clinton's server. But he also said there was no evidence that they intended to mishandle classified email or obstructed justice, elements he suggested would be necessary for a prosecution. \n Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI review involves thousands of newly discovered emails"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Binh Ly, 26, talked about his, and his family's, political beliefs at the family home in Woodbridge, Va. on Oct. 20. Vietnamese and other Asian-Americans have shifted from being majority Republican supporters to overwhelmingly Democrat. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kim Ha-Ly, 67, with her Buddhist shrine behind her, talked about her political beliefs in her Woodbridge, Va., home on Oct. 20. Vietnamese and other Asian-Americans have shifted from being majority Republican supporters to overwhelmingly Democrat. \n FALLS CHURCH, Va. \u00bb At a shopping plaza in the Washington suburbs, the flag of the long-defunct South Vietnam flies beside the Stars and Stripes. Former refugees who congregate there hold fast to their roots, but their political allegiances are changing. \n Though they are regarded as the most conservative of Asian-American voters, the Vietnamese are increasingly shifting their support to Democrats. That reflects a broader shift among Asian-Americans from being majority Republican supporters to overwhelmingly Democrat. Donald Trump's polarizing rhetoric on issues like immigration could accelerate the trend. \n That shift could have an effect on the presidential race. Though Asian-Americans represent only about 4 percent of the electorate and tend to have low turnout, they are a potentially significant bloc in battleground states like Nevada, Pennsylvania and Virginia. \n Asian-Americans comprise an array of ethnic nationalities: Chinese, Indians, Filipinos, Koreans, Japanese and others. Most of the Vietnamese arrived after the communist takeover of their homeland in 1975 and have settled mainly in California and Texas. But there's a significant number in Fairfax County \u2014 a district in northern Virginia where nearly one-fifth of the population is of Asian origin. \n At the Eden Center, a plaza of Vietnamese shops and restaurants, seniors who once supported the Republican Party for being strong on national security and fighting communism are increasingly leaning Democrat \u2014 as their more progressive children who were born in America tend to do. \n Former teacher Kim-Ha Ly, 67, recounted that when she migrated to the U.S. in the early 1990s, she voted Republican like her husband who had arrived as a refugee one decade earlier. But she changed to the Democrats because she said that party was more in tune with the priorities of immigrants. In this election, she is volunteering for a group called Vietnamese-American Women for Hillary. \n \"If we vote Democrat we can build a fairer and better country,\" she said. \n Her husband, Xuan Ly, 72, an electrical engineer who was interned in a camp after the communist takeover and later fled the country by boat, is now Democrat too. As the couple watched a non-partisan voter registration event in the plaza's parking lot, where activists were urging fellow Asian-Americans to become politically engaged, Xuan spoke dismissively of Trump's \"bad behavior\" and lack of government experience. \n There's still a diversity of political outlook among Asian-Americans, with Vietnamese, Chinese and Filipinos, for example, viewed as more conservative than Indians and Koreans. But Karthick Ramakrishnan, director of the National Asian American Survey, said that Asian-Americans, broadly speaking, back a liberal agenda supporting more social spending and universal health care. \n Taeku Lee, a professor of political science and law at University of California, said there has been a change over time from Vietnamese viewing politics through \"a post-Cold war lens\" where strength in foreign policy was especially important to focusing more on domestic issues like education and health care. That makes them more likely to vote Democratic, even if they don't have a strong allegiance to the party. \n Today, Asian-Americans are often perceived as high achievers, but language and cultural barriers persist. In the 2012 election, turnout by Asian-American voters was just 47 percent \u2014 17 percentage points less than the turnout among non-Hispanic white voters, according to a Census Bureau survey. \n Still, it is one of the fastest-growing segments of the electorate. \n Hillary Clinton's campaign is running multi-lingual phone banks and sending volunteers from neighboring states to help out in battlegrounds like Nevada and Pennsylvania. The Clinton website carries campaign material in 11 Asian languages: Cambodian, Chinese, Gujarati, Hindi, Korean, Tagalog, Tamil, Telugu, Thai, Urdu and Vietnamese. \n The Republican party has also stepped up outreach to Asian-Americans to reverse a generation of Democratic gains. When Bill Clinton was elected president in 1992 he won just 31 percent of the Asian vote. When President Barack Obama was re-elected in 2012, he won 73 percent. \n \"I'm a big believer that the core beliefs of a lot of Asian-American communities are similar to the Republican Party's core principals,\" said Jason Chung, who leads the Republican outreach effort and cited as evidence an even split between the parties for the Asian vote in 2014 congressional elections. \n Trump's hard line on immigration is likely to be a significant turn-off to that same constituency, as could allegations of inappropriate conduct toward women. \n Staunch Republican voter Hong Nguyen, 66, a former service member of the South Vietnam air force, is undeterred. He's backing Trump to be strong on defense, immigration and the economy. He said the groping allegations against Trump won't alter that. \n \"It happened a long time ago,\" Nguyen said. \"Why did these women wait 10, 15 years to talk?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Asian-American voters, once Republican, are turning Democrat"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michael Vance, as seen in a photo provided by the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office. Vance, the subject of a weeklong manhunt who was wanted in a string of violent crimes, including the killing of two relatives, the shooting of two Oklahoma police officers and multiple carjackings, was killed in a shootout, federal and local police said on Sunday. \n LEEDEY, Okla. \u00bb A weeklong manhunt for a suspect in a string of violent crimes, including the killing of two relatives, the shooting of three law enforcement officers and multiple carjackings, has ended in a police chase and shootout that left the man dead in western Oklahoma. \n Authorities believe Michael Dale Vance Jr. posted two Facebook Live videos Oct. 24 documenting his run from police, although he had been silent since then. An Oklahoma state trooper shot and killed Vance late Sunday near Leedey, 130 miles northwest of Oklahoma City and 45 miles north of where he was last seen a week earlier. \n Earlier Sunday, Vance shot and wounded Dewey County Sheriff Clay Sander after Sander stopped a flatbed truck to warn the driver about a chain dragging behind it, Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation spokesman Jessica Brown said in a statement. \n \"The driver of the truck stopped and exited the vehicle shooting an assault rifle,\" Brown said. \"The sheriff was shot in the shoulder and arm as he returned fire.\" \n Officers pursued Vance for about half an hour when he was approached by an Oklahoma state trooper. \n \"There was an exchange of gunfire between the state trooper and the subject, and the subject was killed,\" said Dave Turk, a spokesman for the U.S. Marshals Service in Washington, D.C., which participated in the manhunt. \n Oklahoma Highway Patrol Chief Ricky Adams described the shootout as \"pretty dramatic.\" \n \"We pinned him down,\" Adams told The Oklahoman newspaper. \"He's dead \u2026 It was an extremely good job of police work by every agency involved.\" \n Sander underwent surgery this morning and is recovering from his injuries, which are not life threatening, said Dewey County office deputy Judy Junkins. \n Adams said the authorities were tipped off to Vance's whereabouts by a farmer who spotted a vehicle in his field that matched the description of the car the fugitive was thought to be driving. \n Highway Patrol spokesman Capt. Paul Timmons tells Oklahoma City television station KWTV that authorities believe Vance had been camping in the area, but that he fled and was eventually shot dead by state troopers. \n \"From what I've been told, the vehicle was partially concealed by tumbleweeds and other brush in the area,\" Timmons said, adding that authorities found clothing and evidence of a campfire at the scene near Hammon. \n Vance was wanted on multiple charges, including two counts of first-degree murder. The hunt began after he shot and wounded two police officers on Oct. 23 in Wellston, 35 miles northeast of Oklahoma City, authorities said. \n Vance, 38, was suspected of shooting a woman and stealing her vehicle at a mobile home park near Wellston, then driving about 8 miles to his relatives' mobile home in Luther and killing them. \n Ronald Everett Wilkson, 55, had been shot and had stab wounds to his neck \"consistent with an attempt to sever his head,\" an arrest affidavit said. Valerie Kay Wilkson, 54, had similar neck wounds along with defensive wounds on her arms, the affidavit stated. \n Just days later, Oklahoma County Sheriff John Whetsel indicated to the AP that authorities were at a loss as to where Vance might be, saying he \"could be anywhere from California to Mexico to Florida.\" \n Whetsel has described the deaths of the Wilksons as a \"rage killing\" and said Vance had likely developed a list of potential targets connected to a pending sexual assault case filed against him. Vance had been scheduled to appear in court on Nov. 7 to face felony child sex abuse charges after a 15-year-old girl accused him of sexual assault. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oklahoma state trooper kills fugitive after weeklong manhunt"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Police briefly closed the right lane of the H-3 freeway Kaneohe-bound before the tunnel due to a motor vehicle collision this morning. \n Police reported the collision at 6:25 a.m. All lanes were reopened at 7:04 a.m. \n No serious injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kaneohe-bound lane of H-3 reopens after crash"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rebecca Neal, a Bill Cosby accuser who testified against the comedian in a 2005 sex assault suit, called for Cosby's full testimony from a 2005 sexual battery lawsuit to be unsealed, during a July 2015 news conference at the offices of attorney Gloria Allred in Los Angeles. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lise-Lotte Lublin, who says comedian Bill Cosby sexually assaulted her in 1989, testified during a March 2015 hearing at the Legislative Building in Carson City, Nev. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill Cosby arrived for a Sept. 6 pretrial hearing in his sexual-assault case at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pa. \n PHILADELPHIA \u00bb Did Bill Cosby drug and molest young women as part of a \"signature\" crime spree spanning five decades? Prosecutors preparing for his sexual-assault trial hope to call 13 of about 60 accusers to show just that. \n The defense will question their relevance and attack their credibility in high-stakes pretrial hearings that start Tuesday in suburban Philadelphia. \n The fallen superstar is charged over a single 2004 encounter with Andrea Constand, a former employee at Temple University. However, Pennsylvania law allows testimony about similar uncharged acts to show someone committed crimes in a distinctive, nearly identical, pattern. \n Prosecutors say Cosby routinely used his fame and power to befriend impressionable young women, knocked them out with drugs or alcohol and then sexually assaulted them. Sometimes, they say, he even promised their mothers he'd look out for the show business ingenues. \n The testimony of the 13 others \u2014 should Montgomery County Judge Steven T. O'Neill allow some or all of it \u2014 could bolster a case that turns on the question of consent. Cosby's lawyers will fight to keep the women off the stand at the June 5 trial, in courtroom showdowns that could amount to 13 mini-trials. Cosby, in a decade-old deposition, acknowledged some of the encounters but said they were consensual. \n The Associated Press does not typically name people who say they are sexual-assault victims. However, Constand has given consent through her lawyer, while 10 other women named below have spoken out publicly. One has spoken out under a pseudonym, while the final two remain anonymous. The accounts below, listed chronologically, note ages for each woman and Cosby at the time, as described in a prosecution memo filed last month. \n ANDREA CONSTAND \n Ages then: She was 30; he was 66 \n Constand told police in 2005 that Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her a year earlier at his suburban Philadelphia estate. She said he gave her three unlabeled blue pills to \"relax\" as the Temple University basketball team manager discussed a career change with Cosby, a high-profile Temple booster and trustee. She said she was semi-conscious on his couch when he digitally penetrated her. Cosby, 79, is charged with sexually assaulting a person unable to give consent \u2014 a felony that could bring 10 years in prison. He has pleaded not guilty and remains free on $1 million bail. \n JANE DOE 1 \n Ages then: She was 21; he was 30. \n She was a flight attendant when she met Cosby in about 1964. He invited her to a taping of his show and cast her as an extra. After being friends for several months, she said, he offered her champagne at the Drake Hotel in Chicago, which left her unable to ward off his sexual advances before she passed out. \n LINDA BROWN \n Ages then: She was 21; he was 31. \n Brown's agent sent the aspiring model to attend Cosby's show in Toronto and have dinner with him afterward in 1969. He invited her to his hotel room to give her a gift, and offered her a soda that caused her to black out, she said, before Cosby raped her. \n CINDRA LADD \n Ages then: She was 21; he was 31. \n Ladd, a model, met Cosby in 1969 when he offered career advice. They were at his friend's house in New York one day when she complained about having a headache and he gave her a pill he called \"a miracle cure\" from his doctor. She became incapacitated, and Cosby raped her, she said. \n JANE DOE 2 \n Ages then: She was in her early 20s; he was 32. \n She met Cosby through her job at the Playboy Club in New York in the early 1970s. He offered her quaaludes in a limousine one day, which she said she declined. She then had three or four glasses of champagne but believes they contained an intoxicant that left her unconscious. She woke up naked in a hotel room feeling sore and said she had been sexually assaulted. \n DONNA MOTSINGER \n Ages then: She was 26; he was 33. \n Motsinger was a waitress at the Trident restaurant in Sausalito, California, a favorite of Cosby's. He befriended Motsinger and her 9-year-old son. In 1972, Motsinger said, she accepted an invitation to Cosby's show and drank wine he gave her in the limousine on the way there. When a headache ensued, she took a pill he handed her. She recalls being fondled before waking up the next day, nearly naked, at her own home. \n MARGIE SHAPIRO \n Ages then: She was 19; he was 37. \n Shapiro worked at Castle Donuts in Santa Monica, California, in 1975 when Cosby stopped by. He invited her to the set of \"Mother, Jugs & Speed,\" and then to a dinner party, but instead took her to a house near the Playboy Mansion, where they played pinball fueled by Cosby's challenge that whoever lost would have to take a pill she believed to be a quaalude. She lost. She recalls waking up to find Cosby having sex with her. \n THERESE SERIGNESE \n Ages then: She was 18 or 19; he was 38 or 39. \n Serignese, now a nurse, was in the gift shop of the Las Vegas Hilton in about 1975 when she met Cosby. He later invited her to his show, and to a room backstage afterward, where he gave her two pills that left her incapacitated before he raped her, she said. Cosby, in a 2006 deposition in Constand's civil lawsuit, testified that he gave Serignese quaaludes before what he called a consensual sexual encounter. \n LINDA KIRKPATRICK \n Ages then: She was 25; he was 43. \n Kirkpatrick met Cosby while playing against him in a tennis tournament in 1981. He offered her tickets to his show at the Las Vegas Hilton, where he gave her a drink in his dressing room that left her incapacitated, she said. She next recalls him being on top of her, kissing her and rubbing against her. \n JANICE BAKER-KINNEY \n Ages then: She was 23 or 24; he was 45. \n Baker-Kinney, then a Harrah's bartender in Reno, went to a pizza party at a nearby home where Cosby was staying in 1982. He insisted she take two pills, she said, before the backgammon game they were playing went blurry. She recalls seeing her blouse unbuttoned and his pants unzipped before she awoke naked with signs she had been sexually assaulted. \n HEIDI THOMAS \n Ages then: She was 24; he was 47. \n Thomas' agent sent the aspiring young actress to meet Cosby for career advice at a Harrah's hotel in Reno in 1984, but the limousine he sent instead took her to a private house where she said he gave her a drink so she could play the intoxicated person in a script he gave her. During intermittent bouts of consciousness, she recalls being naked and Cosby forcing her to perform oral sex. \n REBECCA NEAL \n Ages then: She was about 28; he was 48. \n Neal worked as a masseuse at a Las Vegas health club where Cosby played tennis in the mid-1980s. He befriended her mother and aunt there, leading Neal to accept an invitation to his show at the Las Vegas Hilton and dinner afterward. Cosby urged her to have a drink set before her while he ate. She said he later raped her in his room while she was too disoriented to give consent. \n LISE-LOTTE LUBLIN \n Ages then: She was 23; he was 50. \n Lublin was a 23-year-old aspiring actress when she met Cosby in 1989. She and her mother went for a run with Cosby, and he gave them show tickets, before he invited her to the Elvis suite of the Las Vegas Hilton to practice acting improvisation. He prodded her to take two drinks to relax, which she ultimately did. She recalls seeing Cosby stroking her hair, and walking down a hall, before she woke up at home two days later. She believes she was sexually assaulted. \n \"KACEY\" \n Ages then: She was 29; he was 58. \n The witness, who agreed to be photographed but not share her identity in the media, worked for one of Cosby's agents and had known the entertainer for six years when he invited her to lunch at his bungalow at the Bel Air Hotel in 1996 to discuss her acting ambitions. He was in a robe and slippers when she arrived, and offered her wine and a pill that she consumed after he reassured her it was safe. She then recalls being sexually assaulted by Cosby on his bed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "The 13 women who could show Bill Cosby had a pattern"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Two teenagers were taken to the hospital this evening after they were struck by a car near the Ewa Mahiko Park. \n Emergency Medical Services said a 13-year-old boy was taken by ambulance in serious condition and a 14-year-old girl was transported in stable condition to a trauma center after the 6:51 p.m. accident. \n EMS said the accident occurred near Renton Road and Pahika Street, and the pedestrians were reportedly in a crosswalk. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Car hits 2 teens in crosswalk; 1 seriously hurt"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "Firefighters are battling a large brush fire near Makua Caves on Oahu's west side. \n Seven fire companies, including three tankers, were dispatched to the 6:45 p.m. fire, with the first company arriving at 6:51 p.m. \n Fire Capt. David Jenkins said the fire is considered large and is located at 82-180 Farrington Highway. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews battle large brushfire in Makua"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "The state Department of Health cites overcrowding at an aging facility not built for high-security in answer to an escape from the Hawaii State Hospital by a man who led police on a chase while driving a stolen dump truck through Waikiki in 2013 and allegedly struck a police officer earlier this year. \n Allen Pitts, 47, remained on the loose Monday after escaping Saturday night from the Hawaii State Hospital, where he was committed by court order for two separate incidents. \n Police said Pitts escaped sometime between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. Saturday from the Kaneohe facility by breaking a window and fleeing. But the hospital staff only discovered him missing during a bed check at 8 a.m. Sunday. He is now wanted for second-degree escape. \n \"The staff does take this very, very seriously,\" said Janice Okubo, spokeswoman for the Department of Health, adding that the hospital is doing well compared with other mainland facilities. \"We're trying to have zero incidents.\" \n She could not comment on any specific patient due to privacy concerns, but the department is working with the police department, which is searching for and seeking the public's help for the patient's return. \n The hospital contracted in May with a security company for four additional security guards stationed 24/7 with funding from the Legislature, she said. Higher-risk patient units each have one security guard posted 24/7, and the lower security units share a guard, she said. \n She said the hospital is conducting a thorough evaluation of the escape to determine what corrective actions or measures are needed to prevent future events, which is done anytime an elopement occurs. \n \"Each time there is an elopment, it points to the need for less overcrowded patient conditions and facilities designed for higher security,\" she said in a written release. The hospital is overcrowded with 205 patients, over the 202 licensed capacity, and also has 40 patients at Kahi Mohala. \n The hospital was originally designed to house 178 severely mentally ill patients, not court-ordered patients, Okubo said. \n The state will begin demolishing one of the hospital buildings in November to make way for a new $160 million facility, which will provide a more space. \n In 2013, Pitts stole a dump truck with an attached trailer, led police on a chase up and down Kalakaua Avenue along Kapiolani Park, damaging police cars. He struck a coconut tree, jumped out of the truck and into the ocean. \n Police arrested him 90 minutes or so later off Sans Souci Beach. \n Pitts was charged with unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle, reckless endagering and three counts of criminal property damage. \n In 2014, Pitts stood trial and a judge found him not guilty by reason of physical or mental disease, disorder or defect, and committed him to the State Hospital. \n His attorney, Neal Kugiya, said Pitts was doing well, so he applied for and was given conditional release July 2015, and was living in a halfway house. \n But while there, Pitts was \"out and about\" for roughly two to three weeks, he said. \n On Jan. 19, the court issued a bench warrant for his arrest. \n Kugiya said Pitts intended to turn himself in to police at the Waikiki substation, but got into an altercation, and was indicted April 19 with assaulting a police officer and harassment, Kugiya said. \n A three-doctor panel found him Aug. 22 unfit to proceed to trial, and was sent back to the State Hospital. \n He is scheduled Nov. 22 for a fitness review hearing. \n Pitts is Caucasian, 6 feet tall, weighs 222 pounds, with brown hair, blue eyes, a mustache and full beard. \n Anyone who sees him is urged to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on a cell phone. Text CS808 and your message to 274637 or CRIMES. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State hospital escapee remains at large"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This Oct. 16, 2016, photo shows the Kellogg's booth at an annual dietitians' conference, where company representatives explained the health benefits of their products, in Boston. The presence of major food companies underscored the conflict-of-interest issues in the nutrition field. \n BOSTON >> The blinking game show wheel spins past logos for Triscuits, Wheat Thins and Honey Maid before the needle settles at Fig Newtons. \n \"Newtons are made with real fruit and whole grains. True or false?\" a Nabisco representative asks onlookers, who are among 10,000 attendees at a conference where dietitians can earn credits for continuing education. \n The answer, the Nabisco representative says, is true. \n Among the hundreds of exhibits, many focused on items like beans, eggs, strawberries and leafy greens. But big packaged food makers and trade groups also had a presence, emblematic of the complex ties between the food industry and nutritionists and a push by critics to bring greater awareness to corporate influence on the profession. \n PepsiCo brought a vending machine stocked with Quaker bars, Naked juices and reduced-fat Doritos. Unilever showcased Hellmann's spreads and offered samples of Breyer's ice cream. Nestle displayed bottled water, Nesquik chocolate drinks and Butterfingers candies. A Sugar Association pamphlet suggested sprinkling sugar on vegetables for picky children. \n While the influence of food corporations on the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and its 75,000 members has come under greater scrutiny, some see growing sensitivity to ethical and conflict-of-interest issues. \n \"It's been an important topic in the pharmaceutical world, and now it's becoming a much more important topic in the nutrition world,\" said David Wiss, a member of Dietitians for Professional Integrity, which has called on the academy to show greater independence from the food industry. \n Wiss feels there is a \"huge, inherent\" industry influence some may not realize exists. He said a bigger problem than the expo hall is the influence that sponsors have with continuing education sessions for dietitians, and recalled a previous class where he was taught about salt by Frito-Lay. \n Lucille Beseler, president of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, said in an email that academy members know the difference between marketing and science, and use their professional judgment to evaluate exhibitors' products and programs. \n She said nutrition professionals do not dictate what people eat, and \"must therefore be familiar with all foods and products in the marketplace.\" \n The academy noted that sessions sponsored by companies or industry groups were distinct from regular educational sessions because they required a $10 donation from session attendees to the academy's foundation, which provides scholarships and research grants. The sponsored sessions still count toward continuing education credits, which are required to maintain licenses. \n That included one that discussed the benefits of milk and flavored milk sponsored by Fairlife, one of Coca-Cola's joint ventures, and one on the advantages of orange juice sponsored by a juice industry group. A two-hour session on the value of multivitamins was sponsored by vitamin brand Nature Made. The professor who taught the class listed Pharmavite, which owns the brand, in a slide of disclosures. \n Afterward, two attendees said they did not know the professor had been paid by the session sponsor. Still, they said they found the session informative and felt the professor backed up his views. \n Diane Enos, who heads educational programming for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, said sponsorship of sessions is clearly disclosed, and that educational materials for those sessions are subject to the same standards and review as for other sessions. \n \"They have to meet the standard guidelines, and that means you can't show unbalanced research,\" Enos said. \n She said it is not the sponsor that submits the materials for review, but the speakers. \n In some cases, the speakers were representatives or employees of the sponsor. \n Marion Nestle, a nutrition professor at New York University, reviewed the educational slides for the session sponsored by Fairlife at AP's request and did not think they should be considered education. \n \"They're presenting the company's view of it. So it's marketing, not education,\" Nestle said. \n Coca-Cola said Fairlife's management team makes day-to-day decisions about operations. Fairlife said in a statement that the presentation covered an important topic \u2014 \"shortfall nutrients that many kids miss out on as they start their days, and how dairy products as part of a balanced breakfast can play an important role in addressing those shortfalls.\" \n Wiss thinks future dietitians will be better equipped to critically assess industry influence because starting in 2024, they will need a master's degree to get licensed. \n Others believe that companies play a critical role in helping improve the way people eat. \n \"Some of these companies have a big role in the food industry, and they're trying to change their reputation,\" said Keith Roberts, who is studying to be a dietitian. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Do candy and soda makers belong at a dietitians' conference?"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Aug. 9, 2016, file photo, United States' swimmer Michael Phelps celebrates winning his gold medal in the men's 200-meter butterfly with his fiance Nicole Johnson and baby Boomer during the swimming competitions at the 2016 Summer Olympics, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Phelps shared an Instagram picture on Oct. 30, 2016, of his beach wedding to Johnson that took place months after the couple got legally married in Arizona. \n Four months after getting legally married to Nicole Johnson, Michael Phelps is celebrating in Mexico. \n The 23-time Olympic gold medalist shared an Instagram photo Sunday of him walking down the aisle with the former Miss California USA, captioned, \"My best friend\u2026. I love you!!\" Johnson also shared a picture of her walking with Phelps on a beach while dressed in a wedding gown. \n Neither Phelps nor Johnson said where the ceremony took place, but several media outlets report it was in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. \n It was revealed last week that the couple legally got married in Arizona on June 13, and Phelps acknowledged that he had \"been married for a while\" in a Facebook Live video posted Thursday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michael Phelps has beach wedding months after legal marriage"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "CHARLOTTE, N.C. \u00bb Police in North Carolina say a Pizza Hut employee used his own handgun to shoot and kill one of three armed robbers holding up the store. \n The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department said it happened early Sunday at a Pizza Hut restaurant near Interstate 85 in west Charlotte. Detectives say the restaurant was closed and there were no customers inside. \n Police say their initial investigation indicates three people entered the restaurant around 1:40 a.m. Sunday and were in the process of robbing it when one of the employees used his personal handgun to shoot one male thief. Police say a handgun carried by the slain robber was recovered at the scene. \n The two other suspects ran away and haven't been captured. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police say Pizza Hut employee shoots, kills would-be robber"}

{"date": "October 31, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD \n The unmanned blue kayak with a yellow paddle was found approximately 200 yards off Waimea Beach in Kauai. \n The U.S. Coast Guard is asking for help to find the owner of a kayak found off Kauai's Waimea Beach on Sunday. \n The 13-foot, blue kayak with a yellow paddle was found approximately 200 yards offshore at 8:35 a.m., according to the Coast Guard. \n There are currently no reported signs of distress or reports of missing persons in the area, officials said. \n Kauai police searched the shoreline of the area and an aircrew from the Coast Guard Air Station Barbers Point searched by air but did not find anything, officials said. \n Anyone with information is asked to call the Coast Guard Sector Honolulu at 842-2600. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard searching for owner of kayak found off Kauai's Waimea Beach"}

