{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "MANILA, Philippines >> Philippine troops have launched airstrikes and ground assaults that reportedly wounded one of Southeast Asia's most-wanted terror suspects who is trying to establish a new base for an alliance backing the Islamic State group, officials said today. \n Intelligence reports showed initial assaults killed at least four militants, possibly including a Malaysian, and reportedly wounded the main target, Isnilon Hapilon, Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana told the Associated Press. \n He said that Hapilon apparently managed to flee from an encampment in the mountainous hinterlands of Butig town in southern Lanao del Sur province. \n \"Army troops are still in hot pursuit,\" Lorenzana said. \n Airstrikes targeted Hapilon's group on Wednesday and Thursday. Hundreds of troops, backed by artillery fire, then began pursuing him and other militants from the so-called Maute group in Butig, military chief of staff Gen. Eduardo Ano said. \n Hapilon, who is on the U.S. Department of Justice list of most-wanted terrorists worldwide with up to $5 million bounty for his capture, moved to Butig from his stronghold on southern Basilan island a month ago to look for a base for his new militant alliance, Ano told the AP. \n Lanao lies about 830 kilometers (520 miles) south of Manila. \n President Rodrigo Duterte has repeatedly warned that the emergence of IS-influenced militant groups was fast looming as a major national security threat. While pursuing peace talks with two large Muslim rebel groups in the predominantly Roman Catholic nation, he has ordered the military to destroy smaller but brutal extremist groups like the Abu Sayyaf, which is dreaded for cross-border kidnappings, beheadings and bombings. \n A wave of Abu Sayyaf kidnappings of crewmen, mostly from Indonesia and Malaysia, has sparked a regional security alarm. \n Hapilon, an Arabic-speaking Islamic preacher known for his expertise on commando assaults, has been indicted in the District of Columbia for his alleged role in terrorist acts against Americans and other foreigners in the southern Philippines. \n The elusive Abu Sayyaf commander pledged allegiance to the IS group in 2014. \n He then went on to organize an alliance called Dawlatul Islam Wilayatul Mashriq, which is now believed to include at least 10 small militant groups, including some Abu Sayyaf factions, the Maute and two other groups established by Malaysian and Indonesian militants. They all use black IS flags, according to counterterrorism officials and documents. \n The Maute and another group under the alliance of Ansar Al Khilafah Philippines have been linked to a Sept. 2 bombing of a night market that killed 15 people and wounded 69 others in southern Davao city, the president's hometown, and a failed bombing in Manila's popular Rizal Park and the U.S. Embassy last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine offensive reportedly wounds top terror suspect"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "Police arrested today a 56-year-old man suspected of robbing the Keeaumoku branch of Bank of Hawaii. \n Police said the man entered the bank at 1451 S. King St. at 2:15 p.m. wielding a dangerous instrument and demanded money of the 21-year-old female teller. \n The teller complied and the suspect fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. \n He was found nearby at 2:38 p.m. and was arrested on suspicion of first-degree robbery. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for robbing Pawaa bank"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this April 2013 file photo, a Delta Airlines jet flies past the company's billboard at Citi Field, in New York. A Massachusetts man who authorities say assaulted a Muslim Delta Airlines employee at New York's Kennedy Airport is facing hate crime charges. \n NEW YORK >> A businessman attacked a Muslim airline employee at Kennedy Airport, kicking her, shouting obscenities at her and saying that President Donald Trump \"will get rid of all of you,\" authorities said. \n Robin Rhodes, of Worcester, Massachusetts, had arrived from Aruba and was awaiting a connecting flight to Massachusetts on Wednesday night when he approached Delta employee Rabeeya Khan, who wears a hijab, while she was sitting in her office, the Queens district attorney said. \n Khan told police that Rhodes came to the door and went on a profanity-laced tirade, asking her if she was praying, District Attorney Richard A. Brown said. Rhodes then punched the door, which hit the back of Khan's chair, investigators said. Khan asked Rhodes what she had done to him and Rhodes replied, \"You did nothing,\" Brown said. He then cursed at her and kicked her in the leg, Khan told police, according to Brown. \n When another person tried to calm him down, Brown said Rhodes moved away from the door and Khan ran out of the office. Rhodes followed her, got down on his knees and began to bow down to imitate Muslim prayers and shouted obscenities, investigators said. \n Brown said Kahn recalled Rhodes saying: \"Trump is here now. He will get rid of all of you. You can ask Germany, Belgium and France about these kinds of people. You see what happens.\" \n At the time of his arrest, Rhodes told officers, \"I guess I am going to jail for disorderly conduct,\" Brown said. \n Rhodes was charged with assault, unlawful imprisonment, menacing and harassment as hate crimes. It was not immediately clear if he has an attorney who can comment on the charges. \n His mother, Dorothy Rhodes, said the behavior alleged by authorities is uncharacteristic of her son. \n \"It's not like him at all,\" she said. \"He's not a violent person. He's very kind.\" \n Robin Rhodes is the president of Nitrofreeze Cryogenic Solutions, a metals company based in Worcester. \n Dorothy Rhodes said her son \"goes out of his way to hire people of different races and ethnicities.\" \n Brown said Rhode displayed bigotry and hatred that \"have no place in a civilized society \u2014 especially in Queens County, the most culturally diverse county in the nation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutor: Businessman invokes Trump in attack on Muslim airline employee"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "An off-duty county lifeguard rescued a kayaker in his 60s Thursday afternoon at Honolii Beach Park in Hilo, Hawaii County Fire Department said in a news release. \n Surfers pulled the man to shore. \n When firefighters arrived at 5:10 p.m., they found a county lifeguard performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation on the man, who was slumped over his kayak before being knocked into the water, the Fire Department said. \n The surf was 2 to 4 feet high, and the river was at a moderate level. \n The man was treated and taken to the Hilo Medical Center in critical condition. \n It is unknown what caused him to go unconscious, the Fire Department said. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "60-year-old kayaker rescued on Big Island"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ernest Weiner, wearing a crown, celebrated his birthday with fellow Holocaust survivors and volunteers. \n RAMAT HASHARON, Israel >> Surrounded by more than 100 fellow Holocaust survivors and young volunteers, a blind Ernest Weiner sat in his wheelchair with a puffy crown on his head as the crowd sang happy birthday and showered him with hugs and greetings. \n The widowed and childless 92-year-old Weiner lives on his own and the cheerful gathering offered him one of life's most valuable commodities \u2014 company. \n As home to the world's largest survivor community, Israel is grappling to serve the needs of thousands of people like Weiner who are living out their final days alone. Various government bodies and private organizations chip in to offer material, psychological and medical support to the survivors, still scarred by the horrors they experienced 70 years ago. But all agree that the greatest burden late in their lives is loneliness. \n \"It's not pleasant to be alone,\" Weiner said in his apartment south of Tel Aviv. \"It gives a good feeling\" to have people visit. \n Some 160,000 elderly survivors remain in Israel, with a similar number worldwide. In Israel, about half receive special government stipends, but a third still live under the poverty line, well above the national 20 percent poverty rate. \n That's where the nonprofit sector gets involved. The Association for Immediate Help for Holocaust Survivors was established nine years ago for the purpose of aiding survivors anywhere in Israel, at a moment's notice. Run solely on donations, it currently has some 8,000 volunteers around the country. \n They help survivors with everything from legal assistance to paying their bills, buying their groceries to driving them to doctor appointments. Several times a year, they throw parties that become a highlight on survivors' calendars. \n The care continues even after death. The association's modest office currently houses a number of orphaned dogs and cats left behind by their owners. \n \"Morally, not just as Jews but as people of the world, we must help them finish their life in dignity without them having to beg for warm food,\" said Tamara More, the association's voluntary CEO. \"These are people whose lives were robbed from them because of the world's silence, and we all have an obligation to give them something back in the little time they have left.\" \n Six million Jews were killed by German Nazis and their collaborators during the Holocaust, wiping out a third of world Jewry. Israel's main Holocaust memorial day is in the spring \u2014 marking the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising \u2014 while the United Nations designated Jan. 27 as International Holocaust Remembrance Day, commemorating the date of the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp in 1945. \n As the senior adviser to former Finance Minister Yair Lapid, Naama Schultz spearheaded the ministry's efforts to boost previously paltry funding to those who survived camps and ghettos. Besides a monthly stipend, the state also provides expanded health care, free medication and discounts on various living expenses. \n But Schultz said money couldn't address their emotional needs. Many survivors kept their pasts to themselves for decades, often alienating even the people closest to them due to their trauma. Only in their final years are many finally ready to open up, and often then there is no one around. \n \"There is always more you can give them, but what they really want most is someone to just be with them,\" she said. \n Plenty of organizations try to answer that need by matching soldiers and students with survivors. One highly publicized initiative offered university students rent-free accommodations in return for living with lonely survivors and keeping them company. \n Noga Rotman, a 32-year-old computer science student, said she decided to get involved several years ago when her grandfather, a Holocaust survivor, became ill. \n \"I couldn't help but think about those who didn't have that,\" she said, amid the balloons and flowers at Weiner's party, which was attended by dozens who were inspired to come by a Facebook post. \"Anytime we have something like this, you just see how much it means to them.\" \n Weiner said he especially appreciated the company of youngsters. As for fellow survivors, he had mixed feelings. \n \"On the one hand, it feels good to have all these people. On the other hand it reminds you of such tough times,\" he said. \"Happy it can't be, because it was not happy times, but it is nice to have someone listen.\" \n When the Nazis invaded his native Austria, Weiner and his sister fled to Holland while their parents stayed behind and died of illness. The rest of the family perished. \n After the Nazis occupied Holland, they were placed in the Westerbork transit camp, from where his sister was sent to her death in Auschwitz. \n Thanks to his work as an electrician, Weiner got to know the camp well and estimates he escaped deportation about 15 times, once after he was placed on a train for Auschwitz. But the harsh conditions took their toll. In the course of his work, he got so many electric shocks that it caused heart damage, and an accident blinded his right eye. Diabetes later deprived him of sight in his left eye and confined him to a wheelchair. \n Now that his wife is gone, Weiner has a caregiver who stays with him and another who visits daily. But the volunteers who arrive several times a week provide most of the conversation. \n At the party, children handed him drawings. Soldiers and scouts gave gifts, and there was even a surprise visit from Israeli supermodel Bar Refaeli \u2014 who heard Weiner was a fan and stopped by to snap some pictures with him. \n But the most moving moment was when a Dutch-speaking volunteer whom he has grown close to leaned in to let him know she was there. He teared up, and then she did too. \n \"The fact that he is glad, that brings me joy,\" said Liel Van Aalderink, 22. \"I don't do really much extraordinary. I just give him attention and talk to him because he is alone in the world.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Israelis seek to comfort Holocaust's loneliest survivors"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Humanitarian needs in Aleppo \"continue to be staggering,\" said U.N. humanitarian chief Stephen O'Brien. \n UNITED NATIONS >>The U.N. humanitarian chief accused the Syrian government today of blocking aid to hundreds of thousands of the country's neediest people despite a nationwide cease-fire that has given \"a glimmer of hope\" that the conflict might be coming to an end. \n Undersecretary-General Stephen O'Brien told the Security Council that a two-step approval process that the government agreed to for humanitarian convoys to cross conflict lines to get to besieged and hard to reach areas \"has become, in practice, a 10-step process.\" \n Despite the Dec. 30 cease-fire and a humanitarian task force whose sole purpose is to ensure access, he said, \"we continue to be blocked at every turn, by lack of approvals at central and local levels, disagreements on access routes, and violation of agreed procedures at checkpoints by parties to the conflict.\" \n O'Brien said the result is that only one convoy delivered aid to 6,000 people in December, when the U.N. asked for approval to help 930,250 people \u2014 and he criticized the removal of over 23,000 medical items from the trucks that did get through. So far in January, he said, the situation isn't much better with just a single convoy reaching 40,000 people. \n O'Brien said the Syrian government did respond to the U.N.'s monthly convoy plans within the agreed seven working days. \n \"But subsequent administrative delays on the part of the government, including in the approval of facilitation letters, approval by local governors and security committees, as well as broader restrictions by all parties continue to hamper our efforts,\" he said. \n A call to Syria's U.N. Mission seeking comment was not answered. \n O'Brien urged council members with influence to pressure the Syrian government to allow aid deliveries to all besieged and hard to reach areas. \n The council, in a statement, urged all parties \"to intensify efforts to ensure sustained and unhindered humanitarian access.\" \n As a result of the evacuation of rebel-held eastern Aleppo and a comprehensive U.N. review, O'Brien said the number of besieged areas has been reduced from 16 to 13, and the number of people estimated to be living in those areas has dropped from some 974,080 to some 643,780. \n He singled out four areas where humanitarian action \"remains greatly needed and, sadly, often contested.\" \n Humanitarian needs in Aleppo \"continue to be staggering,\" O'Brien said, with at least 160,000 people temporarily displaced. In eastern Aleppo, he said over 65,000 people have been registered as having returned or stayed, most living in damaged houses. He added that the U.N. is following up on reports that \"stockpiles of humanitarian supplies\" have been found in east Aleppo since late December when government forces and their allies took control. \n O'Brien also expressed concern for the safety of 93,500 people in the besieged western side of Deir el-Zour following reports of attacks by fighters from the Islamic State extremist group, and for over 400,000 people in need of aid in Raqqa, the Islamic State group's headquarters. \n The U.N. is also deeply troubled at the cutoff of the main water supply to some 5.5 million people in Damascus, and O'Brien said if this was deliberate \"those responsible may have committed a war crime.\" \n O'Brien warned that the humanitarian crisis won't end until the conflict, now in its sixth year, ends and he urged the council to rally behind U.N.-led negotiations to find a political solution. The Security Council also called for stepped-up efforts to consolidate the cease-fire and reiterated support for a political solution. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.N. aid chief accuses Syria of blocking help to neediest"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice shows death row inmate Terry Edwards, 43, who was executed today. Attorneys for Edwards say he didn't do the 2002 shootings and that he had poor legal help at his trial and in earlier appeals. \n HUNTSVILLE, Texas >>A man convicted of a fatal robbery at a Dallas-area Subway shop just weeks after he was fired from his job there was executed today. \n Terry Edwards, 43, was put to death by lethal injection for the $3,000 holdup at a Subway restaurant where two employees were shot to death in 2002. \n Asked by a warden if he had a final statement, Edwards replied: \"I'm at peace with God. I hope y'all find peace in this.\" As the lethal dose of pentobarbital was administered, he began snoring quickly. Within about 30 seconds, all movement stopped. \n He was pronounced dead at 10:17 p.m. CST, 23 minutes after the drug was administered. Edwards never looked at five relatives of the two murder victims who stood a few feet from him, looking through a window. \n Edwards' execution, the second this year in Texas and the third nationally, was delayed about four hours until the U.S. Supreme Court rejected multiple last-day appeals that sought to halt his punishment. \n Lawyers for Edwards wanted to reopen his case to investigate claims that a court-appointed lawyer earlier in the appeals process provided deficient help by abandoning him. Attorneys also contended Dallas County prosecutors at his trial incorrectly portrayed Edwards as the shooter, that he was innocent of the shootings, that prosecutors manipulated evidence and testimony at his trial and improperly excluded black people from the jury. Edwards was black. \n Other attorneys asked the punishment be stopped until the justices resolved an appeal that would require Texas prison officials test the pentobarbital they use for lethal injections to ensure its potency and sterility. Edwards was among several Texas death row inmates who argued the testing was needed to make certain the drug made by an unidentified compounding pharmacy doesn't cause unconstitutional pain and suffering. The state agreed to testing for two inmates, and Edwards' attorneys said he deserved the same protections. \n Evidence showed Edwards worked at the restaurant in Balch Springs, about 15 miles southeast of Dallas, but had been fired few weeks before the robbery and shootings for stealing from the cash register. \n Mickell Goodwin, 26, and Tommy Walker, 34, were each shot in the head in the holdup. Walker, the store manager, had seven children and stepchildren. Goodwin was the mother of two daughters. No one else was inside the store. \n Edwards admitted being in the shop shortly after it opened July 8, 2002, but told police a man he knew as \"T-Bone\" gave him the gun and did the shootings. Investigators later determined the other man he claimed to not know by name was his cousin. \n People in a business next door heard the gunfire and called police who arrived in time to see two men fleeing. One of them, Edwards, was seen running from the shop holding a gun and an officer saw him tossing it in a garbage bin. He was arrested a short time later. \n An audio recording in the police car caught Edwards saying he had messed up \"big time,\" and referring to two murders. \n Edwards was on parole at the time of the shootings. He'd been released in October 1999 after prison time for car theft and possession with intent to deliver cocaine. \n The second man involved, Edwards' cousin, Kirk Edwards, turned himself in to police a day after the shootings. He had a previous criminal record for burglary and theft and now is serving 25 years for aggravated robbery for the sandwich shop case. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man convicted of killing 2 at Texas sandwich shop executed"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump waved as former President Barack Obama applauded during the inauguration. \n WASHINGTON >> On his first full day in office, President Donald Trump called the acting director of the National Park Service to dispute widely circulated photos of Trump's inauguration. \n The Washington Post reported today that Trump personally ordered park service head Michael Reynolds to produce additional photographs of the previous day's crowds on the National Mall. The president believed that the photos might prove that the news media had lied in reporting that attendance had been no better than average, the newspaper said. \n The Post reported that Reynolds forwarded additional photos to the White House as requested. \n Photos taken that day made clear that crowds didn't extend to the Lincoln Memorial as Trump later asserted and that his claim of 1 million to 1.5 million people in attendance was wrong. \n A spokesman for the park service confirmed the call today but declined to reveal details of the conversation. Asked about Trump's call, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said, \"President Trump is someone who takes action and gets things done \u2014 this is one of the reasons he won and Hillary didn't.\" \n Trump also expressed anger over a retweet sent from the park service's account, in which side-by-side photographs showed far fewer people at his swearing-in than had shown up to see President Barack Obama's inauguration in 2009, the Post reported. \n The call from Trump came after the Interior Department briefly suspended park service accounts and others run by the department in response to the retweeted photos and another tweet that pointed out that webpages about some issues, including climate change, had been removed from the White House site. \n The Interior Department accounts were reactivated the next day. \n Park service employees launched a Twitter campaign against Trump this week. After three climate-science tweets by Badlands National Park were deleted, several other parks posted tweets related to climate change in an apparent show of solidarity and defiance. \n Trump has called climate change a hoax, and many readers saw the climate-related tweets as a message of defiance to the new president. \n Tom Crosson, the chief spokesman for the park service, declined to comment on any of the tweets sent out by park service accounts, but he said there is no restriction on agency use of Twitter or other social media. \n \"There's no gag order on national parks that would prevent people from tweeting,\" he said Wednesday. \n Trump used his Twitter account during the campaign to bash opponents and share his messages directly to his supporters. But government policy indicates that any agency must agree with the contents of whatever it shares on social media. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Trump called park official to dispute crowd photo"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "THE CANADIAN PRESS VIA AP \n TransCanada CEO Russ Girling arrived to speak at the 20th Annual Whistler Institutional Investor Conference, in Whistler, British Columbia on Wednesday. \n TORONTO >> The company behind the Keystone XL pipeline submitted a new presidential permit application today to the U.S. Department of State for approval.  \n The project would move 800,000 barrels of oil a day from Alberta to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast. \n The application by TransCanada comes after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an order earlier this week to expedite the project. \n Trump directed the State Department and other agencies to make a decision within 60 days of a final application. He also declared that a 2014 environmental study satisfies required reviews under environmental and endangered species laws. \n But Trump has also made a new requirement for the pipeline to be made with American steel and fabricated in the United States. \n \"We're gonna make that pipe right here,\" Trump said to Republicans in Philadelphia today. \n Calgary, Alberta-based TransCanada made no mention of using American materials in a statement today but stressed the project would create thousands of American jobs. \n \"KXL will benefit American workers, their families and the communities they live in as well as the U.S. economy,\" the company said. A spokesman for TransCanada declined to release the application. \n Asked about possible buy American requirements, TransCanada spokesman Terry Cunha said they know the U.S. Secretary of Commerce will come up with a plan to implement Trump's executive order. \n \"We will need time to review and analyze the plan when it is released to determine its impact to KXL,\" Cunha said in an email. \n Former President Barack Obama rejected Keystone XL in 2015, saying it would undercut efforts to cinch a global climate change deal in his environmental agenda. \n That didn't go over well in Canada which needs infrastructure to export its growing oil sands production. Canada has the third largest oil reserves in the world and is America's largest supplier of foreign oil. Ninety-seven percent of Canada's oil exports go to the U.S. \n Keystone XL would carry more than one-fifth of the oil Canada exports to the United States. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "TransCanada makes new application for Keystone XL pipeline"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "The H-1 Freeway will close in both directions in West Oahu on Sunday morning so that utility crews can replace a high-voltage power line that fell during last weekend's windstorm, according to Hawaiian Electric Co. officials. \n The closure will take place from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Sunday between the Kualaka'i Parkway and Kamokila Boulevard interchanges, according to a HECO release. The freeway will open earlier if crews finish ahead of schedule. \n Drivers will still be able to get across that West Oahu stretch via detours onto Kualaka'i and Farrington Highway. Nonetheless, they should plan ahead, expect delays and consider postponing travel until the work is done, HECO officials said. The company will provide live updates on the work via its Facebook page, the release stated. \n The release added that working in daylight hours will allow the utility to complete the work more quickly than if it had been scheduled at night. \n \"We apologize for the inconvenience to the community,\" HECO Senior Vice President for Operations Ron Cox said in a statement. \"We know there's no good time to close the freeway but we worked with the Department of Transportation to choose a time that we hoped would be the least disruptive.\" \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "H-1 freeway to close in West Oahu on Sunday"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU CRIMESTOPPERS \n Police released this sketch of \"Suspect 1\" in a November robbery at Ala Moana Center where three men stole a delivery van containing Apple products. He was described as in his 20s, 5 feet 8 inches tall, with a heavy build. \n COURTESY HONOLULU CRIMESTOPPERS \n These surveillance images show two suspects in the robbery of a delivery van at Ala Moana Center. \"Suspect 1\" is shown on the left. The second suspect, right, was described as in his 30s, 5 feet 8 inches tall, with a medium build. No description was available for the third suspect. \n CrimeStoppers and Honolulu police are looking for three male suspects from a brazen November robbery of a delivery truck with Apple products at Ala Moana Center. \n On Nov. 11, police said the delivery driver was unloading merchandise to the Apple Store when he was confronted by two male suspects. \n The first suspect brandished a handgun, threatened the driver and took the keys to the truck. Police said a second suspect got into the driver's seat of the truck with the first suspect in the passenger seat, according to a CrimeStoppers news release. \n The delivery driver grabbed and pulled the first suspect out of the truck in an attempt to detain him until police arrived. Police said the second suspect fled in the truck with the Apple merchandise. \n As the delivery driver held the suspect and waited for police to arrive, a third male suspect pulled up in another vehicle, brandished a handgun, and forced the driver to release the first suspect. \n No injuries were reported. \n Police did not report information on what time the robbery took place or how many items were stolen. A company spokeswoman said they have been notified of the robbery and declined further comment. \n The first suspect is described as in his 20s, 5-foot-8 with a heavy-set build, dark hair and was wearing a dark striped shirt, dark-colored shorts and slippers. \n The second suspect is a man in his 30s, 5-foot-8 with a medium build. He was wearing a white T-shirt, light-colored baseball cap and light-colored shorts. \n No description of the third suspect was released. \n Sgt. Kim Buffett of CrimeStoppers said the delivery van has not been located. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Honolulu police seek suspects who stole van full of Apple products"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump waved as he arrived on Air Force One, today, at the Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia, before speaking at the Republican Congressional retreat. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester looked toward a circling helicopter as he demonstrated against President Donald Trump's visit today in Philadelphia. Trump traveled to Philadelphia to speak to House and Senate GOP lawmakers at their annual policy retreat. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke at the House and Senate GOP lawmakers' annual policy retreat in Philadelphia today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump pointed to guests upon his arrival at Andrews Air Force One, Md. today. Trump returned from Philadelphia after speaking at the House and Senate GOP lawmakers at their annual policy retreat. \n PHILADELPHIA >> President Donald Trump called on fellow Republicans to help him enact \"great and lasting change\" at a party retreat today but offered few details. Later his spokesman said the president will seek a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to pay for a proposed border wall. \n The president was greeted by cheers as he took the stage in a hotel ballroom, telling senators and House members, \"This Congress is going to be the busiest Congress in decades \u2014 maybe ever.\" \n He addressed lawmakers shortly after Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto canceled a trip to Washington next week for his first meeting with the new president due to their disagreement over which of their countries would pay to build Trump's promised wall on the border between them. \n The wall is part of Trump's plan to halt illegal immigration to the U.S., and he has long insisted that Mexico will pay. Pena Nieto insists his country will not. \n On the flight back to Washington, White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters traveling with the president that Trump will seek to impose a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to pay for the wall. Congressional approval would be needed for such a step. \n But then later, at the White House, Spicer tried to take back his earlier comments by saying the 20 percent tax is one of several options under consideration and Trump hasn't settled on it as the way to recoup construction costs for building the wall. \n In Trump's remarks to lawmakers, he cast the cancellation of his engagement with Pena Nieto as a mutual decision, saying they had \"agreed to cancel our planned meeting.\" Trump had tweeted early today that \"it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting\" given Pena Nieto's unwillingness to pay for the border wall. \n Trump's election put Republicans in control of both the White House and Congress for the first time in more than a decade. Yet Trump's often fluid ideology has sometimes put him at odds with his own party, making agreement on issues including a tax overhaul and entitlements no guarantee. \n Addressing fellow Republicans, the president spoke about his agenda in broad terms and then skipped a planned question-and-answer session. He gave the lawmakers no specific marching orders for tackling the repeal and replace of \"Obamacare,\" one of the most complicated issues Congress is expected to tackle this year. \n Spicer had said Trump today would continue to exercise his executive authority to implement his agenda, but an event listed on the president's public schedule was postponed and could now take place on Friday. \n The White House is considering steps to commission a probe of widespread voter fraud, restrict the flow of refugees to the U.S., and negotiate individual trade deals with countries that signed the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact. Trump took steps earlier this week to withdraw the U.S. from TPP, saying the agreement puts American workers at a disadvantage. \n Trump's brief trip to Philadelphia marked his first flight on Air Force One, the familiar blue and white government plane that has long ferried presidents around the country and the world. Spokesman Sean Spicer described Trump \u2014 who traveled throughout the campaign and the transition on his own private jet \u2014 as being \"in awe\" of the presidential aircraft. \n Trump saluted as he walked off his Marine helicopter and chatted with an Air Force officer who escorted him to the steps of the plane. He climbed the steps slowly but did not turn around and wave as presidents often do. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spokesman says Trump seeks 20 percent tax on Mexican imports"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n A homeless at Kakaako Gateway Park in May 2016. Sen. Josh Green last week introduced a bill in the state Legislature to classify chronic homelessness as a medical condition and require insurance companies to cover treatment of the condition. \n As an emergency room doctor, Sen. Josh Green sees homeless patients suffering from diabetes, mental health problems and an array of medical issues that are more difficult to manage when they are homeless or do not have permanent housing. \n That's why Green says he wants to homelessness classified under Hawaii state law as a medical condition. \n If homelessness is a disease, he reasons, then doctors should be able to write prescriptions for the cure: Housing. \n \"It is paradigm shift for sure, but the single best thing we can do today is to allow physicians and health care providers in general to write prescriptions for housing,\" Green said. \n Green last week introduced a bill in the Hawaii Legislature to classify chronic homelessness as a medical condition and require insurance companies to cover treatment of the condition. \n But if a doctor wrote a prescription for six months of housing, where would the patient fill the prescription? \n That's where Green wants Medicaid to step in. \n He wants to redirect some of Hawaii's $2 billion annual Medicaid budget to pay for housing. \n He says the state could spend less Medicaid money by dedicating some of it to housing instead of paying for frequent visits by homeless people to emergency rooms. A recent University of Hawaii survey found health care costs for chronically homeless people dropped 43 percent when they had decent housing for an uninterrupted six-month period. \n \"Housing is health care, because it does afford a person a much greater chance of sustaining their health,\" said Connie Mitchell, executive director for the Institute for Human Services, Hawaii's largest homeless services provider. \n But she cautioned that choosing who qualifies would be a challenge. \n \"You need to really look at when that's appropriate, because there's a lot of people that become homeless,\" Mitchell said. \"Just because they become homeless doesn't mean it entitles them to write a prescription for a unit.\" \n Hawaii had the highest rate of homelessness of all U.S. states in 2015, with 53 homeless people for every 10,000 residents, according to The National Alliance to End Homelessness. \n The isolated state's high food and housing costs have prompted thousands of locally-born residents and transplants to erect tents and makeshift structures for homes in parks and sidewalks on Oahu, the state's most populated island. \n Concerned about impacts on tourism, city officials have banned sitting and lying down in public spaces in the beachfront neighborhood of Waikiki and other parts of Honolulu. \n The prospect of Green's proposal passing is unclear, but Hawaii officials appear receptive to offbeat solutions. State officials last year directed more money than ever to homeless support services. \n And this week, 20 state senators proposed issuing $2 billion in state-backed bonds to build affordable housing, public housing renovations and homeless shelters. \n Representatives from the state's two largest insurers \u2014 Kaiser Permanente and Hawaii Medical Services Association \u2014 and the chairwoman of the legislative committee that will first consider the bill declined comment, saying they have not had time to review it. \n National homelessness experts said they are unaware of any other U.S. state attempt to classify homelessness as a medical condition. \n But more than a dozen states \u2014 including California, Louisiana, New York and Texas \u2014 have found alternative ways to use Medicaid money for social services to help people stay in housing, like employment services or counseling, according to the Corporation for Supportive Housing, a New York-based group. \n And New York is searching for ways to redirect the state-funded portion of its Medicaid budget toward housing payments. \n \"To date, no one is able to pay for rent using Medicaid. That's the line in the sand,\" said Barbara DiPietro, senior director of policy at the National Health Care for the Homeless Council, referring to federal Medicaid money. \n Green's idea is in line with an ongoing push in in Hawaii to expand Medicaid coverage so it will pay for services such as social workers who help people secure housing. \n \"The state realizes there's a strong intersection between housing and health care, and I think that really is a critical component of our efforts to address homelessness here locally,\" said Scott Morishige, the homelessness coordinator for Gov. David Ige, a Democrat. \n Illness and injuries can lead to homelessness, through loss of income or inability to pay medical bills. When people become homeless, chronic diseases such as high blood pressure, asthma, diabetes and mental health problems are more difficult to manage, according to the National Health Care for the Homeless Council. \n \"If you don't have stable housing, if you don't have a stable place to live, how are you managing medications and going to doctor appointments?\" said Marcella Maguire, a director at Corporation for Supportive Housing. \n The Queens' Health System, a Honolulu hospital, billed $80 million for treating homeless people in 2014 and $89 million in 2015, said Lyndsey Garcia, a hospital legislative analyst. More than $10 million goes uncompensated annually, she said. \n Some homeless patients visit emergency rooms dozens of times per year, Green said. \n \"I've heard it described as you go to Queens as a two-day vacation,\" he said. \"It's going to cost probably $2,000 to $3,000 per day, so Queens is going to eat that cost, just for basic shelter.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii bill would classify homelessness as medical condition"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sara Packer, left, and Jacob Sullivan. Packer, a former county adoptions supervisor, watched as her boyfriend, Jacob Sullivan, beat and raped Grace, who was then bound, gagged and left to die in a sweltering attic, police say. \n Before her torturous death, Grace Packer grew up in a hell of emotional, physical and sexual abuse, according to three children fostered by the adoptive mother who now stands charged, along with her boyfriend, of killing and dismembering the 14-year-old girl as part of a barbaric rape-murder fantasy. \n Police say Sara Packer, a former county adoptions supervisor, watched as her boyfriend, Jacob Sullivan, beat and raped Grace, who was then bound, gagged and left to die in a sweltering attic. Returning the next day and finding Grace still alive, Sullivan strangled her, court documents say. They stored her body in cat litter for months, then hacked it up and dumped it in a remote area where hunters found it in October, police said. \n In separate interviews with The Associated Press, the now-grown former foster daughters, all of whom lived with Sara Packer several years before Grace's rape and murder, said Sara abused her adopted daughter and clearly favored Grace's biological brother, who was also adopted. \n \"Her favorite child, and you could see it plain as day, had always been Gracie's brother,\" said Jade Tenezaca, now 27. \"She was more demanding on Gracie to be normal. But Gracie is not normal. Gracie had a learning disability.\" \n Tenezaca recounted an episode that, in hindsight, seems chilling. Sara was watching the TV crime drama \"CSI\" once and casually mentioned that if she ever killed someone, she'd dismember the body and burn the pieces to ash, Tenezaca said. \n \"It kind of freaked me out,\" she said. \n Sara and her husband at the time, David Packer, fostered dozens of children before David was arrested in 2010 and sent to prison for sexually assaulting Grace and a 15-year-old foster daughter at their home in Allentown, about an hour north of Philadelphia. \n Sara Packer lost her job as an adoptions supervisor for nearby Northampton County in April 2010, and she was barred from taking in any more foster children. But she wasn't charged with a crime related to her husband's abuse, and Grace and her brother continued to live in the home. \n Pennsylvania's child-welfare agency is investigating the circumstances around Grace's death. \n The abused foster daughter, now 25, told the AP that the sexual abuse by David Packer began when she was 15, shortly after she moved into the home, and went on for years. The AP is withholding the name of the woman because she is a victim of sexual abuse. \n David moved the woman to a third-floor bedroom near the one he shared with Sara, she said. He would tie her to the bedpost and leave her there all night, she said. He would tie her to a chair and gag her. He dressed her in revealing outfits and made her go on a diet. He sexually abused her. \n She said she felt she had nowhere to turn. \n \"After a while, I just gave up, mentally and physically. What was I supposed to do?\" said the woman, adding she twice tried killing herself while living in the home and was hospitalized. \n Sara Packer, the woman said, had to know about the abuse. Prosecutors say Sara was aware of her husband's sexual contact with the foster daughter at least by the time the girl became an adult. \n The now-grown foster daughter said she was unaware at the time that David Packer was also abusing Grace. But, she said, she did see Sara treat Grace horribly. \n \"Some parts of (Grace's) brain didn't work like ours, and you'd have to tell her more than a few times to do things. And Sara didn't like that. She yelled, she screamed. She hit her. She was just a big bully to her,\" the woman said. \n Sara Packer's lawyer said he has not yet seen police or child-welfare files from the 2010 investigation of David Packer, and does not have evidence that his client was involved in wrongdoing. He noted she maintained custody of Grace and her brother after David went to prison. \n \"It's a good sign they investigated the family and didn't pull the kids,\" said the lawyer, John Fioravanti Jr. \"That suggests they didn't think she was involved.\" \n The defense team has only just begun to investigate Sara's life and the criminal charges, Fioravanti said. Her work history in Northampton County \u2014 rising from case worker to supervisor over seven years before she was fired amid her husband's criminal investigation \u2014 suggests she was a dedicated child-care worker, he said. \n Given those accomplishments, he said, \"it's just beyond belief that all of a sudden you have this monster.\" \n Sara and David Packer divorced last year. \n Crystal Rodack, a third former foster daughter, spent only a few months in the Packer home. But in January 2010, she said, she looked at David Packer's phone and found photos and videos showing him sexually abusing the other foster daughter. She alerted relatives, who immediately called police. \n Rodack said she always felt uncomfortable in the home. And, like the other former foster children, she said Grace took a back seat to her brother. \n \"They were really mean to Gracie in the home. She was always in trouble,\" Rodack said. \"They would hit her, they would ground her and take stuff from her and keep her in her room. I felt bad for her.\" \n Yet the girl remained upbeat, Tenezaca said. \n \"Gracie was never in a bad mood. Gracie was always happy and fun, and she always wanted to be with the girls,\" she said. \"She was warm. She would open her heart to anyone and everyone. If you gave her the chance, she would be your best friend.\" \n Tenezaca said she gave birth while still in the Packers' care. Sara Packer urged her to place the child for adoption, Tenezaca said, with Sara as the adoptive parent. Tenezaca agreed but changed her mind and kept the child. \n \"I wanted to do it,\" she said, \"but something in me said, 'Don't do it, don't do it, you're going to regret it.' And I'm thanking God I never did it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-foster kids: Abuse was routine in dismembered teen's home"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n State Department Undersecretary for Management Patrick F. Kennedy testified, in Sept. 2011, on Capitol Hill in Washington. Kennedy, a top U.S. diplomat who played a prominent role in the Benghazi investigations and controversy over Hillary Clinton's emails is resigning. \n WASHINGTON >> A number of senior career diplomats are leaving the State Department after the Trump administration accepted their resignations from presidentially appointed positions. \n The State Department said today that several senior management officials as well as a top arms control diplomat would be leaving. All had submitted their resignations prior to Donald Trump's January 20 inauguration as is required of officials holding jobs appointed by the president. They were not required to leave the foreign service but chose to retire or resign for personal reasons, the department said. \n While none of the officials has linked his or her departure explicitly to Trump, many diplomats have privately expressed concern about serving in his administration given the unorthodox positions he's taken on many foreign policy issues. \n Turnover among senior leadership during presidential transitions is not unusual, although the career diplomats who are leaving the foreign service entirely had served under both Republican and Democratic presidents. \n More resignations are expected to be accepted as Trump's diplomatic team takes shape, according to the officials who were not authorized to discuss personnel matters publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. The now vacant jobs will be filled by subordinates on an acting basis until their full-time appointments are named, the officials said. \n Among those whose resignations have been accepted are Thomas Countryman, who had been serving as the acting undersecretary of state for arms control and international security. Others include Undersecretary for Management Patrick F. Kennedy; two assistant secretaries, Joyce Barr and Michele Bond; and Gentry Smith, who directs the Office of Foreign Missions. They had been willing to remain at their posts but had no expectation of staying, according to several State Department officials familiar with the resignations. \n Other senior career diplomats to have left the State Department since Trump's election include Victoria Nuland, the former assistant secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs, and Gregory Starr, the assistant secretary for diplomatic security. Starr retired on Inauguration Day as did Lydia Muniz, a non-career political appointee who had run Overseas Building Operations. \n Trump has yet to fill many top diplomatic jobs, including the deputy secretary roles. His nominee to be secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, is expected to be confirmed by the Senate next week. \n Kennedy was relied upon by both Democrats and Republicans. He was tapped for the undersecretary post in 2007 by President George W. Bush and stayed on throughout President Barack Obama's term. His position oversees the department's budget and finances, security, global facilities and consular services. \n Kennedy, a diplomat since 1973, was criticized for the department's insufficient security at the diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, where four Americans were killed in 2012. In testy congressional hearings, Kennedy defended then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's handling of the situation and insisted there was no \"stand down\" order to the U.S. military during the attack. \n Bureau records also showed Kennedy asked for the FBI's help in 2015 to change the classification level of an email from Clinton's private server. The FBI ultimately rejected the request. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senior State Department officials resign as Trump team enters"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "Prosecutors charged a 23-year-old Makaha man for allegedly using a stolen credit card to purchase over $750 worth of items at a Waikiki retail store on Christmas Eve. \n Ryan L. McFarland, also known as Bryan McFarland, was charged Wednesday with fraudulent use of a credit card, unauthorized possession of confidential personal information and carrying a deadly weapon. \n His bail has been set at $15,000. \n At about 5 p.m. on Dec. 24, police said McFarland used a credit card stolen from a hotel room to purchase over $750 from Macy's in Waikiki. \n Police arrested McFarland in Waikiki early Wednesday. \n He has a criminal record of theft, terroristic threatening, assault and criminal contempt of court. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Makaha man charged in credit card fraud case"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People passed graffiti along the border structure in Tijuana, Mexico on Wednesday. President Donald Trump moved aggressively to tighten the nation's immigration controls Wednesday, signing executive actions to jumpstart construction of his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall and cut federal grants for immigrant-protecting \"sanctuary cities.\" \n WASHINGTON >> The Border Patrol chief is leaving the agency on the heels of President Donald Trump's announcement of an ambitious plan to build a massive wall at the Mexican border and hire 5,000 Border Patrol agents. \n It was not immediately clear whether Mark Morgan resigned or was asked to leave. \n Customs and Border Protection said today that Morgan's last official day in office will be Tuesday. But a U.S. official and a former official said Border Patrol agents were told today that Morgan was no longer with the agency. \n The U.S. official wasn't authorized to discuss the move before a public announcement and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. The former official asked not to be identified before a government announcement. \n Morgan was named to the post in June and took office in October. The former FBI agent briefly led the internal affairs department at the Border Patrol's parent agency before heading the agency of roughly 20,000 agents. \n In a statement, Kevin McAleenan, the Customs and Border Protection's acting commissioner, praised Morgan for \"his unwavering dedication to our border security mission\" and \"lifelong career in service to the nation.\" \n Morgan leaves office only seven months after being named the first outsider to lead the agency since it was founded in 1924. \n From the start, he clashed with the Border Patrol's union, which endorsed Trump early and forcefully during the presidential campaign. The National Border Patrol Council had advocated for an insider to lead the agency and sharply criticized Morgan at almost every turn. \n The former official said Morgan was not at work yesterday and did not attend a gathering at the Homeland Security Department with Trump and newly appointed Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly. \n During that visit Trump singled out the union's president, Brandon Judd, while pointedly avoiding mention of Morgan. Judd served on Trump's transition team. \n The union was incensed when Morgan told a Senate hearing Dec. 1, in response to a question from Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., that he supported a comprehensive immigration overhaul, which is often interpreted to include a path to citizenship for people who are in the country illegally. Morgan clarified his remarks in a note to Border Patrol staff the following week. \n \"I want to be clear what my position is regarding immigration reform,\" Morgan wrote. \"I do not, as some have suggested, support what is often referred to as 'blanket amnesty.' This assertion could not be further from my position. I encourage everyone to listen to my testimony.\" \n Despite pressure from the union, many agency officials said Morgan appeared to embrace the job. Less than a week ago, the first message on his new Twitter account read, \"Chief Morgan here \u2014 excited to use this account to share the latest news and events of the #BorderPatrol with followers.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Border Patrol chief out day after Trump border fence decree"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The injection of human stem cells into a pig blastocyst. A laser beam, indicated by a green circle with a red cross inside, was used to perforate the outer membrane to allow easy access for the needle. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A 4-week-old pig embryo which had been injected with human stem cells. The experiment was a very early step toward the possibility of growing human organs inside animals for transplantation. \n NEW YORK >> Scientists have grown human cells inside pig embryos, a very early step toward the goal of growing livers and other human organs in animals to transplant into people. \n The cells made up just a tiny part of each embryo, and the embryos were grown for only a few weeks, researchers reported today. \n Such human-animal research has raised ethical concerns. The U.S. government suspended taxpayer funding of experiments in 2015. The new work, done in California and Spain, was paid for by private foundations. \n Any growing of human organs in pigs is \"far away,\" said Juan Carlos Izpisua Belmonte of the Salk Institute in La Jolla, California, an author of the paper in the journal Cell. \n He said the new research is \"just a very early step toward the goal.\" \n Even before that is achieved, he said, putting human cells in animals could pay off for studies of how genetic diseases develop and for screening potential drugs. \n Animals with cells from different species are called chimeras (ky-MEER'-ehz). Such mixing has been done before with mice and rats. Larger animals like pigs would be needed to make human-sized organs. That could help ease the shortage of human donors for transplants. \n The Salk team is working on making humanized pancreases, hearts and livers in pigs. The animals would grow those organs in place of their own, and they'd be euthanized before the organ is removed. \n Most of the organ cells would be human. By injecting pig embryos with stem cells from the person who will get the transplant, the problem of rejection should be minimized, said another Salk researcher, Jun Wu. \n Daniel Garry of the University of Minnesota, who is working on chimeras but didn't participate in the new work, called the Cell paper \"an exciting initial step for this entire field.\" \n Here's what the new paper reports: \n Scientists used human stem cells, which are capable of producing a wide variety of specialized cells. They injected pig embryos made in the lab with three to 10 of those cells apiece, and implanted the embryos into sows. At three to four weeks of development, 186 embryos were removed and examined. \n Less than 1 in every 100,000 embryonic cells was human, which still comes to about a million human cells, Wu said. That contribution is lower than expected, he said, \"but we were very happy to see we actually can see the human cells after four weeks of development.\" \n The cells generated the precursors of muscle, heart, pancreas, liver and spinal cord tissue in the embryos. The researchers said they plan to test ways to focus human cells on making specific tissues while avoiding any contribution to the brain, sperm or eggs. \n That addresses ethical concerns that the approach could accidentally lead to pigs that gain some human qualities in their brains, or make human egg or sperm. \n There was no sign of that in the new research. The government, meanwhile, has signaled that it may lift the federal funding ban soon but impose extra oversight of any proposed work. \n A pig might not always have to be brought to term, Belmonte and Wu said. Even a pig fetus might provide human pancreatic cells to treat diabetes, or kidney cells to repair injuries to that organ, they said. \n The University of Minnesota's Garry said the research offers some direction about what kind of human stem cells will work best. And it shows a need for boosting the number of human cells that appear in the embryo, he said. \n Hiromitsu Nakauchi of Stanford University said his own unpublished experiments with pig and sheep embryos also found a sparse contribution from injected human cells. That's a challenge for making organs, but it might be surmounted by focusing cells on doing that job, he said. \n Ethics experts were also impressed by the results. \"It really does give a green light to explore more,\" said Insoo Hyun of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. \n Hyun said he understood why some people might object on moral grounds to making animals with human organs. \n \"It seems kind of creepy,\" he said. But \"this is a strategy to help save human lives\" and so it is justified if properly done, he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Scientists take first steps to growing human organs in pigs"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Laura Enever, upper left, and Felicity Palmateer, both of Australia, rode a wave at \"Jaws\" in Haiku in November. A high surf warning is in effect for the north and west shores of Oahu, Kauai, Niihau and Molokai and Maui's north shore. \n A high surf warning was extended this morning for the north and west shores of Oahu, Kauai, Niihau and Molokai and Maui's north shore. \n The warning is in effect until noon today. \n The National Weather Service said a large northwest swell continues to generate high surf this morning, mostly to the smaller islands. Forecasters warn beachgoers of dangerous surf and shorebreaks. \n The weather service said 20- to 25-foot waves are expected along the north and west shores of Kauai County and the north shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui. Surf conditions are predicted to drop to 12 to 18 feet this afternoon. \n Fifteen- to 20-foot waves are also forecasted for the west shores of Oahu and Molokai this morning and are likely to drop to 10 to 15 feet later today. \n The weather service said surf conditions are expected to continue to subside tonight. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf warning extended for most islands"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto spoke during a press conference at Los Pinos presidential residence in Mexico City on Monday. Nieto said today he will not attend a planned Jan. 31 meeting with President Donald J. Trump, hours after Trump tweeted that the meeting should be canceled if Mexico won't pay for a border wall. \n MEXICO CITY >> Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto today canceled a planned Jan. 31 meeting with President Donald J. Trump, hours after Trump tweeted that the meeting should be scrapped if Mexico won't pay for a border wall. \n Pena Nieto's message on Twitter ended days of uncertainty about how he would respond to Trump's aggressive stance toward the country, and illustrated the challenges world leaders are likely to face in dealing with Trump's voluble, Twitter-based diplomacy. \n It also signaled a remarkable souring of relations between the U.S. and its immediate southern neighbor, one of America's largest trading partners and a country with which it shares a nearly 2,000-mile border. \n \"This morning we have informed the White House I will not attend the working meeting planned for next Tuesday,\" Pena Nieto tweeted. \n \"Mexico reaffirms its willingness to work with the United States to reach agreements that benefit both nations,\" he added. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded to the Mexican president's announcement, saying: \"We'll look for a date to schedule something in the future. We will keep the lines of communication open.\" \n Earlier today, Trump had tweeted that \"If Mexico is unwilling to pay for the badly needed wall, then it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting\" in Washington D.C. \n Trump said Wednesday he would start building a U.S.-Mexico border wall and has vowed to make Mexico pay for it. Mexico opposes the wall and has repeatedly said it won't pay. \n Officials had said Mexico was \"considering\" canceling after the border wall announcement, but Trump appeared to beat Mexico to the punch in that game of brinkmanship. \n Former foreign relations secretary Jorge Castaneda told local media that after Trump's tweet, \"Pena Nieto has no other choice but to say 'I'm not going.'\" \n Trump's unpredictable style appeared to catch Mexico's normally quiet and cautious diplomacy off guard. \n \"I think that, in general, diplomacy is not conducted via Twitter,\" Finance Secretary Jose Antonio Meade told Radio Formula. \n Mexico's best-known opposition politician, leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, tweeted that \"in the face of Trump's latest outburst, don't go to the meeting, and submit an urgent complaint to the U.N. for human rights violations.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mexican president cancels planned meeting with Trump"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actor Shia LeBeouf, left, stood in front of a livesteam camera with the words \"HE WILL NOT DIVIDE US\" posted on a wall outside of the the Museum of the Moving Image as members of the public joined LeBeouf in chanting the words \"He will Not Divide Us\" in the Queens borough of New York. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shia LaBeouf arrived at the Los Angeles premiere of \"Man Down\" at ArcLight Cinemas Hollywood on Nov. 30. LaBeouf was arrested early this morning after he allegedly got into an altercation with another man outside a New York City museum. \n NEW YORK >> Actor Shia LaBeouf was arrested in New York City early today after he got into an altercation with another man during a performance art project that has seen him chanting \"He will not divide us\" in front of a live camera since Donald Trump's first day as president. \n Police said LaBeouf pulled the scarf of a 25-year-old man outside the Museum of the Moving Image in Queens, scratching his face in the process. They said he also pushed the man, who refused medical attention. \n The tussle happened on the seventh day of a livestream that LaBeouf and two collaborators intend to have running 24 hours a day for the next four years. \n They have invited the public to repeat the phrase \"He will not divide us,\" into a camera mounted on an outdoor wall. \n It was unclear whether the camera captured any of today's confrontation, but it did show the aftermath, including LaBeouf being handcuffed and led off by police. \n In the moments before his arrest, he issued a plea into the camera. \n \"Hey, be nice. Everybody be nice down here, man. Just be nice! That's the only requirement. Be nice!\" he said. \"That's all I ask. Be nice. Pro this, pro that. Cool. But be nice.\" \n The camera went live the morning of the inauguration. LeBeouf has been a frequent presence. Most of the time he is surrounded by enthusiastic supporters, but the cameras have also shown him getting aggressive with fellow participants. \n In one instance, he shoved a man who said \"Hitler did nothing wrong.\" \n In another, he bumped chests with a man who began reciting a white supremacist slogan. \n Videos posted on social media show LaBeouf returning to the site before sunrise to resume chanting. \n He faces a misdemeanor assault charge and is due in court April 4. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Actor Shia LaBeouf arrested on camera during NYC livestream"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y. >> A Long Island couple married for 70 years has died just hours apart at their assisted living residence. \n The causes of their deaths weren't provided. \n The New York City natives and longtime New Hyde Park residents met in the early 1940s at a bank where they both worked. They married in 1946 after William Bauder returned from serving with the Navy in the Pacific during World War II. \n A funeral service for the couple is scheduled Friday morning at a New Hyde Park church. Their survivors include their three children and five grandchildren. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New York couple married 70 years dies just hours apart"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, accompanied by Vice President Mike Pence, give a 'thumbs-up' as they walk to the Oval Office of the White House in Washington on Wednesday after a visit to the Homeland Security Department. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is scrutinizing studies and data published by scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency, while new work is under a \"temporary hold\" before it can be released. \n The communications director for President Donald Trump's transition team at EPA, Doug Ericksen, said Wednesday the review extends to all existing content on the federal agency's website, including details of scientific evidence showing that the Earth's climate is warming and man-made carbon emissions are to blame. \n Ericksen clarified his earlier statements he made to The Associated Press, which reported that the Trump administration was mandating that any studies or data from EPA scientists undergo review by political appointees before they can be released to the public. He said he was speaking about existing scientific information on the EPA website that is under review by members of the Trump administration's transition team. \n He said new work by the agency's scientists is subject to the same \"temporary hold\" as other kinds of public releases, which he said would likely be lifted by Friday. He said there was no mandate to subject studies or data to political review. \n Former EPA staffers under both Republican and Democratic presidents said the restrictions imposed under Trump far exceed the practices of past administrations. \n Ericksen said no decisions have yet been made about whether to strip mentions of climate change from epa.gov \n \"We're taking a look at everything on a case-by-case basis, including the web page and whether climate stuff will be taken down,\" Erickson said in an earlier interview with the AP. \"Obviously with a new administration coming in, the transition time, we'll be taking a look at the web pages and the Facebook pages and everything else involved here at EPA.\" \n Asked specifically about scientific data being collected by agency scientists, such as routine monitoring of air and water pollution, Ericksen responded, \"Everything is subject to review.\" \n Trump press secretary Sean Spicer appeared to distance the president from the issue, telling reporters the communications clampdown at EPA wasn't directed by the White House. \n Trump's nominee for EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, said during his Senate confirmation hearing last week that he disagreed with past statements by the president alleging that global warming is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese to harm U.S. economic competitiveness. But like Trump, Pruitt has a long history of publicly questioning the validity of climate science. \n William K. Reilly, who was EPA administrator under Republican President George H.W. Bush, said what seems to be happening with science at the agency is \"going down a very dark road.\" \n The EPA's 14-page scientific integrity document, enacted during the Obama administration, describes how scientific studies were to be conducted and reviewed in the agency. It said scientific studies should eventually be communicated to the public, the media and Congress \"uncompromised by political or other interference.\" \n The scientific integrity document expressly \"prohibits managers and other Agency leadership from intimidating or coercing scientists to alter scientific data, findings or professional opinions or inappropriately influencing scientific advisory boards.\" It provides ways for employees who know the science to disagree with scientific reports and policies and offers them some whistleblower protection. \n George Gray, the assistant administrator for EPA's Office of Research and Development during the Republican administration of President George W. Bush, said scientific studies were reviewed usually at lower levels and even when they were reviewed at higher levels, it was to give officials notice about the studies \u2014 not for editing of content. \n \"Scientific studies would be reviewed at the level of a branch or a division or laboratory,\" said Gray, now professor of public health at George Washington University. \"Occasionally things that were known to be controversial would come up to me as assistant administrator and I was a political appointee. Nothing in my experience would go further than that.\" \n \"There's no way to win if you try to change things,\" Gray said. \n The AP and other media outlets reported earlier this week that emails sent internally to EPA staff mandated a temporary blackout on media releases and social media activity, as well as a freeze on contract approvals and grant awards. \n Ericksen said Tuesday that the agency was preparing to greenlight nearly all of the $3.9 billion in pending contracts that were under review. Ericksen said he could not immediately provide details about roughly $100 million in distributions that will remain frozen. \n The uncertainty about the contract and grant freeze coupled with the lack of information flowing from the agency since Trump took office have raised fears that states and other recipients could lose essential funding for drinking water protection, hazardous waste oversight and a host of other programs. \n The agency also took a potential first step Tuesday toward killing environmental rules completed as President Barack Obama's term wound down. At least 30 were targeted in the Federal Register for delayed implementation, including updated pollution rulings for several states, renewable fuel standards and limits on the amount of formaldehyde that can leach from wood products. \n Jared Blumenfeld, who served until last year as EPA's regional administrator for California and the Pacific Northwest, compared what is happening to a \"hostile takeover\" in the corporate world. \n \"Ericksen and these other folks that have been brought in \u2026 have basically put a hold on everything,\" said Blumenfeld, who regularly speaks with former colleagues still at the agency. \"The level of mismanagement being exercised during this transition is startling and the impact on the public is alarming.\" \n For example, he said EPA employees aren't clear whether they can direct contractors who handle all of California's Superfund sites. Some EPA employees have taken to their own social media accounts to say what's happening inside the agency, despite fears of retaliation. \n \"There's a strong sense of resistance,\" Blumenfeld said. \n The AP and other media outlets reported earlier this week that emails sent internally to EPA staff mandated a temporary blackout on media releases and social media activity, as well as a freeze on contract approvals and grant awards. \n Ericksen said Tuesday that the agency was preparing to greenlight nearly all of the $3.9 billion in pending contracts that were under review. Ericksen said he could not immediately provide details about roughly $100 million in distributions that will remain frozen. \n The uncertainty about the contract and grant freeze coupled with the lack of information flowing from the agency since Trump took office have raised fears that states and other recipients could lose essential funding for drinking water protection, hazardous waste oversight and a host of other programs. \n The agency also took a potential first step Tuesday toward killing environmental rules completed as President Barack Obama's term wound down. At least 30 were targeted in the Federal Register for delayed implementation, including updated pollution rulings for several states, renewable fuel standards and limits on the amount of formaldehyde that can leach from wood products. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow AP environmental reporter Biesecker at Twitter.com/mbieseck \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "EPA science under scrutiny by Trump political staff"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVETISER.COM \n UH Medical School faculty member David Horio, right, holds a sign along Ala Moana Boulevard with fellow faculty and students during an organized protest demonstration in support of #ProtectOurPatients on Jan. 9 near University of Hawaii's John A. Burns School of Medicine facility in Kakaako. #ProtectOurPatients is a nationwide, grassroots movement organized by medical students to raise awareness about the potential repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , frequently referred to as Obamacare. \n A postelection survey of primary care physicians reveals that majorities of the doctors that first treat most Americans do not support some of the GOP's most widely circulated plans to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. \n Conducted in December and January and published online Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine, the new survey shows that nearly three-quarters of general practitioners favored making changes to the Obama administration's signature health care reform measure. \n But in this nationally representative sample of primary care doctors, only 15 percent favored the law's repeal. Among responding physicians who voted for Donald Trump, only 38 percent favored the law's repeal. \n That makes the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, far less popular among the physicians on the front lines of medicine than it is in the American body politic. A Kaiser Family Foundation poll taken after the November 2016 election found that 26 percent of Americans wanted to see Obamacare repealed. \n Like President Donald Trump, primary care doctors were aligned solidly behind a continued guarantee of access to insurance irrespective of patients' pre-existing conditions (95.1 percent approved). And a broad majority (87.6 percent) said they supported a provision of the health care law that allows young adults up to 26 to stay on their parents' insurance plans. \n Beyond that, however, the survey uncovers scant support for many proposals that have emerged as leading Republican alternatives to the health care law's provisions. As lawmakers debate the details, many of their proposals would shift health care costs toward patients, pare some benefits and extend less financial help for many who could struggle to afford insurance coverage. \n But among primary care docs, just 29 percent expressed support for measures that would expand the use of health insurance plans with high deductibles. \n Some 42 percent of respondents said they oppose further deregulation of private insurance markets. Among the most visible GOP deregulation proposals now circulating is a plan to allow insurance companies to sell policies across state lines. \n And 58.6 percent expressed support for tax credits to help Medicaid-eligible people purchase private insurance policies. \n Among the survey's most striking findings was strong support for an extension of the Affordable Care Act that is absent from any GOP proposals: Two-thirds of primary care physicians endorsed the idea that any health care reform should include a public insurance option resembling Medicare that would compete with private plans. \n Study co-author Dr. Craig Evan Pollack, an internal medicine specialist at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, said he was struck by the strength of physicians' opposition to measures that increased complexity and shifted costs toward patients. He suggested it was a direct result of doctors' experience in caring for patients. \n \"As physicians, we see people struggle with out-of-pocket costs, deciding which types of care they're able to afford and making very challenging decisions,\" said Pollack. Primary care physicians, he added, \"try to advocate for their patients.\" \n The new survey reflects the answers of 426 physicians drawn from a master file of the American Medical Association and is considered a nationally representative sample. Its findings appear to mark a significant shift in physicians' opinions about the Affordable Care Act. In the opening months of 2015, 48 percent of primary care physicians had a favorable opinion of the Affordable Care Act and 52 percent viewed it unfavorably. \n Dr. David Grande, an internal medicine physician at the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine, said that as the Affordable Care Act got up and running, virtually all of his colleagues have treated new patients who had previously been uninsured or who struggled to hold on to insurance. \n The possibility of the ACA's repeal in 2015 \"was hypothetical \u2014 it was political rhetoric,\" said Grande. \"This is no longer hypothetical; the threat is quite real. And the idea of repeal is something that makes primary care physicians nervous,\" he added. \n The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that if the law is not replaced, 18 million Americans would lose or drop their health insurance in the first year after the ACA is repealed, and as many as 32 million more would drop off the rolls over the next 10 years. \n The survey did reveal one respect in which primary care physicians mirror many Americans' distrust of the Affordable Care Act. Just under half \u2014 49.5 percent of the physicians surveyed \u2014 expressed support for tax penalties for individuals who do not purchase health insurance. \n That \"universal mandate\" is the mechanism the ACA used to ensure that young and healthy people join the insurance pool and help offset the costs of the pool's sickest participants, spreading the costs of care. The finding that fewer than half of doctors support the mandate underscores the \"important need to educate health care providers and the public about the fundamental inseparability of these provisions,\" the authors wrote. \n Grande said that physicians' tepid support for a universal mandate is stronger than that in the general public, indicating that \"they probably understand that connection\" a little more than some. \"But health insurance and policy is very complex for consumers and for physicians as well. So I'm not terribly surprised,\" he added. \n ", "author": "Los Angeles Times", "title": "Primary care doctors show support for keeping 'Obamacare'"}

{"date": "January 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the Russian Defense Ministry Press Service shows Russian air force Tu-22M3 bombers strike the Islamic State group wldtargets in Syria on Tuesday. The mission, the third such bombing raid in four days, targeted the Islamic State group around Deir el-Zour in eastern Syria where the Islamic State group has launched an offensive against Syrian government forces. \n MOSCOW >> The Kremlin said Thursday that a U.S. plan for safe zones in Syria should be thoroughly considered. \n Asked to comment on a draft executive order that President Donald Trump is expected to sign this week, Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman said it was important to \"weigh all possible consequences\" of the measure. \n Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call with reporters that the U.S. hasn't consulted with Russia on the subject and noted that \"it's important not to exacerbate the situation with refugees.\" \n While suspending visas for Syrians and others, the order directs the Pentagon and the State Department to produce a plan for safe zones in Syria and the surrounding area within 90 days. It includes no details. \n Safe zones, proposed by both Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton during the campaign, were ruled out by the Obama administration for fear it would bring the U.S. into direct conflict with Syrian President Bashar Assad and Russia, which has been waging an air campaign to aid his forces since September 2015. \n In October, the Russian military specifically warned the U.S. against striking Syrian government forces, saying its air defense weapons in Syria would fend off any attack. \n Russia has welcomed Trump's pledge to mend ties with Moscow and potentially partner with it against the Islamic State and other extremist groups. \n But Trump has provided few details about how he plans to approach Syria's complex conflict, and the Kremlin, which was bitterly at odds with the Obama administration, has said that rebuilding trust will take time. \n Peskov said no agreement has been reached on a Trump-Putin phone call and there have been no contacts between their administrations yet beyond routine diplomatic exchanges. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia urges caution on U.S. plan for safe zones in Syria"}

