{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A previously created memorial, right, stands as Baltimore police work at a scene where multiple people were shot in Baltimore, Saturday night, Sept. 24, 2016. Police said that none of the shootings were fatal. \n BALTIMORE >> Three gunmen shot and wounded eight people including a 3-year-old girl on an east Baltimore street Saturday night, police said, adding the suspects fled and the victims were all expected to survive. \n The shooting erupted outside some rowhouses about 8:30 p.m. after the three armed men converged on the group from different points, Baltimore Police Commissioner Ken Davis said at a news conference. \n Davis, who went to the scene, said the shooting was a premeditated act of retaliatory violence in response to a Labor Day weekend shooting in which a man was fatally shot and two women were wounded, one of them pregnant. He did not immediately explain how investigators believed the shootings were linked. \n Davis said the victims could have recognized the gunmen but authorities haven't immediately been able to identify the suspects and were still searching for them hours afterward. \n According to the commissioner, one of the armed men emerged from an alley and two others ran down the street, stopping just short of the victims before they opened fire. He added that the 3-year-old girl and her father were standing a slight distance away from the others and that the child was not an intended target. \n Authorities have said one of the attackers had a shotgun and the other two had handguns. \n Davis said that in addition to the girl, one of the victims was a woman and the rest were men. The adults ranged in age from 26 to 39. \n The shooting occurred just a block from where an outdoor fair was held earlier Saturday. Police said the attack was unrelated to the fair and grand opening for \"Open Works,\" a project billed as an innovative work space. \n Baltimore Police Spokesman T.J. Smith tweeted earlier that none of the injuries was life-threatening but he didn't elaborate further. \n Police cordoned off at least three city blocks late Saturday and were keeping bystanders away as the police commissioner stood with detectives at the scene. Nearby, detectives used flashlights to search overgrown grass in an alley near the shooting scene. Police cars also blocked a nearby intersection. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Baltimore Police: 3 gunmen shoot, wound 8 in attack"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump gestures to the crowd during a rally in Roanoke, Va., Saturday, Sept. 24, 2016. Trump faces Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton in the first of three debates Monday. \n ROANOKE, Va. >> Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump tried to make the case Saturday that he'd do more to help women from the White House than Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, a lifelong champion of women's rights who would become the nation's first female president. \n \"My opponent likes to say that for decades she's been fighting for women, that she's been fighting for children. Why, then, are 70 million American women and children living in poverty or on the brink of poverty in our country?\" Trump asked a rally crowd in Roanoke. \"For years she's been doing this and she's done nothing.\" \n The appeal came hours after Trump threatened on Twitter to invite a woman who'd had an affair with Clinton's husband, former President Bill Clinton, to sit in the first row at Monday's presidential debate. The Clinton campaign had invited Mark Cuban, a fellow billionaire and Trump rival, to the debate. \n \"If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right alongside of him!\" Trump said. \n Trump's campaign officials did not respond to requests for comment on Saturday, and it remained unclear whether Flowers would actually attend. \n Clinton's campaign spokeswoman Jennifer Palmieri responded: \"Hillary Clinton plans on using the debate to discuss the issues that make a difference in people's lives.\" She added: \"It's not surprising that Donald Trump has chosen a different path.\" \n Trump has been criticized throughout the campaign for crass comments he has made about women in the past, including insults about their physical appearance. Clinton's campaign has tried to capitalize on those comments, including with a new add that features images of adolescent girls looking at their reflections as audio of Trump's comments play. \n The tweet on Saturday underscored the challenges Trump faces as he attempts to close his deficit among female voters, whom polls show favor Clinton by significant margins. \n Trump had all but ignored issues like child care and maternity leave until the Republican National Convention when his daughter, Ivanka, suddenly said her father would work to provide affordable childcare for women. Clinton, on the other hand, released a policy a year ago and has spent much of her life advocating for women and girls. \n After graduating from law school, Clinton worked for the Children's Defense Fund. She also co-founded the Arkansas Advocates for Children & Families early in her career and delivered a seminal speech as first lady declaring that \"women's rights are human rights.\" As secretary of state, she stressed the importance of women's rights in of U.S. foreign policy. \n But on Saturday, Trump tried to argue that Clinton had failed in her objectives. \n \"Why has she provided no relief for the millions of Americans in search of affordable, reliable, quality childcare?\" he asked at the rally, suggesting that in Clinton's roles as first lady, senator or secretary of state, she had the power to implement that kind of program on her own. \n Trump also pointed to his own record of hiring women to some of the highest positons in his company and campaign. \n Trump is indeed the first Republican nominee to hire a woman as his campaign manager. And he has a history of hiring women to high-profile leadership positions, which was especially rare in the real estate industry in the 1980s and 1990s. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says he'll do more for women as president than Clinton"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n To much of the world, Charlotte is the Queen City, a gleaming downtown, state-of-the-art stadiums, sparkling new mass transit, the nation's banking capital. But a very different Charlotte came into the spotlight in the past few days. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. >> To much of the world, Charlotte is the Queen City \u2014 a gleaming downtown, state-of-the-art stadiums, sparkling new mass transit, the nation's banking capital. \n But a very different Charlotte came into the spotlight in the past few days. \n Move outside the city's core and there are neighborhoods such as the one where a black police officer shot and killed a black man, Keith Scott, setting off violent protests. Places where residents tire of seeing police only when teams of officers sweep in to make arrests, and remember well other blacks killed by police officers who did not face punishment. \n Their anger at Scott's death made its way downtown. Rioting in Charlotte's center killed one protester, shattered windows and rattled finance executives whose salaries boost the city's median income to $10,000 above the national average. They told their workers in the skyscrapers to stay home. \n To the protesters, home is a world away from those skyscrapers. \n \"For the people we serve, the Queen City is only the Queen City if you get on the train and ride into the glimmering, crystal core,\" said the Rev. Peter Wherry of Mayfield Memorial Missionary Baptist Church, about 5 miles from downtown. \n Nearly all of Charlotte lies in Mecklenburg County, which the U.S. Census Bureau estimated had the largest increase in the country in the percentage of people living in distressed neighborhoods during the first 15 years of this century \u2014 an index that combines unemployment, poverty rates and other items, like how many businesses close. \n Those pockets of poverty aren't immediately evident. Charlotte doesn't have many stereotypical slums. Instead, lower-rent housing is in apartment complexes or condominiums nestled behind tree-lined roads or off the main thoroughfares. \n That's the kind of place where Scott lived. Tracy McLean lived in the condominium complex just down the road; she said teams of police frequently come to the neighborhoods full of black and Latino families in a show of force, looking for suspects they often don't find, instead of talking to residents and getting to know them. \n \"The fear needs to be dispelled,\" Tracy McLean said. \"It's fear, and it's ridiculous fear.\" \n In the mid-1990s, as Charlotte pushed to become a world-class city, its leaders cracked down on crime with a heavy-handed police force. Longtime African-American residents remember James Cooper, a 19-year-old black man killed by a white officer in 1996 as he reached back in his car window during a traffic stop to check on his 4-year-old daughter. The officer said he thought he had a gun. \n They also remember Carolyn Boetticher, a passenger in a car that sped toward and then past white officers doing a license check in a high-crime neighborhood. Police fired 22 shots that came from the front, side and rear of the fleeing car. She was shot in the neck. \n None of the officers faced criminal charges, but Charlotte created a citizen review panel for its police department. \n And even when Charlotte police seem to get it right, the black community has been left feeling justice was not served. Jonathan Ferrell was a 24-year-old unarmed black man shot 10 times by white officer Randall Kerrick. Ferrell had just crashed his car in a suburban neighborhood and banged on a neighbor's door looking for help. She called 911. \n Charlotte police charged Kerrick with voluntary manslaughter one day later. But the jury couldn't reach a unanimous verdict as his trial and state prosecutors decided not to drop the charge. There were peaceful protests then, which prompted headlines like, \"How Charlotte Avoided Ferguson's Fate.\" \n Activist Jibril Hough organized those peaceful protests. He said Charlotte's black community remembers Ferrell's death, and that pain has just been made worse by recent shootings in Tulsa, Oklahoma; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and elsewhere. \n \"I think if Jonathan Ferrell would happen today instead of happening three years ago, you would get much of the same reaction as you've seen in the past 48 hours,\" he said. \"It's been building, but it's not just what happened here in Charlotte. We have social media now, people see what's happening in other states.\" \n Hough calls Charlotte \"Oz,\" a city that cares about its appearance and the people who live in its $400,000 one-bedroom downtown condos and eat $50 steak lunches, but not about substance. \n \"When people come into town, they see nice, shiny buildings. But when it comes to working-class people, they don't put pressure on these businesses to say what are you going to do for the working class,\" Hough said. \n The growing economic disparity in Charlotte and the recent violence is on the mind of Hugh McColl, the former CEO of Bank of America who was the most public face of a group of bank executives that relentlessly boosted Charlotte during its massive growth to a city on the world's stage over the past three decades. \n If Charlotte wants to keep rapidly growing, it must provide affordable housing, a better standard of living and good paying jobs for people of all races and especially for children growing up in poor households, McColl said to the crowd during a free concert Friday by the Charlotte Symphony. \n \"Black lives do matter. All lives matter. Our children's lives matter, and their future matters a great deal,\" McColl said. \n A similar message comes from the Rev. William Barber, president of the North Carolina NAACP. \n When people work two jobs but don't make enough to own a home, they get discouraged, and seeing video after video of black men dying makes them lose hope and start to wonder if they matter to society, Barber said. \n It reminded him of his lifeguard days, when Barber said he was warned that drowning people would violently fight off the swimmers trying to help them out of confusion and fear. \n \"The type of riots we are seeing in Charlotte is a systemic response for people who are drowning in injustice,\" he said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Jeffrey Collins contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to reflect that it was a black officer, not a white officer, who shot and killed Scott. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Black community sees Charlotte as glimmering, fake Oz"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An aerial view shows the Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST) in the remote Pingtang county in southwest China's Guizhou province. China has begun operating the world's largest radio telescope to help search for extraterrestrial life. \n BEIJING >> The world's largest radio telescope began searching for signals from stars and galaxies and, perhaps, extraterrestrial life Sunday in a project demonstrating China's rising ambitions in space and its pursuit of international scientific prestige. \n Beijing has poured billions into such ambitious scientific projects as well as its military-backed space program, including its second space station earlier this month. \n Measuring 500 meters in diameter, the radio telescope is nestled within a stunning landscape of lush green karst formations in southern Guizhou province. It took five years and $180 million to complete and surpasses that of the 300-meter Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico, a dish used in research on stars that led to a Nobel Prize. \n The official Xinhua News Agency said hundreds of astronomers and enthusiasts watched the launch of the Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope, or FAST. \n Researchers quoted by state media said FAST would search for gravitational waves, detect radio emissions from stars and galaxies and listen for signs of intelligent extraterrestrial life. \n \"The ultimate goal of FAST is to discover the laws of the development of the universe,\" Qian Lei, an associate researcher with the National Astronomical Observatories of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told state broadcaster CCTV. \n \"In theory, if there is civilization in outer space, the radio signal it sends will be similar to the signal we can receive when a pulsar (spinning neutron star) is approaching us,\" Qian said. \n Earlier this month, China launched the Tiangong 2, its second space station and the latest step in its military-backed program that intends to send a mission to Mars in the coming years. In August, the country launched the first quantum satellite experts said would advance efforts to develop the ability to send communications that can't be penetrated by hackers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China begins operating world's largest radio telescope"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, second right, talks with Japan's Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Minister Keiichi Ishii, second left, during their meeting held on the sidelines of G7 Transport Ministers' meeting in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture, north of Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said Sunday that his counterparts in the Group of Seven nations welcomed U.S. guidelines on regulating self-driving cars and have agreed to work together on creating such standards to maintain safety. \n \"There was actually a very enthusiastic reception to the policy,\" he said. \"We did a good job of inventorying what each country is doing and laying out areas that we want to explore further.\" \n Such issues include cybersecurity, ethics and privacy, wireless spectrum questions and many other issues, he said, while noting that reaching a resolution might take years, meaning the technology would be moving faster. Foxx called the U.S. guidelines released earlier this month the most comprehensive on autonomous vehicles, coming out ahead of the rest of the world. \n Foxx and other transportation officials from the G-7 met over the weekend in the Japanese resort town of Karuizawa. Speaking by telephone with The Associated Press, Foxx stressed road tests on autonomous vehicles must continue to encourage innovation. \n U.S. electric car maker Tesla's Model S that was using the semi-autonomous mode crashed in May. The driver died after crashing into a tractor-trailer. Tesla is introducing improvements to its Autopilot system to make it safer. \n \"One of the things I think that autonomous vehicles suffer from is that they get compared to perfection, and not to the 94 percent of car crashes that are attributable to human factors. We have to make the right comparisons,\" Foxx said, while declining comment on the ongoing investigation on Tesla. \"These vehicles will not be absolutely perfect in terms of having no accidents, but by comparison they can be markedly better.\" \n Many automakers besides Tesla are testing or have rolled out automated vehicles, including Ford Motor Co., based in Dearborn, Michigan, and Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. of Japan. \n The new U.S. guidelines are meant to bring order to the technology's development. Proponents say such technology can make cars safer because machines can react faster and they are less prone to human error. But even experts remain cautious. \n Among the recent forays into self-driving technology are the partnership between Chinese-owned Volvo Cars and the Swedish-based automotive safety group Autoliv Inc., as well as Volvo teaming up with U.S. ride-hailing company Uber. Ford has announced a $75 million investment in Velodyne Inc., which makes laser sensors. BMW Group, Intel Corp. and Mobileye have joined together to develop and sell autonomous driving technology. \n Hans Greimel, Asia Editor for Automotive News, believes the new U.S. guidelines are an important \"proactive\" step in seeking powers to approve autonomous vehicles before they're brought to market, marking a departure from the past, when regulators enforce rules after the cars are already sold. \n \"They are a clear step toward clearing the way for the next-generation of automobiles. The technology of autonomous vehicles is mostly there. What is lacking is a clear guideline for how the technologies should be applied,\" said Greimel. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. guidelines on self-driving cars get good reception at G-7"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, back left, greets Prince William, The Duke of Cambridge, as Governor General David Johnston, back, looks on upon the arrival of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Kate, and their children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, in Victoria, British Columbia. \n VICTORIA, British Columbia >> Little Princess Charlotte, Prince George and their parents, Prince William and Kate, arrived in Canada on Saturday for their first official trip overseas as a family of four. \n Charlotte nibbled on her finger while being held by Kate as they were greeted by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his wife. A shy George hid behind his dad while holding his hand and looked for his mother who crouched down to comfort him. George later waved for the cameras but looked a little overwhelmed after a long flight. \n The eight-day trip marks the first overseas jaunt for 1-year-old Charlotte. Her brother, 3-year-old George, has visited Australia and New Zealand on an official tour. \n The public will only see the children once at their departure on Oct. 1 and the media will only see the kids a few times during an eight-day visit. The airport welcoming ceremony was closed to the public. \n Royal watcher Debbie Burnham expressed disappointment but said she understands considering the distance traveled and all the attention. \n \"It would have been overwhelming for them,\" she said. \"This allows the parents to relax.\" \n Kate wore a blue Jenny Packham dress with a hat by Lock and Co. and a maple leaf broach lent to her by Queen Elizabeth II for the Canada trip. \n On their first official trip as newlyweds in 2011, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge won raucous cheers and endeared themselves to Canadian crowds. On this visit the royals will visit British Columbia and the Yukon. \n The kids did not attend the official welcoming ceremony where several thousand people greeted the royal couple at British Columbia's ornate government buildings in the provincial capital of Victoria. \n \"When we were here last time we were married only three months. The warm welcome that you gave us at that important part of our lives meant a lot to us and we've never forgotten it,\" William told the crowd. \"That is why we are so pleased that George and Charlotte can be with us in Canada this time around, beginning their lifetime of friendship with this wonderful country.\" \n The 44-year-old Trudeau, who also received loud cheers, joked that getting the kids back on the plane could be a challenge after they see Canada's beautiful Pacific Coast. \n \"I know you've visited Canada before. But as any parent who has travelled with children knows, it's a different experience when you bring your whole family with you,\" Trudeau said. \"I want to commend you \u2013 and thank you \u2013 for introducing our part of the world to Prince George and Princess Charlotte.\" \n The trip is Prince William's second to the province of British Columbia. He accompanied his father, Prince Charles, and his brother Harry in 1998, 11 months after the death of their mother Princess Diana. William recalled being a shy teenager then. Crowds of frenzied teenage girls greeted the princes in Vancouver then, cementing William's status as a teen heartthrob. \n Royal watchers were thrilled to meet the couple Saturday. \n \"Oh my god, it was awesome,\" said Amber Bassett, whose daughter Akaysha, 2, gave the duchess some dahlias. \"She asked about my daughter and how old she was and she must be close in age to George. How awesome.\" \n Linda Gunther said it was fine George and Charlotte weren't there. \"They're kids. They're little,\" she said. \n Far from Victoria's marbled halls and manicured lawns, the royal couple will move to Vancouver on Sunday for a visit to the city's gritty Downtown Eastside, a dozen square blocks of poverty and addiction. They'll have tea with residents at Sheway, a support program for pregnant women and new mothers dealing with addiction and other challenges. William's mother Diana was on hand when Sheway's precursor opened in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1991. \n The royals will then visit an immigrant welcome center where they will meet with a newly arrived refugee family from Syria. More than 30,000 Syrian refugees have arrived in Canada since Trudeau was elected last fall. \n While Australia, Jamaica and Barbados have talked about becoming republics, Canada has shown less interest in replacing Queen Elizabeth II as the figurative head of state. Canadians are somewhat indifferent to the monarchy, but most have great affection for the queen, as well as her grandsons and Kate. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Gillies reported from Toronto. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prince William, Kate arrive in Canada with 2 young children"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean defector Kim Jungah cries during an interview at her house in Gunpo, South Korea. Kim, a North Korean living in the South who was separated from her child inChina, will lead three other defectors on a trip to the United States in October to seek help from U.S. and United Nations officials to get their children back. North Koreanwomen trafficked into China and sold as wives to farmers are often separated from their children when they flee to the South. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> After fleeing North Korea to avoid extreme poverty and oppression, the young woman allowed a stranger to arrange a marriage for her with a rural Chinese farmer because she had nowhere to go. An even more painful decision came later. \n She said severe abuse by her husband, including once being tied to a post, and the constant fear police would send her back to the North to face torture and prison convinced her that she needed to flee to South Korea. She decided she had to make the risky journey alone, leaving behind the young daughter she had with her Chinese husband. \n \"My heart has been torn apart,\" the 35-year-old said of the daughter she left in the northeastern Chinese town of Longjing nearly 10 years ago, when the girl was 4. \"I heard from my Chinese husband that my daughter cried herself to sleep and searched for me until she turned 8.\" \n She asked to be identified only by her surname, Kim, out of fear that publicity about her past would destroy her life in the South, where she has remarried and has two other children. \n Kim has lost touch with her daughter and is afraid to return to China, but neither she nor other defectors in similar situations have given up. Deep shame and guilt about not seeing their children and worry about social stigma in the South kept them silent for years, but some have begun pushing publicly for international help to get back their children. Four defectors plan to travel to the United States next month to seek help from U.S. and United Nations officials. \n It will not be easy. \n Experts say Chinese authorities aren't likely to accept the appeals because the women were illegal residents and their relationships were not legally recognized marriages. Their efforts to reunite with their children could be viewed as individual family problems, rather than human-rights issues requiring international intervention. \n \"Is there any female defector who had registered their marital status in China?\" said Yoon Yeo Sang, a co-founder of the Seoul-based nonprofit Database Center for North Korean Human Rights. \"For China, they were the ones who were supposed to be repatriated, and I wonder if China would accept their common-law marital status and take necessary legal steps.\" \n China's foreign ministry did not reply to questions about whether it would help the women. The defectors say they deserve international attention because their plight was primarily caused by the North's abysmal rights conditions and by China's policy of repatriating North Korean defectors who are caught hiding in the country. \n \"There are South Korean laws, Chinese laws and North Korean laws, but none of them can help us,\" said Kim Jungah, 40, a North Korean defector living in the South who was separated from her child in China. Now an activist, she will lead three other women on a trip to Washington and New York from Oct. 8-18. \n The 35\u2014year-old Kim from Longjing had initially planned to go the United States as well but said she cancelled due to worries about the publicity. \n The market for selling North Korean women into marriage in China heated up after the North suffered a devastating famine in the mid-1990s that's thought to have killed hundreds of thousands. China has significantly fewer women than men, and the imbalance is particularly acute in rural farming areas because young women often migrate to big cities seeking better economic opportunities. \n Bride trafficking of North Korean women may have eased in recent years, but thousands of North Korean women sold to Chinese men are believed to still live in China, most illegally, according to activists specializing in North Korea affairs. \n In the early years of bride trafficking, most North Korean women were lured by brokers who promised food and jobs in China; some were abducted. But later on, many have volunteered to be sold as brides because they lacked money to sneak across the border and believed living with Chinese men would decrease the danger of arrest and repatriation, according to Ahn Kyung-soo, a Seoul-based activist who has interviewed many defectors. \n Kim \u2014 the woman who agreed to be identified only by surname \u2014 said she slipped into China on her own and managed to stay at an orchard for a few days in 2002. The orchard's owner proposed that she marry one of his Chinese friends, 14 years her senior. Kim accepted because she had nowhere else to go. She later found that the orchard owner had essentially sold her to his friend as a way to clear a 6,000 yuan ($900) debt. \n After arriving in China, many women are beaten or sexually abused before being sold to husbands. \n Park Kyung-hwa, who escaped from her traffickers in 2000, said she saw brokers grope other trafficked women many times. She said brokers kicked and beat her with wooden clubs for about 20 minutes when her first attempt to escape failed. \n \"The brokers didn't see (North Korean women) as human beings, but as products to sell,\" said Park, 44. \n Young women are sometimes sent to karaoke bars or brothels, or forced to work on adult video chat sites, according to defectors and activists. \n Park said brokers tried to sell her twice to bars, although she asked to be sold as a bride. One bar owner in Shenyang examined her and two other North Korean women for 10 minutes before deciding not to buy anyone. \n \"If I was taller and a little prettier, I think I would have been sold,\" said Park, who now works for a Seoul-based shortwave radio station targeting North Koreans. She said she came to South Korea in 2002. \n Chinese looking for North Korean brides are often old and less well-off; some are disabled bachelors or widowers who work as farmers or manual laborers in rural villages. Some treat the women well, and even end up moving with their wives to South Korea. The four women traveling to the U.S. next month include one whose husband allowed her and their child to come to South Korea and sent them money. \n Other men, however, inflict horrible abuse. \n When Kim once returned days after running away, she said, her husband tied her to a wooden post for several hours in the middle of the night. She said she was forced to urinate while standing. Days before she gave birth to their daughter, she said her husband beat her with a broom until she bled from her nose because she fought with his mother. \n Many of the women flee their husbands in secret. Some tell them they are going to the South only to make money and will come back. Yet many are terrified of actually returning, out of fear they could be repatriated or even captured by North Korean secret agents. \n Kim said she regularly sent money, clothes and other gifts to her husband in China, but he broke off contact several years ago after determining she would never return. In her last phone conversation with her daughter, the child complained about being abandoned. \n Kim said life with her two South Korean children has helped her begin to understand the pain her daughter in China must have suffered. \n When one of the children was 4 \u2014 the same age the child she left behind was when she left \u2014 he \"became very anxious and made a big fuss whenever I went out or returned home late,\" Kim said. \"Think about how much more a 4-year-old girl would cry when her mom disappeared suddenly.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n Follow AP correspondent Hyung-jin Kim at www.twitter.com/hyungjin1972 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N. Korean defectors sold as brides in China want kids back"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Arcan Cetin, 20, of Oak Harbor, Wash. Patrol Sgt. Mark Francis Saturday via Twitter identified Cetin as the suspect in a shooting at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, Wash., that left several dead and sparked an intensive, nearly 24-hour manhunt. Authorities say Cetin was apprehended Saturday evening. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This video image provided by Skagit County Department of Emergency Management shows a suspect wanted by the authorities regarding a shooting at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, Wash., on Friday. \n BURLINGTON, Wash. >> The 20-year-old suspect in the deadly Washington state mall shooting said nothing and appeared \"zombie-like\" when he was arrested by authorities nearly 24 hours into an intense manhunt, authorities said. \n Island County Sheriff's Lt. Mike Hawley said he spotted Arcan Cetin from a patrol car Saturday evening in Oak Harbor, Washington, and immediately recognized him as the suspect who killed five people at the Cascade Mall in nearby Burlington. \n Hawley said at a news conference they had received information that Cetin, of Oak Harbor, was in the area. Cetin, who immigrated to the U.S. from Turkey, is a legal permanent resident who has been living in Oak Harbor, authorities said. He had been arrested once before in the county for assault, Hawley said. \n \"I literally hit my brakes, did a quick turn, I jumped out,\" Hawley said. \"We both jumped out with our guns, and he just froze.\" \n Cetin was unarmed and was carrying a satchel with a computer in it. \n \"He was kind of zombie-like,\" Hawley said. \n The suspect's arrest capped a frantic search following the slayings of five people the day before. \n The first 911 call came in just before 7 p.m. on a busy Friday night at the Cascade Mall: A man with a rifle was shooting at people in the Macy's department store. \n By the time police arrived moments later, the carnage at the Macy's makeup counter was complete. Four people were dead, and the shooter was gone, last seen walking toward Interstate 5. The fifth victim, a man, died in the early morning hours Saturday as police finished sweeping the 434,000-square-foot building. \n \"There are people waking up this morning, and their world has changed forever. The city of Burlington has probably changed forever, but I don't think our way of life needs to change,\" Burlington Mayor Steve Sexton said Saturday at a news conference. \n Authorities said it now appears the rifle was brought into the mall from a suspect vehicle that was there, Mount Vernon police Lt. Chris Cammock said Saturday night. \n Cetin has not been charged, Cammock said. He will be booked into the Skagit County Jail and is expected to appear in Skagit County District Court on Monday. \n As the small city absorbed the tragic news, critical questions remained, including the shooter's motive. \n Initially the suspect was described as Hispanic, but Hawley said that was based on initial witness statements to the shooting at the mall. \n Surveillance video captured the suspect entering the mall unarmed and then recorded him about 10 minutes later entering the Macy's with a \"hunting type\" rifle in his hand, Cammock said. \n Authorities did not say how the suspect may have obtained the weapon \u2014 whether he retrieved it from outside or picked it up in the mall \u2014 but they believe he acted alone. The weapon was recovered at the scene. \n The identities of the victims \u2014 four women who ranged in age from a teenager to a senior citizen \u2014 were withheld pending autopsies and notification of family. The identity of the man who was fatally shot was also withheld and may not be released until Monday. \n Earlier Saturday as police scrambled to find the shooter, the small city about 60 miles (97 kilometers) waited and worried. \n The community of 8,600 people is too far from Seattle to be a commuter town, but its population swells to 55,000 during the day because of a popular outlet mall, retail stores and other businesses. Burlington is the only major retail center within 30 miles (48 kilometers) in a region where agriculture is king. \n Residents gathered Saturday to comfort each other at a community gathering in a city park. \n \"It's too scary. It's too close to home,\" said Maria Elena Vasquez, who attended the gathering with her husband and two young children. \n Those who survived were still trying to process what happened as their community became the latest entry on a list of places known by the rest of world for mass shootings. \n Joanne Burkholder, 19, of nearby Mount Vernon, was watching the movie \"The Magnificent Seven\" in the mall's theater when security guards came in and told them to evacuate immediately. Dozens of panicked moviegoers gathered in the hallway, and Burkholder heard screaming as the officers escorted them to safety in a parking lot. \n As she drove home later, she had to pull over because she was shaking so hard, she told The Associated Press. \n \"I'm just very thankful for my life this morning. I've never been so terrified in my life,\" she said Saturday, trying to hold back tears as she attended the community vigil. \n \"You'd think it would happen in Everett or Seattle, but a small town of Burlington, I'd never dream something like this would happen,\" she said. \n People who believed they may have lost loved ones were being sequestered at a church three blocks from the mall, where counselors and a golden retriever therapy dog were present. \n The Seattle Times reported that one of the victims in the deadly Washington state mall shooting is a 16-year-old girl. \n Sarai Lara's mother said she had survived cancer as a young girl and was a happy student. \n Evangelina Lara told ( http://bit.ly/2cWhxJY ) the newspaper through a translator that she was shopping Friday night at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, Washington, with Sarai and her younger sister, but they split up. \n Evangelina Lara says it was confirmed at 2 a.m. Saturday that her daughter was among the five people killed. \n Dozens of people attended a Saturday evening prayer service for the victims. The gathering was held at Central United Methodist Church in nearby Sedro-Woolley, Washington. \n The Rev. Cody Natland lit five candles on a table in front of the church, one for each victim. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspect in Washington shooting 'zombie-like' when arrested"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, center, talks with Cathie Adams, past president of Texas Eagle Forum, at the annual Grassroots America We The People Champions of Freedom award dinner Friday, Sept. 23, 2016 in Tyler, Texas. Ted Cruz announced Friday he will vote for Donald Trump, a dramatic about-face that may help unite a deeply divided Republican Party months after the fiery Texas conservative called Trump a \"pathological liar\" and \"utterly amoral.\" \n AUSTIN, Texas >> Ted Cruz appears uncomfortable defending the man he says he'll vote for in November, Donald Trump. \n Addressing a policy forum organized by The Texas Tribune, the Texas senator said Saturday it was \"agonizing\" making the decision to back Trump, whom he once called a \"pathological liar\" and \"serial philanderer.\" He denied he caved in to pressure from top Republicans nationally and in his home state, saying he would have faced an outcry no matter what. \n \"Any path we took, if I supported Donald, if I didn't support Donald, the criticism was going to be there,\" Cruz told a packed auditorium. \n Cruz offered little defense of Trump's past comments on Muslim-Americans. He also said his two young daughters, while campaigning with him in the primaries, had felt the sting of Trump's comments about women. Asked whether he thought Russian President Vladimir Putin was a better leader than President Barack Obama, as Trump suggested, Cruz said, \"I have no intention of defending everything Donald Trump says or does.\" \n Cruz rocked the Republican National Convention in Cleveland by avoiding an endorsement of the nominee and instead urging delegates to \"vote your conscience.\" He held out for several months afterward, even as some polls suggested his popularity was slipping nationally and in Texas, where he could face a Republican primary challenge for re-election to the Senate in 2018. \n Trump angered Cruz in the primaries by insulting his wife and suggesting, without evidence, that his Cuban-born father could have been linked to the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Cruz said Saturday that he spoke with Trump a day earlier, after announcing that he will vote for the nominee, and Trump \"was very gracious\" but didn't apologize for what he said about his family. \n Cruz said a key reason for changing his mind was Trump's naming of a top Cruz ally, Utah Sen. Mike Lee, in his updated list of potential Supreme Court picks. Asked if he doubts Trump will keep his word about that or other promises, Cruz responded: \"I don't think it is productive for me to criticize the Republican nominee today.\" \n Cruz aides say the senator felt boxed in by his past positon on Trump because he had urged voters not to stay home in November but also didn't think any third-party candidates were viable. And he didn't want to be seen by conservatives as aiding Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n Asked Saturday, \"What happened to 'vote your conscience?'\" Cruz responded: \"It's a good question and it's still what I would urge everyone to do.\" \n But he added that he is now backing Trump because, \"By any measure, Hillary Clinton is manifestly unfit to be president.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ted Cruz calls his decision to back Trump 'agonizing'"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A technician examines the lighting grid as preparations continue for Monday's first debate presidential between Democratic Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2016, at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump needs to prove to voters that he has the policy depth and gravitas to serve as commander in chief. Hillary Clinton needs a moment to connect with Americans who question whether she can be trusted. \n In an election year that has upended political convention, the candidates' best opportunity to conquer their weaknesses will come in the most traditional of campaign forums: Monday's 90-minute, prime-time debate. \n Both campaigns expect a record-setting television audience for the high-stakes showdown, which could help tip the balance in a tight White House race. \n The visuals alone will be striking as the candidates step behind their podiums at Hofstra University in suburban New York. Clinton will be the first woman to take the stage in a presidential general election debate. Trump has spent years on Americans' television screens as a reality show host, but it can still be jarring to see him at politics' upper echelons. \n Six weeks from Election Day, and with advance voting already underway, the opening debate is one of the few opportunities left for the candidates to motivate supporters and sway a narrow band of undecided voters. According to a new Associated Press-Gfk poll, more than 85 percent of likely voters backing Clinton or Trump say their minds are completely made up. About 13 percent said they were undecided. \n The candidates' preparation has been a microcosm of their sharply different approaches to politics and presumably, the presidency. \n The Democratic nominee has spent weeks with advisers, taking full days away from campaign travel to pour through briefing books, practicing to pounce if Trump makes false statements and steeling herself for the possibility that he levels deeply personal attacks. \n Longtime Clinton aide Philippe Reines is playing Trump in mock debates, according to a person familiar with the preparations who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and insisted on anonymity. Reines is a combative political operative who is deeply loyal to Clinton. \n Former President Bill Clinton has sat in on some sessions, offering advice from his own White House debates. \n Trump has eschewed traditional debate preparations, but has held midflight policy discussions with a rotating cast of advisers. He's also spent numerous Sundays batting around ideas with aides. \n The Republican businessman's loose approach is potentially risky given that he is new to many policy issues expected to come up during the debate. But advisers contend he will compensate by being quick on his feet and point to his experience at performing under pressure. \n \"Imagine the practice and the training of 13 years of reality television on 'The Apprentice' and then imagine Hillary's experience reading hundreds of papers,\" said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a Trump adviser who has been talking through policy with the candidate in recent days. \n Clinton aides fear Trump will indeed be judged more for his performance than his grasp of the numerous challenges that pass across a president's desk. They've been flummoxed by Trump's ability to sail through the campaign without fleshing out many policy positions and glossing over past statements that he no longer views as politically palatable. \n On Friday, the Clinton campaign released 19 pages of what they called Trump's \"seven deadly lies,\" including his false assertion that he opposed the Iraq war from the start. \n \"Even if he meets some kind of lowered bar of being semi-coherent and not having any outbursts, it's hard to imagine he'll avoid his own propensity for lying,\" said Brian Fallon, Clinton's campaign spokesman. \n Asked whether Clinton herself planned to call Trump out in the debate if he tries to lie about his past statements, Fallon said, \"I don't think she would let anything like that pass.\" \n People familiar with Clinton's preparations say she has been working through answers to questions that hit at her lack of trustworthiness in the eyes of many Americans, a problem that has dogged her throughout the campaign. Supporters cringed during a candidate forum earlier this month when Clinton was pressed about her email use at the State Department and became defensive, rather than apologizing and trying to move on quickly. \n Clinton has debated more than 30 times at the presidential level, including several one-on-one debates with Barack Obama in 2008 and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in 2016. But this will be her first presidential debate against a candidate from an opposing party, which Democrats say will give her far more latitude in drawing a contrast and defending herself. \n \"It's a lot more comfortable running against people in the other party than it is debating in the primary,\" said Anita Dunn, who worked on debate preparations with Obama. \"The differences don't have to be manufactured. The differences exist.\" \n Trump had an uneven record during the Republican debates, sometimes controlling the crowded contests and other times fading into the background. He flipped back and forth between being bombastic and trying to act restrained. \n Trump's less-than-restrained side was on display Saturday as he took to Twitter to criticize Clinton's decision to ask businessman Mark Cuban \u2014 a frequent Trump critic \u2014 to be one of her guests at the debate. The Republican nominee suggested he might put Gennifer Flowers, a woman who had a relationship with Bill Clinton, \"right alongside\" Cuban. \n Trump misspelled Flowers' first name in his original tweet, then sent a corrected version minutes later. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton, Trump look to overcome weaknesses on debate stage"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Syrian government forces captured a rebel-held area on the edge of Aleppo on Saturday, tightening their siege on opposition-held neighborhoods in the northern city as an ongoing wave of airstrikes destroyed more buildings. \n BEIRUT >> Syrian troops captured a rebel-held area on the edge of Aleppo on Saturday, tightening their siege on opposition-held neighborhoods in the northern city after what residents described as the heaviest air bombardment of the 5 \u00bd-year civil war. \n The U.N. meanwhile said that nearly 2 million people in Aleppo, Syria's largest city and onetime commercial center, are without running water following the escalation in fighting over the past few days. \n Government forces captured the rebel-held Palestinian refugee camp of Handarat as airstrikes pounded rebel-held eastern neighborhoods of Aleppo, killing 52 people, including 11 children and six women, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The Local Coordination Committees, another monitoring group, said 49 were killed on Saturday alone. \n The Observatory said the death toll in Aleppo is expected to rise since many people are in critical condition and rescue workers are still digging through the rubble. \n Residents say the latest bombardment is the worst they've seen since rebels captured parts of the city in 2012. Activists reported dozens of airstrikes on Friday alone. \n \"Since the beginning of the crisis, Aleppo has not been subjected to such a vicious campaign,\" said Mohammed Abu Jaafar, a forensics expert based in the city. \"Aleppo is being wiped out.\" \n For days, videos and photographs from eastern Aleppo have shown flattened buildings and paramedics pulling bodies from the rubble. Wounded people have flooded into clinics, where many are being treated on the floor because of a lack of stretchers. \n \"People in Aleppo already suffocating under the effects of the siege, have yet again come under horrific attack,\" said Carlos Francisco of Doctors Without Borders, which supports a number of area clinics. \"No aid, including urgent medical supplies, is allowed to enter.\" \n \"We are deeply worried by the high numbers of wounded reported by the hospitals we support, and also know that in many areas the wounded and sick have nowhere to go at all \u2014 they are simply left to die.\" \n In the rebel-held neighborhood of Bustan al-Qasr, cluster bombs killed 13 people and wounded 150, according to Ibrahim Alhaj, a member of the Syrian Civil Defense, volunteer first responders also known as the White Helmets. \n Syrian state TV said insurgents shelled the government-held neighborhood of Salhiyeh, killing five people. The Observatory said insurgents shelled the government stronghold of Masyaf, home to a large number of Alawites, members of President Bashar Assad's sect, which until now had largely been spared from violence. \n An unnamed Syrian military official was quoted by state media on Friday as saying that airstrikes and shelling in Aleppo would continue for an extended period and \"include a ground offensive\" into rebel-held areas. \n The fall of Handarat to Syrian troops allied with pro-government Palestinian fighters pushed insurgents further away from the government-controlled Castello Road, a main artery leading to rebel-held parts of the city. \n \"Breaking the siege through the Castello Road has become very difficult,\" Yassin Abu Raed, an opposition activist based in Aleppo province, told The Associated Press. \n An unnamed Syrian military official quoted by state TV said government forces killed many insurgents in Handarat, and that experts are removing explosives from the area. The camp, which is almost empty and largely destroyed, has seen intense fighting and bombardment in recent years, and changed hands multiple times. \n The Turkey-based Syrian National Coalition, one of Syria's main opposition groups, condemned the attacks on Aleppo, calling it \"a crazy crime led by the Assad regime and Russian occupation.\" It said \"the criminal campaign aims to settle international accounts at the expense of Syrians' blood.\" \n The escalation comes as diplomats in New York have failed to salvage a U.S. and Russian-brokered cease-fire that lasted nearly a week. Moscow is a key ally of Assad's government, while Washington supports the opposition. \n A Western diplomat speaking to journalists in Beirut on Friday said that despite the wave of air raids, the rebel-held parts of Aleppo were unlikely to fall anytime soon. \n \"I will say it seems highly improbable that there will be quick defeat of eastern Aleppo,\" the diplomat said, referring to the rebel-held districts. \"The only way to take it is by such monstrous atrocities that it would resonate for generations.\" \n \"It would be absolutely the stuff of myth and history,\" he said, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with government regulations. \n Aleppo has been an epicenter of fighting in recent months. It is the last major urban area held by the opposition, and the rebels' defeat there would mark a major turning point in the conflict, which has killed more than 300,000 people and driven half of Syria's population from their homes. \n Living conditions in the already-battered eastern districts have meanwhile grown even worse. \n Recent attacks have damaged the Bab al-Nairab station, which supplies water to some 250,000 people in the rebel-held east, according to Hanaa Singer of the U.N. children's agency, UNICEF. \n Singer said that in retaliation, the Suleiman al-Halabi pumping station, also located in the rebel-held east, was switched off \u2014 cutting water to 1.5 million people in government-held western parts of the city. \n \"Depriving children of water puts them at risk of catastrophic outbreaks of water-borne diseases,\" Singer warned in her statement, released late Friday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syrian troops advance in Aleppo amid war's heaviest bombing"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., right, and President Barack Obama embrace at the dedication ceremony for the Smithsonian Museum of African American History and Culture on the National Mall in Washington, Saturday. \n WASHINGTON >> America's first national museum dedicated to African-American history and culture opened Saturday with emotional but joyful words from the country's first black president, who said he hoped the stories contained inside will help everyone \"walk away that much more in love\" with their country. \n In an impassioned speech, President Barack Obama pointed out the highs and lows of being black in America, from slavery and Jim Crow segregation to voting rights and economic leaders. That duality lingers still, Obama said, through successes such as his presidency, and trials such as the police killings of black men. \n \"We are not a burden on America. Or a stain on America \u2026 we are America. And that's what this museum explains,\" Obama said. \n He and first lady Michelle Obama joined Ruth Bonner, a 99-year-old direct descendent of a slave, and her family as they rang a bell from the historic First Baptist Church of Williamsburg, Virginia, to signal that the museum was officially open. \n The church, believed to be among the first Baptist churches organized entirely by black people, acquired its Freedom Bell in 1886. It will return to the church for its 240th anniversary later this year. \n Civil rights veteran John Lewis, a Democratic congressman from Georgia who co-sponsored the bill that created the museum, said he hopes visitors will come away with a healthy respect for human dignity, \"and a stronger commitment to the idea of justice, truth and democracy.\" \n \"This place is more than a building, it is a dream come true,\" Lewis said. \n In his speech, Obama imagined himself coming back to the museum someday as a private citizen, \"holding a little hand of somebody and telling them the stories enshrined here.\" \n A shining bronze-colored beacon on the National Mall, only steps away from the White House and the Washington Monument, the new Smithsonian chronicles the complex relationship between the United States and a people it once enslaved and tells the story of those who worked at the changes necessary to bring the country to where it is today. \n Thousands gathered on the National Mall to watch the museum officially open its doors and to be among the first inside \u2014 if they were lucky enough to get the much-coveted opening day tickets. \n \"It's like walking across the desert and finally getting to a fountain of water to quench your thirst. It's absolutely breathtaking for me,\" said Verna Eggleston, 61, of New York City, who was touring the museum later Saturday. \n After a decades-long push, ground was broken for the new museum in 2012 on a five-acre tract near the Washington Monument. Lewis worked with then-Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, now the state's Republican governor, to usher legislation through Congress. President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2003. \n Bush said the museum tells the unvarnished truth, that a country founded on the promise of liberty once held millions of people in chains. A great nation does not hide from its history, Bush said, \"it faces its flaws and corrects them.\" \n Construction was completed earlier this year on the 400,000-square-foot museum designed by British-Ghanaian architect David Adjaye. The museum strikes a unique shape on the Mall with its three-tiered bronze exterior panels inspired by an African wooden column. The bronze-colored tiles are inspired by 19th century ironwork created by slaves in the South, and allow sunlight into the museum through its patterns. \n The new museum \"symbolizes all of the contributions, the culture and the crisis of black America,\" said Rev. Howard-John Wesley, pastor of Alfred Street Baptist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, whose members donated $1 million to the museum. \"It's a beautiful thing, especially in this day and time when we're fighting to remind ourselves how important black lives are.\" \n Inside, museum officials say they have nearly 3,000 items occupying 85,000 square feet of display space, including exhibits like a Tuskegee Airmen training plane and the casket of Emmitt Till, an African-American boy whose murder helped rally the civil rights movement. \n \"It's been 100 years in the making. So many people have dreamed about this, fought for this and wanted this to happen,\" said U.S. Circuit Judge Robert L. Wilkins, who wrote \"Long Road to Hard Truth,\" a book about the struggle open the museum. \"It's going to be a testament to their work and a testament to so many of our ancestors that this museum will open on the Mall.\" \n Millions of donors, known and unknown, contributed to the $315 million in private funding raised before the museum's opening. Some of the biggest donors' names adorn the walls inside, including the Oprah Winfrey Theater; the Michael Jordan Hall: Game Changers; and the Robert F. Smith Explore Your Family History Center, named for the CEO of investment firm Vista Equity Partners after a $20 million gift announced Monday. \n As part of the opening ceremony, Winfrey and actor Will Smith read lines of famous black writers, from Maya Angelou to Langston Hughes, Toni Morrison and Martin Luther King Jr. \n \"I am overwhelmed. I'm humbled,\" said Deborah Elam, president of the GE Foundation and chief diversity officer for General Electric, as she waited Saturday among the dignitaries on the National Mall. GE donated $5 million toward the museum's construction. \n Some people trying to get to the dedication ceremony stood for more than an hour in lines that snaked around the Mall to get through security. \n Master Sgt. Donald Sparks of Houston, who just finished a yearlong deployment in Iraq, said he was eager to see the exhibits inside the museum. \"I'm just elated and can't express how much joy and gratitude I have to be here today and witness history,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama opens new black museum on National Mall"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mariah Carey participates in the \"Mariah's World\" panel during the NBC Television Critics Association summer press tour on Wednesday, Aug. 3, 2016, in Beverly Hills, Calif. \n It has been 18 years since Mariah Carey last performed in Hawaii, but it's clear the state has not lost any aloha for her, with her visit to the isles bumped up from one show to three within a few hours on Saturday morning. \n Tickets for Carey's Nov. 25 show at the Blaisdell Arena with \"Empire\" star Jussie Smollett went on sale Saturday at 6 a.m. for email subscribers to KHON2 and two local I Heart Radio stations \u2014 KSSK (590 AM/92.3 FM) and KUBT (93.9 FM) \u2014 and 9 a.m. for kamaaina/military. \n By 6:05 a.m., there were only about 200 single seats available from the original 6,700. Within another half an hour, promoter Rick Bartalini Presents announced a second show on Nov. 26, with tickets going on sale minutes later. \n As tickets to the second concert sold quickly, Bartalini scrambled to get Carey's and Smollett's camps to approve a third show. He first pitched the following Monday (Nov. 28), but Carey will be in New York by then to rehearse for her Christmas shows there. Thursday (Thanksgiving Day) and Sunday were out because Carey will not do shows three nights in a row because of the wear on her vocal cords. \n Carey and Smollett eventually agreed to do a show the night before Thanksgiving, Nov. 23, and tickets were on sale at about 10 a.m. \n As of late Saturday afternoon, there were about 3,000 seats left for the Nov. 23 show and about 100 singles total available for the concerts on Nov. 25 and 26, though a short time later a few hundred seats above the sideview loges were released for those shows. \n Carey will appear on \"Empire\" as Kitty on Oct. 5, collaborating with Smollett's character, singer Jamal Lyon. The guest spot will be previewed with the single \"Infamous\" \u2014 the duet is set for release Friday. Smollett's appearances with Carey in Hawaii are their first together \u2014 and no others are scheduled. \n Bartalini is based in California but came to Honolulu for the presale \u2014 as well as for the nearly sold-out Earth, Wind & Fire concert he is promoting at the arena on Tuesday \u2014 and emphasized how important the kamaaina presale is to him. He brought the practice to Hawaii last year for Diana Ross' three sold-out shows (two at the arena and one on Maui) after the Bruno Mars debacle of 2014, when nearly half of the tickets to the Hawaii native's three sold-out shows at the Blaisdell were sold out of state and hundreds of residents were left ticketless, with the resale market and its inflated prices their only option. \n \"If people get discouraged from buying tickets, they get discouraged from attending live shows,\" Bartalini said, noting that, besides being his livelihood, live music is also important to him personally. He spoke last year at Ross' first show in Honolulu about how his experience being called on stage to sing a few lines of \"Sunglasses at Night\" with '80s Canadian pop star Corey Hart was pivotal in his life. He has a charity \u2014 The Never Surrender Foundation, named after another of Hart's hits \u2014 that helps at-risk LGBT youths. \n Bartalini, who is buying a house in Hawaii, notes that the 15,000-plus tickets sold Saturday all went to Hawaii residents and military. He also made sure good seats were set aside for people buying in person at the Blaisdell box office, which was a sore spot when tickets to Mars' shows sold out. Tickets, which range in price from $65.50 to $255.50 plus fees, will remain for sale only to kamaaina until Thursday, when a very limited number of seats go on sale to Carey's fan club, Honey B. Fly. The following day, anything that is left will be available to Bartalini's mainland subscribers. Tickets will be available for general sale on Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Sjarif Goldstein", "title": "Third show added for Mariah Carey concert in Honolulu"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This video image provided by Skagit County Department of Emergency Management shows a suspect wanted by the authorities regarding a shooting at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, Wash., Friday, Sept. 23, 2016. Authorities in Washington State say several people have been killed during a shooting at a mall north of Seattle and that at least one suspect remains at large. \n BURLINGTON, Wash. >> A gunman police said killed five people in a Washington state mall remained at large Saturday as authorities appealed for help in identifying the suspect but said there were no indications the slayings north of Seattle were a terrorist act. \n People fled, customers hid in dressing rooms and employees locked the doors of nearby stores after gunshots rang out just after 7 p.m. Friday at the Cascade Mall. A helicopter, search teams and K-9 units scoured the area for a rifle-carrying man in a police response that included more than 200 officers. \n \"There are people waking up this morning and their world has changed forever,\" Burlington Mayor Steve Sexton said Saturday at a news conference. \"The city of Burlington has probably changed forever.\" \n Authorities said four females, ranging in age from teens to seniors, died after the gunman opened fire in the makeup department of a Macy's store. An adult male who was wounded in the shooting died early Saturday, officials said. His age was not given and no identifications of the victims were released \n Police said they were looking for a man dressed in black and last seen walking toward Interstate 5. The description, including that he appeared to be Hispanic, was based on statements from witnesses, said Given Kutz, a spokesman for the Skagit County Emergency Operations Center. \n \"We do not have an identity on the individual yet,\" said Mount Vernon Police Lt. Chris Cammock. \"We could certainly use the community's help.\" \n Authorities said the motive was unknown for the shooting about 60 miles (97 kilometers) north of Seattle. \n The FBI was assisting local authorities, but Michael Knutson, assistant special agent in charge of the Seattle FBI, said there was no evidence to point to terrorism. \n Stephanie Bose, an assistant general manager at Johnny Carino's Italian restaurant near the Macy's store at the mall, said she immediately locked the doors after hearing about the shooting from an employee's boyfriend. \n \"He was trying to go to the mall and people were screaming,\" she told The Associated Press. \"It was frantic.\" \n She said he could see police at the doors with assault rifles. \n It took hours for teams to search the 434,000-square-foot (40,000-square-meter) mall late Friday night. They escorted shoppers and workers who had sheltered in place outside. \n \"It took several hundred to do that\u2026clearing every room, to make sure the suspect wasn't still on the scene,\" Cammock said. \n The parking lot was closed and emergency management officials told people they would be able to retrieve vehicles Saturday, though the mall said it would be closed for the day. \n Gov. Jay Inslee said tragedy had struck the state. \n \"We urge residents to heed all safety and detour warnings. Stay close to your friends and loved ones as we await more information and, hopefully, news of the suspect's capture,\" Inslee said in a statement. \n The Cascade Mall is an enclosed shopping mall that opened in 1990. It features J.C. Penney, TJ Maxx, and Macy's stores, among other stores, restaurants and a movie theater. \n On Sept. 17, a man stabbed 10 people at a Minnesota mall before being shot and killed by an off-duty police officer. Authorities say Dahir Ahmed Adan, 20, stabbed the people at the Crossroads Center in St. Cloud, Minnesota. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City 'changed forever' as authorities hunt mall gunman"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Africa is divided over how to conserve elephants whose population has plummeted in the last decade.Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa favour selling ivory stockpiles but are opposed by about 30 African countries that want to tighten an international ban on the ivory trade. \n JOHANNESBURG >> Poaching syndicates shipped large amounts of African elephant ivory last year despite global calls to dismantle the trafficking networks that often collude with corrupt officials, conservationists said as an international wildlife conference opened Saturday in South Africa. \n The illegal ivory trade \"has remained fairly constant at unacceptably high levels\" since 2010, and in 2015 there was a \"continuing upward trend\" in the seizure of larger shipments of more than 100 kilograms (220 pounds), according to a document released by organizers. The transfer of big amounts of ivory indicates the key role of organized crime in poaching, the document said. \n The plight of elephants dominated the discussion on the first day of the 12-day Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, or CITES, conference. Rhinos, sharks, pangolins, helmeted hornbills and other threatened species are also on the agenda at the meeting, which regulates trade in wild animals and plants with the aim of ensuring their survival. \n Last held in Bangkok in 2013, this year's CITES conference ends Oct. 5. The U.N. group has 183 member countries and can recommend suspending trade in wildlife with countries that don't enforce its guidelines. \n Wildlife trafficking is estimated to generate billions of dollars a year globally. Interpol is among the delegations at the conference and will discuss crime, corruption and the illegal financial flows of poaching. \n Many delegates at the conference in Johannesburg are likely to push to tighten the international ban on the ivory trade, as well as close domestic ivory markets. Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa, however, favor the sale of their ivory stockpiles, saying the money can be funneled back into conservation operations. \n The world's main ivory consumer, China, has said it plans to close its domestic ivory market. The United States has announced a near-total ban on the domestic sale of African elephant ivory. \n Ivory has been used for centuries to make carvings, jewelry, furniture, piano keys and other items. Many conservationists say criminal syndicates launder illegal supplies through legal markets that permit the sale of antique ivory pieces or ivory exempted from a 1989 international trade ban. \n The number of Africa's savannah elephants dropped by about 30 percent from 2007 to 2014, to 352,000, because of poaching, according to a recent study. Elephant populations in Tanzania and Mozambique were among the hardest hit. \n Tom Milliken, a co-author of the document released at the CITES meeting, said there are about 50 ivory seizures of more than half a ton, and sometimes as many as four tons, every year. Such big shipments indicate the involvement of organized criminal groups, said Milliken, an expert with the TRAFFIC conservation organization. \n \"Nobody is really uncovering their identities and making arrests and prosecuting the people who are really behind this,\" he said, adding that poaching syndicates view occasional ivory seizures as a form of \"taxation\" on their lucrative activity. \n Some governments have the capacity to target ivory syndicates in the same way they prosecute drug kingpins, but are sometimes \"more comfortable\" going after low-level operatives rather than well-connected ringleaders, said Susan Lieberman of the Wildlife Conservation Society, a New York-based group. \n \"There's a lot of corruption,\" Lieberman said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Global efforts against ivory traffickers still falling short"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Clothing worn by a Yazidi girl enslaved by Islamic State militants, collected by a Yazidi activist to document Islamic State group crimes against the community, shown in this file photo taken May 22, 2016, in Dohuk, northern Iraq. \n WASHINGTON >> War crimes investigators collecting evidence of the Islamic State group's elaborate operation to kidnap thousands of women as sex slaves say they have a case to try IS leaders with crimes against humanity but cannot get the global backing to bring current detainees before an international tribunal. \n Two years after the IS group's onslaught in northern Iraq, the investigators, as well as U.S. diplomats, say the Obama administration has done little to pursue prosecution of the crimes that Secretary of State John Kerry has called genocide. Current and former State Department officials say that an attempt in late 2014 to have a legal finding of genocide was blocked by the Defense Department, setting back efforts to prosecute IS members suspected of committing war crimes. \n \"The West looks to the United States for leadership in the Middle East, and the focus of this administration has been elsewhere \u2014 in every respect,\" Bill Wiley, the head of the independent investigative group, the Commission for International Justice and Accountability, told The Associated Press. \n Officials in Washington say that the Defense Department and ultimately the administration were concerned that court trials would distract from the military campaign. But the diplomats say that justice is essential in a region whose religious minorities have been terrorized. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue. \n The U.S. has no legal obligation to take on the genocide of the Yazidis, but President Barack Obama has said that \"preventing mass atrocities and genocide is a core national security interest and a core moral responsibility of the United States of America.\" \n Stephen Rapp, who stepped down as the administration's ambassador at large for war crimes last year, says the administration should have moved early to help secure evidence of IS atrocities and push for the creation of special Iraqi courts to try war crimes. \n \"The priority for the U.S. government is to win the war against the Islamic State and destroy them,\" Rapp said. \"It's been profoundly disappointing, because the idea of accountability has been such a low priority.\" \n Rapp is now the chairman of the advisory board of the commission, whose investigators in Iraq work with the Kurdish regional government to formally document the IS crimes, including those against the Yazidi minority group. They have built a case implicating the entire IS command structure in a plot to kidnap Yazidi women and girls and establish a sex slave market. \n The plan was executed by an organized bureaucracy, from the temporary sorting facilities \u2014 including a prison, schools and a curtained ballroom where the Yazidis were divided by age and willingness to convert to Islam \u2014 to the waiting buses that would haul them by the dozens across the border to Raqqa. The Islamic State group's Shariah courts soon stepped in, to settle contract disputes and ensure that its finance hierarchy got its cut of the sex-slave proceeds. \n \"You have members of IS who were engaged in ensuring that this system continued and that it functioned well,\" said Chris Engels, the American lawyer who is leading the commission's legal investigation. Without a legal documentation of their identities from the top down, many could \"slide into refugee streams\" and disappear, he said. \n Though there are at least dozens of Islamic State extremists in custody in Iraq, there have been no prosecutions for the crimes against humanity that the U.S. \u2014 among many others \u2014 insist have taken place. On Tuesday, the Obama administration's envoy for the coalition to counter Islamic State militants, Brett McGurk, tweeted that he \"pledged full accountability\" for Islamic State crimes against the Yazidis, whom IS considers infidels because of their religion. \n In 2012, Obama announced what he called a comprehensive strategy to prevent and respond to war crimes with the establishment of an atrocities prevention board. \n But in a recent investigation, the AP found that even in territories liberated from IS militants by Kurdish forces, dozens of mass graves have been left unsecured. \n \"It's a tragedy that we are not getting in there and securing these sites where we can and doing things like collecting DNA evidence,\" said Rapp. \n A measure by the House that calls on the U.S. to fund precisely the kind of court envisioned by the investigators is unlikely to advance anytime soon in an election year. The war crimes commission says it would need about $6.6 million and about six months to get the trials going. \n \"If the administration was committed to criminal investigations of perpetrators, then it would be robustly funding criminal investigations of perpetrators,\" said Rep. Chris Smith, a New Jersey Republican who sponsored the bill. \n The State Department said the U.S. was promoting accountability, and spokesman Mark Toner said the administration is \"supporting ongoing efforts to collect, document, preserve, and analyze evidence of atrocities for transitional justice processes.\" He provided no specifics. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "War crimes tribunal for IS detainees lacks support"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK >> Social media app Snapchat is introducing video-recording glasses called Spectacles and is changing its company name to incorporate the new product. \n The glasses can record video 10 seconds at a time by tapping a button on the device. The video is then uploaded to the popular image-messaging app via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. The glasses are the first hardware from the Los Angeles-based company. \n The glasses record so-called \"circular video,\" meaning it plays full-screen on any device in any orientation. \n They will be available in the U.S. in the fall on a limited basis and cost $130. \n In a way, the Spectacles recall Google's venture into eyewear, Google Glass, which took photos and video. But that device also had a screen that let you surf the web as well and cost $1,500. \n Google shuttered that venture in early 2015 after it received a tepid response from users. \n The company says it's changing its name to Snap Inc. since it now has more than one product. The app will retain the name Snapchat. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Snapchat changes name to Snap Inc., debuts 'Spectacles'"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Two people were injured, one fatally, in a shooting Saturday at Cuties Cafe on North King Street in Chinatown. \n Honolulu police arrested the main suspect in the fatal shooting of a 44-year-old Halawa woman during an apparent robbery attempt at a reputed Chinatown game room early Saturday morning. \n The victim's family identified the woman as Tara Tavaga. She suffered a gunshot wound to the chest and was taken in critical condition to a hospital, where she died. \n A 25-year-old man was also shot in the shoulder and was reported to be in stable condition. \n Police arrested a 29-year-old Kapolei man on suspicion of robbery shortly after the shooting. \n A 30-year-old man believed to be the shooter was located at a Kapolei residence and arrested Saturday night on suspicion of first-degree murder, first-degree robbery, two counts of second-degree murder, place to keep a pistol, possession of a firearm by a felon, and four outstanding contempt charges. \n The suspect does not have a local address. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "1 dead, 1 injured in Chinatown shooting"}

{"date": "September 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cleveland and East Cleveland, two of the country's poorest cities, are debating whether to merge, with both cities saying the state of Ohio needs to provide millions to begin fixing East Cleveland's infrastructure and finances. \n CLEVELAND >> Two of the country's poorest cities are talking about a merger they say could help both. But Cleveland could need a sizeable boost in taxpayer dollars to absorb East Cleveland, a place so impoverished that some residents fill their own potholes. \n Cleveland officials are looking at development possibilities that exist in its struggling neighbor East Cleveland. But Cleveland has its own problems. The warm glow of positive publicity after its successful turn hosting the Republican National Convention cannot gloss over its big-city ills \u2014 a shrinking population, entrenched poverty and neighborhoods beset with decay and violent crime. \n In East Cleveland, City Council members had long balked at the idea of dissolving their city. But with no viable solution short of an economic miracle in sight, they agreed last month to pursue annexation without a list of demands \u2014 such as continuing to receive their salaries as members of an \"advisory council\" after annexation \u2014 originally submitted to the dismay of Cleveland officials. \n \"Without a revenue stream, I don't know how we would exist,\" said Thomas Wheeler, president of East Cleveland City Council. He and mayor Gary Norton agreed their city is out of options and needs money now. \n East Cleveland has millions in unpaid bills and hasn't been able to borrow money on the municipal credit market for years. The city can barely make payroll even after deep cuts in its workforce. Wheeler said only five firefighters were available to respond to a recent house fire. \n East Cleveland residents tired of crumbling streets, abandoned buildings and anxious waits for emergency services appear ready to be absorbed by Cleveland in the hope they will receive basic city services long in short supply. \n \"They don't fix anything around here,\" Robert Occhionero said. \n Occhionero said residents on Savannah Avenue have been filling potholes as best they can to avoid being awakened by the sound of vehicles rattling through them. \n Nearby, abandoned homes line the street that Morris Glenn and Anthony Donner call home. Donner cuts the grass on one of the vacant lots across Northfield Avenue because the city doesn't. Donner said he also clears storm sewer grates to try stopping their street from turning into a riverbed during heavy rains. \n The men said East Cleveland has become so dangerous that people have armed themselves, knowing it could be a long wait for police. Call 911, they said, and there's a chance you'll be put on hold. \n \"Nobody wants to live here,\" Glenn said. \"I'm only here by necessity.\" \n Despite these problems, some Cleveland politicians are enthusiastic about the possibility of a merger, citing development possibilities along a main thoroughfare that connects East Cleveland with Cleveland's fastest-growing neighborhood, University Circle, the home of research hospitals, Case Western Reserve University and most of the city's cultural institutions. \n Negotiations by a commission consisting of three members from both cities could begin sometime in the next few months. One thing officials from both cities agree on is the state of Ohio needs to provide millions of dollars to repair East Cleveland's crumbled infrastructure and to stanch the city's financial bleeding. \n \"It's a small city with big city problems,\" Kevin Kelley, Cleveland council president, said of its poor neighbor. \"We don't have the resources to deal with what problems they've got.\" \n There are few signs Ohio is willing to help. Ohio Auditor Dave Yost this year asked the Legislature to approve $10 million to help East Cleveland, a request that lawmakers summarily rejected. Gov. John Kasich isn't in a giving mood, either, despite the state's $2 billion rainy day fund that has been bolstered by deep cuts in funding to Ohio communities since he took office in 2010. \n \"The city of East Cleveland's complicated financial struggles have spanned decades and despite everyone's best efforts, little progress has been made to pull the city out of fiscal emergency,\" Emmalee Kalmbach, a Kasich spokeswoman, said in a statement. \n Cleveland voters are being asked to raise the income tax from 2 percent to 2.5 percent in November to close a projected $40 million budget deficit and to cover the cost of implementing a federal court-monitored consent decree aimed at reforming the Cleveland police department. \n \"We have a lot of balls in the air in Cleveland,\" Kelley said. \"We have to approach this responsibly to make sure this is in the interest of all parties.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obstacles abound as 2 poor U.S. cities consider merging"}

