{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Possible South Korean presidential contender Moon Jae-in laughs during a press conference at the Seoul Foreign Correspondents Club in Seoul, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> A possible South Korean presidential contender said Thursday his country should reconsider plans to deploy an advanced U.S. missile defense system to cope with North Korean threats, a move Washington is likely to see as disruptive. \n Liberal opposition politician Moon Jae-in said the security benefits of having Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, would be curtailed by worsened relations with neighbors China and Russia. He downplayed concerns that South Korea backtracking on the plans would cause tension with the United States, which he said was the \"most important country\" for South Korea in face of nuclear-armed, rival North. \n \"The issue of whether or not to deploy THAAD should be pushed to the next government,\" Moon said in a news conference. \n \"Reconsidering THAAD would have to be preceded with diplomatic efforts, including diplomatic efforts with the United States. I don't think that the reconsidering of THAAD would harm the South Korea-U.S. alliance,\" he said. \n Recent opinion polls have shown Moon as a presidential favorite amid the popular anger over conservative President Park Geun-hye, whose powers were suspended after lawmakers last week voted to impeach her over an explosive corruption scandal. \n South Korea's Constitutional Court has up to six months to decide whether Park should permanently step down. If Park is formally removed from office, the country would hold a presidential election within 60 days. \n Moon, who conceded the 2012 presidential race to Park, said he expected the court to rule on Park's impeachment sometime between late January and early March, setting up a presidential election around April or May. \n \"It would be a huge honor for me if I can take part in the next presidential election,\" Moon said. \n South Korean military officials in September picked a private golf course in the country's southeast as the site for THAAD, which was slated to be deployed by the end of next year. They originally chose a nearby artillery base in the rural farming town of Seongju as the site for the system, but changed locations following fierce protests from locals who expressed concern over potential health hazards they believe the system's powerful radar might cause. \n The plan to deploy THAAD in South Korea has angered not only North Korea but also China, which suspects that the system would allow U.S. radar to better track its missiles. Russia also opposes the deployment. \n Moon also argued that Seoul should put dialogue over sanctions in persuading Pyongyang to give up its nuclear ambitions. He rated the Park government's hard-line stance against North Korea as a \"complete failure\" because it \"didn't function in any way\" to prevent the North from expanding its nuclear weapons and missile programs. \n \"It has been confirmed that pressure and sanctions alone would not be enough to influence North Korea to give up on its nuclear weapons,\" said Moon, calling for a \"two-tack approach\" of sanctions and talk. \n \"We need strong punitive measures against North Korea's nuclear tests and missile launch tests, but the purpose of such strong pressure and sanctions should be bringing North Korea to the negotiation table for denuclearization.\" \n Moon, a former human rights lawyer and aide to late liberal President Roh Moo-hyun, also pledged to fight income inequality and push business reforms to curb excesses of \"chaebol,\" or family-owned conglomerates that dominate the country's economy, to create a level playing field for smaller companies. \n The opposition Democratic Party's primaries could shape into a showdown between Moon and Lee Jae-myung, the outspoken mayor of Seongnam city whose popularity rose rapidly in recent months amid rage over the Park scandal. \n The conservatives appear to be pinning their hopes on outgoing U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon after Park's scandal complicated politics for her Saenuri Party. In a visit to South Korea in May, Ban told reporters that he would \"think hard about what to do as a citizen\" after he returns home on Jan. 1, which was seen by the local media as a clear hint on a presidential bid. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korean presidential hopeful casts doubt over U.S. missiles"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "The only U.S. ship capable of breaking through Antarctica's thick ice is undergoing repairs in balmy Hawaii this week as it prepares to head south. \n The voyage by Coast Guard Cutter Polar Star comes as the U.S. aims to replace and expand its aging fleet of polar icebreakers so it can maintain a presence in the most remote corners of the world. \n The demand for icebreaking ships is expected to grow as climate change melts sea ice and lures more traffic to northern Arctic waters. \n The 40-year-old Polar Star, which was built to last only three decades, is expected to carve a channel through 30 miles of ice so ships can resupply a U.S. research center in Antarctica. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ice-busting ship preps for trip amid push to replace fleet"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama pauses during a \"My Brother's Keeper\" summit in South Court Auditorium at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2016. \n WASHINGTON >> In an unexpected reversal, President Barack Obama declined to sign a renewal of sanctions against Iran but let it become law anyway, in an apparent bid to alleviate Tehran's concerns that the U.S. is backsliding on the nuclear deal. \n Although the White House had said that Obama was expected to sign the 10-year-renewal, the midnight deadline came and went Thursday with no approval from the president. White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Obama had decided to let it become law without his signature. \n \"The administration has, and continues to use, all of the necessary authorities to waive the relevant sanctions\" lifted as part of the nuclear deal, Earnest said in a statement. \n Under the Constitution, the president has 10 days after Congress passes a bill to sign it, veto it or do nothing. If Congress has adjourned, failing to sign it is a \"pocket veto\" that prevents the bill from becoming law. But if Congress is still in session, the bill becomes law with no signature. Although lawmakers have returned home for the holidays, Congress technically is still in session and holding \"pro-forma\" sessions this week. \n Though Obama's move doesn't prevent the sanctions renewal from entering force, it marked a symbolic attempt by the president to demonstrate disapproval for lawmakers' actions. The White House has argued that the renewal is unnecessary because the administration retains other authorities to punish Iran, if necessary, and has expressed concern that the renewal may undermine the nuclear deal. \n Iran had vowed to respond if the sanctions were renewed, arguing they violate the nuclear deal between Iran and world powers, which eased sanctions in exchange for curbs on Iran's nuclear program. Iran's government has complained to the United Nations about the renewal, and on Tuesday, Iran's president ordered up plans to build nuclear-powered ships and to formally accuse the U.S. of violating the terms of the deal. \n Yet U.S. lawmakers argued that renewing the law, first passed in 1996 and renewed several times since, was critical to maintaining pressure on Iran to abide by the deal and to pushing back on Tehran's other troubling behavior in the region. The bill passed the Senate unanimously and the House by an overwhelming margin. \n The Obama administration stressed that Iran would be unaffected by the renewal, as long as it continues honoring the nuclear deal. Secretary of State John Kerry said he'd told his Iranian counterpart that \"to ensure maximum clarity,\" he'd issued new, redundant waivers exempting Iran from sanctions lifted under the deal. \n \"Extension of the Iran Sanctions Act does not affect in any way the scope of the sanctions relief Iran is receiving under the deal or the ability of companies to do business in Iran consistent with the JCPOA,\" Kerry said, using an acronym for the nuclear deal. \n President-elect Donald Trump has been sharply critical of the nuclear deal and has threatened to try to renegotiate it, and Israel's prime minister has said he plans to lobby Trump to undo the deal. Republican supporters of the sanctions had argued that renewing them would ensure that Trump would have the authority to reinstate penalties that Obama eased. \n Under the nuclear deal, the U.S. and world powers suspended sweeping oil, trade and other financial sanctions that had devastated Iran's economy. In exchange, Tehran agreed to roll back its nuclear program, though the deal's critics say the agreement is flawed because it didn't halt all Iranian activity and because key restrictions eventually expire. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iran sanctions renewal becomes law without Obama signature"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "COURTESY MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY \n The Missile Defense Agency and sailors aboard the Pearl Harbor destroyer USS John Paul Jones successfully fired a salvo of two SM-6 Dual I missiles against a complex medium-range ballistic missile target. \n The Missile Defense Agency and Navy continued testing the versatility of the SM-6 missile with a salvo of two missiles fired at a ballistic missile target in the \"terminal\" or final phase of flight early this morning off Hawaii. \n The Pearl Harbor destroyer USS John Paul Jones fired the defensive missiles after a target missile was launched from the Pacific Missile Range Facility on Kauai just after midnight. \n The target missile represented a medium-range ballistic missile \u2014 something the U.S. military is increasingly concerned about. \n The SM-6 Dual 1 missiles fired by the John Paul Jones can be used for either increasingly sophisticated and lethal cruise missiles that come in low and ballistic missiles in the terminal phase of their arc. \n The Aegis sea-based missile defense element utilizes Aegis cruisers and destroyers to defend against short- to medium-range ballistic missiles in the midcourse of flight as well as in the terminal phase, which is short and begins once the missile reenters the atmosphere, MDA said. \n MDA said today's salvo firing \"met the test's primary objective\" \u2014 without an apparent warhead explosion. \n \"This test demonstrates the capabilities MDA and the Navy are delivering to our fleet commanders,\" MDA Director Vice Adm. Jim Syring said in a release. \n The SM-6 missile uses an explosive warhead to defeat ballistic missile threats, which differs from the often-employed SM-3 that uses more costly non-explosive \"hit-to-kill\" technology, MDA and missile maker Raytheon said. \n The SM-6 Dual 1 missile is \"considered a triple threat, providing anti-air warfare, sea-based terminal ballistic missile defense and anti-surface warfare,\" acording to Raytheon. \n The U.S. Navy fired an SM-6 Dual 1 missile in July 2015 for the first time, intercepting and destroying a short-range ballistic missile target at sea in its final seconds of flight, Raytheon said. \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Navy conducts missile tests off Hawaii"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "Puu Manamana Trail, also known as Crouching Lion, in Windward Oahu. \n A 22-year-old woman died today after plunging 200 feet off Puu Manamana Trail in Kaaawa, Honolulu firefighters said. \n Firefighters were dispatched to a hiker in distress about 4:50 p.m. after a hiking party of three lost contact with one of its members on the trail also known as Crouching Lion, said Honolulu Fire Department Capt. David Jenkins. \n The hikers said the woman had fallen about 200 feet and landed in an area where she could no longer be seen. \n Firefighters searched by helicopter along the cliff face and found the woman at 5:25 p.m. Firefighters rappelled down to her by 5:39 p.m. and found her unconscious with no pulse and not breathing, Jenkins said. Firefighters flew her to Swanzy Beach Park and transferred her to Emergency Medical Services personnel who pronounced her dead at 5:57 p.m. \n The popular trail is known to be dangerous. In June 2013, a 23-year-old woman died after falling 300 feet off the trail. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hiker dies after 200-foot fall off Crouching Lion Trail"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JAN 2016 \n Maui Wellness Group, doing business as Maui Grown Therapies, announced Wednesday its first dispensary location in the Maui Lani Village Center at 44 Paa Street in Kahului. \n Maui Wellness Group, doing business as Maui Grown Therapies, announced Wednesday its first dispensary location in the Maui Lani Village Center at 44 Paa Street in Kahului. \n The company, led by former Maui Land & Pineapple Co. CEO David Cole, expects to sell cannabis and related products about 112 days after it receives approval by the state Health Department to begin cultivation. \n The contractor \u2014 one of eight dispensary licensees \u2014 is planning a series of open houses and educational events in the 2,112-square-foot dispensary starting in February. \n Act 241, passed in 2015, allowed the state to issue eight licenses for a total of 16 production centers and 16 dispensaries statewide. The law allowed dispensaries to open July 15, but the state and licensees weren't ready. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui pot grower selects dispensary site"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "State law enforcement officers have seized a substantial amount of stripped copper wire from a homeless encampment at Ke'ehi Lagoon. \n Department of Land and Natrual Resources spokeswoman Deborah Ward said investigators are not disclosing the amount of copper wire seized pending further investigation, including a determination of the owner of the copper wire. \n The seizure was made by officers from the state Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement at about 10:30 a.m. Wednesday. \n Officers noticed a man and woman near a parked car in the Sand Island State Recreation Area and apparently in possession of stripped copper wire, the department said. \n The man fled and the woman left in the vehicle and was eventually stopped and issued citations for various traffic offenses, then released. \n More enforcement officers were called along with Honolulu police to Sand Island State Park and nearby areas to look for the man. \n The department said a suspect matching the description of the man was found near a former paintball field near Nimitz Highway. \n He was released, pending further investigation. \n The department said as it canvassed the homeless camp, officers found a substantial amount of copper wire. \n Victims of copper wire thefts on Oahu can call 624-DLNR for more information on the case. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Stolen copper wire retrieved from homeless encampment"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "WENDY OSHER / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Steven Capobianco is on trial for the murder of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. \n The jury deciding the fate of a Hawaii man charged with killing his pregnant ex-girlfriend decided Today to continue deliberating after reporting it was deadlocked. \n After the jury notified the court Tuesday about the impasse on a murder and arson charge against Steven Capobianco, an individual juror raised concerns that there may be some disagreement about that decision. \n Maui Judge Joseph Cardoza granted the juror a chance to speak with him and the lawyers in a private meeting in court on Wednesday. After the meeting, Cardoza asked the jury if it needed more time, and jurors responded that they will continue deliberations to \"feel more confident in their own personal vote decision.\" \n The jury also requested more transcripts from evidence, which the court said would be provided on Monday. The jury foreperson then also requested to speak to the judge, which he granted. \n Capobianco had been on trial since June in the death of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. Her mother and sisters last saw her Feb. 9. 2014. \n After Scott's disappearance, Capobianco told a Hawaii News Now reporter that he saw Scott on the night her family says she vanished but that he had nothing to do with her disappearance. He said Scott picked him up and drove him to his pickup truck, which had broken down in. He said that after he fixed his truck, Scott was driving behind him, but he lost sight of her and figured she arrived safely at her destination. \n After weeks of searching, police found some of her blood-stained clothing and jaw bone, which ended any hope she might still be alive. Capobianco is accused of torching Scott's sport utility vehicle in an attempt to cover up the killing. \n Capobianco didn't testify during his trial. \n Jurors listened to an interview with a detective where Capobianco repeatedly referred to Scott in the past tense even though it wasn't yet known that she was dead. \n ", "author": "By Associated Press", "title": "Maui jury wrangles over decision in pregnant woman's death"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An oil spill from the Belle Fourche Pipeline was discovered Dec. 5 in Ash Coulee Creek, a tributary of the Little Missouri River, near Belfield, N.D. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> The discovery of an oil pipeline spill earlier this month in western North Dakota has received heightened attention because of the battle over the Dakota Access oil pipeline being built about 150 miles to the southeast. \n While the spill was on a different pipeline, the Standing Rock Sioux and its supporters say a spill on the Dakota Access pipeline could threaten the tribe's drinking water, which is drawn from the Missouri River. \n The developer of the Dakota Access project, Energy Transfer Partners, and the Army are battling in court over permission to cross under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir \u2014 the last large chunk of construction for the $3.8 billion project. \n Here are some questions and answers about the spill on the Belle Fourche Pipeline: \n HOW BIG WAS THE SPILL?  \n About 176,000 gallons of oil spilled, with about 130,000 gallons that flowed into Ash Coulee Creek. The spill went about 5 \u00bd miles down the creek, which feeds into the Little Missouri River, a tributary of the Missouri River. A photo released by the North Dakota Department of Health shows the brown muck on the creek's surface, and another photo shows what appears to be the pipeline break with oil oozing out. \n As of Wednesday, about 46,000 gallons had been recovered. Regulators don't expect the cleanup to be completed until spring. \n It appears no oil got into the Little Missouri River, and no drinking water sources were threatened, according to Bill Suess, an environmental scientist with the health department. The creek was free-flowing when the spill occurred but has since frozen over. \n The spill was in a remote area of the southwest part of the state, far from any major population centers. It fouled an unknown amount of private and U.S. Forest Service land along the waterway. \n HOW WAS THE SPILL DISCOVERED?  \n A landowner spotted the spill Dec. 5. Electronic monitoring equipment failed to detect the rupture, but it's not clear why, according to Wendy Owen, a spokeswoman for Casper, Wyoming-based True Cos., which operates the pipeline. \n The pipeline was shut down as soon as the leak was discovered. Owen said erosion of a hillside might have ruptured the pipe, but the cause is still being investigated. \n IS THIS A BIG SPILL?  \n It's sizeable, but there have been much larger oil spills in North Dakota. In September 2013, a Tesoro Corp. pipeline break spilled more than 840,000 gallons of oil into a wheat field near Tioga. That spill is still being cleaned up. \n True Cos. has a history of spills in North Dakota and Montana, including a January 2015 pipeline break into the Yellowstone River. That 32,000-gallon spill temporarily shut down water supplies in the downstream community of Glendive, Montana, after oil was detected in the city's water treatment system. \n IS THIS PIPELINE LIKE THE DAKOTA ACCESS PIPELINE?  \n It's much smaller. The 6-inch steel Belle Fourche Pipeline, built in the 1980s, is mostly underground but crosses Ash Coulee Creek above ground. \n It's one of a network of thousands of miles of similar pipelines that crisscross western North Dakota's oil patch to pick up oil from wells and carry it to collection points, where it ultimately moves into larger pipelines or railroad tankers destined for refineries across the U.S. \n The Dakota Access pipeline is a 30-inch steel pipeline that will carry nearly 20 million gallons of North Dakota oil daily through South Dakota and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n It is largely complete except for a segment, blocked by the federal government, that's near the Standing Rock Sioux reservation, where it would be buried 90 to 115 feet below Lake Oahe. Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners says the line will have modern leak detection equipment, and that workers monitoring the pipeline remotely could close valves within three minutes if a breach was detected. \n The Standing Rock tribe argues that putting the pipeline under the lake imperils drinking water for more than 8,000 tribal members and millions downstream. ETP and other pipeline advocates maintain that transporting oil through pipelines is safer than shipping it by truck or train. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Dakota oil spill raises questions about safety"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Yahoo said it believes hackers stole data from more than one billion user accounts in August 2013. \n NEW YORK >> Yahoo says it believes hackers stole data from more than one billion user accounts in August 2013, in what is thought to be the largest data breach at an email provider. \n The Sunnyvale, California, company was also home to what's now most likely the second largest hack in history, one that exposed 500 million Yahoo accounts . The company disclosed that breach in September. Yahoo said it hasn't identified the intrusion associated with this theft. \n Yahoo says the information stolen may include names, email addresses, phone numbers, birthdates and security questions and answers. The company says it believes bank-account information and payment-card data were not affected. \n But the company said hackers may have also stolen passwords from the affected accounts. Technically, those passwords should be secure; Yahoo said they were scrambled twice \u2014 once by encryption and once by another technique called hashing. But hackers have become adept at cracking secured passwords by assembling huge dictionaries of similarly scrambled phrases and matching them against stolen password databases. \n That could mean trouble for any users who reused their Yahoo password for other online accounts. \n QUESTIONS FOR VERIZON \n The new hack revelation raises fresh questions about Verizon's $4.8 billion proposed acquisition of Yahoo, and whether the big mobile carrier will seek to modify or abandon its bid. If the hacks cause a user backlash against Yahoo, the company's services wouldn't be as valuable to Verizon. The telecom giant wants Yahoo and its many users to help it build a digital ad business. \n In a statement, Verizon said that it will evaluate the situation as Yahoo investigates and will review the \"new development before reaching any final conclusions.\" Spokesman Bob Varettoni declined to answer further questions. \n Yahoo said Wednesday that it is requiring users to change their passwords and invalidating security questions so they can't be used to hack into accounts. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Yahoo says hackers stole information from over 1B accounts"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "Hawaii's four Democratic electors have joined a movement asking for information about possible Russian hacking during the presidential election, calling on President Barack Obama to release a CIA report on the topic. \n \"The information contained in the report is essential to carrying out our constitutional obligation of casting our vote in an election that is free from tampering from outside entities,\" the electors said, according to a statement released late Tuesday by one of Hawaii's electors, John Bickel. \n Bickel told The Associated Press the electors and the public have the right to know whether Russia was meddling with the election. \n \"I don't know what's in those CIA briefs, but I think there may be something that goes into us making our decision,\" he added. \n The move follows a letter sent Monday by 10 electors requesting information about ongoing investigations on ties between Trump and \"Russian government interference in the election.\" One Texas Republican who said he will not vote for Trump joined nine Democrats who sent that letter. \n Aside from Bickel, the Hawaii letter was signed by electors Janice Bond of Lihue, Marie \"Dolly\" Strazar of Hilo and David Mulinix of Kaneohe. \n In interviews with The Associated Press Bickel, Strazar and Mulinix said they plan to vote for Hillary Clinton. But Bond, who voted for Bernie Sanders in the state's presidential caucus, did not disclose how she plans to vote. \n Clinton won Hawaii, so the state's electors are required by law to vote her when they cast their votes on Monday, Dec. 19. However, the law does not stipulate any penalties if electors do not follow those rules, according to Nedielyn Bueno, spokeswoman for the Office of Elections. \n Mulinix, who joined the Democratic Party to help get Sanders elected, said last week plans to reluctantly vote for Clinton because of the state law requirement. He said he doubted that any movement by electors to send someone other than president-elect Donald Trump to the White House would succeed. \n \"Republicans are pretty, you know, they are in lockstep. They all go over the cliff together,\" Mulinix said. \"They don't break ranks. So I think that Donald Trump is going to be the guy. So anything that any elector does now, it's going to be a statement.\" \n Like several other Hawaii electors, Mulinix said he wants to do away with the Electoral College. \n \"Right now, if all the electors got together and held a conference, and said 'you know what, we're going to vote for Donald Duck,' they can just do that,\" Mulinix said. \"Completely usurp the will of the people. And that is just so wrong.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii electors want CIA report on possible Russian hacking"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Almost three dozen people were in the lineup in the waters of Ala Moana Beach to catch Halalu, or juvenile Akule, on Sept. 22. Water service at the park will be shut down Monday to accommodate the city's irrigation system upgrade for the complex. \n Water service at Ala Moana Regional Park will be shut down Monday to accommodate the city's irrigation system upgrade for the complex. \n That means no regular toilet, shower or drinking water service that day at Oahu's most heavily used park. There will, however, be portable toilets placed near existing comfort stations throughout the park. No shower facilities will be available during the shutoff. Magic Island will be included in the shutdown as will the L&L Hawaiian Barbecue concession at the park. \n The suspension of water service will allow contractor RMY Construction to make connections to the water supply at four locations in the park, the city Parks and Recreation Department said. The work is expected to last all day but service could be restored earlier if the upgrade is completed ahead of schedule. \n The overall project is expected to be completed in the summer. Parks officials said the configuration of the current irrigation infrastructure comprises of a patchwork of separate systems that have undergone different levels of maintenance since the 1950s. As a result, it is not possible to isolate the four areas where the new connections are being made in order to limit the impact of a water shutdown, city officials said. \n RMY won a $2.02 million contract for the irrigation improvement project, which includes installation of a Rain Bird Maxicom system designed to provide a more effective way of watering the park, parks officials said. The upgrade is expected to reduce water usage while extending plant life and minimizing maintenance needs. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Water service to be shut off at Ala Moana park on Monday"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "COURTESY RYAN YAMAMOTO/MIDDLE MANAGEMENT \n On the menu at the new Senia: Hot-smoked King Salmon \n Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come: Senia, perhaps the most anticipated restaurant of the year, opens today in Chinatown. \n Senia is the brainchild of chefs Chris Kajioka and Anthony Rush. While the two bristle at defining their cuisine, they've come to decide upon the descriptor of Regional American. \n Their menu runs from Poke Cracker \"snacks\" to char siu-glazed bone-in pork belly to foie gras terrine. Dinners are in the $60 range; lunches, set to begin in early 2017, will be about $30. \n Dining options include a Chefs' Counter experience, set to start in a few weeks, featuring an elevated, multicourse tasting menu ($185, an additional $95 with wine pairings and $160 with reserve wine pairings). \n Local boy Kajioka made friends with Rush, who hails from England, while working side by side at Per Se, the Michelin three-star restaurant owned by Thomas Keller. \n The Senia team includes sous-chef Patrick Collins, pastry chef Mimi Mendoza and wine director Chris Ramelb, with Katherine Nomura, Rush's wife, taking the helm as general manager. \n ", "author": "By Joleen Oshiro joshiro@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Long-awaited Senia opens today downtown"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 32-year-old man after he allegedly assaulted a police officer while resisting arrest in Kaneohe. \n At about 8:40 a.m. Tuesday, police responded to a home on Melekula Road after a man allegedly violated a temporary restraining order. \n Police said an officer arrived and a struggle ensued when the suspect resisted arrest. \n The 32-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of assault of a law enforcement officer in the first degree, two counts of violating a temporary restraining order, criminal contempt and resisting arrest. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested in assault of officer in Kaneohe"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / MAY 2000 \n Mokuleia Beach Park \n State officials say they're working to figure out what to do with possible skeletal remains found at a beach along Oahu's north shore. \n Cheryl Oga, of Waialua, said she was shocked to discover what appeared to be \"a skull, arm bones and a spine\" scattered along the shoreline while fishing at Mokuleia Beach two weeks ago. \n \"There's not enough sand to build up the beach so probably the rain and waves caused the erosion and that's how the bones came out from underneath,\" Oga said. \n \"The representative told me they'd be back and we're still waiting for them to come back,\" Okimoto said. \n The department said it is \"aware of the situation, and is working with the appropriate state agencies, Camp Erdman staff, and community to address it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State investigates possible human remains at Oahu beach"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "The Hawaii County Fire Department and the Coast Guard are searching for a possible missing fisherman near the break wall in Hilo today. \n Sometime before 5 a.m., the Coast Guard received a call from the fire department of a possible person in the water off of the break wall. They deployed its MH-65 Dolphin helicopter, HC-130 Hercules airplane and cutter USCGC Galveston Island to the area, according to a news release from the Coast Guard. \n Crews from the fire department are canvassing the shoreline and will launch its helicopter and rescue boat this morning. \n A high surf advisory is in effect for the east shores of the main Hawaiian islands until 6 a.m. Thursday. The National Weather Service forecasted waves up to six feet. Surf conditions are expected to increase to 10 feet later today before subsiding tonight. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Rescue crews search for missing fisherman off Hilo"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "Hawaii island firefighters responded to a residential fire that fully engulfed a home in Keaau. \n Firefighters responded shortly before 5 p.m. Tuesday, at the single-story home located at 17-4437 South Road in Kurtistown. When they arrived, they observed the house engulfed in flames, according to a news release from the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n Firefighters brought the blaze under control at approximately 5:38 p.m. and extinguished it at about 7:30 p.m. \n No one was home at the time of the fire. \n The cause is still under investigation. Damage to the structure and its contents is estimated at $120,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire chars home in Keaau"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rubia Serna was consoled by her sons Jesse, right, and Frank at the candlelight vigil for Francisco Serna, 73, her husband and their father, Tuesday, in Bakersfield, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A crowd of about 150 people attended a candlelight vigil for Francisco Serna, 73, Tuesday, in Bakersfield, Calif. Serna was shot and killed by a Bakersfield, Calif., police officer near his home early Monday morning. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Activist Dolores Huerta, center, spoke at a candlelight vigil for Francisco Serna, 73, Tuesday, in Bakersfield, Calif. From right are Serna's son Frank Serna, wife Rubia Serna and son Roy Serna. Serna was shot and killed by a Bakersfield, Calif., police officer near his home early Monday. \n LOS ANGELES >> An unarmed 73-year-old man refused to take his hand out of his pocket and stop walking toward officers who believed he had a gun when they fatally shot him, the incoming police chief of Bakersfield, California, said. \n Two different people who encountered Francisco Serna in the hours leading up to the shooting had believed he had a gun, and police were answering a 911 call of a man with a revolver, incoming Chief Lyle Martin said at a news conference Tuesday. \n Officer Reagan Selman, who had been on the force about 16 months, fired seven shots at Serna as he walked toward them in a neighbor's driveway early Monday, said Martin. \n Serna was declared dead at the scene, and no gun was found on him. Martin could not say how many of the seven shots had hit him. Martin says an object was recovered that may have been what the woman mistook for a gun, but he said it was difficult to describe and didn't offer further details. \n The shooting came about 20 to 30 seconds after a woman who had encountered Serna pointed him out to police as he walked out of his house across the street and walked toward them, Martin said. Serna refused to remove his hand from his jacket pocket and to stop walking toward the officers despite many commands, Martin said. \n Serna's family said he has dementia. \n Earlier at about 4 p.m. on Sunday, another neighbor had encountered Serna, whose hand was in his jacket pocket as though he had a gun. Serna tried to force his way into the house of the neighbor, who called his behavior \"bizarre.\" Serna left and the neighbor, who had recognized him, did not immediately report the incident. \n Then about eight hours later, the woman who lives across the street from Serna was getting out of a car in her driveway when he came up behind her and asked her to get back into the car. The woman also saw Serna's hand in his jacket pocket and thought he had a gun. She and a friend she was with ran into the house and she told her boyfriend, who called police and said a man in the driveway had a revolver and was brandishing it at women, Martin said. \n Serna and his partner were first to arrive, followed by the other five officers. \n They had been interviewing the woman for a few minutes when Serna walked out of the house and she pointed him out, leading to the shooting. \n Martin said it was an extremely difficult set of circumstances for an officer fearing a man with a gun and a terrible situation for all involved. \"This is a tragic incident for their family, the community as a whole, and the police department,\" he said. \n All the officers who were there have been placed on routine administrative leave. \n A group was gathered outside the family home late Tuesday, with one person holding a sign that read \"Justice for Francisco Serna.\" A candlelight vigil was held in his honor. \n Serna's son Rogelio Serna posted a video on Facebook about the shooting Tuesday. \"Right across the street is where the police shot my father \u2026 and my dad was not armed,\" Rogelio said in the video. \n He wrote in another post that his father was in the early stages of dementia and would go on small walks when he had trouble sleeping. \"Last night he took his last walk,\" Serna wrote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California police kill unarmed man, 73, who they thought had gun"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Ryan Zinke, right, R-Mont., arrived in Trump Tower, in New York, Monday. \n BILLINGS, Mont. >> Rep. Ryan Zinke of Montana made no secret of his ambitions to join a Donald Trump Cabinet, and yet his nomination as interior secretary is in some ways an unlikely fit for the retired U.S. Navy SEAL. \n Zinke, 55, was an early supporter of the president-elect and publicly expressed his interest in a Cabinet post when Trump visited Montana in May. \n Like other Western states, Montana's wide-open, rugged landscape has a huge federal presence. The Interior Department and other U.S. agencies control almost a third of its land and even more of the underground \"mineral estate\" that holds vast amounts of coal, oil and natural gas. \n As with several other Trump Cabinet nominees, Zinke has advocated for increased energy drilling and mining on those lands and expressed skepticism about the urgency of climate change. \n The Republican lawmaker also has been a vocal supporter of keeping public lands in the government's hands. That's a central political issue in Montana, where hunting and fishing access is considered sacrosanct. \n The president-elect's son Donald Jr. is an avid hunter and was in Montana on a hunting trip last month. That may have given Zinke an advantage over another lawmaker Trump was said to have considered for the Interior post, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash. She wrote on Facebook Tuesday that it had been an \"honor\" to be invited to meet with Trump. \n Zinke met Monday with Trump in New York, according to two people with knowledge of the matter. A person close to Zinke confirmed the Tuesday offer. \n He hadn't yet accepted when he left Tuesday for his home in the mountain town of Whitefish, Montana, according to two of those people. All three spoke on condition of on anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the transition process publicly. \n Energy development, land management and hunting fall under the Interior Department's jurisdiction. However, those were second-tier issues for Zinke during his successful re-election campaign this fall against Democrat Denise Juneau. \n In interviews with The Associated Press during that campaign, Zinke repeatedly identified his top priorities as national security, more thorough vetting of refugees to screen out terrorists, the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and improving the U.S. economy. \n Only after listing those did he list his desire to increase coal mining and oil and gas exploration, protect public lands and provide more resources for American Indian tribes, another Interior responsibility. \n News of his selection was welcomed by Montana's Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes and at least one conservation group, Backcountry Hunters and Anglers. The president of the Missoula, Montana-based hunting group, Land Tawney, called Zinke a \"potential ally\" in the effort to balance energy development with preservation. \n \"There are places too important for drilling, and in other places we can do phased development. Mr. Zinke understands that,\" Tawney said. \n Other groups slammed the selection. The Northern Plains Resource Council accused Zinke of \"shortchanging the public\" with his opposition to pending Obama administration moves to reform the federal energy leasing program. \n Zinke spent 23 years as a Navy SEAL, serving in Iraq, Kosovo and elsewhere. He was awarded two Bronze Stars for combat missions in Iraq. He currently serves on the House Natural Resources and Armed Services committees and describes himself as \"a steadfast advocate for Montana veterans and military personnel and families.\" \n He made an unsuccessful 2012 run for Montana lieutenant governor before shifting his ambitions to Congress when former Rep. Denny Rehberg decided to take on Sen. Jon Tester, a Democrat. Zinke has been considering his own challenge to Tester in 2018. \n Zinke has raised doubts about climate change as \"unsettled science.\" But he's also said that \"something's going on\" with the climate and that an energy strategy that includes renewable sources such as wind and solar would be prudent. \n Montana boasts the largest coal reserves in the nation. Zinke has warned environmentalists and the Obama administration that to take coal out of the energy mix would be \"a disaster.\" \n \"I don't agree with keeping it in the ground,\" he said in a debate before his re-election. \n Democrats have attempted to label Zinke as a radical who would sell off federal lands to private interests or transfer them to state control. Zinke has adamantly denied the charge, which was based on a pledge he'd signed years earlier. \n Before being elected to Congress, Zinke served in the Montana Senate, where he chaired the Education Committee. He graduated from the University of Oregon, where he played football and earned a degree in geology. He has master's degrees in business finance and global leadership from the University of San Diego. \n Associated Press writers Julie Pace, Ken Thomas and Matthew Daly in Washington and Matt Volz in Butte, Montana, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former SEAL Zinke tapped to lead Interior Department"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Waymo driverless car is displayed during a Google event, Tuesday, Dec. 13, 2016, in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Uber is bringing a small number of self-driving cars to its ride-hailing service in San Francisco \u2014 a move likely to excite the city's tech-savvy population and certain to antagonize California regulators. \n The Wednesday launch in Uber's hometown expands a public pilot program the company started in Pittsburgh in September. The testing lets everyday people experience the cars as Uber works to identify glitches before expanding the technology's use in San Francisco and elsewhere. \n California law, however, requires a test permit for self-driving prototype vehicles, and Uber does not have one. The company argues that the law doesn't apply because its cars require a human backup. \n Uber has a history of testing legal boundaries. Although the company has been around less than a decade, it has argued with authorities around the world about how much of its drivers' histories should be covered in background checks and whether those drivers should be treated as contractors ineligible for employee benefits. \n THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO \n Uber's self-driving tests in San Francisco will begin with a \"handful\" of Volvo luxury SUVs \u2014 the company wouldn't release an exact number \u2014 that have been tricked out with sensors so they can steer, accelerate and brake, and even decide to change lanes. The cars will have an Uber employee behind the wheel to take over should the technology fail. Users of the app may be matched with a self-driving car, but can opt out if they prefer a human driver. Self-driven rides cost the same as ordinary ones. \n The cars will be put to the test in the congested streets of San Francisco. The city can be a daunting place to drive given its famously steep hills, frequent fog, street and cable cars, an active bicycle culture, and roads that are constantly being repaved, remarked and restricted for bike lanes and traffic management. \n Uber believes its technology is ready to handle all this safely, though its executives concede the vehicles are nowhere near able to drive without a human ready to take control in dicey situations. \n There was room for improvement during a Tuesday test drive attended by The Associated Press. The car was destined for a local pizza parlor, but didn't pull directly in front of the restaurant, and instead stopped in the middle of the street. The cars may strike some riders as over-cautious, too. During the test drive, one idled in a traffic jam even though an adjacent lane was clear, prompting the human driver to make the move himself. \n Uber's fleet of Volvo XC90s won't be the first self-driving cars on San Francisco streets \u2014 several other companies visit regularly with test prototypes, though none offers public rides. \n Once testing is complete, the ultimate vision is to sell to the public technology which supporters argue will save thousands of lives because it doesn't drink, text, fall asleep or take dangerous risks. \n PERMIT ME NOT \n Under state law, self-driving tests on public roads require a permit from the Department of Motor Vehicles. The department has issued permits to 20 companies, mostly a collection of traditional automakers and tech companies \u2014 but not Uber. \n Uber argues that its cars aren't really autonomous, and thus aren't covered by the law. Under the law, an \"autonomous vehicle\" requires a permit if it can drive itself \"without the active physical control or monitoring of a natural person.\" \n According to Anthony Levandowski, the leader of Uber's self-driving program, Uber's cars simply aren't advanced enough to drive themselves without human monitoring. \"We're just not capable of doing that yet,\" he said. Therefore, the Volvos are not autonomous and do not require a permit. \n It makes no sense to get a permit when one is not needed, Levandowski said: \"This is where science and logic needs to trump blind compliance.\" \n In a statement issued late Tuesday, the DMV said it \"encourages the responsible exploration of self-driving cars\" and noted that 20 companies have permits to test hundreds of cars in California. \n \"Uber shall do the same,\" the statement said. \n Operating without a permit arguably gives Uber a competitive advantage. Companies with one must report to the state all crashes and every instance in which a person takes control during testing. All that information is public. To receive a permit, a company must show proof of insurance, pay a $150 fee and agree that a human driver can take control of the vehicle. \n Uber's stance seems likely to upset both state officials and competitors, said Bryant Walker Smith, a law professor at the University of South Carolina who tracked California's law as it was drafted in 2012. While an attorney could argue that Uber is reading the letter of California law correctly, Smith said, testing permits were \"envisioned as a gateway, as an interim step\" to launching self-driving cars on public roads. \n Smith recalled discussing at the time the argument that Uber is now making: One day, a company might go public without a testing permit precisely because the law requires human oversight during testing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Uber self-driving cars hit the streets of San Francisco"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, and ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson shake hands at a signing ceremony of an agreement between state-controlled Russian oil company Rosneft and ExxonMobil at the Black Sea port of Tuapse, southern Russia. \n WASHINGTON >> In selecting Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson as his secretary of state, President-elect Donald Trump is making the same bet he asked voters to make on him: that a track record of business accomplishment will translate into success in government. \n Indeed, Trump, the first billionaire businessman to win the White House, is broadly testing that proposition across his administration. He's tapped fast food executive Andy Puzder to lead the Labor Department, billionaire investor Wilbur Ross for Commerce, financier Steven Mnuchin as Treasury secretary and Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn as his top economic adviser. And early Wednesday, the billionaire businessman confirmed that he'd settled on former Texas Gov. Rick Perry to be the next secretary of energy. \n But he's taking perhaps his biggest chance on Tillerson, pulling an executive from the rough-and-tumble world of oil production into the delicate arena of international diplomacy. If confirmed by the Senate \u2014 and his deep ties to Russia make that no sure thing \u2014 Tillerson will be at the center of discussions over the Syrian civil war, the intractable pursuit of peace in the Middle East, and potential conflicts with China, given Trump's early questioning of longstanding U.S. policy toward Beijing. \n To Trump, the deals Tillerson has struck around the world for Exxon, and the relationships he has built doing so, are ample preparation for the challenges he would face as the nation's top diplomat. While Tillerson's ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin are drawing scrutiny on Capitol Hill, Trump has had good things to say about Putin, too, and Tillerson's connection doesn't appear to have given him any pause. \n \"Rex knows how to manage a global enterprise, which is crucial to running a successful State Department, and his relationships with leaders all over the world are second to none,\" Trump said Tuesday. \n He's been making a similar case about himself all year as he sought to persuade voters that a real estate mogul and political novice had the skills to serve as president. He spent little time trying to show voters that his skills extended beyond the boardroom. Instead, he argued that experience was plenty. \n Of Perry, Trump praised his Energy Department choice in an early morning statement Wednesday from Trump Tower in New York. \n \"As the governor of Texas, Rick Perry created a business climate that produced millions of new jobs and lower energy prices in his state,\" he said, \"and he will bring that same approach to our entire country as secretary of energy .\" Perry called it \"a tremendous honor\" to be chosen for Trump's evolving Cabinet. \n As Trump set about putting his administration together, people close to him say he was quickly drawn to the idea of elite business leaders filling the Cabinet, along with those who have had success in areas outside of politics. He's tapped three retired generals for top jobs: James Mattis to head the Pentagon, John Kelly for the Department of Homeland Security and Michael Flynn as his national security adviser. \n While business leaders have served in Cabinet posts under both Republican and Democratic presidents, the scope of private sector influence in Trump's burgeoning team is a stark contrast to modern predecessors. Most of President Barack Obama's Cabinet secretaries had public sector backgrounds, though Interior Secretary Sally Jewell served as CEO of the retail company REI and Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald is the retired CEO of Procter & Gamble. \n Some of Trump's picks have come from a more traditional mold. Among them will be former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who has been asked by Trump to lead the Energy Department, according to people with knowledge of the decision. Trump has also selected a handful of congressional lawmakers for other top jobs. \n But Trump is said to have been particularly intrigued by the prospect of breaking the mold with his choice for secretary of state, one of the most powerful and prominent positions and one that often goes to a diplomatic veteran. \n Tillerson came to his attention several years ago when he beat back a motion supported by the Rockefellers \u2014 Exxon's founding family \u2014 that would have split the chairman and chief executive position into two different jobs. The president-elect was drawn to Tillerson's confidence and Texas swagger, according to people with knowledge of the decision. \n \"Rex Tillerson is a very Trumpian-inspired pick because it's somebody who, like Donald Trump, has a career outside of politics, and he's somebody who is accustomed to making big deals and translating that into big impact,\" said Kellyanne Conway, one of Trump's senior advisers. \n But for some longtime foreign policy hands, Tillerson is an uncomfortable fit. \n \"Rex Tillerson has done a fantastic job for Exxon Mobil shareholders,\" said Michael McFaul, Obama's former ambassador to Russia. \"I am not sure those same skills qualify him to be secretary of state.\" \n A native of Wichita Falls, Texas, Tillerson came to Exxon Mobil Corp. as a production engineer straight out of the University of Texas in 1975 and never left. Groomed for an executive position, he has held posts in the company's central U.S., Yemen and Russia operations. \n Early in the company's efforts to gain access to the Russian market, Tillerson cut a deal with state-owned Rosneft. The neglected post-Soviet company didn't have a tremendous amount to offer, but Exxon partnered with it \"to be on the same side of the table,\" Tillerson said, according to \"Private Empire,\" an investigative history of Exxon by Steve Coll. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "With Tillerson, Trump keeps betting big on business leaders"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington, before the Joint Economic Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> The Federal Reserve is expected to raise its key interest rate for the first time in a year when its policy meeting ends Wednesday. \n The move would lift the rate by a quarter point to a range between 0.5 percent and 0.75 percent, likely nudging up the cost of some consumer and business loans. The Fed last increased rates in December a year ago, when it hiked its benchmark rate from a record low set at the depths of the 2008 financial crisis. \n Attention Wednesday will revolve around what Fed official say about the pace of future rate increases against the backdrop of Donald Trump's election. How the Fed manages its policies might not be clear even after it issues a statement and Chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fed expected to raise rates for first time in a year"}

{"date": "December 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A marijuana joint is rolled in San Francisco. It is now legal in Massachusetts for adults to possess, grow and use limited amounts of recreational marijuana. \n BOSTON >> Having spent nearly three decades crusading for relaxed marijuana laws in Massachusetts, Bill Downing is greeting the state's new recreational marijuana law with a mix of satisfaction and trepidation. \n The voter-approved measure took effect on Thursday, making it legal for adults to possess, grow and use limited amounts of pot. \n \"I am both celebrating and worrying that the law might not be implemented properly,\" said Downing, member liaison for the Massachusetts Cannabis Reform Coalition. \n The concerns of Downing and other activists stem from public statements by Democratic legislative leaders and Republican Gov. Charlie Baker promising a review and possible changes to the ballot measure, which passed last month by a margin of more than 240,000 votes out of nearly 3.8 million total votes cast. \n \"The only limitation is how willing they are to tread on the will of their constituents,\" said Downing of lawmakers. \n Massachusetts is the first U.S. state on the eastern seaboard where recreational marijuana is legal, though Maine will soon follow if a recount upholds passage of a ballot measure there. \n The Massachusetts law allows adults 21 and over to possess up to an ounce of pot outside the home, up to 10 ounces inside the home and grow up to a dozen marijuana plants per household. But as it will be at least a year before licensed pot shops are allowed to open, recreational users still have little choice but to buy the drug from illegal dealers. \n The wishes of the voters will be respected, pledged Baker, who strongly opposed legalization. But he defended efforts that may lead to revisions. \n \"It was a 6,000 word ballot question written by the recreational marijuana industry for the recreational marijuana industry,\" said Baker, who spoke to The Associated Press from a trade mission in Israel. \"So I expect the Legislature will want to deal with things like potency, home rule. What are going to be the rules about where you can locate (retail) facilities and what local control does local government have about that?\" \n One possibility, Baker said, was extending regulatory deadlines in the law by six months, which could push the start of commercial marijuana sales into mid-2018. \n In an eight-page memo sent Wednesday to police departments in Massachusetts, Secretary of Public Safety Daniel Bennett said implementation of recreational marijuana \"will create a complex web of different rules,\" that law enforcement must navigate. \n \"Within certain limits, the new law authorizes some conduct that had previously been prohibited. Beyond those limits, however, possession, cultivation and distribution of marijuana remain illegal under state law,\" wrote Bennett. \n For his part, Downing plans to join other legalization advocates outside the Statehouse on Thursday to celebrate the law formally taking effect. As consumption of marijuana in public places remains illegal, he has no plans to use pot at the rally but would not be shocked if others did as an act of \"civil disobedience.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Recreational marijuana law takes effect in Massachusetts"}

