{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People struggled to walk in the blowing snow during a winter storm, today, in Boston. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Two men played golf with a tennis ball as a snowstorm swept through Times Square, today, in New York. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A grocery store was filled with shoppers stocking up on food and other supplies in Paramus, N.J. Monday. \n NEW YORK >> A sloppy, blustery late-season storm lashed the Northeast with sleet and more than a foot of snow in places today, paralyzing much of the Washington-to-Boston corridor after a remarkably mild February had lulled people into thinking the worst of winter was over. \n The powerful nor'easter grounded nearly 6,000 flights, knocked out power to almost a quarter-million customers from Virginia northward, closed schools in cities big and small and prompted dire warnings to stay off the roads. Amtrak suspended service and the post office halted mail delivery. \n As the morning wore on, the storm track shifted slightly and snow switched to sleet in Philadelphia and New York, prompting forecasters to lift blizzard warnings for the two big cities and cut their prediction of a foot or more of snow by over half. \n But Boston was still in the crosshairs, with up to a foot expected in the metropolitan area and gusts up to 75 mph forecast along the Massachusetts coast. And inland areas up and down the Northeast got clobbered. \n Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, received at least a foot of snow, and Wantage, New Jersey, got at least 17 inches. New York's Hudson Valley had up to 20 inches by midafternoon. \n \"The winters seem to be upside down now. January and February are nice and then March and April seem to be more wintry than they were in the past,\" said Bob Clifford, who ventured out on an early morning grocery run for his family in Altamont, near Albany, New York. \n His advice: \"Just hide inside. Hibernate.\" \n A 16-year-old girl was killed in New Hampshire after she lost control of her car on a snowy road and hit a tree. But many other people were home, and stayed there, when the storm rolled in Monday night and this morning. \n \"Good day to make brownies \u2026 and or read a book,\" said Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, which was expecting up to 2 feet of snow in some areas. \n The above-ground portions of the New York subway system were shut down, and the flight cancellations included nearly 3,300 in the New York City area alone. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at airports. \n Laura and Matthew Balderstone of West Yorkshire, England, intended to spend their honeymoon in Florida but found themselves stuck at the Newark, New Jersey, airport and couldn't find a hotel room. \n \"It's better safe than sorry, especially flying. I suppose it's a shame that we can't get another way around this. It's just the way it is, unfortunately,\" Matthew Balderstone said. \n In the nation's capital, the federal government announced a three-hour delayed arrival for non-emergency employees, with an option to take the day off or telecommute. \n The nor'easter came a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s, and less than a week before the official start of spring. \n A few days ago, workers on Washington's National Mall were making plan to turn on the fountains. \n \"Obviously all that has to come to an abrupt stop until we get all the snow cleared,\" said Jeff Gowen, the acting facility manager for the National Mall and Memorial Parks. \"The cherry blossoms, they're right on the cusp of going into bloom here. I had a feeling this was going to happen.\" \n Kelly Erskine, a 28-year-old coffee shop manager from Whitman, Massachusetts, about 25 miles south of Boston, made it almost all the way through the winter without a shovel. She went to Walmart this morning to get one. \n \"I live in an apartment complex and they usually take care of the shoveling, but they sent a letter to us and said, 'Expect a lot of snow.' I knew from the letter that I'd have to go out and buy a shovel,\" she said. \n In Narragansett, Rhode Island, high winds knocked down a state-owned wind turbine. In New York City, two homes under construction collapsed near the waterfront in Far Rockaway. No injuries were reported. \n And two ponies broke out of their stables and roamed the snowy streets of Staten Island until an off-duty police officer wrangled them with straps normally used to tow cars and tied them to a lamppost. They were taken back to the stables. \n \"We want to thank our cowboy officer,\" Mayor Bill de Blasio said. \n The storm coincided with New Hampshire's traditional Town Meeting Day, when voters in more than 100 communities elect boards of selectman, library trustees and a host of other local positions, and in some locations, set their annual budgets. \n Some towns postponed their elections because of the snow. But in Hopkinton, a steady stream of voters braved the blustery conditions to make it to the polls. \n \"You know, they're hardy New Englanders, and they're coming to vote,\" said Debbie Norris, a candidate for the Hopkinton Budget Committee. \n At Rosie's Liquor & Deli in Abington, about 20 miles south of Boston, business was steady as customers with the day off from work came in to buy something to get through the storm, including a woman who bought a bottle of champagne to bring to a friend's house. \n \"Nobody's working, so everybody's drinking,\" said store clerk Steve Correia. \n Schools in New York, Philadelphia, Boston and elsewhere closed. \n Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf said about 700 National Guard members would be deployed along with more than 2,000 snowplows to keep up with the storm. \n The snow threat led college basketball teams to alter their March Madness travel plans. Villanova, top overall seed in the men's NCAA Tournament, left Philadelphia on Monday afternoon for Buffalo, New York, to get ahead of the storm. \n But teams in the men's and women's tournaments rely on chartered flights, so any backlog at commercial airlines shouldn't be a problem. \n Associated Press writers Denise Lavoie in Whitman and Abington, Massachusetts; Bruce Shipkowski in Trenton, New Jersey; John Kekis in Albany, New York; Michelle R. Smith and Jennifer McDermott in Providence, Rhode Island; Dave Collins in Hartford, Connecticut; Shawn Marsh in Manasquan, New Jersey; Kristen DeGroot in Philadelphia; Holly Ramer in Hopkinton, New Hampshire; Ted Shaffrey in Newark, New Jersey; Ben Nuckols in Washington; and Michael Rubinkam in northeastern Pennsylvania contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sloppy late-season storm clobbers Northeast"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This ground crew moring the Goodyear Blimp \"Sprit of Innovation\" as it comes in for a landing in September 2015 at Goodyear Airship Base in Carson, Calif. \n LOS ANGELES >> Goodyear is letting the helium out of the last of its fabled fleet of blimps. \n But shed no tears, blimp fans, you'll still see a familiar blue-and-gold form floating over your favorite sports event or awards show long after the California-based \"Spirit of Innovation\" goes flat Tuesday. \n But although its replacement, \"Wingfoot Two,\" will look about the same when it arrives at Goodyear's California airship base in Carson later this year, it will be a semi-rigid dirigible. \n Such aircraft, one of which has already replaced Goodyear's Florida blimp, have a frame, which means they maintain their shape when the helium is drained. Blimps, on the other hand, go flat. \"Wingfoot Two,\" currently operating in Ohio, will be replaced by yet another dirigible when it leaves there for California. \n Far more important to Goodyear is that the new airships are faster, quieter, larger, easier to fly and more maneuverable than the blimps it introduced more than 90 years ago. Still, the company plans to keep calling the new models blimps. \n \"Because a Goodyear Semi-rigid Dirigible doesn't roll off the tongue,\" laughed company airship historian Eddie Ogden. \n The switch to dirigibles offers a similar-looking, cigar-shaped flying machine but one that's 246 feet long, nearly the length of a football field and 50 feet longer than the old blimps. With room for three engines instead of two, it will be able to hit freeway speeds of over 70 miles per hour and turn on a dime. \n The quieter engines also will provide an advantage in covering golf tournaments, Ogden said, by eliminating the racket that can sometimes disrupt golfers lining up their putts. The ability to hover will allow a pilot to better position the aircraft to capture NASCAR race finishes and key moments in a baseball game. \n And the ability to take off and land like a helicopter will put an end to those funny-looking runway pursuits by the ground crew. \n Still, \"Spirit of Innovation\" was an innovator in its day and its deflation comes with some emotion. \n Its gondola, originally christened Columbia in 1986, became Eagle in 2002 and finally Innovation following a public name-that-blimp contest in 2006. \n With the lifespan of its big gas bag, formally known as an envelope, nearing an end, it was time to mothball it, said Matthew St. John, chief pilot at the Carson airship base and the man who took the blimp on its final flight above last month's Academy Awards. \n The craft's historic gondola will be shipped to Goodyear's century-old Ohio airship base to be put on permanent display. Other parts are going to museums, and the envelope is being recycled. \n \"The engines can be repaired and replaced, the gondola can be repaired and refurbished, the tail fins can be refurbished,\" said St. John, who plans to fly \"Innovation's\" replacement. \n \"But with the envelope, there's a safety measure there that we take a very serious look at and say, 'OK, this is the mark, and we're not going to go beyond that mark,'\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Goodyear retires blimps but keeps familiar form in flight"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "This photo taken last week shows a Life Choice clinic in San Antonio, which is among roughly two dozen women's health providers in Texas working with the Heidi Group to provide similar services offered by Planned Parenthood, such as cancer screenings or treatments for sexually transmitted diseases. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> In pushing a replacement for the Affordable Care Act that cuts off funds for Planned Parenthood, Republicans are out to reassure women who rely on the major health care organization that other clinics will step up to provide their low-cost breast exams, contraception and cancer screenings. \n Texas is already trying to prove it. But one big bet is quietly sputtering, and in danger of teaching the opposite lesson conservatives are after. \n Last summer, Texas gave $1.6 million to an anti-abortion organization called the Heidi Group to help strengthen small clinics that specialize in women's health like Planned Parenthood but don't offer abortions. The goal was to help the clinics boost their patient rolls and show there would be no gap in services if the nation's largest abortion provider had to scale back. \n The effort offered a model other conservative states could follow if Republicans make their long-sought dream of defunding Planned Parenthood a reality under President Donald Trump. Several states are already moving to curtail the organization's funds. \n But eight months later, the Heidi Group has little to show for its work. An Associated Press review found the nonprofit has done little of the outreach it promised, such as helping clinics promote their services on Facebook, or airing public service announcements. It hasn't made good on plans to establish a 1-800 number to help women find providers or ensure that all clinics have updated websites. \n Neither the group nor state officials would say how many patients have been served so far by the private clinics. \n The Heidi Group is led by Carol Everett, a prominent anti-abortion activist and influential conservative force in the Texas Legislature. \n In a brief interview, Everett said some of the community clinics aren't cooperating despite her best efforts to attract more clients. \n \"We worked on one Facebook site for three months and they didn't want to do it. And we worked on websites and they didn't want to do it,\" Everett said of the clinics. \"We can't force them. We're not forcing them.\" \n Everett said that advertising she planned was stalled by delays in a separate $5.1 million family planning contract. \n Everett proposed helping two dozen selected clinics serve 50,000 women overall in a year, more than such small facilities would normally handle. Clinic officials contacted by the AP either did not return phone calls or would not speak on the record. \n The Texas Health and Human Services Commission, which awarded the funding to the Heidi Group, acknowledged the problems. Spokeswoman Carrie Williams said in an email that the agency had to provide \"quite a bit\" of technical support for the effort and make many site visits. She disputed that the contract funding has been as slow as Everett alleged. \n \"The bottom line is that we are holding our contractors accountable, and will do everything we can to help them make themselves successful,\" she said. \n In August, the state had lauded Everett's pitch for taxpayer funds as \"one of the most robust\" received. \n Planned Parenthood and its supporters say the failures show the risks of relying on unproven providers to serve low-income women, and that Republicans' assurances about adequate care are only political rhetoric. \n \"Every time they try to relaunch one of these women's health programs, without some of the most trusted providers in women's health, every single time they come up short,\" said Sarah Wheat, a Planned Parenthood spokeswoman in Texas. \"And they show their lack of understanding and respect for what women need.\" \n On Tuesday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that 15 percent of low-income people in rural or underserved areas would lose access to care if Planned Parenthood loses funding. The analysis also projected several thousand more births in the Medicaid program in the next year. \n The Heidi Group is an evangelical nonprofit that started in the 1990s and is best known for promoting alternatives to abortion. It operates with a relatively small budget, taking in about $186,000 in grants and donations in 2015, according to tax records, and had not been doing patient care. \n State officials say the year-old women's health program includes about 5,000 providers. Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers are banned from participation. \n Federal dollars comprise nearly half of the Planned Parenthood's annual billion-dollar budget, and although government funds don't pay for abortions, the organization is reimbursed by Medicaid for non-abortion services that it says the vast majority of clients receive. Missouri is planning to reject federal funding just to keep some of it away from Planned Parenthood, and Iowa is also considering giving up millions in federal Medicaid dollars to create a state-run family planning program that excludes abortion providers. \n U.S. House Republicans' health care bill would freeze funding to Planned Parenthood for one year. House Speaker Paul Ryan has suggested other clinics will pick up the slack. \n \"It ends funding to Planned Parenthood and sends money to community centers,\" Ryan said last week. \n Democrats argue that other clinics are already overloaded and wouldn't be able to meet increased demand. \n After Texas state funding was cut off to abortion providers in 2011, 82 family planning clinics closed in the state, a third of which were Planned Parenthood affiliates. A state report later found that 30,000 fewer women were served through a Texas women's health program after the changes. Planned Parenthood now has 35 clinics in Texas and served more than 126,000 individual patients last year, including those seeking abortions. The state has provided no estimates of low-income women served by other clinics. \n Asked whether the Heidi Group would meet the patient targets in her contract, Everett said her own goal was to serve 70,000 women. \n However, \"it's not as easy as it looks because we are not Planned Parenthood. We are working with private physicians and providers,\" Everett said after leaving a committee hearing this week at the Texas Capitol. She said the clinics she is working with are busy seeing 40 to 50 women a day. \"They don't have time to go out and do some of the things that we would really like to help them do. But we're there if they want to. And we're there when the need it. And we're in their offices and we're helping them.\" \n She had been at the Capitol to support a bill that would require abortion clinics to bury or cremate fetal remains. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Get by without Planned Parenthood? One Texas effort stumbles"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President Barack Obama accompanied by former first lady Michelle Obama leaves the National Gallery of Art in Washington on March 5. Obama returned to Honolulu today and was spotted at Buzz's Lanikai. \n Coming off a string of high-profile meetings, former President Barack Obama made an unannounced return to Hawaii Monday. \n Just three months removed from his last official holiday visit as president, Obama was spotted dining at Buzz's Lanikai Monday night. \n Earlier in the day, Obama met with tech executives at the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose. \n On Friday, Obama and wife Michelle had lunch with U2 frontman Bono and his daughter Jordan Hewson at the Upland restaurant in New York. \n Two days later, Obama had lunch with billionaire Warren Buffett and his daughter, Susie, at the Happy Hollow Country Club in Omaha, Neb. \n ", "author": "By Michael Tsai mtsai@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Obama pays surprise visit to Honolulu"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alanna Irving, who is originally from San Francisco and who moved to New Zealand six years ago, poses in Wellington, New Zealand. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> It's one thing to talk about changing allegiance to another country when a new president is elected. It's another thing to go ahead and do it. \n But that's exactly what seems to be happening, at least in one distant corner of the world. \n In New Zealand, the number of Americans who applied for a grant of citizenship rose by 70 percent in the 12 weeks following the election of President Donald Trump when compared to the same period a year earlier, immigration records obtained by The Associated Press show. \n Figures also show the number of Americans who obtained a New Zealand work visa in January was up 18 percent from a year earlier, as was the number of Americans who visited the country. \n In New Zealand, a grant of citizenship is the pathway for people without a family connection. Among those Americans with a New Zealand parent, citizenship applications after the election were up 11 percent from a year earlier. \n In response to an AP freedom of information request, New Zealand's Department of Internal Affairs said that in the two days after the U.S. election in November, the number of Americans who visited its website to find out about citizenship was up more than tenfold from the same two weekdays a month earlier. \n To be sure, the total number of Americans applying for New Zealand citizenship remains relatively low. The country is more than 6,000 miles from the mainland U.S. and is perhaps best known for its majestic landscapes. Farming remains central to the economy, with sheep outnumbering the 4.8 million people by about six to one. \n Trump made a brief reference to the country during the election campaign when a New Zealand television reporter asked him what the election would mean for the South Pacific country. \n \"Say hello to Bob Charles. I love Bob Charles,\" Trump replied. \"Do you know who Bob Charles is? Your greatest golfer.\" Charles won the British Open in 1963. \n Some Americans living in New Zealand say their friends and family have been asking them about moving there since the election. \n Alanna Irving, 33, a technology startup entrepreneur from San Francisco, moved to New Zealand six years ago and has since married a kiwi, as the locals are known. \n \"It's an extremely livable place and you can see and palpably feel the difference in how society is organized, and what people prioritize,\" she said. \"New Zealand is a place that cares about equality, I think more. It's less individualistic, more community-minded.\" \n She said that a friend of a friend was so disturbed by the outcome of the election that he immediately jumped on a plane and flew to New Zealand to check it out as a possible place to live. Irving said his visit exceeded his expectations. \n \"So that was really symbolic to me that there were people in the United States who feel like things are going in a very different direction than they want for their future, or for their children, and they're looking to New Zealand as perhaps an alternative,\" she said. \n Most Americans who apply for New Zealand citizenship must first live in the country for five years. \n Cameron Pritchard, an immigration consultant at Malcolm Pacific Immigration in Wellington, said the increase in citizenship applications could be a result of people wanting to feel more settled in their adopted country, given the uncertain nature of the world. \n It's about \"getting a bit more security or really making a longer-term decision that New Zealand is the place they want to call home,\" he said. \n He said his company noticed a big spike in inquiries from the U.S. during the election. \n \"It's been more of a flurry of excitement initially than anything that's translated into a huge avalanche of numbers,\" he said. \n Irving said she plans to apply for New Zealand citizenship this year and doesn't foresee ever returning to live in the U.S. She said she misses the excitement that some U.S. innovators and companies can offer, although technology allows her to stay connected with that world. \n But, she added, there's one thing she misses that can't be replicated online: The great Mexican food that's available in the U.S. \n Citizenship-related visits to Department of Internal Affairs website from the U.S.: \n Nov. 8 to Nov. 10, 2016: 4,146 \n Oct. 4 to Oct. 6, 2016: 305 \n Work-visa arrivals from the U.S.: \n Jan. 2017: 254 \n Jan. 2016: 216 \n Visitor arrivals from the U.S.: \n Jan. 2017: 34,240 \n Jan. 2016: 28,992 \n Source: Department of Internal Affairs, Statistics New Zealand \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. applications for New Zealand citizenship soar after Trump win"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER STAFF / 2011 \n Florence Nakakuni, former U.S. attorney for Hawaii \n Florence Nakakuni, U.S. attorney for Hawaii, has retired after the Justice Department asked her and other prosecutors held over from the President Barack Obama's administration to step down. \n A news release Monday says Nakakuni's retirement went into effect Saturday. \n Obama appointed her in 2009. She was the first woman to serve as the presidentially appointed U.S. attorney in the Hawaii district. \n She had been an assistant U.S. attorney since 1985. Her roles included chief of the drug and organized crime section and chief of the organization crime strike force unit. \n First Assistant U.S. Attorney Elliot Enoki is acting U.S. attorney. \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions last week asked for resignations from 46 prosecutors as part of a transition in administrations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nakakuni retires as U.S. attorney for Hawaii after resignation requested"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a second-degree burglary case at a Waipahu golf course where at least 10 golf carts were damaged allegedly by a group of vandals over the weekend. \n At about 11:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, one or more suspects are believed to have climbed over a 6-foot chain-link fence at Royal Kunia Golf Course at 94-1059 Anonui St. to gain access to the golf carts, according to General Manager Kozo Yamagishi. \n The suspects also broke into the snack bar and allegedly stole items. Yamagishi declined to describe the extent of damage to the golf carts but said there was no damage to the course itself. \n He noted this was the first time culprits broke in and caused damage to golf carts. \n A police report was filed and a surveillance video has been turned over to police. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Vandals damage nearly a dozen golf carts at Kunia golf course"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD \n A NOAA member tries to remove a cable from the mouth of a young humpback whale on Saturday off Maui. \n The likelihood of survival for a young humpback whale off Maui was \"greatly improved\" over the weekend after responders cut away hundreds of feet of a heavy-gauge cable from it's mouth, the Coast Guard said. \n The entangled whale was first reported Saturday off the Pali lookout. Crews responded over a two-day period from the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, Coast Guard, Maui Ocean Safety, Kahoolawe Island Reserve Commission, and West Maui response team. \n Responders found the gear exiting both sides of the whale's mouth and were eventually able to use cable cutters to cut the approximately 5/8-inch electrical cable away, the Coast Guard said. About 500 feet of cable was removed. \n Some of the cable was embedded too deeply at the back of the whale's mouth to pull out, but the animal displayed improvement in its movement and behavior after being freed from the majority of the cable. \n The origin of the PVC-insulated cable was unknown, the Coast Guard said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Whale improves after being freed from heavy cable off Maui"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Khanh Le \n The Honolulu Police Department is investigating after an officer was charged with committing multiple counts of theft and identity theft at the Navy Exchange at Pearl Harbor. \n Khanh Le, 51, a 12-year HPD veteran, was charged Saturday with second-degree theft, unauthorized possession of confidential personal information, identity theft, forgery, fraudulent use of a credit card, and credit card theft. \n He was arrested Friday and released after posting $30,000 bail. \n Le, who is assigned to the Waikiki district, had his police powers removed and will be placed on leave without pay, said Honolulu Police Department spokeswoman Michelle Yu. She said an administrative investigation was opened. \n Le obtained more than $750 worth of property by deception from the Navy Exchange on Friday, a charging document said. \n He also possessed stolen identification and a stolen credit card the same day, the document said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD officer charged with theft, ID theft"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the Orchard City Indivisible Group recite the pledge of allegiance during a city council meeting where they would speak against the policies of President Trump on March 7 in Campbell, Calif. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Before Donald Trump's election, Laurence Berland viewed political protest as a sort of curiosity. He was in a good place to see it: San Francisco's Mission District, once an immigrant enclave in the country's heartland of radicalism that is increasingly populated by people like him \u2014 successful tech workers driving up rents while enjoying a daily commute to Silicon Valley on luxury motor coaches. \n Berland regarded the activism of his adopted city with a mix of empathy and bemusement, checking out Occupy Wall Street demonstrations and protests against the gentrification of his own neighborhood. But now there is less distance between him and activists on the street. \n On a recent day Berland stood with about 100 others \u2014 from software engineers like himself to those who work in tech company cafeterias \u2014 outside a downtown museum for a rally against President Trump. A clipboard-carrying organizer approached Berland to ask if he wanted to join a network of grassroots activists, but Berland waved him away. He had already signed up. \n In the place that fought against the Vietnam War and for gay rights and, more recently, has been roiled by dissent over the technology industry's impact on economic inequality, an unlikely alliance has formed in the left's resistance against Trump. Old-school, anti-capitalist activists and new-school, free-enterprise techies are pushing aside their differences to take on a common foe. \n For years, these two strands of liberal America have been at each other's throats. There've been protests against evictions of those who can't afford the Bay Area's ever-soaring rents. And think back, not so long ago, to the raucous rallies to block those fancy buses shuttling tech workers from city neighborhoods to the Silicon Valley campus of Google, where Berland once worked. \n Cat Brooks, a Black Lives Matter activist in Oakland, has seen the toll the tech industry has taken on some. Her daughter's elementary school teacher just moved to a distant suburb after her rent skyrocketed, and Brooks thinks more tech money must find its way into local communities. She nevertheless welcomes the infusion of new energy to the protest arena. \n \"It's not about the business of we were here first,\" Brooks said. \"We're about the business of how can we support? Division at this time is not helpful.\" \n The tech industry opposition started when Trump imposed his initial travel ban on immigrants and refugees from seven majority Muslim nations. The industry prides itself on its openness to immigrants, who comprise about one-quarter of the U.S. technology and science workforce and include the founders of iconic institutions. \n Nearly 100 tech companies, including Google, Facebook and Uber, filed a court brief urging suspension of the ban, while Google co-founder Sergey Brin, a Russian immigrant, joined protests at San Francisco International Airport. That was followed by an unprecedented companywide walkout at Google and now, on March 14, nationwide rallies are planned for a \"Tech Stands Up\" day of protest. \n \"People whose pedigree is knocking on doors and calling representatives and waving signs are getting together with people who design apps,\" said Ka-Ping Yee, a software engineer from Canada who is a legal permanent resident of the U.S. and who works at a startup to help immigrants send cash home. \"People are working with people who do really, really different things because they realize it's an emergency.\" \n After the election he helped create an online pledge, signed by thousands of technology workers, against building databases for any potential Muslim registries or to aid deportations of immigrants. \n Some aren't so sure about sharing the streets because they don't think they share the same goals. \n Franki Velez, an Iraq War veteran on disability, stood outside an Oakland rental office recently with other longtime activists and renters fighting eviction. There was not a technology worker in sight, and she worried that they are missing the point anyway. They want to change, but preserve, a system that's benefited them, she said, while protesters like her want to tear the system down and start from scratch. \n \"They don't understand it's a colonial system that's never meant to be reformed,\" she said. \n Still, while their approaches can be strikingly different, Velez's causes are increasingly being adopted by people not like her. \n Velez's group marched to a Wells Fargo branch to hand over a demand that the bank stop investing in the Dakota Access Pipeline. Two hours later, in the comfortable Silicon Valley suburb of Campbell, biotech executive Michael Clark drew cheers after telling a gathering of anti-Trump activists that he'd closed his Wells Fargo account to protest the pipeline. \n Clark grew up in New Hampshire and then in Silicon Valley, when his mother took a job at Apple in the 1990s. He always considered himself a political independent, a moderate. But Trump's election horrified him and, with a friend who runs a gourmet chocolate shop, he founded a chapter of the national liberal group \"Indivisible\" in Campbell. \n \"The country has moved so much to the right that puts me in the middle with people I wouldn't have previously been aligned with,\" Clark said. \"It's interesting that someone like me is on the same side as a lot of socialists.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to accurately spell Ka-Ping Yee's name. Edits to trim. BC-US\u2014Trump's America-An Unlikely Alliance-Photo Gallery \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lefties, techies long at odds in San Francisco, team up against Trump"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Assumption Safe Home Director Santos Torres is escorted by police at a police station after his detention in connection with the fire at a children's shelter that killed 40 girls in Guatemala City, Monday, March 13, 2017. \n GUATEMALA CITY >> Guatemalan authorities arrested three former child welfare officials Monday who were responsible for overseeing a youth shelter where 40 girls died from a fire. \n Prosecutor's spokeswoman Julia Barrera confirmed the detentions of Social Welfare Secretary Carlos Rodas, Deputy Secretary Anahi Keller and shelter director Santos Torres on suspicion of homicide, mistreatment of minors and failure to fulfill duty. \n Rodas lawyer Juan Alberto Guevara said they were evaluating his legal situation. \n \"As the constitution says, he is innocent until proven otherwise,\" Guevara said. \"I have known him for a long time and he is a real professional.\" \n Earlier in the day President Jimmy Morales said he had fired the chain of command at the country's child welfare agency, but did not specify how many employees were dismissed. \n Rodas resigned Saturday, Torres was dismissed the day of the fire and Keller was let go Monday. \n Morales also said his government has asked the FBI to help in the investigation of Wednesday's disaster. \n Guatemala's human rights prosecutor said the dismissals should have come the same day as the fire. Jorge de Leon said his agency had asked a judge to review conditions at the shelter before the fire, but the request was denied. \n Authorities have said the fire that swept through parts of the institution began when mattresses were set ablaze during a protest by residents protesting conditions at the overcrowded youth shelter. Some of the victims had escaped earlier, fleeing poor food and mistreatment, but were caught and confined at the facility. \n De Leon said last week that younger children fled the shelter because they were being abused by older residents. \n \"According to what they say, the bigger kids have control and they attack them constantly,\" de Leon said. \"They also complain that food is scarce and of poor quality.\" \n In 2013, a 14-year-old girl was strangled by another resident at the shelter, investigators said. \n Prosecutors say they are also investigating whether children were trafficked through the home for prostitution. \n Four of the burn victims were flown to the Shriners Hospital for Children in Galveston, Texas, on Saturday. Morales' office said the Shriners Hospitals had arranged for their transfer. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Guatemala arrests 3 officials in deadly youth shelter fire"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican U.S. Rep. Steve King of Iowa speaks in Des Moines. King in a tweet Sunday, March 12, 2017, paid tribute to Geert Wilders, a veteran member of the Dutch Parliament who founded the Party of Freedom. \n WASHINGTON >> Democrats and some Republicans on Monday criticized a veteran GOP congressman for saying America can't restore \"our civilization with somebody else's babies\" and warning of a liberal effort to destroy Western civilization through immigration. \n On Twitter Sunday, Rep. Steve King of Iowa paid tribute to a Dutch politician who opposes immigration and has spoken against Islam. It came as the Dutch prepared for an election for prime minister. \n King, who has served in the House since 2003, said Geert Wilders \"understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.\" \n In an interview Monday on CNN, King said he stood by his remarks, \"I meant exactly what I said,\" and noted that he delivers the same message to countries in Europe. \n \"We need to get our birth rates up or Europe will be entirely transformed within a half a century or a little more,\" King said. \n King is known for making racially charged commentary. Last year, at the Republican National Convention, King questioned contributions to civilization by nonwhites. In 2013, he described children in the country illegally as having \"calves the size of cantaloupes because they've been hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert.\" \n King said his comments aren't focused on race, but critics disagreed. \n A spokesman for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., called on GOP leadership to condemn King's statements. \n \"Republican congressman Steve King's vile racism has no place in decent society, much less in the U.S. Congress,\" said spokesman Drew Hammill. \n Pressed on the issue Monday night, House Speaker Paul Ryan told Fox News that he disagreed with the statement. \n \"We're a melting pot. My family's here because the potatoes stopped growing in Ireland,\" he said. \"The American idea is this beautiful idea which is there for everyone, which is that the condition of your birth doesn't determine your outcome in life.\" \n Ryan said he hasn't spoken with King. \"I'd like to think he misspoke and it wasn't really meant the way it sounds and hopefully he's clarified that,\" Ryan said. \n In defending his remarks, King told CNN that he wants to see Americans \"bonded together.\" \n \"If you go down the road a few generations or maybe centuries with the intermarriage, I'd like to see an America that (is) so homogenous that we look a lot the same from that perspective. I think there's far too much focus on race, especially in the last eight years. I want to see that put behind us,\" King said. \n Iowa Republicans, including Gov. Terry Branstad; Jeff Kaufmann, chairman of the Iowa Republican Party; and Rep. David Young, said they disagreed with King. \n Most members of the House were still back in their home districts Monday, muting reaction from King's colleagues. But two Florida Republicans took to Twitter to voice their displeasure. \n \"Get a clue, SteveKingIA. Diversity is our strength. All looking alike is such a waste. A travesty. I wanna be me. All others are taken,\" said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. \n Rep. Carlos Curbelo, who was born to Cuban exiles who fled Fidel Castro's regime in the 1960s, asked King via Twitter: \"What exactly do you mean? Do I qualify as \"somebody else's baby?\" #concernedGOPcolleague\" \n Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., a civil rights leader in the 1960s, said the United States is a melting pot of cultures, traditions, appearance and languages. \n \"Rep. King's statement is bigoted and racist. It suggests there is one cultural tradition and one appearance that all of humanity should conform to,\" Lewis said. \"These ideas have given rise to some of the worst atrocities in human history, and they must be condemned.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iowa congressman criticized for racially charged comments"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Superintendant Kathryn Matayoshi and retired Principal Darrel Galera. \n Darrel Galera \u2014 the retired public school principal who has been the center of controversy in the state's search for a new schools superintendent \u2014 has withdrawn his application amid complaints that he had an unfair advantage as a former Board of Education member and friend of Gov. David Ige. \n \"I have decided (to) withdraw my application so the search can continue without the distraction caused by my application,\" Galera said in an email this afternoon to the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. \"My overarching goal is to transform our education system to provide our students with educational opportunities that are second to none.\" \n He did not respond to a request for further comment, but added a \"sincere apology\" to the governor, Board of Education members \"and to everyone else affected by the timing of my actions.\" \n Galera announced last week that he was resigning from the Board of Education to apply for the schools chief position \u2014 a decision that touched off a chain reaction that led the board to halt the search late last week. \n Shortly after Galera's announced plans to apply, the Harold K.L. Castle Foundation said it was pulling back a $50,500 grant it had awarded to help the Board of Education hire a search firm, citing concerns about the \"integrity\" of the search. The board in turn decided to suspend the search. \n The board was scheduled to formally initiate the search Friday by posting the job advertisement. But in an announcement posted on its website Friday, the board said its search committee had suspended the search following the Harold K.L. Castle Foundation's decision. \n \"The Search Committee is delaying the search process while evaluating the current situation and working to resolve issues surrounding Harold K.L. Castle Foundation's financial support of the Superintendent search process,\" the BOE's online update said. \"As part of this, the position will not be posted (March 10) as originally anticipated under the search timeline. We appreciate the support of the foundation and are hopeful that the issues can be resolved and the foundation can continue its support of a fair and transparent search for the Superintendent.\" \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Galera withdraws as candidate for schools superintendent"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "TRENTON, N.J. >> U.S. regulators have approved a new drug as an initial treatment for postmenopausal women with a type of advanced breast cancer. \n The drug, called Kisqali, is a pill that works to slow the spread of cancer by blocking two proteins that can stimulate growth and division of cancer cells. It's for women who have metastatic breast cancer known as HR+/HER2-. \n The U.S. Food and Drug Administration confirmed the drug's approval on Monday. Swiss drugmaker Novartis AG, which developed the treatment, said there are no firm statistics on how many U.S. patients get this type of breast cancer. \n \"This is an important therapy for these patients,\" who have limited options, said Dr. Vas Narasimhan, chief medical officer and head of drug development at Novartis, which has its U.S. headquarters in East Hanover, New Jersey. \n Kisqali is taken along with an older cancer drug called letrozole that works differently. \n Kisqali, part of the drug class called kinase inhibitors, is taken daily for three weeks, followed by a one-week break. Meanwhile, patients also take either letrozole or another medication in the same drug class, called aromatase inhibitors, depending on characteristics of their disease for the entire four weeks. \n A four-week supply of Kisqali, or 21 pills, will have a list price of $10,950 for the strongest dose \u2014 600 milligrams. The 400- milligram dose will cost $8,760 and the 200-milligram dose $4,380, Novartis said. \n Patients often need to switch doses and the smaller doses will save patients and insurance companies money. Novartis said it will offer patients several types of financial assistance and many won't have to make copayments. \n A study of 668 women funded by Novartis found that Kisqali and letrozeole together reduced the risk of death or the cancer worsening by 44 percent, compared to those receiving only letrozole. \n Kisqali, known chemically as ribociclib, can have side effects, ranging from potentially fatal abnormal heartbeat, serious liver problems and severe infections to nausea, hair loss and fatigue. It cannot be taken by women who are pregnant or breastfeeding. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FDA OKs new Novartis drug for type of advanced breast cancer"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Britain's Brexit Secretary David Davis speaks in the House of Commons, London, Monday, March 13, 2017. \n LONDON >> Britain lurched closer to leaving the European Union today when Parliament stopped resisting and gave Prime Minister Theresa May the power to file for divorce from the bloc. \n But in a blow to May's government, the prospect of Scotland's exit from the United Kingdom suddenly appeared nearer, too. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon called for a referendum on independence within two years to stop Scotland being dragged out of the EU against its will. \n In an announcement that took many London politicians by surprise, Sturgeon vowed that Scotland would not be \"taken down a path that we do not want to go down without a choice.\" \n Sturgeon spoke in Edinburgh hours before the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Bill passed its final hurdle in Parliament's upper chamber, the House of Lords. \n The House of Commons approved the bill weeks ago, but the 800-strong Lords fought to amend it, inserting a promise that EU citizens living in the U.K. will be allowed to remain after Britain pulls out of the bloc. \n They also added a demand that Parliament get a \"meaningful\" vote on the final deal between Britain and the remaining 27 EU nations. \n Both amendments were rejected Monday by the Commons, where May's Conservatives have a majority. A handful of pro-EU Conservatives expressed their unhappiness, then abstained from the vote. \n The bill returned to the Lords, in a process known as parliamentary ping pong. Faced with the decision of the elected Commons, the Lords backed down and approved it without amendments. \n Labour peer Dianne Hayter, who proposed the amendment on EU citizens, said the Lords had done their best, but \"our view has been rejected in the elected House of Commons, and it is clear the government is not for turning.\" \n Once the bill receives royal assent \u2014 a formality that should be accomplished within hours \u2014 May will be free to invoke Article 50 of the EU's key treaty, triggering two years of exit negotiations, by her self-imposed deadline of March 31. \n May was forced to seek Parliament's approval for the move after a Supreme Court ruling in January torpedoed her attempt to start the process of leaving the bloc without a parliamentary vote. \n The House of Commons and House of Lords battled over the bill's contents, with the status of EU nationals in Britain \u2014 and Britons in fellow EU member countries \u2014 drawing especially emotional debate. \n Both British and EU officials have said such residents should be guaranteed the right to stay where they are, but the two sides have so far failed to provide a concrete guarantee, leaving millions of people in limbo. \n Scottish National Party lawmaker Joanna Cherry told the House of Commons that one constituent, a Lithuanian, had told her \"the uncertainty caused by this government and this Parliament is making her feel worse about her personal situation in Britain than she did in Lithuania under the Soviets.\" \n Brexit Secretary David Davis told lawmakers the government had a \"moral responsibility\" to the 3 million EU citizens living in Britain and the 1 million Britons in other member states, and intends to guarantee their rights as soon as possible after exit talks start. \n \"That is why we must pass this straightforward bill without further delay, so the prime minister can get to work on the negotiations and we can secure a quick deal that secures the status of both European Union citizens in the U.K. and also U.K. nationals living in the EU,\" he said. \n Pro-EU lawmakers accused the government and Brexit-backing lawmakers of running roughshod over the concerns of the 48 percent of Britons who voted to stay in the EU. \n Conservative legislator Dominic Grieve called the government's opposition of handing Parliament a final vote on Brexit \"deranged,\" and the Green Party's Caroline Lucas said lawmakers should not just hand ministers a blank check. \n \"We were not elected to be lemmings,\" Lucas said. \n Euroskeptics accused pro-EU legislators of trying to frustrate the will of voters who passed a June referendum to leave the EU. \n \"The simple truth is this \u2014 deal or no deal, vote or no vote, positive vote or negative vote, this process is irreversible,\" Conservative legislator Edward Leigh said. \"We're leaving the EU, and that's what the people want.\" \n May is now free to trigger Article 50 as early as Tuesday, but the government signaled the move would come much closer to the March 31 deadline. \n May spokesman James Slack repeated the government's position that it would happen by the end of March. \n \"I've said 'end' many times, but it would seem I didn't put it in capital letters strongly enough,\" he said. \n The government's satisfaction at victory in Parliament was tempered by the prospect of an independence vote that threatens the 300-year old political union between England and Scotland. \n Sturgeon said she would seek to hold a referendum between the fall of 2018 and the spring of 2019 so Scottish voters could make an \"informed choice\" about their future. \n While Britons overall voted to leave the EU, Scottish voters backed remaining by 62 to 38 percent, and Sturgeon said they should not be forced to follow the rest of the U.K. into a \"hard Brexit\" outside the EU single market. \n In a 2014 referendum, Scottish voters rejected independence by a margin of 55 percent to 45 percent. But Sturgeon said the U.K.'s decision to leave the EU had brought about a \"material change of circumstances.\" \n May \u2014 whose government would have to approve a legally binding referendum \u2014 accused Sturgeon's Scottish National Party of political \"tunnel vision\" and called her announcement \"deeply regrettable.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UK Parliament gives government power to begin EU exit"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State Rex Tillerson smiled as President Donald Trump spoke during a Cabinet meeting today in the Cabinet Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Secretary of State Rex Tillerson plunges this week into the increasingly volatile situation in North Asia with visits to Japan, South Korea and China, the region's central players for dealing with North Korea's missile launches and nuclear tests. Complicating the mission are Chinese concerns about how the U.S. has responded so far. \n Beijing strenuously objects to the initial deployment to South Korea of a U.S. missile defense system. One of Tillerson's chief tasks will be to assuage Asia's biggest country and arrange a much-anticipated visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping to the United States. \n Tillerson's four-day trip will be closely watched for signs of how the Trump administration will approach the escalating tensions with North Korea, whose leader has disregarded international appeals to disarm and accelerated weapons development. The North conducted two nuclear tests and 24 ballistic missile tests last year, deepening concern in Washington that it could soon develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the U.S. mainland. \n Last week, North Korea launched four missiles into the ocean off Japan as the U.S. and South Korea began annual drills. The allies call the drills routine. Pyongyang regards them as an invasion rehearsal. \n The Trump administration is searching for new ideas to stop North Korea in ways that years of international sanctions and diplomatic isolation have failed to do. \n While administration officials say all options are on the table, including military ones, early signs indicate the U.S. wants to ensure current sanctions are properly applied, targeting the government's revenue sources and ability to import sensitive technology usable in nuclear weapons and missiles. \n For now, there appears to be no desire to negotiate with North Korea \u2014 a holdover stance from the Obama administration, which demanded the North first commit to the goal of denuclearization. But U.S. officials have been vague about what their new approach might entail. \n All eyes are now on Tillerson as he tries to navigate the complex and sometime acrimonious relationships necessary for formulating a regional strategy. It's a task President Donald Trump complicated last year by challenging Japan and South Korea to contribute more to their own defense and questioning the fundamentals of four decades of U.S. diplomacy with China. But since taking office, Trump has sought to allay those concerns. \n Tillerson will travel on a small plane without a contingent of journalists or a designated pool reporter who would send reports to the broader diplomatic press corps, departing from 50 years of practice and even from Tillerson's earlier official overseas trips to Germany and Mexico. \n The State Department says it will accommodate U.S.-based reporters traveling to Asia commercially by providing them access to Tillerson's public events at each stop. But commercial flights don't easily align with Tillerson's schedule, making such coverage more difficult. \n Reporters have traveled with the secretary of state to report quickly on developments in foreign negotiations. They also question U.S. diplomats in front of their counterparts. Such practices allow immediate and comprehensive coverage of the diplomacy at hand. Journalists also are present if something untoward happens to the secretary of state. In 2015, John Kerry fell off his bicycle outside Geneva, breaking his leg at a delicate moment in Iran nuclear negotiations. \n Some U.S. lawmakers are concerned Tillerson risks letting foreign governments shape coverage and sending a message that Washington isn't committed to supporting a free press. Sen. Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, urged Tillerson last week to reconsider. It wasn't clear if the decision might be amended. \n Tillerson arrives Wednesday in Japan and will meet Prime Minister Shinzo Abe the next day. Abe has courted Trump, visiting the president's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida last month. North Korea marked the occasion by test-launching a new type of solid-fuel missile. \n Tillerson then visits South Korea, caught up in political upheaval after last week's ouster of its president, Park Geun-hye, over a corruption scandal. Park had been in lockstep with Washington's efforts to isolate Pyongyang. The favorite to succeed her is Moon Jae-in, a moderate who wants to engage North Korea's government. \n Tillerson's final leg involves meetings with several senior Chinese officials in Beijing. Relations are delicate after the U.S. and South Korea began the deployment last week of a missile defense system they say targets North Korea. Beijing claims the radar can range inside Chinese territory and weaken its nuclear deterrent. \n The dispute threatens Washington's effort to get Beijing to exert more economic pressure on its traditional ally, North Korea. China recently suspended North Korean coal imports, a major source of revenue for Pyongyang. China now wants the U.S. to restart nuclear talks with the North. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tillerson heads to Asia with North Korea tensions high"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCAITED PRESS \n Facebook says it is prohibiting developers from using the massive amount of data it collects on users for surveillance. This includes using such data to monitor activists and protesters. \n NEW YORK >> Facebook is prohibiting developers from using the massive amount of data it collects on users for surveillance. This includes using such data to monitor activists and protesters. \n The company said today that it is making an existing policy \"explicit.\" Facebook says it has already taken action against developers who created or marketed tools meant to be used for surveillance. It says it wants to \"be sure everyone understands the underlying policy and how to comply.\" \n Last fall, the American Civil Liberties Union obtained records that Facebook and its Instagram service provided user data access to Geofeedia, which develops a monitoring product marketed to law enforcement. The ACLU said at the time that while both Instagram and Facebook cut off access after finding out about this, Facebook did not have a \"public policy specifically prohibiting developers\" from taking user data for surveillance. \n The new prohibition states that developers \u2014 who get access to user data from Facebook to create apps \u2014 should protect \"the information you receive from us against unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. For example, don't use data obtained from us to provide tools that are used for surveillance.\" \n The ACLU report says the data the companies provided to Geofeedia included only public posts, not those that users restricted to just friends or in some other way. But such access to Facebook data is still valuable to third parties because it would be very difficult to collect and comb through all the stuff on their own. \n According to the ACLU, Facebook had provided Geofeedia with access to a data feed called the \"Topic Feed API,\" which is supposed to be a tool for advertisers. But Geofeedia could use it to obtain a feed of public Facebook posts that mentioned a specific topic, place or event \u2014 for example, \"monitor hashtags used by activists and allies, or target activist groups as 'overt threats,'\" Matt Cagle, attorney for the ACLU of Northern California, wrote last October. Facebook terminated this access nearly a month earlier after being notified about it by the ACLU. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook says its data can't be used for 'surveillance'"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Blackman-Leoni Department of Public Safety officers and other rescue personnel work at the scene of a crash involving a semi trailer under the Cooper Street bridge of Interstate 94 westbound on Monday, March 13, 2017, in Jackson, Mich. \n NEW YORK >> Sandwiched between days that felt like spring last week and the official start of spring next week, a \"life-threatening\" nor'easter is poised to bring a reminder that winter isn't over yet, with blizzard conditions and a blanket of heavy snow expected in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast. \n Meteorologists were calling for snowfall totals as high as 20 inches in New York City from the storm's start late tonight through Tuesday evening. The National Weather Service warned that blizzard conditions of wind gusts over 35 mph and low visibility would extend from the Philadelphia area to Maine. \n The weather service's office near Philadelphia called the storm \"life-threatening\" and warned people to \"shelter in place.\" Coastal flooding was also predicted. \n Travel was sure to be dismal: About 5,000 Tuesday flights were canceled as of late this afternoon , Amtrak canceled and modified service up and down the Northeast Corridor and motorists were urged to stay off the roads. \n In New York City, the above-ground portions of the subway system were being shut down from 4 a.m. Tuesday. Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy imposed a statewide travel ban beginning at 5 a.m. \n The forecast prompted early decisions to close schools on Tuesday in New York City, Philadelphia, Boston and many places in between. \n New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio urged residents to avoid unnecessary travel and help keep the roads clear. \"We're preparing for a significant storm on Tuesday, and New Yorkers should also prepare for snow and dangerous road conditions,\" de Blasio said. \n The storm comes a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Spring officially starts on March 20. \n Bank teller Jana White said her plans for riding out the storm include \"lots of hot chocolate and a couple of sappy movies.\" The 23-year-old Trenton, New Jersey, resident said she expects to get Tuesday off work. \n \"It's a reminder that winter is always ready to take shot at you, so you have to stay prepared,\" she said. \"We've got food and snacks and drinks, so as long as the power stays on we should be in good shape.\" \n The heaviest snowfall was expected Tuesday morning through the afternoon, with snowfall rates as high as 2 to 4 inches per hour. Coastal flood warnings were in effect from Massachusetts to Delaware. \n Boston could get 12 to 18 inches, with isolated amounts of up to 2 feet across northeastern Massachusetts. \n In Philadelphia, where up to a foot of snow could fall, crews began treating some area roadways on Sunday. \n Farther south in the nation's capital, where the National Cherry Blossom Festival is scheduled to start Wednesday, snow accumulations of 6 to 8 inches were expected. \n That led German Chancellor Angela Merkel to postpone her trip to Washington for her first face-to-face meeting with President Donald Trump. Merkel had been scheduled to arrive late tonight for meetings with Trump on Tuesday. The White House said the meeting was rescheduled for Friday. \n Baltimore is expected to get 8 to 12 inches. \n The storm also changed plans for some teams competing in the NCAA tournament: Villanova, the top overall seed in the men's tournament, left Philadelphia early to get ahead of the storm. \n As the East Coast prepared, the Midwest was hit with snow, forcing a number of flight cancellations. In Chicago, the forecast called for 3 to 6 inches of snow, the city's first significant snowfall since mid-December. \n Southern portions of Minnesota got more than 9 inches of snow in some areas. In Michigan, utility crews worked in the snow to restore power to those still without electricity following high winds that hit the state on Wednesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Staring down the barrel of winter storm, Northeast preps for snow"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. used charts and graphs to make his case for the GOP's long-awaited plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act during a March 9 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Fourteen million Americans would lose coverage next year under House Republican legislation remaking the nation's health care system, and that number would balloon to 24 million by 2026, Congress' budget analysts projected today. Their report deals a stiff blow to a GOP drive already under fire from both parties and large segments of the medical industry. \n The Congressional Budget Office report undercuts a central argument President Donald Trump and Republicans have cited for swiftly rolling back the 2010 health care overhaul: that the insurance markets created under that statute are \"a disaster\" and about to implode. The congressional experts said the market for individual policies \"would probably be stable in most areas under either current law or the (GOP) legislation.\" \n The report also flies in the face of Trump's talk of \"insurance for everybody,\" which he stated in January. He has since embraced a less expansive goal \u2014 to \"increase access\" \u2014 advanced by House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republicans. \n Health secretary Tom Price told reporters at the White House the report was \"simply wrong\" and he disagreed \"strenuously,\" saying it omitted the impact of additional GOP legislation and regulatory changes the Trump administration plans. \n In a signal of trouble, Rep. Mark Walker, R-N.C., leader of a large group of House conservatives, said the report \"does little to alleviate\" concerns about the bill including tax credits considered too costly. \n The budget office's estimates provide a detailed, credible appraisal of the Republican effort to unravel former President Barack Obama's 2010 overhaul. The office has a four-decade history of even-handedness and is currently headed by an appointee recommended by Price when he was a congressman. Trump has repeatedly attacked the agency's credibility, citing its significant underestimate of the number of people who would buy insurance on state and federal exchanges under \"Obamacare.\" \n On the plus side for Republicans, the budget office said the GOP measure would reduce federal deficits by $337 billion over the coming decade. That's largely because it would cut the federal-state Medicaid program for low-income Americans and eliminate subsidies that Obama's law provides to millions of people who buy coverage. \n The report also said that while the legislation would push premiums upward before 2020 by an average of 15 to 20 percent compared to current law, premiums would move lower after that. By 2026, average premiums for individuals would be 10 percent lower than under Obama's statute, it said. \n The GOP bill would obliterate the tax penalties Obama's law imposes on people who don't buy coverage, and it would eliminate the federal subsidies reflecting people's income and premium costs for millions. It would instead provide tax credits based largely on recipients' ages, let insurers charge more for older people and boost premiums for those who let coverage lapse. \n It would phase out Obama's expansion of Medicaid to 11 million additional low earners, cap federal spending for the entire program, repeal taxes the statute imposes and halt federal payments to Planned Parenthood for a year. \n Administration officials took strong issue with the budget office's projections of lost coverage. \n \"We believe that our plan will cover more individuals and at a lower cost and give them the choices that they want,\" Price said. \n Ryan, R-Wis., said the GOP legislation \"is not about forcing people to buy expensive, one-size-fits-all coverage. It is about giving people more choices and better access to a plan they want and can afford.\" In fact, he said on Fox News Channel that the CBO report \"exceeded my expectations.\" \n Not in a good way, Democrats said. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said the projections show \"just how empty the president's promises, that everyone will be covered and costs will go down, have been.\" \n \"I hope they would pull the bill. It's really the only decent thing to do,\" said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California. \n The American Medical Association, which has opposed the Republican bill because it would reduce coverage, said the report shows the legislation would cause \"unacceptable consequences.\" \n Two House committees approved the legislation last week, and Ryan wants to bring it to the full House next week. Though many Republicans back the bill, conservatives say it doesn't go far enough in repealing Obama's law, while moderates whose states used the statute to expand Medicaid don't want people losing coverage. \n GOP leaders hope the Senate will consider the measure before breaking for an early April recess. Opposition from both ends of the Republican spectrum suggests senators might demand significant changes. \n The budget office attributed projected increases in uninsured Americans to the GOP bill's elimination of tax penalties for people who don't buy insurance, reduced federal subsidies for many people who buy policies and the Medicaid reductions. \n By 2026, the office estimated, a total of 52 million people would lack insurance, including 28 million expected to lack coverage under Obama's statute. \n Though Republican tax credits would be less generous than Obama's, the combination of those credits and other changes to lower premiums would attract enough healthy people to stabilize markets under the new plan, the report said. \n The budget office sees federal spending on Medicaid declining by $880 billion over the coming decade \u2014 about 25 percent lower than current projections. That would push about 14 million low-income people off the program. \n Average premiums are ultimately expected to fall, but that would vary for people of different ages because, contrary to Obama's law, Republicans would let older people be charged more. \n The report estimates that individuals' out-of-pocket costs under the GOP bill \"would tend to be higher than those anticipated under current law.\" That runs counter to another claim from the president \u2014 that his health care plan would offer \"much lower deductibles.\" \n CBO had predicted 23 million people would enroll in online marketplaces under Obama's law but the actual number was 12 million, largely because it overestimated how the individual mandate would prompt them to buy coverage. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "24 million would lose coverage under GOP health bill, CBO says"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary Betsy DeVos speaks at the Council of the Great City Schools Annual Legislative/Policy Conference in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Education Secretary Betsy DeVos on Monday sought to convince public school leaders that school choice and local control play an important role in education. \n Speaking to members of The Council of the Great City Schools, a group of the nation's largest urban school districts, DeVos stressed that parents, not Washington politicians, should be making choices about their children's education. \n \"Parents know better than any politician or administrator the unique needs of each of their children,\" DeVos said. \"Time and again, when parents are empowered to take charge of their children's education, when they have quality options we see the results for students. For me this is just common sense.\" \n DeVos, a longtime advocate of charter and private schools, said parents must be able to pick the right educational setting for their children in the same way that they choose their food, clothing and extracurricular activities. DeVos gave the example of a private school that provides scholarships for low-income, mostly minority students and helps them thrive and added that public and private partnerships were essential in education. \n The secretary called for giving more power to parents, teachers and local leaders in making decisions about schools and learning. \"Those closest to the problem are often best equipped to solve it,\" she said. \"Let's continue to move power away from Washington, D.C., and into the hands of parents and state and local leaders.\" \n DeVos has spent more than two decades advancing charter schools as well as voucher programs, which give publicly funded scholarships to low-income families to attend private schools. Teachers unions fiercely opposed DeVos' nomination, saying that her efforts are tantamount to defunding public education. \n While DeVos stressed that she supports \"great public schools\" and \"all students,\" her remarks were met with skepticism by some attendees. \n Happy Haynes with Denver Public Schools said that private schools cannot possibly accommodate all children across the country and thus attention needs to focus on public schools and how to fund them. \n \"It concerns me that we lift up a tiny fragment of our student population and say 'this is how it should be' when we know that it's not possible,\" Haynes said. \"I don't support sending public money to private institutions who are not publicly accountable.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos promotes school choice, local control"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A boat sailed, in May 2016, near a coral reef that had been bleached white by heat stress in the Maldives. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An underwater photographer documented an expanse of dead coral, in May 2016, at Lizard Island on Australia's Great Barrier Reef. Coral reefs, unique underwater ecosystems that sustain a quarter of the world's marine species and half a billion people, are dying on an unprecedented scale. \n SOUTH ARI ATOLL, Maldives >> There were startling colors here just a year ago, a dazzling array of life beneath the waves. Now this Maldivian reef is dead, killed by the stress of rising ocean temperatures. What's left is a haunting expanse of gray, a scene repeated in reefs across the globe in what has fast become a full-blown ecological catastrophe. \n The world has lost roughly half its coral reefs in the last 30 years. Scientists are now scrambling to ensure that at least a fraction of these unique ecosystems survives beyond the next three decades. The health of the planet depends on it: Coral reefs support a quarter of all marine species, as well as half a billion people around the world. \n \"This isn't something that's going to happen 100 years from now. We're losing them right now,\" said marine biologist Julia Baum of Canada's University of Victoria. \"We're losing them really quickly, much more quickly than I think any of us ever could have imagined.\" \n Even if the world could halt global warming now, scientists still expect that more than 90 percent of corals will die by 2050. Without drastic intervention, we risk losing them all. \n \"To lose coral reefs is to fundamentally undermine the health of a very large proportion of the human race,\" said Ruth Gates, director of the Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology. \n Coral reefs produce some of the oxygen we breathe. Often described as underwater rainforests, they populate a tiny fraction of the ocean but provide habitats for one in four marine species. Reefs also form crucial barriers protecting coastlines from the full force of storms. \n They provide billions of dollars in revenue from tourism, fishing and other commerce, and are used in medical research for cures to diseases including cancer, arthritis and bacterial or viral infections. \n \"Whether you're living in North America or Europe or Australia, you should be concerned,\" said biologist Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, director of the Global Change Institute at Australia's University of Queensland. \"This is not just some distant dive destination, a holiday destination. This is the fabric of the ecosystem that supports us.\" \n And that fabric is being torn apart. \n \"You couldn't be more dumb \u2026 to erode the very thing that life depends on \u2014 the ecosystem \u2014 and hope that you'll get away with it,\" Hoegh-Guldberg said. \n Corals are invertebrates, living mostly in tropical waters. They secrete calcium carbonate to build protective skeletons that grow and take on impressive colors, thanks to a symbiotic relationship with algae that live in their tissues and provide them with energy. \n But corals are sensitive to temperature fluctuations, and are suffering from rising ocean temperatures and acidification, as well as from overfishing, pollution, coastal development and agricultural runoff. \n A temperature change of just 1 to 2 degrees Celsius (1.8 to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) can force coral to expel the algae, leaving their white skeletons visible in a process known as \"bleaching.\" \n Bleached coral can recover if the water cools, but if high temperatures persist for months, the coral will die. Eventually the reef will degrade, leaving fish without habitats and coastlines less protected from storm surges. \n The first global bleaching event occurred in 1998, when 16 percent of corals died. The problem spiraled dramatically in 2015-2016 amid an extended El Nino natural weather phenomenon that warmed Pacific waters near the equator and triggered the most widespread bleaching ever documented. This third global bleaching event, as it is known, continues today even after El Nino ended. \n Headlines have focused on damage to Australia's famed Great Barrier Reef, but other reefs have fared just as badly or worse across the world, from Japan to Hawaii to Florida. \n Around the islands of the Maldives, an idyllic Indian Ocean tourism destination, some 73 percent of surveyed reefs suffered bleaching between March and May 2016, according to the country's Marine Research Center. \n \"This bleaching episode seems to have impacted the entire Maldives, but the severity of bleaching varies\" between reefs, according to local conditions, said Nizam Ibrahim, the center's senior research officer. \n Worst hit have been areas in the central Pacific, where the University of Victoria's Baum has been conducting research on Kiritimati, or Christmas Island, in the Republic of Kiribati. Warmer water temperatures lasted there for 10 months in 2015-2016, killing a staggering 90 percent of the reef. \n Baum had never seen anything like it. \n \"As scientists, we were all on brand new territory,\" Baum said, \"as were the corals in terms of the thermal stress they were subjected to.\" \n To make matters worse, scientists are predicting another wave of elevated ocean temperatures starting next month. \n \"The models indicate that we will see the return of bleaching in the South Pacific soon, along with a possibility of bleaching in both the eastern and western parts of the Indian Ocean,\" said Mark Eakin, coral reef specialist and coordinator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Coral Reef Watch, which uses satellites to monitor environmental conditions around reefs. It may not be as bad as last year, but could further stress \"reefs that are still hurting from the last two years.\" \n The speed of the destruction is what alarms scientists and conservationists, as damaged coral might not have time to recover before it is hit again by warmer temperatures. \n But some may have a chance. \n Last month, Hoegh-Guldberg helped launch an initiative called 50 Reefs, aiming to identify those reefs with the best chance of survival in warming oceans and raise public awareness. His project partner is Richard Vevers, who heads the XL Caitlin Seaview Survey, which has been documenting coral reefs worldwide. \n \"For the reefs that are least vulnerable to climate change, the key will be to protect them from all the other issues they are facing \u2014 pollution, overfishing, coastal development,\" said Vevers, who founded The Ocean Agency, an Australian organization seeking new technologies to help mitigate some of the ocean's greatest challenges. If the reefs remain healthy and resilient, \"they can hopefully become the vital seed-centers that can repopulate surrounding reefs.\" \n Nature itself is providing small glimmers of hope. Some of Kiritimati's corals, for example, are showing tentative signs of a comeback. \n But scientists don't want to leave it to chance, and are racing ahead with experiments they hope might stave off extinction. \n \"We've lost 50 percent of the reefs, but that means we still have 50 percent left,\" said Gates, who is working in Hawaii to breed corals that can better withstand increasing temperatures. \"We definitely don't want to get to the point where we don't intervene until we have 2 percent left.\" \n Going a step further, she is also trying to \"train\" corals to survive rising temperatures, exposing them to sub-lethal heat stress in the hope they can \"somehow fix that in their memory\" and survive similar stress in the future. \n \"It's probably time that we start thinking outside the box,\" Gates said. \"It's sort of a no-win game if we do nothing.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Scientists race to prevent wipeout of world's coral reefs"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer speaks during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, March 13, 2017. Spicer discussed surveillance during the 2016 presidential campaign, North Korea, anti-Semitic attacks and other topics. \n WASHINGTON >> Facing a Monday deadline, the Justice Department asked lawmakers for more time to provide evidence backing up President Donald Trump's unproven assertion that his predecessor wiretapped his New York skyscraper during the election. The request came as the White House appeared to soften Trump's explosive allegation. \n The House intelligence committee said it would give the Justice Department until March 20 to comply. That's the date of the committee's first open hearing on the investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 election and possible contacts between Trump associates and Russia. \n A spokesman for the committee chairman said the panel might use its subpoena power to gather information if the Justice Department doesn't meet the new deadline. \n \"If the committee does not receive a response by then, the committee will ask for this information during the March 20 hearing and may resort to a compulsory process if our questions continue to go unanswered,\" said Jack Langer, a spokesman for Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif \n Trump's assertions have put his administration in a bind. Current and former administration officials have been unable to provide any evidence of the Obama administration wiretapping Trump Tower, yet the president's aides have been reluctant to publicly contradict their boss. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer tried to clarify Trump's comments Monday, saying the president wasn't using the word wiretapping literally, noting that Trump had put the term in quotation marks. \n \"The president used the word wiretap in quotes to mean broadly surveillance and other activities,\" Spicer said. He also suggested Trump wasn't accusing former President Barack Obama specifically, but instead referring to the actions of the Obama administration. \n Trump himself has not commented on the matter since his March 4 tweets, in which he said he had \"just found out that Obama had my \"wires tapped\" in Trump Tower just before the victory.\" He also wrote: \"Is it legal for a sitting President to be 'wire tapping' a race for president?\" \n The president's accusations against Obama came amid numerous political questions surrounding his associates' possible ties to Russia. The FBI is investigating Trump associates' contacts with Russia during the election, as are House and Senate intelligence committees. \n The White House has asked those committees to also investigate Trump's unverified wiretapping allegations against Obama. The House committee has turned the matter back on the Trump administration, setting the Monday deadline for the Justice Department to provide evidence. \n Other congressional committees are also pushing the administration to clarify Trump's claims. \n Sens. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., asked Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente and FBI Director James Comey to produce the paper trail created when the Justice Department's criminal division secures warrants for wiretaps. The senators, who head the Senate Judiciary Committee's crime and terrorism subcommittee, are seeking warrant applications and court orders, which they said can be scrubbed to protect secret intelligence sources and methods. \n Trump's critics have slammed the president for making the wiretapping claim on his Twitter account without evidence. Wiretapping a U.S. citizen would require special permission from a court, and Trump as president would have the ability to declassify that information. \n Sen. John McCain, an influential Republican, said Sunday: \"I think the president has one of two choices: either retract or to provide the information that the American people deserve.\" \n \"If his predecessor violated the law, President Obama violated the law, we have got a serious issue here, to say the least,\" McCain said. \n Comey has privately urged the Justice Department to dispute Trump's claim but has not come forward to do so himself. James Clapper, who was Obama's director of national intelligence, has said that nothing matching Trump's claims had taken place. \n White House counselor Kellyanne Conway sidestepped questions about the lack of proof Monday, saying she was \"not in the job of having evidence.\" \n \"That's what investigations are for,\" Conway told CNN's \"New Day.\" \"The president is pleased that the House and Senate intelligence committees have agreed that this should be part of the investigation that already exists about Russia and the campaign, an investigation that apparently has gone nowhere so far.\" \n In a weekend interview with the Bergen Record, a newspaper in her home state of New Jersey, Conway appeared to point toward the recent WikiLeaks release of nearly 8,000 documents that purportedly reveal secrets about the CIA's tools for breaking into targeted computers, cellphones and even smart TVs. \n \"What I can say is there are many ways to surveil each other now, unfortunately,\" including \"microwaves that turn into cameras, et cetera,\" Conway said. \"So we know that that is just a fact of modern life.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Justice Dept. asks for more time on wiretapping evidence"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "The driver in a single-vehicle crash in Hilo died Sunday night. \n Police said her name has yet to be released pending notification of next of kin. \n The crash occurred at about 7:30 p.m. on Mauna Kea Access Road, approximately 1.2 miles from the visitor center. \n Police said a 2001 Nissan sport utility vehicle was traveling on the access road when it \"ran off the roadway and overturned several times.\" \n The driver was taken to Hilo Medical Center where she was pronounced dead just before 12:30 a.m. today. \n Police said the passenger, a 35-year-old woman of Lyon, France, also was transported to the hospital and flown to Queen's Medical Center in stable condition. \n Mauna Kea Access Road was closed for several hours while police conducted an investigation. The roadway reopened at about 5 a.m. \n Police said speed was involved in the crash. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine the exact cause of death. \n This is Hawaii island's fifth traffic-related fatality, the same number of fatalities that occurred at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman dies in single-car crash in Hilo"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michael Karkoc works in his yard in Minneapolis. Poland will seek the arrest and extradition of Karkoc, exposed by The Associated Press as a former commander in an SS-led unit that burned Polish villages and killed civilians in World War II, prosecutors said Monday, March 13, 2017. \n WARSAW, Poland >> Poland will seek the arrest and extradition of a Minnesota man exposed by The Associated Press as a former commander in an SS-led unit that burned Polish villages and killed civilians in World War II, prosecutors said Monday. \n Prosecutor Robert Janicki said evidence gathered over years of investigation into U.S. citizen Michael K. confirmed \"100 percent\" that he was a commander of a unit in the SS-led Ukrainian Self Defense Legion. \n He did not release the last name, in line with Poland's privacy laws, but the AP has identified the man as 98-year-old Michael Karkoc, from Minneapolis. \n \"All the pieces of evidence interwoven together allow us to say the person who lives in the U.S. is Michael K., who commanded the Ukrainian Self Defense Legion which carried out the pacification of Polish villages in the Lublin region,\" Janicki said. \n The decision in Poland comes four years after the AP published a story establishing that Michael Karkoc commanded the unit, based on wartime documents, testimony from other members of the unit and Karkoc's own Ukrainian-language memoir. \n Karkoc's family has repeatedly denied he was involved in any war crimes and his son questioned the validity of the evidence against him after Poland's announcement, calling the accusations \"scandalous and baseless slanders.\" \n \"There's nothing in the historical record that indicates my father had any role whatsoever in any type of war crime activity,\" said Andriy Karkoc. \n He questioned the Polish investigation, saying \"my father's identity has never been in question nor has it ever been hidden.\" \n In Poland, prosecutor Andrzej Pozorski said Karkoc would be given a full opportunity to tell his story. \n \"This person has not been questioned in the capacity of a suspect so it is hard to react to his explanations, because we don't know them,\" said Pozorski who heads the investigative team at a state institute. \n Prosecutors with the National Remembrance Institute, which investigates Nazi and Communist-era crimes against Poles, have asked a court in Lublin to issue an arrest warrant for Karkoc. If granted, Poland would seek his extradition, as Poland does not allow trial in absentia, Janicki said. \n He added the man's age was no obstacle in seeking to bring him before justice. \n \"He is our suspect as of today,\" Janicki said. \n If convicted of ordering the killing of civilians in 1944, Karkoc could face life in prison. \n The U.S. attorney's office in Minnesota declined to comment on the case. \n Efraim Zuroff, the head Nazi hunter for the Simon Wiesenthal Center, applauded the decision as an important signal even at this late stage. \n \"Any legal step that's taken against these people is very important,\" he said by telephone from Jerusalem. \"It sends a very powerful message, and these kinds of things should not be abandoned just because of the age of a suspect.\" \n Pozorski, in Warsaw, shared this view. \n \"This case shows that there is still a possibility, a chance to bring those responsible before a court and I think we should never give up the chance of exercising justice.\" \n Prosecutors in Germany shelved their own investigation of Karkoc in 2015 after saying they had received \"comprehensive medical documentation\" from doctors at the geriatric hospital in the U.S. where he was being treated that led them to conclude he was not fit for trial. \n Karkoc's family says he suffers from Alzheimer's disease. \n Zuroff urged that he be reassessed by independent doctors. \n \"It is a very common occurrence that elderly individuals facing prosecution for World War II crimes make every effort to look as sick and as infirm as possible,\" he said. \n The investigations in Germany and Poland began after AP's story in June 2013, which established Karkoc was a commander of the unit and then lied to American immigration officials to get into the United States a few years after the war. \n A second report uncovered evidence that Karkoc himself ordered his men in 1944 to attack a Polish village in which dozens of civilians were killed, contradicting statements from his family that he was never at the scene. \n \"The Associated Press stands by its stories, which were well-documented and thoroughly reported,\" said Lauren Easton, director of AP's media relations, on Monday. \n The special German prosecutor's office that investigates Nazi crimes concluded that enough evidence existed to pursue murder charges against Karkoc. \n AP's initial investigation found that Karkoc entered the U.S. in 1949 by failing to disclose to American authorities his role as a commander in the SS-led Ukrainian Self Defense Legion. The investigation found that Karkoc was in the area of the massacres, but did not uncover evidence linking him directly to atrocities. \n The second story, based upon an investigative file originally from the Ukrainian intelligence agency's archive, revealed that a private under Karkoc's command testified in 1968 that Karkoc ordered an assault on the village of Chlaniow in retaliation for the slaying of the SS major who led the Legion, in which Karkoc was a company commander. \n A German roster of the unit confirmed that Pvt. Ivan Sharko, a Ukrainian, served under Karkoc's command at the time. \n Other eyewitness accounts, both from villagers and members of Karkoc's unit, corroborated the testimony that the company set buildings on fire and gunned down more than 40 men, women and children. \n Other soldiers who served under Karkoc backed up Sharko's testimony about civilian killings. \n Pvt. Vasyl Malazhenski, for example, told Soviet investigators that in 1944 that unit was directed to \"liquidate all the residents\" of Chlaniow \u2014 although he did not say who gave the order. \n Sharko also testified in the investigative documents that Karkoc's company was directly involved in a \"punitive mission\" against Poles near the village of Sagryn in 1944. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Poland confirms Minnesota man as Nazi commander"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korea Deputy U.N. Ambassador Kim In Ryong, holds a press briefing, Monday March 13, 2017 at U.N. headquarters. \n UNITED NATIONS >> North Korea on Monday tried to shift the blame for the deadly attack in Malaysia on the estranged half- brother of its leader Kim Jong Un to the United States and South Korea. \n North Korea's deputy U.N. ambassador, Kim In Ryong, told a news conference that \"from A to Z, this case is the product of reckless moves of the United States and South Korean authorities,\" who he said are trying to tarnish the North's image and bringing down its social system. \n Malaysian authorities say Kim Jong Nam died after two women smeared his face with the banned VX nerve agent at Kuala Lumpur's airport on Feb. 13, but North Korea \u2014 which is widely suspected to be behind the attack \u2014 rejects the findings. \n Ambassador Kim said the cause of Kim Jong Nam's death \"has not yet been clearly identified, but the United States and the South Korean authorities are groundlessly blaming the DPRK,\" using the initials of the North's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. \n He asked why the person who applied the VX agent, which is fatal if a tiny amount is inhaled, is still alive while the man it was applied to died. \n The ambassador asserted that the U.S. is one of the few countries that can manufacture VX and that it has stockpiled chemical weapons in South Korea, which could have provided the chemical agent for the attack on Kim Jong Nam. \n \"It is a final aim sought by the United States to store up the international repugnancy towards the DPRK,\" he said of the attack, with the intention of provoking a \"nuclear war against DPRK at any cost.\" \n \"So the U.S. and South Korea were starting the political chicanery to bring down the social system in DPRK,\" the ambassador said. \n He said the DPRK will respond by continuing to bolster its defenses \"and the capability for the pre-emptive strike with a nuclear force.\" \n The North Korean envoy held a press conference at U.N. headquarters in New York after the DPRK boycotted a meeting of the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva, which was addressed by its special investigator on human rights in the reclusive northeast Asian nation. \n Tomas Ojea Quintana told the council that tensions caused by North Korea's ballistic missile and nuclear tests are jeopardizing efforts to improve human rights in the secretive country. \n \"Military tensions have brought human rights dialogue with the DPRK to a standstill,\" he said. \n The council report was the first by Ojea Quintana, who is from Argentina, since he took the post last year. \n He also pointed to concerns about the \"human cost of sanctions\" by the U.N. Security Council that have aimed to block North Korea's access to ballistic and nuclear weapons technology. \n Ambassador Kim reiterated the DPRK's claim that the six progressively tougher sanctions resolutions imposed after the North's nuclear and missile test are illegal. \n He accused the U.N. Secretariat of failing to respond to a DPRK request nearly three months ago to organize a forum of legal experts to clarify the legal grounds for the sanctions resolutions. \n Kim reiterated claims that the United States and South Korea are conducting joint military drills \"for a real war aimed at a pre-emptive nuclear strike against the DPRK by mobilizing lots of strategic assets and armed forces.\" \n The ambassador was asked at the press conference whether the DPRK was open for talks with the Trump administration, either bilaterally or through a resumption of the six-party nuclear disarmament talks which have been stalled since 2009. \n Kim didn't reply but sent the mission's spokesman Jo Jong Chol out afterward to say: \"We are not interested in any kind of talks \u2026 which is aiming to make the DPRK to abandon its nuclear program.\" \n \"We regard the lifting of the (U.S.) hostile policy toward the DPRK is the fundamental issue to address all kinds of issues \u2026 between the two countries,\" Jo said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea blames U.S. and South Korea for Malaysia attack"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson spoke to HUD employees, March 6, in Washington. Carson said in the speech that \"There were other immigrants who came here on the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less.\" In history's eyes, that statement was at least a faux pas, because slaves are not considered immigrants. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer talked to the media, Friday, during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington. Spicer tweeted on Friday: \"Great news for American workers: economy added 235,000 new jobs, unemployment rate drops to 4.7% in first report for @POTUS Trump.\" The fact is that Spicer accurately cited the official unemployment rate, a statistic his boss, President Donald Trump, repeatedly denounced as bogus when it reflected favorably on President Barack Obama. \n ASHINGTON >> Some of Donald Trump's boasts from the first weeks of his presidency were dashed by developments in recent days. For example, builders of the Keystone XL pipeline were let off the hook from a buy-American requirement that Trump had promised. \n On another front, though, there's now some substance behind his cherry-picking claims that jobs are growing under his watch. A robust jobs report gave him a fresh load of cherries. \n Over the past week, Trump took credit when it was not always due and assigned blame that was misplaced. Two of his Cabinet members went rogue on science and history: One dismissed the consensus on the leading cause of global warming, and the other lumped slaves together with immigrants. \n A look at some of those recent claims by Trump and his team: \n A national intelligence report says 122 men who were held at Guantanamo Bay, the U.S. base in Cuba, were confirmed to have re-engaged in hostilities after their release. But 113 of them were freed during George W. Bush's presidency and only nine during Obama's. The report said an additional 86 released prisoners were suspected of returning to militant activities; nearly all of those prisoners were let go under Bush. \n During the campaign and again after his election, as Obama-era unemployment dropped to and hovered at healthier levels, Trump claimed the real jobless rate was on the order of 40 percent or more. He got that number by counting people who could conceivably work, including millions who don't want to because they are retirees, students or otherwise out of the workforce by choice. \"The unemployment number, as you know, is totally fiction,\" Trump said in December after his victory. \n Now, the 4.7 unemployment rate for February \u2014 down from 4.8 percent \u2014 is being hailed as evidence of Trump's employment revival. Challenged about the inconsistency, Spicer cracked that Trump had specifically told him in reference to the unemployment reports: \"They may have been phony in the past, but it's very real now.\" \n There was more good news for Trump's first full month in office: gains in pay as well as the addition of 235,000 jobs. \n The congressional scorekeepers were largely right on most broad points about Obama's health care law, not way off on \"every aspect.\" They correctly predicted that insurance coverage would expand substantially and that employer-sponsored coverage would not plunge. \n Spicer accurately called them out on one front: CBO forecasters thought 23 million people would be enrolled in the law's exchanges last year, and the number proved to be about 12 million. Experts said CBO was off on that estimate in part because it overestimated the extent to which the individual mandate, which penalizes uninsured people, would prompt them to buy coverage. \n The office will be scoring the expected impact of a Trump-backed plan to \"repeal and replace\" Obama's law. Spicer's criticism appeared designed to soften the ground if the CBO predicts the new plan would result in widespread loss of health coverage. \n Carson, the only black Cabinet member, later amended his comment, calling slaves \"involuntary immigrants.\" \n Rana Hogarth, a history professor and expert on American slavery at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said comparing slaves to immigrants was \"inappropriate and wildly inaccurate.\" She said immigration \"suggests a desire of a person to make the journey.\" \n Trump had earlier described \"getting ready to sign Keystone and Dakota\" directives reviving both projects and coming up with the idea of inserting a clause ensuring \"we're gonna make that pipe right here in America.\" The material \"comes from the United States or we're not building it.\" \n No such clause was inserted. Instead, he signed an executive action calling for pipelines to be made from U.S. materials \"to the maximum extent possible and to the extent permitted by law.\" That's short of a mandate and, in any event, excludes the two pipelines. \n FBI Director James Comey privately asked the Justice Department to dispute the claim because he believed it to be untrue, lawmakers from both parties were baffled by it and Trump's aides could not explain the basis of it. \n As if to explain the Obama administration's taste for snooping generally, Spicer asserted that Fox News Channel reporter James Rosen \"had his phones, multiple phones, tapped,\" by the Obama administration. That's not what happened, as far as is known. Eric Holder, then the attorney general, got a judge's permission to look through records of Rosen's phone calls and emails from 2009 as the government sought to identify the leaker for a Rosen story about North Korea. That tells who was on a call and when, but not what was discussed. \n Pruitt was asked specifically about carbon dioxide as a cause for global warming. He answered more generally, saying there is \"tremendous uncertainty\" about the impact of human-generated heat-trapping gases. \n In either case, he's swimming against a tide of research. \n All man-made greenhouse gases\u2014 carbon dioxide, methane, halocarbons and nitrogen oxide \u2014 are responsible for about 60 times more added warming than natural causes, according to calculations from the Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change organized by the United Nations. Just carbon dioxide alone contributes 33 times more added warming than natural causes. \n Associated Press writers Seth Borenstein, Matthew Daly, Christopher S. Rugaber, Jesse J. Holland and Andrew Taylor in Washington, Ben Fox in Miami and David Bauder in New York contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Trump cabinet members go rogue on science, history"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Author Amy Krouse Rosenthal posed for a photo, in Aug. 2016, in Chicago. Rosenthal, a popular author, filmmaker and speaker who brightened lives with her wide-eyed spirit and broke hearts when she wrote of being terminally ill and leaving behind her husband Jason, died today. She was 51. \n NEW YORK >> Amy Krouse Rosenthal, a popular author, filmmaker and speaker who brightened lives with her wide-eyed and generous spirit \u2014 and broke hearts when she wrote of being terminally ill and leaving behind her husband Jason \u2014 died today at age 51. \n Rosenthal had been diagnosed in 2015 with ovarian cancer. Her death was confirmed to The Associated Press by her longtime literary agent, Amy Rennert, who said Rosenthal \"was the most life-affirming person, and love-affirming person.\" Fellow author John Green tweeted: \"She was a brilliant writer, and an even better friend.\" \n A Chicago native and longtime resident, Rosenthal completed than more 30 books, including journals, memoirs and the best-selling picture stories \"Uni the Unicorn\" and \"Duck! Rabbit!\" She made short films and YouTube videos, gave TED talks and provided radio commentary for NPR, among others. \n She also raised three children and had a flair for random acts of kindness, whether hanging dollar bills from a tree or leaving notes on ATM machines. \n \"I do what feels right to me. If it resonates or plants some seeds, great,\" she told Chicago magazine in 2010. \n While her books were noted for their exuberant tone, she started a very different conversation early this month with a widely read \"Modern Love\" column she wrote for The New York Times. Rosenthal told of learning about her fatal diagnosis, and, in the form of a dating profile, offered tribute to Jason Brian Rosenthal. The essay was titled, \"You May Want to Marry My Husband.\" \n \"If you're looking for a dreamy, let's-go-for-it travel companion, Jason is your man. He also has an affinity for tiny things: taster spoons, little jars, a mini-sculpture of a couple sitting on a bench, which he presented to me as a reminder of how our family began,\" she wrote. \"Here is the kind of man Jason is: He showed up at our first pregnancy ultrasound with flowers. This is a man who, because he is always up early, surprises me every Sunday morning by making some kind of oddball smiley face out of items near the coffeepot: a spoon, a mug, a banana.\" \n \"I am wrapping this up on Valentine's Day, and the most genuine, non-vase-oriented gift I can hope for is that the right person reads this, finds Jason, and another love story begins,\" she added. \n Rosenthal was a Tufts University graduate who worked in advertising for several years before she had what she called a \"McEpiphany\": She was with her kids at McDonald's when she promised herself that she would leave advertising and become a writer. \n Rosenthal more than kept her word; starting in the late 1990s, she regularly published at least a book a year, and sometimes three or four. Rennert said today that she had completed seven more picture books before her death, including a collaboration with her daughter, Paris, called \"Dear Girl.\" \n Rosenthal loved experimenting with different media, and blending the virtual and physical worlds. One of her favorite projects began with a YouTube video, \"17 Things I Made,\" featuring everything from books she had written to her three children to a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. At the end of the video, she welcomed fans to join her at Chicago's Millennium Park, on August 8, 2008, at 8:08 p.m. The goal was to make a \"cool\" 18th thing. \n Hundreds turned out to \"make\" things \u2014 a grand entrance, a new friend, a splash, something pretty. \n \"I tend to believe whatever you decide to look for you will find, whatever you beckon will eventually beckon you,\" she said during a 2012 TED talk. \n Her books were equally untraditional. \"Textbook Amy Krouse Rosenthal,\" published in 2016, is divided into chapters named for school subjects, from \"Geography\" to \"Language Arts.\" Subtitled \"Not Exactly a Memoir,\" the book features lists, illustrations, charts, emails and text messages. In a section called \"Midterm Essay,\" Rosenthal reflected on middle age and her youthful passion for life. \n \"If it is wonderful, splendid, remarkable \u2014 a view outside a window, a lit-up fountain at night, that fig-chorizo appetizer \u2014 I am compelled to seek some sort of saturation point, to listen/stare/savor on a loop, to greedily keep at it until I've absorbed, absconded with, and drained it of all its magic,\" she wrote \n \"Invariably, I will have to move on before I have had enough. My first word was 'more.' It may very well be my last.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Amy Krouse Rosenthal, best-selling author, dead at age 51"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This file combination photo shows former Penn State Vice President Gary Schultz, left, former Penn State Director of Athletics Tim Curley, right, and former Penn State President Graham Spanier, center, in Harrisburg, Pa. Curley and Schultz each pleaded guilty, today, to a misdemeanor child endangerment charge for their roles in the Jerry Sandusky child molestation case, more than five years after the scandal broke. \n HARRISBURG, Pa. >> Two former Penn State administrators accused of covering up child sexual abuse allegations against Jerry Sandusky pleaded guilty to reduced charges today, more than five years after the scandal rocked the university and led to the downfall of football coach Joe Paterno. \n Tim Curley, a 62-year-old former athletic director, and Gary Schultz, 67, a one-time vice president, could get up to five years in prison for misdemeanor child endangerment. No sentencing date was set. \n They struck a deal in which prosecutors dropped three felony charges of child endangerment and conspiracy that carried up to seven years each. \n Former Penn State President Graham Spanier, 68, was also charged in the scandal, and the case against him appears to be moving forward, with jury selection set for next week. His lawyers and the lead prosecutor had no comment. \n The three administrators handled a 2001 complaint by a graduate assistant who said he saw Sandusky, a retired member of the coaching staff, sexually abusing a boy in a team shower. They failed in their legal duty by not reporting the matter to police or child welfare authorities, prosecutors said. \n As a result, prosecutors said, Sandusky went on to abuse more boys, one of them in the Penn State showers. \n Sandusky was not arrested until a decade later. He was convicted in 2012 of molesting 10 boys and is serving 30 to 60 years behind bars. \n Shortly after Sandusky's arrest, Paterno was fired over his handling of the matter. Paterno, one of the winningest coaches in college football history, died of lung cancer a few months later at 85. He was never charged with a crime. \n A report commissioned by the university and conducted by former FBI Director Louis Freeh concluded that the beloved coach and the three others hushed up the allegations against Sandusky for fear of bad publicity. \n Robert J. Donatoni, a past president of the Pennsylvania Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said state sentencing guidelines indicate the defendants could get probation or a jail term of several months. \n Kristen Houser of the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape expressed concern that the defendants might be let off easy. \n \"It's nice to have accountability, that's important,\" she said, \"but the possibility of such a low level of punishment in the end does not seem to fit the very high level of disruption and harm and trauma that have been experienced, first and foremost, by the victims.\" \n Penn State's costs related to the Sandusky scandal are approaching a quarter-billion dollars. \n That includes a recent $12 million verdict in the whistleblower and defamation case brought by Mike McQueary, the former graduate coaching assistant whose testimony helped convict Sandusky. \n The university has also paid $93 million in settlements with 33 people who claimed they were sexually abused by Sandusky. In addition, Penn State was fined $48 million by the NCAA. \n The NCAA imposed other heavy sanctions against the football program, cutting scholarships, barring the team from postseason play and stripping Penn State and Paterno of 112 victories dating to 1998. The NCAA later eased its penalties and restored the wins. \n This past season marked the return of Penn State football as a top program. The Nittany Lions won the Big Ten championship and made it to the Rose Bowl. \n According to investigators, McQueary went to Paterno a day after the shower encounter to discuss what he had seen. Paterno alerted Curley and Schultz, and McQueary met with both of them about a week later. \n The administrators told Sandusky he could not bring children onto campus anymore, but they had no plan to enforce that rule, prosecutors said. \n It was not until nine years later that an anonymous email sent to a district attorney led investigators to approach McQueary in the case. \n Prosecutors on Monday also cited a 1998 complaint against Sandusky over his showering with a boy on campus that led to a campus police investigation and notification of the county prosecutor but no charges. Sandusky admitted hugging the youngster in the shower, and promised never to shower with a boy again. \n That left Sandusky free to continue working with boys at his charity, his summer football camps and the nearby high school. \n The U.S. Education Department fined the university a record $2.4 million for not recording the 1998 case on its daily crime log, as required under federal law. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 ex-Penn State officials plead guilty in child-sex scandal"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer held up a Trump Administration document to \"repeal and replace Obamacare\" as he talked to the media during the daily press briefing, Friday, at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> A woman has posted video of herself pointedly questioning White House press secretary Sean Spicer while he was out shopping at a local Apple store. \n In it, Chauhan asks Spicer how it feels to work for \"a fascist\" and \"what can you tell me about Russia.\" Spicer smiles through the encounter and repeatedly says \"thank you\" to Chauhan. At one point, he tells her, \"such a great country that allows you to be here.\" \n The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman grills White House press secretary at D.C. Apple store, tweets video"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n An accident this morning forced the closure of both directions of Kalaeloa Blvd. at Malakole St. due to downed poweer lines. \n Police have closed both directions of Kaleloa Blvd. in Barbers Point at Malakole St. because of downed power lines due to an accident. \n There were no immediate reports of serious injuries. \n Repairs are expected to take most of the day. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Both directions of Kalaeloa closed in Barbers Point"}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An obstetrician technician collects a blood sample from newborn in the nursery at Community Hospital North in Indianapolis. Canadians with cystic fibrosis survive about 10 years longer than Americans with the same genetic disease, according to startling new research that raises questions about how to improve care. \n WASHINGTON >> Canadians with cystic fibrosis survive about 10 years longer than Americans with the same genetic disease, according to startling new research that raises questions about how to improve care. \n Monday's study suggests access to lung transplants and health insurance may play a role in the survival gap. And it comes as Congress debates health legislation that could roll back Medicaid, a safety net for about half of children and a third of adults with the lung-destroying disease. \n \"We're about finding the best care wherever it is and trying to understand, if Canada's got better outcomes, how do they do that so we can copy it,\" said Dr. Bruce Marshall of the U.S. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, which funded the study. \n More than 30,000 Americans, and 70,000 people around the world, are living with cystic fibrosis, caused by inheriting a defective gene from each parent. Sticky mucus builds up in their lungs and other organs, leading to life-threatening respiratory infections and improper digestion and nutrient absorption. \n Only a few decades ago, children with the disease seldom survived elementary school. Now, thanks to earlier diagnosis and improvements in treatment, more and more live into adulthood and middle age. \n But the median age of survival in Canada is almost 51 \u2014 meaning half live at least that long \u2014 compared to nearly 41 for U.S. patients, researchers reported Monday in Annals of Internal Medicine. \n \"These statistics are sobering,\" said Dr. Anne Stephenson of St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto, who led the study. \n Researchers analyzed data from national registries of cystic fibrosis patients in each country from 1990 to 2013. \n The findings mark \"a hard reality we must accept,\" Drs. Patrick Flume of the Medical University of South Carolina and Donald VanDevanter of Case Western Reserve University wrote in an accompanying editorial. Neither was part of the research. \n \"Now we are faced with the more difficult task of trying to identify and implement solutions to bridge this survival gap, which seems to be based on fundamental differences in the two nations' health care systems,\" they said. \n Among possible causes: \n \u2014A higher proportion of Canadian CF patients receive a life-prolonging lung transplant, 10.3 percent compared to 6.5 percent of U.S. patients. It's not clear why. But the survival gap widened significantly in 2005, the year that the U.S. introduced a new scoring system to prioritize people on the waiting list for lung transplants. Marshall said the CF Foundation is raising concerns with transplant regulators about whether nuances in that system give other lung diseases more priority. \n \u2014Canada has universal health coverage. U.S. patients with private health insurance had similar survival to their Canadian counterparts. But Canadians survived longer than U.S. Medicaid patients and those with no insurance, the study found. \n Because Medicaid gives participants important access to specialized CF care centers, Marshall said \"our hunch\" is that poverty is the real factor. Even with Medicaid it's still hard to take time off work, find child care and travel to a clinic. \n One other factor: Canada adopted better nutritional care for cystic fibrosis in the 1970s, a decade before the U.S., a difference likely to be affecting survival only among older age groups. \n Survival gap aside, there still is no cure and \"in both countries, there are still people who are very, very young who are dying,\" Stephenson noted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cystic fibrosis patients surviving longer in Canada than U.S."}

{"date": "March 13, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Rep. Lynn Jenkins, right, R-Kan., answers questions from the audience Monday, March 13, 2017, at the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics on the University of Kansas campus in Lawrence, Kan. Sitting to her left is moderator Melissa Brunner, a news anchor for WIBW-TV in Topeka. \n LAWRENCE, Kan. >> Republican Rep. Lynn Jenkins faced boos and shouts of \"Do Your Job!\" in defending a GOP plan for overhauling health care today during a raucous town hall meeting held the same day a congressional report said millions of Americans would lose insurance coverage. \n Jenkins disputed the analysis of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office that 14 million Americans would lose their coverage in the next year if the plan drafted by top House Republicans were enacted. The five-term congresswoman also said the analysis doesn't take into account a potential decrease in health costs from its changes. \n But the audience of about 300 people was highly skeptical at the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics on the University of Kansas campus. While the institute is named for the Republican icon and 1996 presidential nominee, Lawrence is perhaps the most liberal community in Jenkins' eastern Kansas district. \n \"We're not going to throw anybody off their health insurance,\" Jenkins said as the crowd booed. \n A few audience members shouted, \"That's not true!\" Jenkins' event was reminiscent of other rowdy meetings held recently by Republican lawmakers in several states. \n They're facing questions from Democrats about how replacing the Affordable Care Act championed by former President Barack Obama would affect people who obtained coverage through that 2010 law and states that expanded their Medicaid programs under it. But they're also under pressure from conservatives who argue the House GOP plan preserves too much of the former president's signature policy. \n Jenkins said the House GOP plan would bring health care costs down by allowing people to use health savings accounts and shop around for the best price on their care. \n \"As premiums come down then that means that people will be able to afford health care,\" Jenkins said. \n She also said the Republican plan would help people who don't qualify for subsidies to buy policies in the federal marketplace by giving them tax credits. The congressional analysis noted the current subsidies would end in 2020 and that the tax credits would be less generous overall. \n Janella Williams, a 45-year-old Lawrence resident, said she was able to start her own business rather than staying at a \"dead-end\" job for the health benefits because of the 2010 federal law. \n \"There are a lot of us out there that our life and our quality of life depend on the ACA,\" she said. \n Republican Gov. Sam Brownback has been a vocal critic of \"Obamacare\" and the state hasn't expanded its Medicaid program. \n Brownback spokeswoman Melika Willoughby said part of the GOP plan setting a per-capita cap on federal spending on Medicaid in 2020 \"best allows for state-based innovation.\" \n State officials did not immediately have an analysis of how the House GOP plan would affect the state's Medicaid program or the nearly 100,000 Kansans residents enrolled this year in health coverage through the federal marketplace. \n But Sheldon Weisgrau, executive director of the Health Reform Resource Project, an education and outreach initiative funded by several foundations, said the House GOP plan is likely to harm older residents of rural areas where coverage already is expensive. \n \"Kansas does seem to fit the picture of the kind of place where people will be harmed by this plan,\" Weisgrau said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kansas Rep. Jenkins booed as she defends GOP health plan"}

