{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this picture taken, Feb. 16, 2017, a Syrian school teacher from Deir Ezzour, stands with his son and daughter in Al Hol Camp, Hasakah Governorate, Syria. \n BEIRUT >> Syrian children show symptoms of \"toxic stress\" and are attempting self-harm and suicide in response to prolonged exposure to war, according to a report released today. \n Children do not feel safe at school and are developing speech disorders and incontinence, and some are even losing the capacity to speak, it said. \n The report from Save the Children comes as the sixth anniversary of the Syrian war approaches and it calls on all sides to prioritize mental health issues before children develop lasting complications they will carry into adulthood. \n \"After six years of war, we are at a tipping point, after which the impact on children's formative years and childhood development may be so great that the damage could be permanent and irreversible,\" said Marcia Brophy, a mental health adviser for Save the Children in the Middle East. \"The risk of a broken generation, lost to trauma and extreme stress, has never been greater.\" \n Researchers spoke with 450 children, adolescents and adults in seven of Syria's 14 governorates. \n Adults said the main cause of psychological stress is the constant shelling and bombardment that characterize the war. \n Schools and hospitals have been regularly targeted, destroying the very institutions that can support traumatized children when they need it most. \n According to the report, 80 percent of those interviewed said children have become more aggressive and 71 percent said children increasingly suffer from frequent bedwetting and involuntary urination \u2014 \"both common symptoms of toxic stress and post-traumatic stress disorder among children.\" \n The researchers also found that two-thirds of the children had lost a loved one, had their houses bombed or shelled, or suffered war-related injuries. \n Save the Children said the survey was the first focusing on the mental health of children still living in Syria. It said that at least 3 million children are estimated to be living in areas with exposure to high explosive weapons and that at least 3 million youngsters under age 6 know nothing but war. \n \"We are failing children inside Syria, some of whom are being left to cope with harrowing experiences, from witnessing their parents killed in front of them to the horrors of life under siege, without proper support,\" Brophy said. \n The New York-based Physicians for Human Rights has said more than 90 percent of attacks on medical facilities in Syria are carried out by pro-government forces. An earlier report by the group said the Syrian government \"systematically violated\" the principle of medical neutrality by targeting medical facilities and doctors; detaining patients; and arresting, torturing and executing doctors. It said that has caused medical professionals to flee the country. \n Some residents know of just one psychiatrist in regions encompassing more than a million people, the Save the Children report said. One in four children said they have no one to talk to or nowhere to go when they are feeling scared, sad or upset. \n The symptoms of toxic stress, which overlap with those of post-traumatic stress disorder, can disrupt the development of the brain and other organs, and trigger mental health disorders and addiction in adulthood, said Alexandra Chen, a child protection and mental health specialist based at Harvard University. \n Child soldiers are especially vulnerable to carrying trauma into adulthood. More than half of the adults interviewed by Save the Children said they knew of children or adolescents who were recruited into armed groups. \n The report said combatants must stop using explosives in populated areas, halt attacks on schools and hospitals and stop recruiting children to fight. It also urged the international community to fund mental health and psychological programs for Syria's children. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Syrian children suffering 'toxic stress'"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police remove the body of Jacqueline Watts from the scene where her body was found on a sandbar in the Flatrock River near Noblitt Park in Columbus, Ind., Saturday. \n COLUMBUS, Ind. >> A woman whose family said she developed a love for animals at a young age lost her life trying to save a dog from a river, police said today. \n A witness reported seeing a woman matching the description of Jacqueline Watts, chasing a small dog on Friday afternoon. Columbus Police Lt. Matt Harris said. \n Officers found the 33-year-old Indianapolis woman's body Saturday morning on a sandbar by the Flatrock River in the city's Noblitt Park. \n \"There was a lot of speculation into what occurred,\" Harris told a news conference. \"The bottom line is we lost a very special person.\" \n Police on Sunday also recovered the body of Ringo, the dog Watts was chasing, from a river bank. A poster reporting the dog was missing said Ringo had cataracts and was deaf. \n A statement from Watts' family was read at the news conference. It said she volunteered with rescue groups and fostered multiple dogs and rabbits. \n \"We know that Jackie gave her life for what she believed in,\" the statement said. \n Following an autopsy, Bartholomew County Coroner Clayton Nolting ruled Watts death an accidental drowning, pending toxicology results. \n Watts' family reported her missing Friday after she dropped off two dogs and a rabbit with relatives in Columbus, Harris said. Her idling, parked car was found that day about half a mile from where her body later was found. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indiana animal lover died trying to save dog"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Men and women, including a man wearing a \"USA\" sweatshirt, attend Sunday services at the Gurudwara Singh Sabha of Washington, a Sikh temple in Renton, Wash. \n SEATTLE >> A Sikh man who says a man shot him in the arm and told him to go back to his country is recovering from his wound at home in suburban Seattle and is encouraged by an outpouring of support, community leaders said today. \n Hira Singh said he has talked to the 39-year-old Indian man and his family by telephone and they are \"getting back to normal.\" \n The victim is shaken up and concerned about the safety of his family, but \"he felt really, really blessed that he has survived with very little suffering and that he's received an enormous amount of support,\" said Jasmit Singh, another community leader. \n Police in the city of Kent are investigating the Friday night shooting as a hate crime and the FBI has joined the investigation. No arrests have been made so far, police Cmdr. Jarod Kasner said. Seattle FBI spokeswoman Ayn S. Dietrich said the agency, in conjunction with the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, has also opened an investigation into the case to determine if there was a federal civil rights violation. \n The FBI's Seattle office said it is \"committed to investigating crimes that are potentially hate-motivated.\" \n The shooting has rattled members of the Sikh community, which numbers about 50,000 in Washington state. \n At the Sikh temple in nearby Renton, where the victim has worshipped for about a decade, leaders told their faithful to \"keep calm and pray,\" said Harminder Singh, president of Gurudwara Singh Sabha of Washington. \n He said the victim, who is married and has three children, works in the construction industry and is \"a nice guy.\" While the shooting shocked everyone, the positive responses from the FBI, police and others have been reassuring, he said. \n \"That sent a positive message to the whole congregation,\" Harminder Singh said. \n Kent police have not identified the victim or released other information about him. But India's foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, named him on Twitter, saying, \"I am sorry to know about the attack on Deep Rai, a U.S. national of Indian origin.\" \n Rai told police a man he didn't know came up to him Friday night as he worked on his car in his driveway. They argued, with the suspect telling Rai to go back to his homeland, then shooting him in the arm, authorities said. \n He described the shooter as 6 feet tall and white with a stocky build, police said. He said the man was wearing a mask covering the lower half of his face. \n \"All of the information that I have available at this time suggests that the information provided by the victim is credible,\" Kent Police Chief Ken Thomas wrote in an email Sunday. \n The shooting comes after an Indian man was killed and another wounded in a recent shooting at a Kansas bar that federal agencies are investigating as a hate crime after witnesses say the suspect yelled \"get out of my country.\" \n \"This hateful incident echoes the disturbing pattern of anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic, and anti-Muslim attacks in our state, and across the country,\" Washington Gov. Jay Inslee said a statement Sunday night. \"These acts of violence are hateful, detestable, and un-American.\" \n Many in the Seattle-area Sikh community fear that one of their own was targeted and said they're scared to go to the store or other public places. Some said they have noticed an uptick in name-calling and other racist incidents in recent months. Still others expressed hurt and disbelief at the lack of understanding and ignorance. \n Jasmit Singh urged other Sikhs to be aware of their surroundings and \"be open about having those conversations with the broader community.\" He also called on those who aren't Sikh to address such violence. \n \"This is not a Sikh-American issue, a Muslim-American issue or a Jewish-American issue. It's really an American issue,\" he said. \"What do we want America to look like and what are the values that it should reflect?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sikh man is 'getting back to normal,' heartened by support"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Housing a Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson speaks to HUD employees in Washington, today. \n WASHINGTON >> Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson today compared slavery to immigration in the United States, a view that experts on slavery called inaccurate and a misleading reading of American history. \n Carson, who was confirmed as HUD secretary last week and is the only black member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet, was talking about the work ethic and dreams of immigrants who came to the United States through Ellis Island in his first speech at the department. \n \"There were other immigrants who came here on the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less,\" Carson said as he walked across a stage holding a microphone. \n A HUD spokesman declined to comment on Carson's statement. The department later tweeted: \"This is the most cynical interpretation of the Secretary's remarks to an army of welcoming HUD employees. No one honestly believes he equates voluntary immigration with involuntary servitude!\" \n Carson has been considered a hero and motivational speaker in African-American communities for his accomplishments in medicine, and became a prominent speaker in conservative circles after entering politics. \n The retired neurosurgeon has drawn criticism before when making comparisons to slavery. In 2013 he branded \"Obamacare,\" the Affordable Care Act championed by President Barack Obama, \"the worst thing that has happened in this nation since slavery.\" \n Rana Hogarth, a history professor and expert on American slavery at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said comparing slaves with immigrants was \"inappropriate and wildly inaccurate.\" She said immigration \"suggests a desire of a person to make the journey.\" \n \"I think that he's either misinformed or made a mistake,\" Hogarth said. \"His beginning on Ellis Island tells me there's a major gap in his knowledge of how we talk about different ways people settled the United States and what circumstances they settled in United States.\" \n Rebecca Scott, a University of Michigan law and history professor, said slavery in the United States was a \"dramatically distinct form of migration,\" and that slavery made realizing the American dream much more difficult for captured Africans. \n \"That people had aspirations for their children regardless of how they were brought to the United States was certainly true,\" Scott said. \"Their capacity to see their aspirations realized was starkly limited by slavery.\" \n Carson spoke to HUD employees as he began his first full week leading the department. The Senate confirmed him last week. \n The agency, with a budget of about $47 billion, provides housing assistance to low-income people through vouchers and public housing, enforces fair housing laws and provides development block grants to communities. \n In his speech to a standing-room-only audience, Carson pledged to lead HUD with a \"very big emphasis on fairness for everybody. Everything that we do, every policy. No favorites for anybody. No extras for anybody, but complete fairness for everybody.\" \n He praised HUD employees for their dedication to HUD's \"mission of really helping the downtrodden, helping the people in our society to be able to climb the ladder. Because to me, that really is what it's all about.\" \n Democrats and housing advocates have expressed concern about his lack of government and housing policy experience. Carson said he plans to embark on a listening tour of communities and HUD field offices around the country to \"see what works and what doesn't work.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ben Carson compares slavery to immigration to America"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean Ambassador to Malaysia Kang Chol, center, arrives at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Malaysia today. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> The bitter diplomatic dispute between North Korea and Malaysia over the poisoning death of leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half-brother escalated dramatically today, with Pyongyang saying it had banned Malaysians from leaving North Korea. \n That was followed quickly by Malaysia saying North Korean embassy staff were barred from leaving its country. Malaysia had already expelled the North Korean ambassador on Monday. \n The North's Foreign Ministry told the Malaysian Embassy in Pyongyang that it would temporarily ban the exit of Malaysian citizens now in the North, according to the official Korean Central News Agency. \n It said the exit ban will be valid \"until the safety of the diplomats and citizens of (North Korea) in Malaysia is fully guaranteed through the fair settlement of the case that occurred in Malaysia.\" \n Malaysia is pursuing several North Korean suspects allegedly involved in the killing, including a diplomat at the North's Embassy in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia has not accused the North of being behind the killing of Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport three weeks ago, but South Korea has. \n Malaysian Deputy Foreign Minister Reezal Marican told reporters at parliament that there are 11 Malaysians in North Korea: Three working at the Malaysian Embassy, two United Nations workers and six family members. \n The North said Malaysian diplomats and citizens \"may work and live normally under the same conditions and circumstances as before\" during the period of the temporary exit ban. \n It also said that the Malaysian ambassador would be expelled, although he has already been recalled to Malaysia. \n Kim Jong Nam died less than 20 minutes after two women wiped VX nerve agent on his face at Kuala Lumpur airport on Feb. 13, authorities say. The women, one from Vietnam and one from Indonesia, have been charged with murder. \n North Korea has denied any role in the killing and accused Malaysia of conspiring with its enemies. North Korean Ambassador Kang Chol rejected a Malaysian autopsy that found Kim was killed with VX, a banned chemical weapon. \n Today, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said the decision to expel Kang sent a clear message. \n \"It means that we are firm in defending our sovereignty and dignity,\" Najib said. \"Don't ever insult our country and don't try to cause disruptions here.\" \n Malaysian authorities declared Kang \"persona non grata\" on Saturday and gave him two days to leave the country. He arrived late this afternoon at the Kuala Lumpur airport, where he told reporters that Malaysia was doing \"great harm\" to the countries' relations. \n Malaysia's finding that VX killed Kim boosted speculation that North Korea was behind the attack. Experts say the oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons, including VX. \n North Korea is trying to retrieve Kim's body, but has not acknowledged that the victim is Kim Jong Un's half brother, as Malaysian government officials have confirmed. \n Ri Tong Il, a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, has said Kim probably died of a heart attack because he suffered from heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said pathologists have ruled that out. \n The two women accused of poisoning Kim say they were duped into thinking they were taking part in a harmless prank. \n Malaysia is looking for seven North Korean suspects, four of whom are believed to have left the country on the day of the killing. The three others, including an official at the North Korean Embassy and an employee of Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, are believed to still be in Malaysia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea, Malaysia step up dispute over Kim's death"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY \n A Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense interceptor is launched from a battery on Wake Island during a Nov. 1, 2015 flight test. During the test, the THAAD system successfully intercepted two air-launched ballistic missile targets. \n U.S. Pacific Command said today it has deployed to South Korea the \"first elements\" of a controversial Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense missile system for protection against increasing ballistic threats from North Korea. \n The move, which has been planned for months, comes as the U.S. military detected and tracked multiple missile launches out of North Korea today, with four of the medium-range rockets landing in the Sea of Japan, according to the Pentagon. \n \"North Korea's accelerating program of nuclear weapons tests and ballistic missile launches constitute a threat to international peace and security, and are in violation of multiple United Nations Security Council resolutions,\" U.S. Pacific Command, based at Camp H.M. Smith on Oahu, said today in a release. \"The deployment of THAAD contributes to a layered missile defense system and enhances the U.S.-(South Korea) alliance's defense against North Korean missile threats.\" \n \"Continued provocative actions by North Korea, to include (this) launch of multiple missiles, only confirm the prudence of our alliance decision last year to deploy THAAD to South Korea,\" said Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., commander of U.S. Pacific Command. \"We will resolutely honor our alliance commitments to South Korea and stand ready to defend ourselves, the American homeland, and our allies.\" \n The THAAD system is a defensive capability and is designed to intercept and destroy short- and medium-range ballistic missiles inside or outside the atmosphere during their final, or terminal, phase of flight, Pacific Command said. \n The North Korean missile launches followed the start last week of Foal Eagle 2017, with about 3,600 U.S. service members joining the 28,000 U.S. troops already in South Korea for the annual exercise. The aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson and new F-35 Joint Strike Fighters will take part in the exercise with about 300,000 South Korea soldiers, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper reported. \n In typical bluster, North Korea last week said it would \"deal a merciless retaliatory strike\" at any provocation, and pledged to strengthen its nuclear deterrent, Yonhap News said. \n China is opposed to the THAAD system in South Korea because of its potential to track missile launches from China. \n \"We believe that the deployment disrupts strategic balance of the region, undermines strategic and security interests of countries in the region including China, and does harm to peace and stability of the Korean Peninsula,\" China Foreign Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang said today. \"We urge relevant parties to face squarely China's reasonable concerns, call off the deployment and avoid traveling further down the wrong path.\" \n China also said it was opposed to the North Korean missile launches today in violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions. \n The type of equipment sent to South Korea for the THAAD system wasn't revealed. The entire system is expected to be deployed in phases. \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Pacific Command begins deploying missile defense system in South Korea"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Robert Redington, the youngest of three Redington brothers competing in the 2017 Iditarod, drives his dogs down the Chena River in Fairbanks, Alaska today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Race rookie Ryan Anderson of Minnesota drives his team onto the Chena River during the restart of the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race in front of Pike's Waterfront Lodge today in Fairbanks, Alaska. \n ANCHORAGE, Alaska >> Mushers pumped their fists and high-fived fans today as they set out one-by-one on the world's most famous sled dog race, a nearly 1,000-mile trek through the grueling Alaska wilderness. \n The grandson of a co-founder of the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race was the first competitor on the trail in Fairbanks, in the heart of the state. \n Ryan Redington, 33, of Wasilla led the other 70 mushers out of the chute nearly a half-century after his grandfather, Joe Redington Sr., helped stage the first race in 1973. \n The contest has a staggered start so fans, including 2,600 schoolchildren, can cheer on the competitors, who leave every two minutes. \n One race rookie, 53-year-old Roger Lee, threw his fist in the air as he took off from the chute. \n Lee was born in California to British parents and grew up near Liverpool, England, listening to the Beatles and harder rock groups. He has seen AC/DC in concert 157 times in 16 countries, according to his race biography. \n Lee spent 10 years with the British Army Air Corps before moving to America, where he serves with the Air Force. He took a one-year sabbatical to train for the Iditarod. \n The fan-friendly ceremonial start of the race was held Saturday in Anchorage. \n The competitive start is normally held a day later in Willow, about 50 miles north of Anchorage. But that start would have taken mushers over the Dalzell Gorge, where a lack of snow has left alders exposed on the trail and open water in places that normally would be frozen this time of year. \n Winter conditions were not a concern in Fairbanks, where the temperature was minus 35 degrees today morning. The start was delayed a day to give mushers time to drive their dogs 360 miles north to the city of about 100,000. \n Eighty-four mushers signed up for the race, and 13 scratched. The latest was Otto Balogh, a 40-year-old rookie from Budapest, Hungary, who cited health concerns when dropping out of the race two hours before it began. \n Dallas Seavey, 30, has won four out of the last five races. He feels no pressure to get a record-tying fifth win, and is fully cognizant that winning streaks can only go for so long. \n \"And I'm truly OK with that, as long as I can look back on the race and know I ran my team to the best of their ability, and we all had a good run,\" Seavey said. \n He received $75,000 and a new pickup for winning last year's race. \n Jeff King, a four-time champion wearing dark sunglasses, hugged friends before taking off. He then slapped hands with fans as his dog team went through the chute. \n Last year, King and musher Aliy Zirkle were attacked by a drunken man on a snowmobile in separate assaults near the village of Nulato. One dog on King's team was killed, and other dogs were injured. \n The attacks prompted a rule change to allow mushers to carry satellite or cell phones. \n Zirkle has told The Associated Press she sewed a satellite phone into her parka as a safety precaution after last year's attack, which left her shaken. She finished third last year and has five straight top-five finishes. \n The Iditarod hasn't had a female winner since the late Susan Butcher won her fourth race in 1990. Asked at the ceremonial start if it's time for another, 58-year-old Cindy Abbott said: \"It is. That would be awesome.\" \n But she readily admits it won't be her. The Beatrice, Nebraska, native and former California college professor suffers from a rare blood disorder. She said she can't run at the level of sleep deprivation that is required to win the race. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Howls, high-fives mark start of Iditarod race across Alaska"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions makes a statement on issues related to visas and travel, Monday, March 6, 2017, at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection office in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Monday clarified his confirmation hearing testimony to acknowledge having spoken twice last year with the Russian ambassador, but he said he stood by his earlier remarks as an honest and correct answer to a question. \n The filing amends testimony Sessions gave under oath in January when he said he did not have communication with Russians. Sessions reversed course last week and acknowledged that he actually had spoken with the ambassador once at the Republican National Convention last July and again at a meeting in his Senate office in September in the presence of his Senate staff. \n Sessions committed last week to amending his earlier testimony as he agreed to recuse himself from any investigations involving the Trump campaign and Russian interference in the presidential election. \n He said at the time that he had not intended to be misleading, though he acknowledged that he could have been more careful in his answer. On Monday, in a three-page filing with the Senate Judiciary Committee, he defended his response as honest given the context of the question. \n \"I do not recall any discussions with the Russian ambassador, or any other representative of the Russian government, regarding the political campaign on these occasions or any other occasion,\" Sessions wrote. \n Sessions maintained that his answer to a question from Sen. Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, was correct. \n Franken had asked Sessions at the confirmation hearing what he would do if he learned of evidence that anyone affiliated with the Trump campaign had been in touch with the Russian government in the course of the campaign. \n Sessions responded that he himself had not had \"communications with the Russians.\" He said Monday that he answered the question the way he did because Franken had raised allegations of continuing communication between Trump associates and intermediaries for the Russian government. \n \"I did not mention communications I had had with the Russian ambassador over the years because the question did not ask about them,\" Sessions wrote. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Eric Tucker on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/etuckerAP \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sessions clarifies testimony on Russia, says he was honest"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU.GOV \n Traffic was backing up this afternoon on H-1 Freeway near Makakilo Drive because of a crash on Farrington Highway. \n COURTESY GOOGLE MAPS \n Police closed part of Farrington Highway at Laaloa Street because of a crash. \n Police closed part of Farrington Highway for close to four hours today to investigate a fatal multiple-vehicle crash near Honokai Hale. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said a 60-year-old man was pronounced dead at the scene after the crash at about 3:40 p.m. \n Paramedics treated two other patients, a 48-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man, from the collision and took them to a hospital in serious condition. \n Police closed both town-bound lanes and one Waianae-bound lane on Farrington at Laaloa Street shortly before 4 p.m. \n \"I saw on the far left two cars in the bushes,\" said passerby Jason Laquihon. \n \"There was also a minivan in the middle of the road with the front end smashed.\" \n Laquihon, who was driving west on the H-1, said one of the cars had the front driver-side roof smashed in. \n He said three ambulances from the Campbell area responded to the accident. \n Police reopened traffic flow at about 7:30 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Gary Kubota", "title": "1 dead, 2 hurt in Farrington Highway crash near Honokai Hale"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Some of about 100 people demonstrate outside a federal immigration court in Los Angeles on Monday, March 6, 2017, protesting the arrest of an immigrant who has been ordered deported. Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez was arrested Feb. 28, 2017, after dropping his daughter off at school in Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES >> About 100 people gathered outside a federal immigration court in Los Angeles to protest the arrest of an immigrant who has been ordered deported after dropping his daughter off at school. \n Protesters at Monday's demonstration demanded Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials release Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez. \n The protesters held signs that read: \"Free Romulo\" and \"No ban, no wall.\" \n Avelica-Gonzalez was arrested by ICE agents last week. Another daughter captured it on video. Advocates say it was traumatized the young girl and other family members. \n An ICE spokeswoman said the 48-year-old had multiple criminal convictions, including one for drunken driving. She said a judge signed a final order to remove Avelica-Gonzalez from the U.S. \n Avelica-Gonzalez's attorney, Peter Grayshock, says a defense will be hard because a judge already signed a final deportation order. But he says the family will keep fighting. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "100 protest over immigrant arrested after dropping off child"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Darren Woods, Exxon Mobil CEO, speaks during CERAWeek at the Hilton Americas,Monday, March 6, 2017, in Houston. \n HOUSTON >> President Donald Trump and Exxon Mobil Corp. exchanged praise for each other on Monday as the company announced plans to create thousands of jobs by spending $20 billion over 10 years on plants along the Gulf Coast. \n Exxon's plan started long before Trump entered the White House, however. It includes investments that began in 2013. \n Exxon said Monday the work would create 12,000 permanent jobs \u2014 the energy giant currently has about 71,000 employees \u2014 and 35,000 construction jobs. \n Exxon announced its plan in a news release in which CEO Darren Woods was quoted as saying that such big investments \"require a pro-growth approach and a stable regulatory environment and we appreciate the President's commitment to both.\" \n A few minutes later, the White House issued its own release about Trump congratulating Exxon. One paragraph in the White House release is nearly identical to a passage in Exxon's. \n The president followed up on Twitter, saying that \"Buy American & hire American are the principals at the core of my agenda,\" although he apparently meant that those are among his principles. \n In his third tweet on Exxon, Trump wrote, \"45,000 construction & manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Gulf Coast region. $20 billion investment. We are already winning again, America!\" \n In December, Trump plucked Exxon's then-CEO, Rex Tillerson, to be his secretary of state. Tillerson and Trump met Monday shortly before the Exxon and White House press releases. \n Woods, the new chairman and CEO, said Monday that Exxon would expand at several current plants and build a new one to create petroleum products for export. \n Woods said the investment plan responds to the rising supply of natural gas. There has been a boom in production created by techniques such as fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, in shale formations like the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico. \n Exxon recently agreed to buy rights to about 250,000 more acres, doubling its presence in the Permian at a cost of up to $6.6 billion \u2014 a huge bet on the hottest oil and gas field in the country. \n Woods said hydraulic fracturing has \"opened up a whole new energy future for the United States \u2026 (that) is turning the U.S. from energy importer to energy exporter.\" \n Exxon announced the spending plan at a major energy-industry conference in Houston that draws executives and oil ministers from around the world. \n The company said it plans 10 expansion projects at refineries and chemical and liquefied natural gas plants around Beaumont and Baytown, Texas, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. It also wants to build a new chemicals plant at a location yet to be determined along the Gulf. \n The sum of $20 billion would be roughly equal to Exxon's total capital spending last year. The company announced last week that it plans to increase overall investments to an average of $25 billion a year from 2018 to 2020. \n Shares of the Irving, Texas-based company rose 37 cents to close at $82.83. They have lost about 8 percent so far this year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump cheers Exxon plan to spend $20B on Gulf Coast projects"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Press secretary Sean Spicer walks out of the West Wing of the White House in Washington today to speak with members of the media. \n WASHINGTON >> If Donald Trump wants to know whether he was the subject of surveillance by the U.S. government, he may be uniquely positioned to get an answer. \n A series of weekend tweets by the president focused public attention on intelligence collection efforts long shrouded in secrecy. He accused former President Barack Obama of ordering wiretaps on his phones but offered no proof to back the claim, and the White House then called on Congress to investigate the allegations. \n But former government lawyers say Trump hardly needs Congress to answer this question. \n \"The intelligence community works for the president, so if a president wanted to know whether surveillance had been conducted on a particular target, all he'd have to do is ask,\" said Todd Hinnen, head of the Justice Department's National Security Division during the Obama administration and a National Security Council staff member under George W. Bush. \n The latest storm began Saturday when Trump tweeted: \"Is it legal for a sitting President to be 'wire tapping' a race for president prior to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW!\" He followed up with: \"How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!\" \n The Justice Department, not the president, would have the authority to conduct such surveillance, and officials have not confirmed any such action. Through a spokesman, Obama said neither he nor any White House official had ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen. Obama's top intelligence official, James Clapper, also said Trump's claims were false, and a U.S. official told The Associated Press that the FBI asked the Justice Department to rebut Trump's assertions. \n Why turn to Congress, Trump spokesman Sean Spicer was asked today. \n \"My understanding is that the president directing the Department of Justice to do something with respect to an investigation that may or may not occur with evidence may be seen as trying to interfere,\" Spicer said. \"And I think that we're trying to do this in the proper way.\" \n He indicated that Trump was responding to media reports rather than any word from the intelligence community. Other officials have suggested the president was acting on other information. \n Sen. John McCain, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said today that Trump needs to give more information to the American people and Congress about his wiretapping accusations. \"The dimensions of this are huge,\" McCain said. \"It's accusing a former president of the United States of violating the law. That's never happened before.\" \n As for the genesis of a possible wiretap, it is possible the president was referring to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a 1978 law that permits investigators, with a warrant, to collect the communications of someone they suspect of being an agent of a foreign power. That can include foreign ambassadors or other foreign officials who operate in the U.S. whose communications are recorded for counterintelligence purposes as a matter of routine. \n The government's use of that act is secret, the warrant application process classified. But, as president, Trump has the authority to declassify anything. And were such a warrant to exist, he could theoretically make it public as well. \n If the president demands to know what happened, \"the Justice Department can decide what's appropriate to share and what's not,\" said Amy Jeffress, another former Obama administration national security lawyer. \n The Justice Department applies for the warrants in a one-sided process before judges of the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Permission is granted if a judge agrees that there's probable cause that the target is an agent of a foreign power. Though the standard seems a high bar to meet, applications are hardly ever denied. \n Targets of wiretaps are not alerted that their communications are being recorded. Defendants later charged in the criminal justice system may ultimately learn that the government intends to use at trial evidence collected through a FISA warrant, but they are not presented with the actual application for a warrant. And FISA warrants have never been publicly disclosed. \n \"Unfortunately, the public has never seen an actual FISA application over nearly 40 years, so we don't know exactly how the FISA Court has applied or interpreted the probable cause standard in this context,\" said Patrick Toomey, an American Civil Liberties Union staff attorney specializing in national security. \n Trump also could have been referring to wiretapping authorized under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. The Justice Department can obtaining a warrant for that surveillance by convincing a judge that there's probable cause to believe the target has committed or is in the process of committing a crime. \n The White House turned Sunday to Congress \u2014 which is already investigating ties between Trump associates and Russians \u2014 for help finding evidence to support his assertions. Some Republicans seemed inclined to try to help Trump get answers. \n For Congress, getting to the bottom of this should not be difficult, said Dan Jones, a former Senate investigator and currently president of the Penn Quarter Research and Investigations Group. \n \"It's a knowable, 'yes or no,'\" Jones said. If the answer is there was no such warrant, he said, the next step would be to ask the president why he made the claim. \"That information would then be investigated to find out if it's right or wrong.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump doesn't need Congress for answers to his own wiretap mystery, former government lawyers say"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The monument of Jefferson Davis is seen on Jefferson Davis Parkway at Canal Street in New Orleans. \n NEW ORLEANS >> A federal appeals court cleared the way Monday for the city of New Orleans to take down three Confederate-era monuments that have been a source of tension in the Southern city. \n A three-judge panel of the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans upheld a lower court's refusal to block the removal. \n The City Council voted in December 2015 to remove four monuments after a series of heated public meetings. One of those structures remains tied up in other litigation. \n \"We do not pass on the wisdom of this local legislature's policy determination, nor do we suggest how states and their respective political subdivisions should or should not memorialize, preserve, and acknowledge their distinct histories,\" the ruling said. \"Wise or unwise, the ultimate determination made here, by all accounts, followed a robust democratic process.\" \n The judges also said records show the city owns the monuments, rejecting an argument by monument supporters indicating ownership was uncertain. \n In a statement released after Monday's 5th Circuit ruling, Mayor Mitch Landrieu said the city would remove the monuments, store them and preserve them until an \"appropriate\" place to display them is determined. Bids for the removal are to be released Tuesday, Landrieu said in a news release. \n The most prominent of the statues is a likeness of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee standing high atop a pillar at Lee Circle on historic St. Charles Avenue. Others honor Gen. P.G.T. Beauregard and Confederate States of America President Jefferson Davis. The fourth monument, honoring whites who rebelled against a Reconstruction government, will remain in place pending unrelated litigation. \n Landrieu had urged the monuments' removal after police said a white supremacist who posed for photos with the Confederate battle flag killed nine parishioners inside an African-American church in South Carolina in June 2015. \n But their removal has been sharply controversial in a city where passions over the Civil War still run strong. Opponents call the monuments part of the city's history and say they should be protected historic structures. Others say they're offensive artifacts honoring the region's slave-owning past. \n A contractor hired to remove the monuments later pulled out of the job, citing death threats and possible loss of business. The city has put the bid process on hold until the court process concludes. \n Groups arguing for the monuments to remain mounted a legal challenge to keep the statues in place, and the 5th Circuit year blocked the city from removing the monuments \u2014 until Monday's ruling. \n \"This win today will allow us to begin to turn a page on our divisive past and chart the course for a more inclusive future,\" Landrieu said. \n Michael Quess Moore, a founding member of Take Em Down NOLA, a group advocating for the removal of monuments, said he was \"ecstatic.\" \n \"This is a huge teachable moment for the nation to learn about the dangers of white supremacy,\" Moore said. \n The judges who issued Monday's ruling were Patrick Higginbotham, nominated by President Ronald Reagan; Jennifer Elrod, nominated by President George W. Bush; and Stephen Higginson, nominated by President George W. Bush. \n They unanimously upheld U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier's dismissal of a request for a preliminary injunction pending a trial. The case remains alive in Barbier's court with no trial date set. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Court: New Orleans can remove 3 Confederate monuments"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Darrel Galera \n Retired high school principal Darrel Galera resigned from the state Board of Education today and said he plans to apply for the superintendent job the board is seeking to fill. \n Galera spent over 30 years with the Department of Education, including 13 years as principal of Moanalua High School, before retiring at the end of 2013. \n Ige appointed Galera to the school board in October to fill a vacancy. The governor also tapped Galera last year to lead a 19-member advisory team tasked with developing a \"blueprint\" to overhaul the state's public school system. \n Before being named to the Board of Education, Galera had been an outspoken critic of Superintendent Kathryn Matayoshi, whose term ends June 30. In 2014 he criticized the department's leadership after a survey of more than 100 principals showed discontent with the state's centralized system of governance and the time required for new teacher and principal evaluations. \n \"It is essential that the BOE's search/selection committee be presented with as large a pool of experienced, qualified and committed applicants as possible, as it makes one of the most important decisions for the future of public education in Hawaii,\" Galera said in a news release issued today by the governor's office. \n Under a search process the board adopted last year, a search committee made up of three BOE members will solicit applications until April and recommend at least two finalists to the full board in May for action in June. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "BOE member Galera resigns to seek superintendent's post"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Darryl Freeman was charged with murder in connection with an Aiea shooting. \n A 72-year-old man who police said fatally shot a man in Aiea on Saturday during a road rage incident was charged today with murder and firearm violations. \n Darryl Freeman, of Aiea, was charged with second-degree murder and three firearm offenses. His bail was set at $2 million. \n Police said Freeman and the victim, Keenyn Pahio, got into an argument shortly before noon Saturday on Moanalua Road in front of Aiea Shopping Center. Witnesses reported the two men were involved in a road rage incident prior to the shooting, police said. \n Freeman exited his van and shot Pahio before driving away, police said. \n A woman who heard the gunshot said she looked to see Pahio outside of his car, slumped against Freeman's white van, in what appeared to be someone changing the van's tire in the middle of traffic. She said the driver of the van drove away and Pahio fell flat onto the ground. \n Good Samaritans rushed to Pahio's aid, wrapping his wound and administering CPR, she said. \n Pahio, 31, a father of three young children, was taken to a hospital, where he died, police said. His family said his two daughters were in the car at the time. \n Police found Freeman shortly afterwards at his home about two miles away. He hid inside his home on Heen Way, but police talked him into surrendering. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Aiea man charged in fatal road rage-related shooting"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A large crowd listens to speakers during a public dialogue with officials and hundreds of refugees and immigrants at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Sunday, March 5, 2017, in Durham, N.C. \n WASHINGTON >> The Homeland Security Department is considering separating children from parents caught crossing the Mexican border illegally, Secretary John Kelly said today. \n Kelly said such a move would be part of a broader effort to discourage families from making the dangerous trek across Mexico to the U.S. border. \n He confirmed that he's considering the action during an interview with CNN today. The plan had previously been reported by several news outlets. \n Tens of thousands of parents and children fleeing violence and poverty, mostly from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala, have been caught crossing the border illegally in recent years. Generally, the families are detained for a few days or weeks before being released into the United States to wait for an immigration judge to decide their fate. \n \"I would do almost anything to deter the people from Central America getting on this very, very dangerous network \u2026 going through Mexico,\" Kelly said during his television interview. \n Homeland Security officials have been trying to curb the flow of families since 2014 when a flood of both children and families overwhelmed immigration officials. The department launched a public relations campaign in Central America to warn about the dangers and advise families that there would be no free pass into the United States. \n The Obama administration opened multiple detention centers that year, in part to deter others from crossing, to house families while immigration judges and asylum officers heard their cases \n But a federal judge in California later ruled that detaining children violated a long-standing agreement that bars the government from detaining children in a jail-like setting, even if they are with their parents. That ruling prompted the government to start releasing families into the U.S. \n With a backlog of more than half a million cases, it can take years for a case to be completed in federal immigration court. \n Leon Fresco, who led the Justice Department's Office of Immigration Ligation under President Barack Obama, said the government has been considering such a move since that federal court ruling. \n Kelly said if families are separated at the border, the children will be \"well-cared for\" by government officials. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DHS chief: Agency may separate parents, children at border"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NOAA \n Hawaiian monk seal named R4DP alive and resting on a beach. In February, the endangered female monk seal was found dead under suspicious circumstances. \n State authorities are investigating what they've described as a suspicious death of a 15-year-old endangered monk seal on Kauai. \n The female seal, known as R4DP, was found dead Feb. 23 on 'Ele'ele Beach near Hanapepe bearing \"injuries inconsistent with any natural cause of death associated with Hawaiian monk seals,\" state Department of Land and Natural Resources officials said today. \n Preliminary necropsy (animal autopsy) details indicate that R4DP had been in good health \"with no apparent disease or natural cause of death,\" according to Jeff Walters of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. \n There's also no evidence that the seal had any \"fishery interaction,\" such as when a local monk seal ingests a fish hook, added Walters, who oversees local Hawaiian monk seal recovery efforts. \n R4DP was among about 1,400 of the endangered native Hawaii seal species left in the wild, the DLNR release stated. She was the 11th monk seal since 2009 found dead under suspicious circumstances, which means law enforcement has \"good reason to suspect one or more people were directly involved and their activities were unauthorized or illegal,\" it added. \n DLNR enforcement officials say they can't comment further on R4DP's death because it's an open investigation. In a news release today, DLNR Chairwoman Suzanne Case said it was \"beyond comprehension that anyone could even consider beating or killing one of these rare mammals, as they're resting or sleeping on a beach.\" \n Hawaiian monk seals are protected under federal and state law, and violations carry penalties of up to $50,000 in fines, a year in prison, or both, according to DLNR. \n This marks the first reported suspicious death of a monk seal since 2014, when there was one such death on Oahu and one on Kauai, according to DLNR. In both of those cases the seal showed \"signs of significant trauma,\" it stated. A man was convicted of killing a seal on Kauai in 2009, the statement added. \n Researchers had tagged R4DP in 2008 and flew the young seal to Oahu 10 days later for examination when it was believed she had ingested a fish hook, the DLNR release stated. The X-rays didn't reveal anything, so she was returned to Kauai and released, it added. \n Anyone with information related to the death of R4DP or any other monk seal is encouraged to call the NOAA Office of Law Enforcement hotline at (800) 853-1964 or the DLNR/Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement hotline at 643-DLNR, or 873-3990. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State investigates 'suspicious death' of Hawaiian monk seal on Kauai"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Republicans on March 6, released their long-awaited plan for unraveling former President Barack Obama's health care law, a package that would scale back the government's role in health care and likely leave more Americans uninsured. \n WASHINGTON >> House Republicans today released their long-awaited plan for unraveling former President Barack Obama's health care law, a package that would scale back the government's role in helping people afford coverage and likely leave more Americans uninsured. \n House committees planned to begin voting on the 123-page legislation Wednesday, launching what could be the year's defining battle in Congress and capping seven years of Republican vows to repeal the 2010 law. Though GOP leaders expect a boost from the backing of the Trump administration, divisions remain and GOP success is not ensured. \n The plan would repeal the statute's unpopular fines on people who don't carry health insurance. It would replace income-based subsidies the law provides to help millions of Americans pay premiums with age-based tax credits that may be skimpier for people with low incomes. Those payments would phase out for higher-earning people. \n The bill would continue Obama's expansion of Medicaid to additional low-earning Americans until 2020. Beginning then, states adding Medicaid recipients would no longer receive the additional federal funds the statute has provided. \n More significantly, Republicans would overhaul the entire federal-state Medicaid program, changing its open-ended federal financing to a limit based on enrollment and costs in each state, a move likely to cause funding cuts. \n In perhaps their riskiest political gamble, the plan is expected to cover fewer than the 20 million people insured under Obama's overhaul, including many residents of states carried by President Donald Trump in November's election. \n Republicans said they don't have official coverage estimates yet, but aides from both parties and nonpartisan analysts have said they expect those numbers to be lower. Trump has said his goal is \"insurance for everybody,\" and numerous GOP governors and members of Congress have demanded that people not lose coverage. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said the bill would \"drive down costs, encourage competition, and give every American access to quality, affordable health insurance.\" \n Spokeswoman Caitlin Oakley said Health Secretary Tom Price \"welcomes action by the House to end this nightmare for the American people.\" \n Solid Democratic opposition is a given. \n \"Republicans have decided that affordable health care should be the privilege of the wealthy, not the right of every family in America,\" said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. \n More ominously for Republican leaders, there were signals galore that they faced problems within their own party, including from conservatives complaining that the measure is too timid in repealing Obama's law. \n \"It still looks like Obamacare-lite to me,\" said Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., one of three Senate conservatives who have criticized the GOP bill. \"It's going to have to be better.\" \n The Republican tax credits, ranging from $2,000 to $14,000 for families, would be refundable, meaning even people with no tax liability would receive payments. Conservatives say that feature creates a new entitlement program the government cannot afford. \n Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, wouldn't rule out changes by his chamber, where moderate Republicans have grumbled that the measure could leave too many voters uncovered. \n \"We have a right to look it over and see if we like it or don't,\" Hatch told reporters. \n Underscoring those worries, four GOP senators released a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. \n They complained that an earlier, similar draft \"does not provide stability and certainty for individuals and families in Medicaid expansion programs.\" Signing were Sens. Rob Portman of Ohio, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski. \n Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia expanded Medicaid coverage to 11 million people and accepted beefed-up federal spending for the program. Around half those states have GOP governors, who are largely reluctant to see that spending curtailed. \n In another feature that could alienate moderate Republicans, the measure would block for one year federal payments to Planned Parenthood, long opposed by many in the party because it provides abortions. The bill also bars people from receiving tax credits to help pay premiums for plans that provide abortions. \n Republicans said they'd not received official estimates on the bill from the Congressional Budget Office. That nonpartisan office's projections on price tag and coverage could help win over recalcitrant Republicans or make them even harder to persuade. \n To prod healthier people to stay covered, insurers would be required to boost premiums by 30 percent for consumers who let insurance lapse. \n Tax increases on higher-earning people, the insurance industry and others used to finance the Obama overhaul's coverage expansion would be repealed. \n In a last-minute change to satisfy conservatives, business and unions, Republicans dropped a plan pushed by Ryan to impose a first-ever tax on the most generous employer-provided health plans. Instead, a similar tax imposed by Obama's law on expensive plans, set to take effect in 2020, would begin in 2025. \n Popular consumer protections in Obama's law would be retained, including insurance safeguards for people with pre-existing medical problems and parents' ability to keep adult children on their insurance until age 26. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House GOP releases bill replacing Obama health care overhaul"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n George Stephanopoulos anchor \"Good Morning America,\" in New York. Stephanopoulos' \"Good Morning America\" exchange with White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday, March 6, 2017, is the second time in a month that the ABC anchor had a notably sharp interview with a Trump administration official. \n NEW YORK >> George Stephanopoulos' \"Good Morning America\" interview with White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday is an instant milestone in the hostile relationship between the Trump administration and the media. \n In the discussion about President Donald Trump's weekend accusations \u2014 offered without proof \u2014 that former President Obama ordered Trump's New York home wiretapped, Stephanopoulos repeatedly interrupted and stopped Sanders when he felt she veered from the truth. It was a crackling exchange unusual for the generally happy terrain of network morning television, and made Stephanopoulos a hero or villain depending on whose social media feed is followed. \n It was also the second time in a month that the ABC anchor had a notably sharp interview with a Trump administration official. On \"This Week\" last month, he repeatedly pressed Trump aide Stephen Miller for evidence to back up the claim that there was massive voter fraud in the election. \n Sanders was also interviewed on NBC's \"Today\" show on Monday, while \"CBS This Morning\" turned down the White House's offer to have her on. Fox News Channel's \"Fox & Friends\" brought presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway on to speak about Trump's allegations, less than a day after White House press secretary Sean Spicer said there would be no further comment on the issue. It wasn't clear what changed the administration's strategy. \n Stephanopoulos began his interview by asking Sanders whether Trump accepted reports that FBI director James Comey had denied there was any wiretapping of Trump. Sanders said she didn't believe he did, and started talking about wiretapping reports in other media outlets. \n \"Sarah, I have got to stop you right there,\" Stephanopoulos said. The stories she cited did not back up the president's claims, he said. \"What is the president's evidence?\" he asked. \n Sanders said there was \"wide reporting\" suggesting that the administration could have ordered wiretapping. Stephanopoulos stopped her to note there was a report of a court-ordered wiretapping, although James Clapper, former director of national intelligence under Obama, had denied that. \n Stephanopoulos stopped Sanders again when she noted that the unsubstantiated report of a wiretapping order came under the Obama administration and that \"all we're asking is that Congress be allowed to do its job.\" \n \"Hold on a second,\" he said. \"There is a world of difference between a wiretap ordered by a president and a court-ordered wiretap by a federal judge.\" \n Noting that Obama's representatives, Comey and Clapper had all said there was no wiretapping, Stephanopoulos asked, \"is the president calling all three of these people liars?\" \n Sanders said that he wasn't, but that it was a matter for congressional investigators to look into. She said she considered it a double standard that the media does not believe Trump when he says nothing untoward had happened between him and Russia, while reporters accept denials by the Obama administration on the wiretap accusation. \n \"If the president walked across the Potomac, the media would be reporting that he could not swim,\" she said. \n The interview illustrated the difficulties the media faces in trying to report on the president's unsubstantiated tweets. There was a furious debate on the \"Good Morning America\" Facebook page on Monday afternoon between people who cheered the host, a one-time adviser to President Bill Clinton, for calling out untruths, and others who believed he was rude \u2014 even suggesting they would boycott ABC's morning show because they were disgusted by the interview. \n Many of Trump's supporters are angered by aggressive questioning because they believe the media did not ask similar tough questions of the Obama administration, said Tim Graham of the Media Research Center, a conservative media watchdog. \n \"You have no right to tell us what the truth is,\" Graham said. \n At the same time, reporters face pressure from Trump opponents who give no quarter, as witnessed by last week's backlash against television analysts who suggested Trump gave an effective speech before Congress. There are also some who believe the wiretap accusation itself is a way to distract people from the story about Russia, and the media effectively supports the strategy by reporting it. \n Stephanopoulos said after the interview that his job is to elicit as much clarity as possible, and he believed his interview was an important opportunity to get the Trump administration on the record on these issues. \n \"If I hear something that I know to be untrue, than I think it's my responsibility to point that out,\" he said. \n Sanders' interview on \"Today\" was more peaceful, but still had some tense moments. Savannah Guthrie interrupted Sanders to ask a second time when she wouldn't answer her question about whether the president had made his accusations solely after seeing media reports. She said she didn't know. \n Sanders later repeated the same line about the Potomac River. \n Conway was given more time to talk on \"Fox & Friends,\" although she did face pushback on whether Trump associates who had conversations with Russian officials had hurt the president. She drew laughs when she said she wished she had $50 for every time Russia was mentioned in the news. \n \"A drinking game,\" one of the Fox anchors joked off-screen. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Unusually tense interview between Stephanopoulos, Trump aide"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korea army soldiers install a tent in Yeoncheon, South Korea, near the border with North Korea, Monday, March 6, 2017. North Korea on Monday fired four banned ballistic missiles that flew about 620 miles, with three of them landing in Japan's exclusive economic zone, South Korean and Japanese officials said, in an apparent reaction to huge military drills by Washington and Seoul that Pyongyang insists are an invasion rehearsal. \n WASHINGTON >> North Korea's latest volley of missile tests put new pressure on a preoccupied Trump administration Monday to identify how it will counter leader Kim Jong Un's weapons development. \n North Korea's march toward having a nuclear-tipped missile that could reach the U.S. mainland is among the pressing national security priorities President Donald Trump faces. He has vowed it \"won't happen\" but has yet to articulate a strategy to stop it. \n A wide array of options are on the table, but aggressive behavior by Pyongyang in response to U.S.-South Korean military drills that began last week could further shrink chances for diplomatic engagement. \n Upheaval in the administration has added to uncertainty in foreign capitals about how Trump's \"America First\" mantra will translate into foreign policy, and how a new president with no prior experience in government might handle a security crisis. \n An administration official told The Associated Press Monday that tougher sanctions, military action and resumption of long-stalled negotiations with North Korea are all under consideration as part of a policy review to provide options for the president within weeks. \n The official, who demanded anonymity to discuss the private deliberations, did not anticipate an immediate U.S. response to the North's test-firing of four banned ballistic missiles Monday that South Korean and Japanese officials said flew about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles). Three of the missiles landed in waters that Japan, a close U.S. ally, claims as its exclusive economic zone. \n North Korea typically reacts during the annual military drills that it considers an invasion rehearsal, although Washington and Seoul say they are routine. \n This year's response could be more heated than usual. Victor Cha, a former White House adviser on Asia, said North Korea tends to up the tempo of missile tests during the drills when relations with the U.S. are bad. And next week, the drills shift from table-top exercises to military maneuvers. \n \"I think there are more tests coming,\" Cha said. \n The U.S. and Japan have requested an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council to discuss the latest missile launches, likely to take place Wednesday, a U.S. diplomat said, demanding anonymity to speak before the official announcement. \n North Korea, meanwhile, urged the council to discuss the U.S.-South Korea exercises, asserting the drills are driving the region toward \"nuclear disaster.\" \n Ri Song Chol, counsellor at North Korea's U.N. mission, told AP that supreme leader Kim Jong Un has said as long as there are \"military exercises in front of the gate of my country,\" the North will continue to strengthen its military forces and \"pre-emptive attack capabilities.\" \n Over the seven weeks of last year's exercises, North Korea conducted nine missile tests, including of submarine-based and intermediate range missiles, but never more than two missiles at once. Five of the tests failed. \n Cha said that Trump's hand could be forced by North Korea's provocative actions. The Obama administration relied heavily on sanctions, but the moves failed to stop Pyongyang. \n \"Right now they don't have any choice. I mean they've already had two sets of missile tests and then the use of a chemical weapon in an airport,\" Cha said. \n North Korea is the prime suspect in the assassination last month of Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother in Malaysia, using what authorities say was VX nerve agent. \n David Wright at the Union of Concern Scientists said the missiles launched Monday were likely either extended-range Scuds or medium-range Nodong ballistic missiles that have been tested numerous times before \u2014 not an intercontinental missile that threatens America. \n \"But the tests naturally will increase political pressure on Trump to take a tough stand,\" said Mark Fitzpatrick at the International Institute for Strategic Studies think tank. \"He has a political imperative to show attention to the North Korean security threat, so as to counter the impression of a White House in disarray.\" \n Trump's new national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, spoke by phone Monday with his South Korean counterpart Kim Kwan-jin, and they agreed to boost cooperation to get the North to face more effective sanctions and pressure, according to South Korea's presidential office. \n \"The United States stands with our allies in the face of this very serious threat,\" White House press secretary Sean Spicer said in Washington. \n He said the Trump administration is taking steps to enhance its ability to defend against North Korea's ballistic missiles, such as through the deployment of a missile defense system. Seoul agreed with the Obama administration to place that system on its soil against the objections of China, which is concerned the system's radar will range inside its territory. \n The New York Times reported over the weekend that the Obama administration also tried to conduct cyber and electronic strikes against North Korea's missile program. \n Republican Sen. Cory Gardner, who chairs a Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Asia, told AP he has called for the administration to provide a closed briefing to senators. He said he wants clarity on what has been done and under what authorities, and what the U.S. posture toward North Korea will be in the months ahead. \n He also stressed a need to clamp down on Kim's sources of foreign revenue and for China to follow through on its promise to suspend imports of North Korean coal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Missile tests add pressure on Trump over North Korea"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Coins removed from the female green turtle nicknamed \"Bank\" were shown after her surgery at Chulalongkorn University's veterinary faculty in Bangkok, Thailand, Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The female green turtle nicknamed \"Bank\" swam, March 3, in a pool at Sea Turtle Conservation Center in Chonburi Province, Thailand. Veterinarians operated Monday, on \"Bank,\" removing more than 900 coins from the endangered animal. \n BANGKOK >> Tossing coins in a fountain for luck is a popular superstition, but a similar belief brought misery to a sea turtle in Thailand from whom doctors have removed 915 coins. \n Veterinarians in Bangkok operated Monday on the 25-year-old female green sea turtle nicknamed \"Bank,\" whose indigestible diet was a result of many tourists seeking good fortune tossing coins into her pool over many years in the eastern town of Sri Racha. \n Many Thais believe that throwing coins on turtles will bring longevity. \n Typically, a green sea turtle has a lifespan of around 80 years, said Roongroje Thanawongnuwech, dean of Chulalongkorn University's veterinary faculty. It is listed as an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. \n The loose change eventually formed a heavy ball in her stomach weighing 11 pounds. The weight cracked the turtle's ventral shell, causing a life-threatening infection. \n Five surgeons from Chulalongkorn University's veterinary faculty patiently removed the coins over four hours while \"Bank\" was under general anesthesia. The stash was too big to take out through the 4-inch incision they had made, so it had to be removed a few coins at a time. Many of them had corroded or partially dissolved. \n \"The result is satisfactory. Now it's up to Bank how much she can recover,\" said Pasakorn Briksawan, one of the surgical team. While recovering in Chulalongkorn University's animal hospital, the turtle will be on a liquid diet for the next two weeks. \n Bank was brought in to veterinarians by the navy, which found her ailing in her seaside hometown. \n It was only after a detailed 3D scan that veterinarians pinpointed the weighty and unexpected problem. As well as the coins they also found 2 fish hooks, which were also removed today. \n The surgery team leader said Monday that when she discovered the cause of the turtle's agony she was furious. \n \"I felt angry that humans, whether or not they meant to do it or if they did it without thinking, had caused harm to this turtle,\" said Nantarika Chansue, head of Chulalongkorn University's veterinary medical aquatic animal research center. \n Thai media began publicizing the turtle's tale last month after she was found, and in response, $428 in donations was raised from the public to pay for her surgery. \n Associated Press writer Kaweewit Kaewjinda in Bangkok contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Surgeons remove 915 coins swallowed by Thai sea turtle"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Steven Capobianco stands as he is declared guilty in his trial in Wailuku. Jurors who found Capobianco guilty of murder in the death of his pregnant ex-girlfriend communicated with each other illegally over the phone, his defense attorney alleged Monday in arguing for a new trial. \n A judge denied a new trial today for a man convicted of murder in the Maui death of his pregnant ex-girlfriend after his lawyer alleged juror and prosecutorial misconduct. \n A juror spoke after-hours over the phone with at least nine jurors, argued Jon Apo, who represents Steven Capobianco. \n \"One juror communicated one-on-one with practically every other juror except the foreperson,\" Apo said during a hearing streamed live online by Akaku: Maui Community Media. That juror \"went rogue\" from the mandated process of deliberations, Apo said. \n Second Circuit Chief Judge Joseph Cardoza said the juror phoned other jurors to inform them she wanted to speak with the court about her concerns regarding a note saying the jury was deadlocked. That doesn't justify a new trial, Cardoza ruled. \n The jury found Capobianco guilty of murder and arson in December for the death of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. She was five months pregnant with Capobianco's child when she disappeared in 2014. \n Apo said Capobianco didn't get a fair trial because the judge allowed jurors to take a one-week break during deliberations in Maui's highest-profile case and because of prosecutorial misconduct. \n Jurors spent more than half a year in the trial, and it was fair to give them a break during the Christmas holidays, Cardoza said, noting that it's \"unrealistic to expect jurors to surrender their entire lives to jury service.\" \n Comments a prosecutor made during closing arguments that the defense took issue with were stricken from the record, Cardoza said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "No new trial for man convicted of Maui murder"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the transgender community take part in a rally on the steps of the Texas Capitol, Monday, March 6, 2017, in Austin, Texas. The group is opposing a \"bathroom bill\" that would require people to use public bathrooms and restrooms that correspond with the sex on their birth certificate. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> A North Carolina-style \"bathroom bill\" targeting transgender people faces big hurdles in Texas as Republican supporters stood with church leaders and others Monday to ratchet up political pressure ahead of a first vote this week. \n Although the Texas bill is likely to sail through a Senate committee as early as Tuesday, the hotly contested measure faces a tough road ahead. It is opposed by corporate titans such as Facebook, Amazon, Google and American Airlines and celebrities such as Lady Gaga, Alicia Keys and Jennifer Lawrence. \n North Carolina Lt. Gov. Dan Forest, a supporter of his state's bathroom law known as HB2, is among those now enlisted to help brighten the outlook of the Texas bill. Republican state Sen. Lois Kolkhorst also newly defended her bill in an op-ed over the weekend titled \"Women's Rights are Human Rights,\" borrowing a phrase Hillary Clinton popularized during a famous 1995 speech in China. \n But both are confronting a major obstacle in the Texas House, which Republicans control overwhelmingly but has shown no appetite for a law that would require people to use public bathrooms that correspond with the sex on their birth certificate. Republican Gov. Greg Abbott also has not taken a clear side despite the national attention and backlash generated by the bill. \n \"North Carolina was the tip of the spear. We will be next,\" Texas Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick said. He stood with Forest and religious leaders while announcing what he called \"Operation 1 Million Voices\" to turn out supporters. \n Patrick also insisted that he had 19 of 31 votes in the Senate needed in his chamber. One Democrat, Sen. Eddie Lucio, became the first member in his party Monday to publicly support the bill. \n The Texas bill is similar to a North Carolina law that prompted the NCAA to and NBA to move games elsewhere, PayPal to cancel expansion plans and Bruce Springsteen and Pearl Jam to cancel concerts. \n The NBA and NFL have also warned Texas that passing the bill could cause the leagues to overlook the state when choosing sites for All-Star games and Super Bowls. Abbott slammed the NFL over the league's criticism but has stopped short of coming out in support of the measure. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Big hurdles face Texas' 'bathroom bill' ahead of first vote"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "MARIETTA, Ga. >> A Georgia man will serve time behind bars for filming himself naked inside his neighbor's home after secretly installing a video camera in a bedroom. \n News outlets report 58-year-old Michael Derek Roberts pleaded guilty Wednesday to burglary, invasion of privacy, criminal trespass and aggravated stalking charges. He was sentenced to three years imprisonment and 12 years of probation. \n Prosecutors say Roberts, who knew his neighbors well, placed the camera inside their home while the family wasn't there last spring. The neighbor discovered the camera and called police. \n Authorities say Roberts told the neighbor he was testing a \"nanny cam\" at her house because his Wi-Fi wasn't working. They say footage shows Roberts naked inside the neighbor's closet and master bathroom. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tech CEO gets prison after filming himself naked in neighbor's home"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "Kellyanne Conway, senior council to the president, said the president still firmly believes the allegations he made on Twitter over the weekend. \n WASHINGTON >> White House officials on Monday defended President Donald Trump's explosive claim that Barack Obama tapped Trump's telephones during last year's election, although they won't say exactly where that information came from and left open the possibility that it isn't true. \n The comments came even as FBI Director James Comey privately asked the Justice Department to dispute the claim because he believed the allegations were not true. \n When asked whether Trump accepted Comey's view, White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told ABC's \"Good Morning America\": \"I don't think he does.\" \n Sanders and Kellyanne Conway, another top adviser, said the president still firmly believes the allegations he made on Twitter over the weekend. The aides said any ambiguity surrounding the issue is all the more reason for Congress to investigate the matter. \n \"We'd like to know for sure,\" Sanders told NBC's \"Today\" show. \n The House and Senate intelligence committees, and the FBI, are investigating contacts between Trump's campaign and Russian officials, as well as whether Moscow tried to influence the 2016 election. On Sunday, Trump demanded that they broaden the scope of their inquiries to include Obama's potential abuse of executive powers. \n When asked where Trump was getting his information from, Sanders said the president \"may have access to documents that I don't know about.\" \n Likewise, Conway said that \"credible news sources\" suggested there was politically motivated activity during the campaign. But Conway also said Trump might have access to other information she and others don't. \n \"He is the president of the United States,\" Conway told Fox News' \"Fox & Friends.\" \"He has information and intelligence that the rest of us do not.\" \n Trump is said to be frustrated by his senior advisers' inability to tamp down allegations about contacts between his campaign aides and the Russian government. Compounding the situation was the revelation last week that former U.S. senator and now Attorney General Jeff Sessions, an early Trump campaign supporter, had met twice with the Russian ambassador but didn't disclose that to lawmakers when he was asked about it during his Senate confirmation hearing. \n Separately, an Indiana newspaper reported that Vice President Mike Pence used personal email to conduct state business when he was governor of Indiana. The revelation recalled the use of personal email by Trump's 2016 opponent, Hillary Clinton, when she was secretary of state. The issue dogged Clinton for most of the presidential campaign. \n A U.S. official told The Associated Press on Sunday that Comey had asked the Justice Department to refute Trump's allegation of illegal wiretapping. The official wasn't authorized to discuss the request by name and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The department, however, has issued no such statement. DOJ spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores declined to comment Sunday, and an FBI spokesman also did not comment. \n Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr, R-N.C., said in a statement that the panel \"will follow the evidence where it leads, and we will continue to be guided by the intelligence and facts as we compile our findings.\" \n Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement that the committee \"will make inquiries into whether the government was conducting surveillance activities on any political party's campaign officials or surrogates.\" \n Trump's request carries some risk, particularly if the committees unearth damaging information about him or his associates. Committee Democrats will have access to the information and could wield anything negative against the president. Asking Congress to conduct a much broader investigation than originally envisioned also ensures the Russia issue will hang over the White House for months. \n Obama's director of national intelligence, James Clapper, said nothing matching Trump's claims had taken place. \n \"Absolutely, I can deny it,\" said Clapper, who left government when Trump took office. \n Josh Earnest, who was Obama's White House press secretary, said presidents do not have authority to unilaterally order the wiretapping of American citizens, as Trump has alleged was done to him. FBI investigators and Justice Department officials must seek approval from a federal judge for such a step. Earnest accused Trump of leveling the allegation to distract from the attention being given to the Russia issue. \n Trump said in the tweets that he had \"just found out\" about being wiretapped. Unclear was whether he was referring to having learned through a briefing, a conversation or a media report. The president in the past has tweeted about unsubstantiated and provocative reports he reads on blogs or conservative websites. \n The tweets stood out, given the gravity of the charge and the sharp personal attack on the former president. Trump spoke as recently as last month about how much he likes Obama and how much they get along, despite their differences. \n \"How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!\" he tweeted, misspelling 'tap.' \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House aides defend Trump's wiretapping claim"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Leslie Kurtz, right, posed for a picture, Sunday, with her husband, Bart Bartram, daughter Rainey and son Rio as she held a print of an X-ray of her ankle, in Knoxville, Tenn. Kurtz needed three plates, eight screws and a big assist from her insurer after breaking every bone in her ankle during a whitewater rafting accident in 2015. \n Leslie Kurtz needed three plates, eight screws and a big assist from her insurer after breaking every bone in her ankle while white water rafting. \n Coverage she purchased through a public insurance exchange established by the federal health care law paid $65,000 toward surgery and the care she needed after the 2015 accident. But that protection may not exist next year because insurers have abandoned the Knoxville, Tennessee resident's exchange. As of now, Kurtz has no future coverage options, and she is worried. \n \"I can't afford to have everything I've worked for taken away because I fell down the steps,\" Kurtz said. \n Her county is one of 16 in Tennessee that lack even a single insurance company committed to offering coverage for 2018 on the exchange, after Humana announced last month plans to exit. \n Exchanges set up by the Affordable Care Act were designed to give customers a chance to shop for coverage and then buy a plan, most with help from tax credits. The idea was that such a marketplace would push insurers to offer affordable plans to compete for customers. \n But insurers in many markets have been pulling back from the exchanges after losing money. According to an analysis by the Associated Press and the health care firm Avalere Health, more than 1,000 counties, where about 2.8 million people are insured through the exchanges, are down to their last insurance carrier, according to the most recent data. \n With less competition, that could mean sharply higher rates. And with more insurers still considering leaving other markets, customers around the country could be stuck like Kurtz with no affordable coverage options in 2018. \n Insurers still have a few more weeks to decide to stay in their exchanges, and other insurers may jump into new markets, though that can be expensive and risky for them. The government recently announced several short-term fixes for the exchanges, and insurers have welcomed the moves. But they want to see the final version of the improvements before deciding on 2018. \n \"No insurer wants the negative public backlash from dropping insurance for lots of people, but the companies need to feel like the market is stable and that there's a chance of making money,\" said Larry Levitt, a health insurance expert with the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation. \n Chief among undecided companies is the Blue Cross-Blue Shield carrier Anthem Inc. It is the lone insurer on exchanges in 300 counties in seven states, according to data compiled by the AP and Avalere. \n Anthem CEO Joseph Swedish would not commit to participating on exchanges next year and said in a statement last month that the market is sliding toward \"significant deterioration and requires changes to ensure future stability and affordability.\" \n Anthem and the many other companies that sell coverage under the Blue Cross-Blue Shield brand will be crucial to the fate of the exchanges because they often specialize in insurance for individuals, and many have a long-standing presence in their markets. They also are the only remaining option on exchanges in nearly a third of the nation's 3,100 counties. \n For instance, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina is the lone exchange option in 95 counties, covering more than 500,000 people, according to the analysis by AP and Avalere. The North Carolina insurer, which is not owned by Anthem, declined to comment on its 2018 plans. \n Insurers typically are still sorting out coverage plans at this time of year, so it's not unusual for them to be undecided about 2018. But never before have insurers bluntly stated that they can't commit until they see what the government does to improve the exchanges. \n The Kaiser Family Foundation's Levitt says insurers are worried about losses, but they also may be using the leverage their indecision gives them. \n \"Insurers kind of want the threat that they may pull out to be taken seriously now, so that they get some of the changes they are looking for,\" he said. \n Customers can buy coverage outside the exchanges, if insurers are selling individual plans in their market. But then they won't be able to use tax credits to help pay the bills, which may be particularly painful since many markets have seen prices soar. \n Customers won't know for certain who is selling on their exchanges until next fall. While insurers have to apply to sell coverage on their exchanges generally by late spring or early summer, they can drop out later if claims turn out worse than expected, noted Dave Dillon, a fellow of the Society of Actuaries. \n Last fall, Blue Cross and Blue Shield Nebraska announced a little more than a month before open enrollment started that it was shuttering its exchange business due to a loss of $140 million. \n Insurance experts have said bigger metropolitan areas usually have more choice on their exchanges. But smaller cities or rural areas could be hurt most if more insurers pull back. \n Customers who already lost exchange options for 2018 are concerned. Knoxville resident Melissa Nance bought her Humana plan on the exchange without a subsidy, but she's worried that she won't find an affordable replacement after that insurer leaves. \n The 45-year-old is fighting an aggressive form of leukemia. She needs insurance to cover blood tests and CT scans to detect whether the cancer has returned. \n \"I'm a sick person now,\" she said. \"I am constantly having to go to the doctor.\" \n Fellow Knoxville resident Leslie Kurtz is thinking about moving. The self-employed television producer needs subsidies to afford coverage for her family of four. \n Kurtz says she would have gone bankrupt if she had no insurance when she broke her ankle. \n \"I don't have $65,000, I would have had to sell the house,\" she said. \"We need access to health care because (stuff) happens.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "What if there's no affordable insurance to buy?"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NOAA \n Researchers with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center announced in a statement Monday that 11 species including ulua, five surgeonfishes, two goatfishes, and three parrotfishes are being overfished. \n U.S. officials say the first-ever assessment of Hawaii's reef fish shows that 11 of 27 species are experiencing some level of overfishing. \n Researchers with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center announced in a statement Monday that 11 species including ulua, five surgeonfishes, two goatfishes, and three parrotfishes are being overfished. \n Scientists say the most susceptible species are those that live the longest and are popular local food sources. \n NOAA officials say they collected information on fish size, maximum age, growth rates and maturity and compared the results with established guidelines to present fishery managers with options for future sustainability. \n Reef fish support local tourism and fishing economies and are important to Native Hawaiian culture and the health of the overall ocean ecosystem. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: 11 of 27 reef fish species in Hawaii are overfished"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "Two children suffered burn-type injuries to their mouths and throats after drinking what they believed to be apple juice at a Chinese buffet in Pennsylvania, and authorities said today they are investigating the cause. \n The children remained hospitalized in fair condition, three days after their visit to the Star Buffet and Grill outside Lancaster, about 70 miles west of Philadelphia. \n A 10-year-old boy and 4-year-old girl suffered blistering and were vomiting, said Lt. Robin Weaver with the East Lampeter Township Police. He said a third child, who had stomach discomfort, and an adult who tasted the liquid but did not swallow it, also required hospital treatment. \n \"There apparently was some unknown caustic substance in the apple juice,\" Weaver said. \n Star Buffet manager Steve Weng said he did not know how it happened and regrets that it occurred. He said the juice was poured into disposable cups from a half-gallon bought at a local grocery store. \n The restaurant remained open during the weekend. \n The state Agriculture Department sent an inspector to the site today after learning of the incident from news accounts. Spokeswoman Shannon Powers said the inspector was reviewing how cleaning chemicals are stored and labeled, among other things. \n Weaver said the county prosecutor's office and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration also are investigating. Authorities were obtaining translators to interview restaurant employees who spoke only Spanish or Chinese. \n The apple juice was recovered and was being tested. \n The 10-year-old boy's father, Richard Zaragoza Sr., told LNP news in Lancaster they were at the restaurant to celebrate a birthday when the children became sick. \n \"I had to try to talk to him last night through his fingers,\" Zaragoza told LNP on Sunday. \"I told him I loved him \u2026 and he squeezed my hand twice, so he was responsive.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Juice order at Chinese buffet in Pennsylvania causes children throat burns"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Port Authority of New York and New Jersey chairman David Samson arrives for his sentencing at federal court, Monday, March 6, 2017, in Newark, N.J. \n NEWARK, N.J. >> The former head of one of the nation's most powerful transportation agencies and a longtime mentor to Gov. Chris Christie was sentenced Monday to four years of probation after admitting he pressured United Airlines to reinstate a flight route to give him easier access to his weekend home. \n David Samson, former chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, pleaded guilty to bribery last year for the backroom deal, which occurred at a time when United was negotiating with the Port Authority over a new hangar it wanted to build at Newark Liberty International Airport. \n Before the judge pronounced his sentence, Samson apologized to the court, his family and friends, \"and to the public, to whom I owe much better.\" \n \"I take full and complete responsibility for my actions,\" he added. \n The judge also sentenced Samson to home confinement for one year and 3,600 hours of community service. Samson must also wear a monitoring device and pay a $100,000 fine. \n Samson had faced up to two years in prison. \n According to court filings, Samson wound up saving roughly an hour's driving time by flying into Columbia, South Carolina, to his home in Aiken instead of from Charlotte, North Carolina. United discontinued the flight shortly after Samson resigned in early 2014. \n Samson began to lobby for the flight almost as soon as he became chairman, Assistant U.S. Attorney Vikas Khanna told the judge before sentencing. \n \"He wasn't lobbying United for something New Jersey residents were clamoring for or something the Port Authority needed,\" Khanna said. \"He asked one of the world's largest airlines to create a flight route just for him.\" \n The Port Authority oversees billions of dollars in assets and revenues and operates the New York area's major airports as well as bridges, tunnels, ports and the World Trade Center. Revelations about what was jokingly dubbed \"the Chairman's Flight\" came on the heels of the 2013 George Washington Bridge lane-closing scandal, which culminated in the criminal convictions of two former Port Authority officials in a political retaliation plot. \n Samson, 77, wasn't charged in that scandal, though the scheme's admitted mastermind testified Samson knew about the plot before it was put into action. \n Samson's attorneys had sought a sentence of probation and community service, writing that Samson's actions were \"an aberration in an otherwise unblemished and extraordinary career.\" They added that he is in poor health and is \"very likely in the last few years of his life.\" \n Samson has prostate cancer and tremors, Khanna said. \n Prosecutors wrote in response last week that Samson \"abused his power in a stunning and audacious manner\" and should receive the full 24 months. \n The courtroom was packed Monday, and supporters of Samson included former New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa. \n United Airlines was fined more than $2 million, and then-CEO Jeff Smisek and two other high-ranking United officials were forced out in September 2015 after the airline investigated the executives' dealings with Samson. \n Smisek, Samson's attorney noted in arguing for leniency, wasn't prosecuted but instead received a $35 million severance package, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings. \n Jamie Fox, a longtime state official and the United lobbyist who was accused of conspiracy to commit bribery in the scheme, died last month at age 62. He had pleaded not guilty. \n A memorial service for Fox was scheduled for later Monday afternoon. Christie, a Republican, planned to attend. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Christie mentor gets probation in United bribery scandal"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An Associated Press analysis shows North Dakota stands to gain more than $110 million annually in tax revenue after oil begins coursing through the pipeline. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> Members of American Indian tribes from around the country are gathering in Washington for four days of protests against the Trump administration and the Dakota Access oil pipeline that will culminate with a Friday march on the White House. \n Starting Tuesday, tribal members and supporters plan to camp each day on the National Mall, with teepees, a ceremonial fire, cultural workshops and speakers. Native American leaders also plan to lobby lawmakers to protect tribal rights. \n On Friday, a march of about 2 miles is planned from the Army Corps of Engineers office to the White House, where a rally is scheduled. Organizers on Monday didn't immediately know how many people or tribes planned to take part. \n \"We are calling on all our Native relatives and allies to rise with us,\" said Dave Archambault, the chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. \"We must march against injustice. Native nations cannot continue to be pushed aside to benefit corporate interests and government whim.\" \n The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment Monday. \n The protest comes as a federal judge in Washington is weighing a request by the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes to halt construction of the last section of the Dakota Access pipeline pending the outcomes of their lawsuit seeking to stop the project. The tribes say that section of the pipeline, which will pass under Lake Oahe, a large Missouri River reservoir, will threaten their water supply, sacred sites and religious rights. The judge is expected to rule this week. \n The Friday march will begin at the Corps of Engineers office because the agency manages the Missouri River and last month gave the pipeline developer, Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners, permission to finish the project. The company expects to wrap up the work and have oil flowing this month. \n The two tribes feel they weren't properly consulted about the pipeline route, which the government disputes. They also they maintain their treaty rights were violated when the government changed its mind about doing further environmental study of the Lake Oahe crossing after President Donald Trump took office in January. \n \"This fight against the Dakota Access pipeline has been the tip of the spear of a powerful global movement calling for the United States government and Donald Trump to respect indigenous nations and people in our right to water, land, sovereignty, and culture,\" said Dallas Goldtooth, an organizer with the Indigenous Environmental Network. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "American Indians protesting Trump, pipeline with march"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Jordan Kaneshiro, 29, of Laupahoehoe, is wanted by police for numerous traffic offenses. \n Hawaii island police are searching for Jordan Kaneshiro, 29, of Laupahoehoe on suspicion of traffic offenses including resisting an order to stop. \n Kaneshiro is described as Hawaiian, 6 feet tall, 275 pounds with short black hair and brown eyes. His numerous tattoos include a spider web on his left forehead; \"96764\" along his left side jaw; tattoos by both eyes and other tattoos on his arms and body. \n South Hilo patrol officers saw Kaneshiro driving an older model blue-green Honda Accord on Bayfront Highway Thursday morning before he committed the alleged offenses, police said. \n He is also wanted for questioning in connection with an unrelated criminal property damage case. \n Anyone with information is asked to call police at 935-3311. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 and may be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle man wanted on multiple traffic offenses"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill Paxton's death certificate states the actor died from a stroke days after surgery to replace a heart valve and repair damage to his aorta. The aorta is the main artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. He died on Feb. 25, 11 days after the surgery. \n LOS ANGELES >> Bill Paxton's death certificate states the actor died last month from a stroke days after surgery to replace a heart valve and repair damage to his aorta. \n The aorta is the main artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. \n The prolific actor died late on Feb. 25. That was 11 days after the surgery. \n The document was first reported today by celebrity website TMZ. \n It states Paxton was cremated and his remains interred at Forest Lawn-Hollywood Hills, which is the final resting place of many Hollywood stars. \n Paxton starred in films such as \"Twister,\" \"Titanic\" and \"Aliens\" and the HBO series \"Big Love.\" \n His death was announced hours before the Oscars. \n That prompted several celebrities to share remembrances of him on the red carpet. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Paxton died from stroke suffered after surgery"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "SALT LAKE CITY >> The first Filipino-American bishop ordained in the United States is set to be installed as the leader of Salt Lake City's Catholic diocese on Tuesday, ending the city's longest period without a bishop. \n Bishop Oscar Azarcon Solis will replace John C. Wester, who was appointed archbishop in Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 2015, the Salt Lake Tribune (http://bit.ly/2lwB1bb ) reported. Solis, who can move seamlessly from English to Spanish to Tagalog, was born in San Jose City in the Philippines and was ordained a priest in 1979. \n Solis, 63, previously served in New Jersey and Louisiana before becoming an auxiliary bishop in Los Angeles. Because he served in an Italian/Cuban parish in New Jersey, a French/Creole parish in Louisiana, and the polyglot parishes of Southern California, people often ask what kind of accent he has. \n To that, Solis quips, \"I can't even understand myself now.\" \n The Rev. Alex Aclan, vicar for clergy at the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, said Solis was key in establishing the National Association of Filipino Priests-USA. \n Solis is a \"major ingredient in the glue that has bonded the Filipino priests together,\" Aclan said. \n The Los Angeles bishops gifted Solis a parka, skis and an Apple watch ahead of his move to Utah. \n In his most recent position, Solis visited some 200 churches. People who know Solis say he is caring and even-tempered. \n When worshippers showed up at the office looking for help or someone to talk to, Solis \"would take the time to listen to them \u2026 (and) give them food from his pantry and give them money,\" said Angelic Nunez, his assistant. \n Solis's official installation will take place at the Cathedral of the Madeleine. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "1st Filipino-American bishop ordained in U.S. to serve in Utah"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean Ambassador to Malaysia Kang Chol, second from right, arrives at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Malaysia. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Malaysia is protecting its \"sovereignty and dignity\" by expelling the North Korean ambassador, the prime minister said Monday, as relations between the countries unraveled further over the poisoning of Kim Jong Nam, the estranged half brother of North Korea's leader. \n The bizarre murder case \u2014 and the ensuing diplomatic battle \u2014 appear to have cost North Korea one of its few friends in the international community. \n Just hours after the North Korean ambassador headed to the airport to leave Malaysia, North Korea responded in kind, announcing that it was ordering Malaysia's envoy out of Pyongyang. But the move was symbolic. Malaysia had already recalled its diplomat shortly after the killing. \n In an attack many believe was orchestrated by North Korea, Kim Jong Nam died less than 20 minutes after two women wiped VX nerve agent on his face at Kuala Lumpur airport on Feb. 13, authorities say. The women, one from Vietnam and one from Indonesia, have been charged with murder. \n North Korea has denied any role in the killing and accused Malaysia of conspiring with its enemies. North Korean Ambassador Kang Chol rejected a Malaysian autopsy that found Kim was killed with VX, a banned chemical weapon. \n On Monday, Prime Minister Najib Razak said the decision to expel Kang sent a clear message. \n \"It means that we are firm in defending our sovereignty and dignity,\" Najib said. \"Don't ever insult our country and don't try to cause disruptions here.\" \n Malaysian authorities declared Kang \"persona non grata\" on Saturday and gave him two days to leave the country. He arrived late Monday afternoon at the Kuala Lumpur airport, where he told reporters that Malaysia was doing \"great harm\" to the countries' relations. \n Soon after, North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency said Malaysia's ambassador would also be expelled. \n Malaysia's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Raja Nushirwan Zainal Abidin, said North Korea's decision to expel the Malaysia envoy had been expected. \n \"This reciprocal action is normal in diplomacy,\" he said, adding that the envoy had been recalled two weeks ago for consultations and was still in Kuala Lumpur. \n Malaysia's finding that VX killed Kim boosted speculation that North Korea was behind the attack. Experts say the oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons, including VX. \n North Korea is trying to retrieve Kim's body, but has not acknowledged that the victim is Kim Jong Un's half brother, as Malaysian government officials have confirmed. \n Ri Tong Il, a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, has said Kim probably died of a heart attack because he suffered from heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. \n Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam said pathologists have ruled that out. \n \"We are saying, based on autopsy findings, there was no heart attack,\" he told reporters at Parliament. \n Still, a lawyer for the Vietnamese suspect said news of existing health problems should be cause for a new autopsy. He also claimed that Malaysian pathologists do not have expertise in VX. \n \"I am writing to the attorney general tomorrow for a second post-mortem,\" attorney Selvam Shanmugam, who represents Doan Thi Huong, said Monday outside the Vietnamese Embassy in Kuala Lumpur. \n \"They should have a foreign forensic (team) to participate in the post-mortem,\" he said. \n The two women accused of poisoning Kim say they were duped into thinking they were taking part in a harmless prank. \n Malaysia is looking for seven North Korean suspects, four of whom are believed to have left the country on the day of the killing. The three others, including an official at the North Korean Embassy and an employee of Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, are believed to still be in Malaysia. \n North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. Kim Jong Nam was not known to be seeking political power, but his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since it was founded could have made him appear to be a danger. \n Also Monday, the fallout from the diplomatic battle reached the sports field. \n Citing security concerns, Malaysia won't allow its national soccer team to travel to North Korea for a qualifying match for the 2019 Asian Cup, the Football Association of Malaysia said. Malaysia was due to play North Korea on March 28. \n Kang Chol's expulsion \"made the current situation unsafe for Malaysians to travel to North Korea,\" said the association's secretary-general, Hamidin Mohamad Amin. The association has asked the Asian Football Confederation to shift the venue from Pyongyang to a neutral arena. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Malaysia, North Korea expel ambassadors over Kim's death"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "PORTSMOUTH, Va. >> A U.S. Coast Guard spokesman says an invitation to meet for sex showed up on the mid-Atlantic region's Twitter account after it was hacked. \n Coast Guard spokesman Nate Littlejohn said that the account was compromised this morning. He says the profile photo and bio were changed to include an invitation to meet for sex, and that an image of a scantily clad woman was tweeted from the account. \n Littlejohn says officials were immediately alerted by a member of the news media and regained control of the account in five to 10 minutes. They deleted the tweet and sent an apology \"for any unauthorized/offensive tweets.\" \n The Guard's mid-Atlantic district stretches from South Carolina to New Jersey. Littlejohn says none of the region's other accounts were affected. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Coast Guard's Twitter account hacked with sex invitation"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway kneeled on the Oval Office couch, as President Donald Trump met with leaders of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) on Feb. 27 in Washington. Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-La. has apologized for making a crude joke about Conway. \n WASHINGTON >> A Louisiana congressman has apologized for making a crude joke about White House adviser Kellyanne Conway. \n Democrat Cedric Richmond made the joke during a comedy routine at last week's annual Washington Press Club Foundation congressional dinner. Citing the picture of Conway kneeling on a couch in the Oval Office, Richmond said Conway looked \"kind of familiar there in that position.\" \n The joke fell flat as the room full of journalists, congressional staffers and politicians audibly groaned. \n Richmond initially defended the joke, saying his use of the word \"familiar\" simply meant that Conway looked too comfortable. \n But Sunday night he issued a statement apologizing for the joke. \n \"After a discussion with people I know and trust I understand the way my remarks have been received by many,\" said Richmond. \"I have consistently been a champion for women and women's issues, and because of that the last thing I would want to ever do is utter words that would hurt or demean them. I apologize to Kellyanne Conway and everyone who has found my comments to be offensive.\" \n It was unclear whether Richmond reached out to Conway or simply issued a statement. \n Richmond is in his fourth term representing New Orleans and Baton Rouge. He is also chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. \n The congressional dinner is a light-hearted affair in which journalists and politicians mingle. Usually a Republican and a Democratic member of Congress take a stab at delivering a stand-up comedy routine. Some are funny while others bomb miserably. \n The Republican comedian at this year's dinner was Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina. He first mentioned Conway's picture during his stand-up routine. \n \"Has anyone seen the controversy around Kellyanne Conway and the couch in the Oval Office?\" Scott said. \"Come on, people. You remember the '90s. That couch has had a whole lot of worse things. Come on now.\" \n Scott was apparently referring to President Bill Clinton's Oval Office affair with a White House intern. \n Richmond's joke about Conway appeared to be off the cuff. \n \"Tim, you kind of opened the door. I really just want to know what was going on there, because, you know, I won't tell anybody,\" Richmond said. \"And you can just explain to me that circumstance \u2014 because she really looked kind of familiar in that position there. Don't answer \u2014 and I don't want you to refer back to the 1990s.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Congressman apologizes for crude joke about Kellyanne Conway"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A visitor walked by the TV screen showing a news program reporting about North Korea's missile firing, at Seoul Train Station in Seoul, Monday. North Korea on Monday fired four banned ballistic missiles that flew about 620 miles, with three of them landing in Japan's exclusive economic zone, South Korean and Japanese officials said, in an apparent reaction to huge military drills by Washington and Seoul that Pyongyang insists are an invasion rehearsal. The letters on the top read \" North Korea, Fire missile.\" \n SEOUL >> China has joined the international community in condemning Monday's launch of four ballistic missiles by North Korea and urged calm in the region. \n \"China opposes North Korea's violation of the UN Security Council's stipulation,\" Geng Shuang, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, said. \n However, the spokesman also criticized the United States and South Korea for its recent military measures against the rogue state. \n \"China has also noted that both are holding large-scale military exercises targeting North Korea,\" Geng said. \"All sides should exercise restraint and not do anything to irritate each other to worsen regional tensions.\" \n China has traditionally been one of North Korea's few allies on the international stage. However, repeated ballistic missile launches carried out by Pyongyang have tested that relationship. \n In February, China suspended all coal imports from its neighbor as part of UN sanctions meant to discourage the isolated nation from developing its nuclear arsenal. The ban was expected to cripple the impoverished nation's economy, whose main export is coal. \n In response to Monday's launch, the U.S. State Department said it was \"prepared to use the full range of capabilities at our disposal against this growing threat,\" U.S. media reported. \n \"The United States strongly condemns (North Korea's) ballistic missile launches \u2026 which violate UN Security Council resolutions explicitly prohibiting North Korea's launches using ballistic missile technology,\" acting State Department spokesman Mark Toner said, in a statement cited by broadcaster ABC News. \n Monday's launch was an apparent protest against ongoing military drills between South Korea and the US, South Korean news agency Yonhap reported. \n The US-South Korea \"Foal Eagle\" military maneuvers began last Wednesday. North Korea regularly accuses Washington and Seoul of using the exercises to prepare an attack on it, a charge that both deny. \n Japanese and South Korean officials earlier also condemned the missile launch, separately calling it a \"clear violation\" of United Nations Security Council resolutions, after the missiles fell into the sea 300 to 350 kilometers off the coast of Japan. \n The European Union's foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, meanwhile expressed \"solidarity\" with the two countries. \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Toyko had lodged a \"stern protest\" with Pyongyang and that the missiles, three of which fell into Japan's exclusive economic zone, were \"a grave threat to our country's national security,\" according to a government spokesman. \n South Korea's Acting President and Prime Minister Hwang Kyo Ahn called a meeting of the National Security Council. \n \"The North should realize that its repeated provocations and maniac obsession with nuclear and ballistic missile development would only accelerate its isolation and self-destruction,\" South Korea's foreign ministry said in a statement, according to Yonhap. \n Japanese and South Korean defense officials said the missiles were launched Monday morning in the west of North Korea and traveled 1,000 kilometers before falling into the Sea of Japan, off the Oga peninsula on Japan's main island. \n Japan is apparently lobbying the UN Security Council to issue a strong message to North Korea, Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida told reporters Monday. \n Yonhap, which first reported the launch, said an \"unidentified projectile\" had been fired from an area near the Dongchang Ri missile site at 7:36 am (2306 GMT Sunday). \n Pyongyang has ramped up its nuclear program under Kim Jong Un, carrying out two nuclear tests and launching some 20 ballistic missiles last year alone. \n In his New Year's address, Kim had said the reclusive state was almost ready to test-fire an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). \n In February, Pyongyang said it had successfully test-fired a medium-range ballistic missile \u2014 not an ICBM \u2014 capable of carrying a nuclear warhead. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China condemns N. Korea missile test; assigns some blame to U.S., South"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Tyson Foods, Inc., truck was parked at a food warehouse in Little Rock, Ark. in Oct. 2009. Tyson Foods said, today, a strain of bird flu sickened chickens at a poultry breeder that supplies it with birds. \n NEW YORK >> Tens of thousands of chickens have been destroyed at a Tennessee chicken farm due to a bird flu outbreak, and 30 other farms within a six-mile radius have been quarantined. \n The U.S. Department of Agriculture said 73,500 chickens were destroyed at the facility and will not enter the food system. The H7 avian influenza can be deadly to chickens and turkeys. \n \"Bird flu\" is a catch-all phrase for a variety of influenza viruses that spread among poultry. They can be very contagious and deadly among birds, but rarely spread to humans. That said, deadly human flu pandemics have been sparked by viruses that first emerged in birds, and health officials closely track what's killing poultry. \n Flu can spread from birds to humans when through the air, or when people touch a bird or an infected surface and then touch their eye, nose or mouth. \n The Tennessee breeder supplies the food company Tyson Foods Inc. The company said that it doesn't expect its chicken business to be disrupted, but the outbreak sent jitters through Wall Street. \n Shares of Tyson, based in Springdale, Arkansas, fell 3 percent and the news dragged down shares of other companies in the sectors as well. \n \"We're responding aggressively, and are working with state and federal officials to contain the virus,\" Tyson said in a company release. \n The company said it tests all of its flocks for the virus before they leave the farm \"out of an abundance of caution.\" Results are known before the birds are processed, the company said, and animals are not used if bird flu is detected. \n Department of Agriculture is not identifying the farm where the chickens were destroyed, saying only that it is located in the state's Lincoln County, just west of Chattanooga. \n There have been bird flu outbreaks in China and in Europe in recent months, though they are of differing strains. \n The USDA said today that it does not yet know what type of H7 bird flu is affecting the chickens at Tennessee, but will know within 48 hours. \n Shares of Tysons Foods Inc. fell $2.31, or 3.6 percent, to $61.29 midday trading. Shares of Sanderson Farms Inc., based in Laurel, Mississippi, dropped $3.31, or 3.5 percent, to $91.08, and shares of Greeley, Colorado-based Pilgrim's Pride Corp. fell 45 cents, or 2 percent, to $20.50. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bird flu found at Tyson Foods chicken supplier"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 22, 2013 file photo, the exterior of the Internal Revenue Service building in Washington. As millions of Americans file their income tax returns, their chances of getting audited by the IRS have rarely been so low. The number of people audited by the IRS last year dropped for the sixth straight year, to just over 1 million. The last time so few people were audited was 2004, when the population was significantly smaller. \n WASHINGTON >> As millions of Americans file their income tax returns, their chances of getting audited by the IRS have rarely been so low. \n The number of people audited by the IRS in 2016 year dropped for the sixth straight year, to just over 1 million. The last time so few people were audited was 2004. Since then, the U.S. has added about 30 million people. \n The IRS blames budget cuts as money for the agency shrunk from $12.2 billion in 2010 to $11.2 billion last year. Over that period, the agency has lost more than 17,000 employees, including nearly 7,000 enforcement agents. A little more than 80,000 people work at the IRS. \n IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said budget cuts are costing the federal government between $4 billion and $8 billion a year in uncollected taxes. \n \"We are the only agency if you give us more people and money, we give you more money back,\" Koskinen said in an interview. \n So is it safe to cheat on your taxes? Not necessarily, according to tax experts. \n \"I don't think it's open season for people to cheat,\" said Joseph Perry, a partner at the accounting firm Marcum. \"I think there are a certain group of people that will always try to push the envelope to get away with things that they think they can get away with.\" \n As Koskinen put it: \"If you're a taxpayer, you don't want to roll the roulette wheel and have the little white ball land on your number because then we're not very happy.\" \n Most people don't have much of an opportunity to cheat on their taxes because the IRS collects a lot of information to verify taxpayers' finances. Employers report wages, banks report interest, brokerages report capital gains and lenders report mortgage interest. \n In 2016, the number of people audited by the IRS dropped by 16 percent from the year before. Just 0.7 percent of individuals were audited, either in person or by mail. That's the lowest audit rate since 2003. \n The higher your income, the more likely you are to be audited. The IRS audited 1.7 percent of returns that reported more than $200,000 in income. Agents audited 5.8 percent of returns that reported more than $1 million in income. \n Both audit rates were steep declines from the year before. \n The most well-known audit in Washington is one on President Donald Trump, who has cited it in refusing to release his tax returns. The IRS, however, has said an audit would not prevent an individual from releasing the returns. \n Corporate audits were down by 17 percent last year. Just 0.49 percent of corporations were audited, the lowest rate in at least a decade. \n Republicans in Congress began cutting money at the IRS after they took control of both the House and Senate in the 2010 elections. They became more enthusiastic about the spending cuts after it became public that the agency had improperly singled out conservative political groups for extra scrutiny when they applied for tax-exempt status during the 2010 and 2012 elections. \n Koskinen was not at the IRS when the political groups were mistreated, but some Republicans in Congress have been unhappy with his cooperation in their investigations. \n When asked about IRS money, many Republican lawmakers inevitably mention the mistreatment of conservative groups. \n \"Go look at all the areas where they've wasted money, mismanaged taxpayer resources,\" said Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio. \"Not to mention the fact that, you know, one of the reasons we went after them so hard is they did target people for their political views.\" \n Democrats argue that it's a costly move. \n \"You know, when somebody doesn't pay, that means that others pay more,\" said Rep. Richard Neal of Massachusetts, the top Democrat on tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. \"But I think there's no question that the majority (Republicans) here and apparently the president, they have had a target on the IRS.\" \n Tony Reardon, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, which represents IRS workers, questioned Trump's proposal to increase military spending by billions while the GOP targets the IRS. \n \"The IRS collects 93 percent of our nation's revenue. You cannot increase defense spending and cut IRS funding at the same time. It does not add up,\" Reardon said. \n Most federal agencies are bracing for budget cuts under the Trump administration, though Koskinen said he is making the case that the IRS already \"gave at the office.\" It's unclear, however, how much influence Koskinen will have in the Trump administration. He was appointed by President Barack Obama and his term ends in November. \n Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin offered the IRS a bone at his confirmation hearing when he acknowledged that adding agents would increase tax revenues. The department oversees the IRS, and Mnuchin was appointed by Trump. \n \"I can assure you that the president-elect understands the concept of where we add people and we make money,\" Mnuchin said at the hearing, which was held before Trump's inauguration. \"He'll get that completely. That's a very quick conversation with Donald Trump.\" \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Income tax audits plummet as IRS loses agents to budget cuts"}

{"date": "March 6, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke in the Roosevelt Room, March 1, of the White House in Washington. Trump's revised travel ban will temporarily halt entry to the U.S. for people from six Muslim-majority nations who are seeking new visas, allowing those with current visas to travel freely. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump saluted as he stood on the tarmac after disembarking Air Force One as he arrived, Sunday, at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today signed a new version of his controversial travel ban, aiming to withstand court challenges while still barring new visas for citizens from six Muslim-majority countries and shutting down the U.S. refugee program. \n The revised travel order leaves Iraq off the list of banned countries but still affects would-be visitors from Iran, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen and Libya. \n Trump privately signed the new order today while Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions formally unveiled the new edict. The low-key rollout was a contrast to the first version of the order, signed in a high-profile ceremony at the Pentagon's Hall of Heroes as Secretary of Defense James Mattis stood by Trump's side. \n White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer was not scheduled to hold an on-camera briefing today either, leading to the appearance that the president was distancing himself from the order, which was a signature issue during his campaign and the first days of his presidency. The order also risks being overshadowed by unsubstantiated accusations the president made over the weekend that former President Barack Obama had ordered the wiretapping of his phone during the campaign. \n The original travel ban caused immediate panic and chaos at airports around the country as Homeland Security officials scrambled to interpret how it was to be implemented and travelers were detained before being sent back overseas or blocked from getting on airplanes abroad. The order quickly became the subject of several legal challenges and was ultimately put on hold last month by a federal judge in Washington state. That ruling was upheld by a federal appeals court. \n The revised order is narrower and specifies that a 90-day ban on people from the six countries does not apply to those who already have valid visas or people with U.S. green cards. \n The White House dropped Iraq from the list of targeted countries following pressure from the Pentagon and State Department, which had urged the White House to reconsider, given Iraq's key role in fighting the Islamic State group. Syrian nationals are also no longer subjected to an indefinite ban, despite Trump's instance as a candidate that Syrian refugees in particular posed a serious security threat to the United States. \n In a call with reporters this morning, senior officials from Homeland Security and Justice Department said the travel ban was necessary to allow the government to review what more can be done to properly vet would-be visitors and refugees. \n The officials said 300 people who arrived in the United States as refugees were currently under investigation as part of terrorism-related cases. The officials pointed to those cases as evidence of the need for the travel order, but refused repeated requests to address how many of those people were from the six banned countries or how long they have been in the United States. \n A fact sheet describing the new order circulated before the new order was announced cites negotiations that resulted in Iraq agreeing to \"increase cooperation with the U.S. government on the vetting of its citizens applying for a visa to travel to the United States.\" \n The mere existence of a fact sheet signaled that the White House was taking steps to improve the rollout of the reworked directive. The initial measure was hastily signed at the end of Trump's first week in office, and the White House was roundly criticized for not providing lawmakers, Cabinet officials and others with information ahead of the signing. \n Trump administration officials say that even with the changes, the goal of the new order is the same as the first: keeping would-be terrorists out of the United States while the government reviews the vetting system for refugees and visa applicants from certain parts of the world. \n According to the fact sheet, the Department of Homeland Security will conduct a country-by-country review of the information the six targeted nations provide to the U.S. for visa and immigration decisions. Those countries will then have 50 days to comply with U.S. government requests to update or improve that information. \n Additionally, Trump's order suspends the entire U.S. refugee program for 120 days, though refugees already formally scheduled for travel by the State Department will be allowed entry. When the suspension is lifted, the number of refugees allowed into the U.S. will be capped at 50,000 for fiscal year 2017. \n The new version also to removes language that would give priority to religious minorities. Critics had accused the administration of adding such language to help Christians get into the U.S. while excluding Muslims. \n \"I think people will see six or seven major points about this executive order that do clarify who was covered,\" said presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway in an interview with Fox News Channel's \"Fox & Friends.\" \n She said the new order will not go into effect until March 16, despite earlier warnings from the president and his team that any delay in implementation would pose a national security risk, allowing dangerous people to flow into the country. \n Legal experts say the new order addresses some of the constitutional concerns raised by a federal appeals court about the initial ban, but leaves room for more legal challenges. \n \"It's much clearer about how it doesn't apply to groups of immigrants with more clearly established constitutional rights,\" said University of Texas law professor Stephen Vladeck. \"That's a really important step.\" \n Removing language that would give priority to religious minorities helps address concerns that the initial ban was discriminatory, but its continued focus on Muslim-majority countries leaves the appearance that the order is a \"Muslim ban,\" Vladeck said. \n \"There's still going to be plenty of work for the courts to do,\" he said. \n Associated Press writer Alicia A. Caldwell and Sadie Gurman contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump signs revised travel ban targeting those seeking new visas"}

