{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michael Fasman feeds his dog Hudson with a yogurt containing cannabis tincture at his home in San Francisco. As more states legalize marijuana for humans, more pet owners are giving their furry companions cannabis-based extracts, ointments and edibles marketed to treat everything from arthritis and anxiety to seizures and cancer. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Michael Fasman's 12-year-old dog, Hudson, limps from pain caused by arthritis and an amputated toe, but Fasman doesn't want to give her painkillers because \"they just knock her out.\" \n So the San Francisco resident has turned to an alternative medicine that many humans use to treat their own pain and illness: marijuana. \n On a recent morning, Fasman squeezed several drops of a cannabis extract onto a plate of yogurt, which the Portuguese water dog lapped up in seconds. It's become part of Hudson's daily routine. \n \"We think it's really lifted her spirits and made her a happier dog,\" Fasman said. \"It's not that she's changed. She's just back to her good old self.\" \n As more states legalize marijuana for humans, more pet owners are giving their furry companions cannabis-based extracts, ointments and edibles marketed to treat everything from arthritis and anxiety to seizures and cancer. \n Most of these pet products, which aren't regulated, contain cannabidiol or CBD, a chemical compound found in cannabis that doesn't get pets or humans high. They contain little or no tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, the cannabis compound known for its psychoactive effects. \n But veterinarians say there isn't enough scientific data to show cannabis is safe and effective for treating animals. Although medical marijuana is legal in 28 states, it remains illegal under federal law, so there has been relatively little research into its potential medical benefits for humans or animals. \n Veterinarians in California and other states are legally barred from prescribing or recommending cannabis. They risk losing their veterinary licenses if they do. \n \"Our hands really are tied,\" said Ken Pawlowski, president of the California Veterinary Medical Association. \"Definitely we're getting more questions from clients asking about it for their pets, but unfortunately we don't have any answers for them.\" \n Karl Jandrey, a veterinarian who teaches at the University of California, Davis, said he tells his clients they \"use them at their own risk with the potential to spend money for no improvement, or a risk of adverse side effects.\" \n Despite the lack of scientific data or veterinary guidance, many pet owners are convinced cannabis has improved their animals' health and well-being, based on their own observations. \n Lynne Tingle, who runs a pet adoption center and animal sanctuary, regularly gives cannabis edibles and topical ointments to older dogs with health or behavior issues, including her own elderly dogs Chorizo and Alice. \n \"You just see a real difference in their spirit. They're just not in pain, so they're happier and they're moving better,\" said Tingle, who founded the Richmond-based Milo Foundation. \"They just get a new lease on life.\" \n San Francisco-based TreatWell Health is one of a growing number of companies marketing cannabis products for pets despite questions over their legality. \n TreatWell sells cannabis tinctures \u2014 extracted from marijuana plants in Humboldt County \u2014 that can be added to food or dropped directly into an animal's mouth. Co-founder Alison Ettel works directly with clients and their pets, recommending different formulations based on the animals' ailments. \n TreatWell pet tinctures can help treat anxiety, poor appetite, pain, inflammation and seizures, as well as kidney and liver problems, cancer and glaucoma, according to its website. They also are used in end-of-life care. \n \"What we find is a lot of the animals are coming to us when there are no other options and pharmaceuticals haven't worked for that animal,\" Ettel said. \"They're at that last resort, and cannabis is really good for those types of situations.\" \n Barbara Stein is one of TreatWell's most enthusiastic customers. She said the cannabis tinctures helped treat anxiety and digestive problems in her 13-year-old cat, Willie. And she believes the drug helped Willie's sister Prudence maintain her weight and stay comfortable when she was battling cancer. \n Stein, a retiree who lives in the San Francisco Bay Area city of Concord, said she got a medical marijuana card so she could buy cannabis for her cats. She has since recommended cannabis to many friends with aging and sick pets. \n \"All I know is that none of the traditional medications she got from the vet worked, but the cannabis did,\" Stein said. \"I swear by the stuff.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pot for pets: Owners treat sick animals with cannabis"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KEVIN OLSON \n Heavy rain caused flooding today in South Kihei. \n Seven people were rescued from flood waters on South Kihei Road in about a one-hour period, Maui firefighters said. \n At 4:01 p.m. today, firefighters initially responded to a call of a woman being swept away in a car but were unable to find her and came upon others who needed assistance. \n Firefighters picked up a female in a Mini Cooper and a man and woman in a four-door sedan stalled in flood waters on the road, north of Kaonoulu Street. \n Four people \u2014 two pedestrians and two in a car \u2014 were also found stranded on a bridge by stream water just south of Kaonoulu Street. \n The woman who originally called to say she was being swept away in her car was found, along with another woman. \n Bystanders had helped to push the woman's car to safety. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui firefighters rescue 7 from rising flood waters"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christine Levinson, center, wife of Robert Levinson, and her children, Dan and Samantha Levinson, talk to reporters in New York in January 2016. It's been 10 years since former FBI agent Robert Levinson disappeared while in Iran on an unauthorized CIA mission and his family is still waiting for answers. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> Ten years after a former FBI agent working on an unauthorized CIA mission disappeared in Iran, his family hopes U.S. President Donald Trump will do something America's last two presidents have been unable to achieve: Finally bring him home. \n Robert Levinson's family told The Associated Press this week that Trump's background as a deal-making businessman and his harder line on Iran could be an asset in finally determining what happened to the investigator, whose 69th birthday is Friday. \n They described the heartbreak of seeing other American prisoners in Iran freed while the mystery surrounding his disappearance remains. They also acknowledged the challenge of keeping his case in the public eye, as he now has been held captive longer than any American in history, if he remains alive. \n \"We believe people can survive 10 years under any circumstances. In the worst places, people survive. We know Bob is alive,\" his wife, Christine Levinson, told the AP. \"Everyone else has gotten out of Iran, but Bob has been left behind every single time. It's now time for him to be returned home to his family.\" \n Levinson disappeared from Iran's Kish Island on March 9, 2007. For years, U.S. officials would only say that Levinson, a meticulous FBI investigator credited with busting Russian and Italian mobsters, was working for a private firm on his trip. \n In December 2013, the AP revealed Levinson in fact had been on a mission for CIA analysts who had no authority to run spy operations. Levinson's family had received a $2.5 million annuity from the CIA in order to stop a lawsuit revealing details of his work, while the agency forced out three veteran analysts and disciplined seven others. \n Since his disappearance, the only photos and video of Levinson emerged in 2010 and 2011. He appeared gaunt and bearded with long hair, and was wearing an orange jumpsuit similar to those worn by detainees at the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay. \n The video, with a Pashtun wedding song popular in Afghanistan playing in the background, showed Levinson complaining of poor health. Levinson's family believes his diabetes and high blood pressure could be under control with his weight loss. \n \"I'm not as worried about his health,\" his son, Dan Levinson, said. \"I understand people thinking it being over 10 years and fearing the worst, but we don't believe that.\" \n The FBI now offers a $5 million reward for information leading to Levinson's safe recovery and return. \n Rumors have circulated for years, with one account claiming he was locked up in a Tehran prison run by Iran's paramilitary Revolution Guard and U.S. officials suggesting he may not be in Iran at all. Dawud Salahuddin, an American fugitive living in Iran who is wanted for the assassination of a former Iranian diplomat in Maryland in 1980, is the last known person to have seen Levinson before his disappearance. \n Iranian officials have been less than forthcoming. Former hard-line President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad suggested in an interview with the AP in 2010 that his country already had suspicions about Levinson before the nature of his trip became public knowledge. \n \"Of course if it becomes clear what his goal was, or if he was indeed on a mission, then perhaps specific assistance can be given,\" Ahmadinejad said. \n Levinson's family said they've written letters to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and moderate President Hassan Rouhani with no response. Iran's mission to the United Nations did not respond to a request for comment about Levinson. \n That lack of response, even with the U.N.'s Working Group on Arbitrary Detention issuing a report in January that held Iran responsible for addressing \"the situation of Mr. Levinson without any further delay,\" has the family believing Trump's harder line on Iran might finally force the country to release him. \n \"We know if President Trump chooses (to be involved), he's a dealmaker. That's what he does. It's going to require negotiating with the Iranians to get him out of there,\" Levinson's son Dan said. \"He's very well-suited to be able to do this. We're hopeful for that.\" \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters on Monday that the Trump administration was in contact with Levinson's family and said \"we continue to hold out hope\" that he could be safely returned from Iran. \n Another White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case, said administration officials recently held a call with members of the Levinson family, who were assured that the case is a priority for the Trump administration. The Levinsons hope to meet personally with Trump in the coming months. \n \"We'll never, ever give up hope,\" his daughter, Stephanie Curry, said. \"We'll never give up hope he's coming home to us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "10 years gone: No word of ex-FBI man lost in Iran on CIA job"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 21 photo, a crowd fills Independence Avenue during the Women's March on Washington, in Washington. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Organizers of January's Women's March have called for women to take the day off and encouraged them not to spend money to show their economic strength and impact on American society. \n \"A Day Without a Woman\" on Wednesday is the first major action by organizers since the nationwide marches held the day after President Donald Trump's inauguration that drew millions of women into the streets in protest against misogyny, inequality and oppression. Though it is unclear how many women could participate, thousands across the country have signaled their support and interest online and to employers. \n The event coincides with the U.N.-designated International Women's Day, and organizers say they want to \"stand with women around the globe\" who supported their efforts Jan. 21 with similar protests in cities around the world. \n Spokeswoman Cassady Findlay said organizers were inspired by the recent \"Day Without an Immigrant\" protests held last month. She said the action is aimed at highlighting the effect of women on the country's socio-economic system and would demonstrate how the paid and unpaid work of women keeps households, communities and economies running. \n \"We provide all this value and keep the system going, and receive unequal benefits from it,\" Findlay said. \n Findlay said it is important for white women to be in solidarity with minority women. \n \"Throughout history, the strikes that have the biggest impact are the ones when people who are already the target of oppression participate,\" she said. \"It's when women of all backgrounds strike and stand together that we're really going to see the impact.\" \n Unlike the Women's March, Wednesday's protest focuses on the absence of women, who are being steered to local rallies and community groups and away from work or shopping in stores or online. Organizers also are asking women to wear red to signify love and sacrifice. \n More than a million people, mostly women, turned out nationwide for the Women's March. In New York, organizers are planning a gathering in Central Park at noon. International Women's Day rallies also are planned in Philadelphia, Baltimore, Milwaukee, Washington and Berkeley, California. \n School districts including Prince George's County in Maryland, the Alexandria City Public Schools in Virginia and Chapel Hill-Carrboro Schools in North Carolina, have canceled classes in anticipation of employee participation. In Utah, as many as 1,000 women are expected to gather at the Capitol to remind lawmakers they are watching their actions on women's issues. \n In Providence, Rhode Island, the municipal court plans to close because the demonstration in the city would leave the court without enough staff to open. Lovely Monkey Tattoo, a woman-owned tattoo parlor in Whitmore Lake, Michigan, is offering female-centric tattoos with messages like, \"Neverless, She Persisted\" for $50 to $100, with proceeds going to the Ann Arbor chapter of Planned Parenthood. \n Some businesses have said they will either close or give female employees the day off. The event website provides templates for \"out of office\" emails, and an employer letter. The site has had more than a half-million visitors, and more than 60,000 had clicked on the letter template by Tuesday afternoon. \n Organizers noted that only a fourth of participants in the Women's March signed up in advance to participate. \n The role of women in American society is significant. According to the U.S. Census, women make up more than 47 percent of the workforce and are dominant in such professions as registered nurses, dental assistants, cashiers, accountants and pharmacists. They make up at least a third of physicians and surgeons, as well as lawyers and judges. Women also represent 55 percent of all college students. \n Still, American women continue to be paid less than men, earning 80 cents for every dollar a man makes. The median income for women was $40,742 in 2015, compared with $51,212 for men, according to census data. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Women's March organizers call for 'A Day Without a Woman'"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "A 3-year-old girl who died after she was struck by a vehicle in Hilo Tuesday has been identified as Kawenalanionapua Low-Hopeau. \n Shortly before 6:30 p.m., police said a 2008 Ford sport utility vehicle was traveling north through the parking lot at Hilo Val Hala apartments and struck Low-Hopeau. \n She was taken to Hilo Medical Center where she was pronounced dead. \n Police said the Ford driver, a 66-year-old Hilo woman, was uninjured. \n Speed and alcohol were not involved, police said. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine the exact cause of death. \n Individuals also may call CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police identify girl, 3, fatally struck by SUV in Hilo"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval sits in his office at the Capitol in Carson City, Nev. in 2015. Mirroring concerns raised by Democrats, Republican governors including Sandoval complain that the proposal from the GOP-controlled U.S. House to replace the existing health care law would force millions of lower-income earners from insurance rolls or stick states with the cost of keeping them covered. \n CARSON CITY, Nev. >> Republican governors complain that a GOP proposal to replace former President Barack Obama's health care law would force millions of lower-income earners off insurance rolls or stick states with the cost of keeping them covered. \n Governors, especially those from political battleground states, were generally cool to the bill put forth in the Republican-controlled U.S. House. Some signaled that they would continue working on their own legislation to compete with the measure introduced Monday. \n \"We've said all along, 'Work with the governors,' that it should be a governor-led effort and for the Congress to rely on the governors,\" Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval said today. \"Well, they came out with their own bill, which doesn't include anything that the governors have talked about.\" \n Republican governors lead 33 states, across all regions, and represent states pivotal to President Donald Trump's victory in November, including much of the upper Midwest. Their role in the health care debate could influence the biggest public policy changes this year and help determine the party's future. \n At the heart of their criticisms is that the House plan would jeopardize coverage for roughly 11 million people covered through the Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion. The law allowed states to expand Medicaid to cover more low-income individuals and their families at costs borne largely by the federal government. \n Phasing out the federal supplement for Medicaid would hit hardest in states where governors chose to participate in the expansion, such as Michigan, Nevada and Ohio. The House bill's provision to shift the federal Medicaid commitment to those states would shrink the number of people eligible for coverage and require states to drop people from coverage or risk incurring huge costs rapidly to keep them enrolled. \n \"Phasing out Medicaid coverage without a viable alternative is counterproductive and unnecessarily puts at risk our ability to treat the drug-addicted, mentally ill and working poor who now have access to a stable source of care,\" said Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. \n Michigan, Nevada and Ohio alone have added a combined 2 million to Medicaid's enrollment since that part of the law took effect in 2014. \n The GOP governors expressed some of the same reservations as Democratic governors in states that expanded Medicaid, fretting about higher costs and fewer people covered. \n West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice, a Democrat, warned against any health measure that kicks residents off Medicaid and leaves them \"in the cold.\" The state has been carried by Republican presidential nominees for the past five elections and has added 175,000 residents to Medicaid coverage. \n Another problem some Republican governors see with the bill is in converting Medicaid coverage from an open-ended federal entitlement to one that operates under a per-capita cap. A cap would not account, for instance, for rapidly rising drug costs, a big part of a state's Medicaid budget. GOP governors have suggested that any change in the law should give them more autonomy to account for such changes. \n \"I would have liked to have seen more flexibility being given to the states,\" Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson told reporters today. \"I'm going to continue to look at that.\" \n Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker echoed the more muted response from his peers, calling the House bill \"an important first step.\" \n \"We will continue working with the Trump administration, the Congress and governors across the country, as we seek a personalized, patient-centered plan that treats people as humans and not like numbers,\" he added. \n Walker, as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, has been working with governors such as Kasich to draft a proposal that would effectively put states in charge of their Medicaid programs but require the federal government to continue financing them. \n The governors' alternative could become a viable measure in the legislative debate, should it gain Senate sponsorship. The governors working on it have met with senators and staff on the Senate Finance Committee. \n Ohio Sen. Rob Portman is already sounding some of Kasich's concerns. In a letter sent Monday to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Portman wrote that House legislation \"does not provide stability and certainty for individuals and families in Medicaid expansion programs or the necessary flexibility for states.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republican governors complain about GOP health care plan"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Two women converse in New York in 2012. \"Socially accepted normal body weight is shifting toward heavier weight. As more people around us are getting heavier, we simply believe we are fine, and no need to do anything with it,\" said Dr. Jian Zhang, the lead author in a study released today. \n CHICAGO >> Fewer overweight Americans have been trying to lose weight in recent years, and researchers wonder if fat acceptance could be among the reasons. \n The trend found in a new study occurred at the same time obesity rates climbed. \n \"Socially accepted normal body weight is shifting toward heavier weight. As more people around us are getting heavier, we simply believe we are fine, and no need to do anything with it,\" said lead author Dr. Jian Zhang, a public health researcher at Georgia Southern University. \n Another reason could be people abandoning efforts to drop pounds after repeated failed attempts, Zhang said. \n The researchers analyzed U.S. government health surveys over nearly two decades from 1988 through 2014. The surveys involved in-person physical exams and health-related questions including asking participants if they'd tried to lose weight within the past year. More than 27,000 adults aged 20 to 59 were included. They were not asked to explain their answers. \n In the early surveys, about half the adults were overweight or obese. Those numbers climbed to 65 percent by 2014. But the portion of overweight or obese adults who said they were trying to slim down fell from 55 percent to 49 percent in the study. \n Body mass index, a measure of height and weight, determines weight status. Those with a BMI of 25 to 29 are considered overweight; 30 and above is obese. A BMI of 30 generally reflects being about 50 pounds above your ideal weight. \n The study results were published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association. \n Dr. Scott Kahan, director of a weight-loss clinic in Washington, said the study is important and echoes previous research. He acknowledged that it has become more acceptable in some circles to be overweight, but that many patients still feel stigmatized. He said many come to his center after repeated attempts to lose weight and some give up for a while out of frustration. \n The study found obesity was most common among black women \u2014 55 percent were obese in the most recent survey years, and there was a big decline in black women trying to lose weight. Whether that's because of fat acceptance, dieting frustration or other reasons is not known. \n Zhang said there's a positive side to fat acceptance, if it means people feel less ridiculed for their weight. But obesity can increase risks for heart disease, diabetes, cancer and other ailments. \n The findings \"are a very serious concern,\" he said. \n \"We should forget the words 'fat' or 'obesity,'\" Zhang said, adding that a healthy lifestyle may be an effective way to help people lose weight. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fewer heavy Americans are trying to lose weight, study finds"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chance The Rapper announced a gift of $1 million to the Chicago Public School Foundation during a news conference at the Westcott Elementary School on Monday in Chicago. The Grammy-winning artist is calling on Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner to use executive powers to better fund Chicago Public Schools. \n CHICAGO >> Chance the Rapper's unusual intervention into Chicago Public Schools' funding crisis took an even more curious turn Monday when the Grammy-winner presented a $1 million check to city schools and urged Gov. Bruce Rauner to use his executive powers to help the nation's third-largest district. \n The Republican governor, a former venture capitalist, responded by noting his own philanthropy and floating Chicago school funding ideas that would face tough odds in the Democratic-controlled Legislature. Illinois has gone two years without a budget, the longest such stalemate of any state in nearly a century. \n The back-and-forth came after a meeting Friday between Rauner and the artist \u2014 whose real name is Chancelor Bennett \u2014 that left the rapper visibly agitated. Chance asked for the meeting after he won three Grammys last month, including best new artist, and Rauner tweeted congratulations. \n The Chicago native stopped at an elementary school near where he grew up to announce the donation to a schools' foundation, calling himself a \"public school kid.\" He also accused Rauner of failing to present solutions without \"caveats or ultimatums.\" \n \"This isn't about politics. This isn't about posturing. This is about taking care of the kids,\" he said. \"Everybody and their mama knows what's going on in Chicago. We're about to enhance the conversation on supporting and funding the education of the kids in Chicago.\" \n At the heart of rapper's beef with Rauner is $215 million in teacher pension relief for Chicago schools that he vetoed last year. Rauner said a broader pension overhaul was needed, part of his push for pro-business and long-term reforms. However, the school district of roughly 400,000 students had factored the money into its roughly $5.4 billion budget and had to make mid-year cuts. The district has also proposed ending the school year early to save money. \n Rauner, who called the meeting a \"good exchange of views,\" circulated plans before Chance's public appearance for ways to recover the $215 million; both require state legislation. One option calls for using up most of Chicago's special taxing district funds, set aside for capital projects, for a one-time infusion. The other would attach the funding to broader pension reform. \n Chicago officials rejected both, saying Illinois' school funding formula is fundamentally unfair to the largely minority and poor school district. CPS has sued the state over the calculation and argues the district is further penalized since it's the only one in Illinois where local taxpayers, not the state, help pay teacher pension costs. \n Chance also dismissed the plans, saying he wasn't a politician. \n \"It's not my job to propose any policy or be behind anything but the kids,\" he said. \n Rauner's office issued a statement detailing his history of giving: roughly $7 million over 20 years to organizations benefitting Chicago students. \n \"While the Rauners are passionate donors to our schools, individual contributions will never be enough to address the financial challenges facing CPS,\" the statement said. \"It would be helpful if CPS officials came to Springfield and joined in serious good faith discussions about the long-term stability of all of our schools.\" \n Rauner has blamed Chicago's fiscal woes on years of financial mismanagement and argues that Chicago receives hundreds of millions in block grants other schools don't. \n Meanwhile, Chance deemed his donation \u2014 from the concert ticket proceeds \u2014 a \"call to action\" and asked other artists and corporations to follow suit. \n The rapper has family ties to prominent Democrats. His father worked in former President Barack Obama's Cabinet and for Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Chance has been civically engaged before, leading a march to the polls in November and serving on the board of Chicago's DuSable Museum of African American History. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rapper gives $1 million to Chicago schools, blasts governor"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump has offered to maintain federal funding for Planned Parenthood if the group stops providing abortions. Its president spurned the proposal and noted that federal money already is not allowed to be used for abortion. \n Trump confirmed Monday there had been discussions after The New York Times inquired about what it described as an informal proposal. In a statement to the newspaper, Trump said polling shows most Americans oppose public funding for abortion. \n \"As I said throughout the campaign, I am pro-life and I am deeply committed to investing in women's health and plan to significantly increase federal funding in support of nonabortion services such as cancer screenings,\" he said. \n Trump added: \"There is an opportunity for organizations to continue the important work they do in support of women's health, while not providing abortion services.\" \n Planned Parenthood Federation of America President Cecile Richards said in response: \"We will always stand for women's ability to make decisions about their health and lives, without interference from politicians in Washington, D.C.\" \n Anti-abortion activists want the federal government to cut off all federal funding to Planned Parenthood. Nearly $400 million in Medicaid money goes to the group and pulling it back would result in roughly 400,000 women losing access to care, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. \n In one of his first acts as president, Trump banned U.S. funding to international groups that perform abortions or even provide information about abortions. \n Vice President Mike Pence strongly opposes abortion, citing his Roman Catholic beliefs, and the newly confirmed health secretary, Tom Price, has supported cutting off taxpayer money to Planned Parenthood. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump offers Planned Parenthood funds if it halts abortions"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ZEBULON, N.C. >> An 18-year-old man decapitated his mother and then walked out the front door of her house holding her head in his hand while wielding a knife in the other, authorities said. \n The suspect was charged with first-degree murder Monday after he called 911 to say he had killed his mother, according to a news release from the Franklin County Sheriff's office. Authorities say he was arrested without offering resistance, and his 35-year-old mother's body was found inside the home. \n District Attorney Mike Waters said officials were seeking a mental evaluation of the suspect. His public defender, C. Boyd Sturges III, said he spoke with him for an hour in the Franklin County jail. \n \"It does appear there's some substantial mental health issues involved in this case,\" Sturges said. \"I'm not a doctor, so I can't really elaborate. He's a pretty profoundly disturbed young man.\" \n Waters said due to the suspect's apparent mental state, \"this is something that's going to take weeks and months for us to get some answers as to why this happened.\" \n Waters said the suspect was being transferred to Central Prison in Raleigh. His next court appearance is scheduled for March 14. \n Two young girls in the home were not hurt. A fourth child was in school when the attack occurred. Deputies were searching the home hours after the body was discovered. \n The exact names of the suspect and his mother were unclear. Local court records list the suspect's name as Oliver Funes Machada, Sturges said. Federal records list his name as Oliver Funes Machado, said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Bryan Cox. In a news release, Cox said the suspect was from Honduras and was in the country illegally. Franklin County Chief Sheriff's Deputy Terry Wright gave the mother's name as Yesenia Beatriz Funez Machado, citing a spelling given to authorities by her 14-year-old son. \n Neighbor Leona Smith told WRAL-TV she was still trying to come to grips with such a horrible crime happening so close by. \n \"It's very hurtful to know something like this can happen in your own neighborhood with such a quiet family with the standard white picket fence, trampoline, playground in the back,\" she said. \"To see the two younger children sitting in the ditch crying, it was heartbreaking.\" \n Neighbor Randy Mullins, who was leaving his house minutes after the first deputy arrived, said he saw the woman's head lying in the front yard about five feet in front of the porch. The deputy appeared to have just handcuffed the suspect and seemed rattled when Mullins approached to ask if he needed help. \n \"You could see in his face he had a lot of concern. I'm not saying he was scared, but you could tell he was concerned,\" Mullins said of the deputy. Mullins then went back to his house across the street and told his 91-year-old mother to stay inside. He said a half-dozen more law enforcement vehicles arrived within minutes, and a deputy covered the woman's head. \n \"I couldn't believe it. Things like that don't happen,\" said the 59-year-old Mullins, who has lived in the neighborhood for 25 years. \"You can't believe somebody would do that. You hear about that, but it never happens across the street from you.\" \n Mullins said the family had moved to the neighborhood sometime around June. He didn't know them well, but he and his mother said they seemed friendly. \n \"If they were outside, they always waved at you,\" said Clearsy Mullins. \n On Tuesday, a group of people could be seen at the house, loading a stroller and other belongings into two minivans. A neighbor who had stopped by to offer his condolences told a reporter that the people in the group didn't want to talk, and they left after about 20 minutes. \n Randy Mullins said the suspect appeared placid as he sat handcuffed and the deputy was kneeling down to comfort the two younger children. \n \"He was sitting there like he didn't have a care in the world. He didn't appear to be upset. He didn't appear to be crying.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man accused of decapitating mother, carrying head in hand"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n OLYMPIA, Wash. >> A measure to ban holding a phone while driving passed in the House a day after a similar measure passed in the Senate. \n House Bill 1371 received a 52-45 vote in the Democratic-controlled House Tuesday. \n Democratic Rep. Jessyn Farrell, the sponsor of the bill, said the measure is about safety and updating the current law \"so that police officers can enforce this.\" \n Currently people are guilty of an infraction if they hold a phone to their ear while driving, or are caught text messaging. \n Under the bill, drivers would be banned from holding any hand-held devices while driving including phones, tablets and other electronic devices, even while stopped in traffic. It would also double the fine, which is currently $136 if caught texting or holding a phone to the ear while driving for second and subsequent offenses within five years. \n \"We have an epidemic of using smartphones in our cars,\" Farrell said. \"We love our phones and can't put them down while driving\u2026 You can still use that phone, but just don't hold it in your hand.\" \n The new measure would allow the use of a finger to activate or deactivate a function of a device, such as using Siri on the iPhone, and the use of a built-in touch screen control panel within a vehicle to control basic functions like the radio or air conditioning. \n Republican Rep. Morgan Irwin spoke in opposition to the bill because he said it creates a \"class issue.\" Irwin said he was concerned that some people, such as him, might not have a car with a built-in touch screen and would be unfairly affected by this bill. \n \"We can have a car with a computer in its dash and use it all you want to, but if you can't afford that car or you just have normal car then the only way to get directions to where you are going is to use that cellphone,\" Irwin said. \n Republican Rep. Dave Hayes also opposed the bill. He said he prefers to broaden the measure to include other dangerous distractions such as eating while driving, petting a dog in the back seat or putting on makeup. He said his main concern was that the bill only focuses on cellphones. \n Exceptions to this new measure would include contacting emergency services, operating amateur radio stations and two-way or citizens band radio services and while operating tow trucks and other emergency vehicles. \n According to the National Conference of State Legislatures 14 states currently ban any hand-held cellphone use while driving in a car; however, 37 states and D.C. ban all cellphone use by beginner or teen drivers, including Washington. Forty-six states prohibit texting messaging for all drivers. \n Republican Rep. Paul Harris said he wasn't planning on voting yes on the legislation until he was distracted by his phone while driving last week. \n He said he grabbed his phone to play a song and hit a cooler in the middle of the freeway. \n \"The cooler exploded all over the place,\" he said. \"I consider myself very lucky because it wasn't a car, it wasn't a deer, it wasn't a kid, it was a Styrofoam cooler that had fallen out of someone's car.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House votes to ban holding phones while driving"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Obama White House press secretary Josh Earnest participates in a forum called \"The Press & the Presidency,\" today at the John F. Kennedy School of Government on the campus of Harvard University, in Cambridge, Mass. \n CAMBRIDGE, Mass. >> Former Obama administration spokesman Josh Earnest says Republican President Donald Trump is cynically using the press while also relying on it to boost his image and appeal to the public. \n Earnest said Trump has a complicated relationship with the media. He said he doesn't believe Trump has any grand ambitions to do away with the First Amendment but lashes out when reporters don't echo his version of events. \n \"He doesn't want the news media to just go away. He just wants them to be nice to him. But that's not their job,\" Earnest said today during a Harvard University John. F. Kennedy School of Government forum on the press and the presidency. \n Earnest said a stark difference between Trump and Democratic former President Barack Obama is Obama relished the opportunity to marshal facts to make an argument. \n In contrast, when Trump is under pressure, Earnest said, his instinct is to create a distraction. He said that's what Trump did by accusing Obama of wiretapping his campaign while offering no proof. \n Earnest said no president has the authority to unilaterally wiretap someone. \n Earnest said one reaction he's seen to the Trump presidency is a renewed interest in newspapers, television news and other news outlets. \n He also said that the election of Trump is a reminder that elections matter \u2014 a message he said he sometimes had trouble impressing on younger voters. \n \"Somehow, I think I'm going to have a little easier time making that case before the next election,\" he said. \n He said one of the biggest changes he has seen in the relationship between the White House and the press corps is new technology. He said cellphones combined with social media platforms puts intense pressure on reporters to push out every new tidbit of information instantly. \n Despite the online technology, Earnest said, he still believes it's important to have a daily White House press briefing to let reporters press the administration on the issues of the day. \n \"There's something that's symbolically important about the briefing \u2014 the idea that there is a senior member of the White House staff who the president designates as the person who will every day prepare himself or herself to go out and speak on camera, on the record, and answer any question that any journalist can come up with,\" he said. \n Earnest was White House press secretary under Obama from 2014 until Trump took office in January. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-Obama spokesman says Trump is cynically using the press"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, center, reacted during the launch, Tuesday, of four missiles in an undisclosed location in North Korea. \n BEIJING >> A senior Chinese diplomat said today that tensions on the Korean peninsula were like \"two accelerating trains\" headed for collision, saying the way to defuse the crisis required action from both sides. \n Foreign Minister Wang Yi proposed that North Korea could suspend its nuclear and missile activities in exchange for a halt in joint military drills conducted by the U.S. and South Korea. \n He described escalating tensions between the North and Washington and Seoul to \"two accelerating trains, coming toward each other with neither side willing to give way.\" \n \"The question is: Are the two sides really ready for a head-on collision?\" Wang told reporters. \"Our priority now is to flash the red light and apply the brakes on both trains. \n In a briefing with reporters, Wang said China proposes that as a first step to defusing the looming crisis, the North might suspend its nuclear and missile activities if the U.S. and South Korea halted their military exercises. \n \"This suspension-for-suspension can help us break out of the security dilemma and bring the parties back to the negotiating table,\" Wang said, describing the approach as trying to address all parties' concerns in a \"synchronized and reciprocal\" manner. \n China has been stepping up pressure on North Korea, its once-close Communist ally, to give up its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. Last month, Beijing suspended all coal imports from North Korea for the rest of the year. \n China is North Korea's largest source of trade and aid, and the move deprives the North of an important source of foreign currency. Beijing wants the U.S. in return to restart long-stalled negotiations with North Korea to ease regional tensions. \n A White House official downplayed Wang's suggestion, saying China has made similar proposals in the past. The official was not authorized to discuss the policy publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n Wang, who answered a range of questions at a briefing on the sidelines of China's annual national legislative sessions, also urged South Korea to suspend deployment of a U.S. anti-missile system. \n Wang called the deployment a \"wrong choice,\" saying it is the biggest problem hurting relations between Beijing and Seoul. On Monday, U.S. missile launchers and other equipment needed for the system arrived in South Korea. \n Washington and Seoul say the system is defensive and not meant to be a threat to Beijing or Moscow. The U.S. military said THAAD can intercept and destroy short and medium-range ballistic missiles during the last part of their flights. China is opposed to the system, saying it would allow U.S. radar to peer deep into its territory and monitor its flights and missile launches. \n \"We urge some forces in South Korea not to keep insisting on taking this path, otherwise the result can only be damage to others and harm to yourself,\" Wang said. \n On Monday, China's foreign ministry said Beijing will take \"necessary measures\" to protect itself against the deployment of the system and warned that the U.S. and South Korea should be prepared to bear the consequences. \n Asked about the state of China's relations with the U.S. under President Donald Trump, Wang said the two countries' ties were transitioning steadily. \n Wang said China and the U.S. could become \"excellent partners\" if they had mutual respect and did not seek conflict with each other. He said the two sides should not seek to build one's success at the expense of the other and get past the differences in their political systems. \n \"The Chinese people have great confidence in our own social system and path,\" Wang said, referring to the country's authoritarian system of one-party rule. \"And we welcome efforts to build a better United States.\" \n Relations between the world's two largest economies have faced new uncertainties posed by Trump's accusations that China cheats at trade and his threats to raise import tariffs. Trump has also criticized China's activities in the South China Sea. \n Washington's pursuit of an \"America first\" foreign policy is raising questions about whether China would be trying to fill the void if the U.S. relinquishes its traditional global leadership role. \n Wang said Beijing did not seek such a role and instead wanted to shoulder greater responsibility. \n \"China believes in the equality of all countries, large and small, and we don't believe some countries should lead others,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China says N.Korea, U.S., S.Korea tensions headed for collision"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A North Korean embassy staff asks police if they are allowed to leave as police put a cordon at North Korean embassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, today. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> One day after a stunning breakdown in diplomatic ties, Malaysia said today that it wants to negotiate with Pyongyang despite an increasingly bitter dispute over the investigation into the killing of Kim Jong Nam, the long-exiled half brother of North Korea's ruler. \n Malaysia has said two female attackers wielding VX nerve agent killed Kim on Feb. 13 at a crowded airport in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia's investigation has infuriated North Korea, which has dismissed the inquiry as politically motivated. \n The dispute took a surprising turn on Monday, when North Korea announced that it was blocking all Malaysians from leaving the country until the dispute is resolved. Malaysia responded in kind and barred North Koreans from exiting its soil. \n Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said today that Malaysia is willing to negotiate. \n \"So far, we believe they are going to act rationally,\" he said. \"We believe what is important for us is to maintain our diplomatic relationship with them because I think what is important is the safety of our citizens in Pyongyang.\" \n Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has denounced North Korea's order \"an abhorrent act, effectively holding our citizens hostage\" and a violation of international law. \n \"I can't think of anything like this\" happening for years, said Lalit Mansingh, a New Delhi-based scholar and longtime top Indian diplomat, said of North Korea's directive. \"This is way out of normal diplomatic practice.\" \n But North Korea has a long history of surprising the international community. \n \"It's the North Korean way of doing things \u2014 dramatic intimidating gestures and then waiting for the other side to plead for some concessions,\" said Leszek Buszynski, a national security scholar at Australian National University who has written extensively on North Korean diplomacy. \n Officials in Kuala Lumpur say there are 11 Malaysians currently in North Korea: three working at the embassy, two U.N. employees and six family members. About 1,000 North Koreans are believed to be in Malaysia, until recently one of the few countries where North Koreans could travel without a visa. \n North Korea's surprise order came Monday, when the official Korean Central News Agency said the country was banning Malaysians from leaving \"until the safety of the diplomats and citizens of (North Korea) in Malaysia is fully guaranteed through the fair settlement of the case.\" \n It was not clear, however, what would constitute a \"fair settlement.\" \n North Korea said Malaysia's diplomats and citizens \"may work and live normally\" during the temporary exit ban. \n Malaysia is searching for seven North Korean suspects in connection with Kim's assassination, including a North Korean diplomat. Police say three suspects are believed to be in hiding at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, a hulking concrete mansion behind a wall streaked with water stains. \n National police chief Khalid Abu Bakar said Malaysia would not raid the embassy, which is protected under diplomatic law, but would wait for the suspects to emerge. \n \"We will wait. We will wait, and if it takes five years we will wait outside. Definitely somebody will come out,\" Khalid said. \n Malaysian police briefly blocked the embassy gates Monday with a pair of police cars, but within hours embassy cars were again freely going in and out. By late afternoon there were only a pair of Malaysian patrolmen waiting in a police car outside the compound. \n Malaysia has never directly accused North Korea of killing Kim, though it has said the two women who poisoned him were recruited by a team of North Koreans. Malaysia says Kim was killed with VX, a nerve agent and banned chemical weapon that causes convulsions and leaves victims unable to breathe. North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons, including VX. \n In the attack, grainy surveillance video shows a woman approaching Kim from behind in the airport terminal and reaching around to wipe something on his face. The other woman, who was apparently standing in front of Kim, cannot be seen in the video. \n The women, one from Vietnam and the other from Indonesia, were quickly caught and have been charged with murder. Both say they were duped into thinking they were playing a harmless prank. \n Custody of the body has become a flashpoint. Malaysia says it needs to conduct DNA tests to formally identify the body, but North Korea says it has no right to keep the body of a North Korean citizen. \n Kim, who was in his mid-40s, had lived abroad for years and had reportedly never met younger half brother, North Korean ruler Kim Jong Un. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Malaysia willing to negotiate with North Korea"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Flames and smoke envelope a grain elevator in Sitka, Kan., early today. Grass fires fanned by gusting winds scorched swaths of Kansas grassland Monday, forcing the evacuations of several towns and the closure of some roads. \n HUTCHINSON, Kan. >> Crews grappling with vexing wildfires that have charred hundreds of square miles of land in four states and killed six people soon may get a bit of a break: Winds are forecast to ease from the gusts that whipped the flames. \n Bill Bunting, forecast operations chief for the Oklahoma-based Storm Prediction Center, said today the powerful wind gusts that fanned the wildfires in Kansas, Colorado, Oklahoma and Texas should diminish to about 10 to 20 mph today. He said temperatures should top in the 70s, with afternoon humidity low. \n \"These conditions will make it somewhat easier for firefighting efforts, but far from perfect. The fires still will be moving,\" Bunting told The Associated Press. \"The ideal situation is that it would turn cold and rain, and unfortunately that's not going to happen.\" \n In addition to those four states, conditions were ripe for fires in Iowa, Missouri and Nebraska. That followed powerful thunderstorms that moved through the middle of the country overnight, spawning dozens of suspected tornadoes, according to the National Weather Service. \n Kansas wildfires have burned about 625 square miles of land and killed one person. The Kansas Highway Patrol said Corey Holt, of Oklahoma City, died Monday when his tractor-trailer jackknifed as he tried to back up because of poor visibility on a Kansas highway, and he succumbed to smoke after getting out of his vehicle. Two SUVs crashed into the truck, injuring six people, state trooper Michael Racy said. \n Most of the state's charred land is in Clark County, where 30 structures were damaged, said Allison Kuhns, a county emergency management office spokeswoman. About half of those structures are near Englewood, one of two communities evacuated. Kuhns said there also have been significant cattle losses as entire ranches were engulfed. \n That fire started in Oklahoma, where it burned an estimated 390 square miles in Beaver County. Officials say a separate blaze scorched more than 155 square miles of land in neighboring Harper County, Oklahoma, and was a factor in the death of a woman who had a heart attack while trying to keep her farm near Buffalo from burning. \n The largest evacuations elsewhere were in Reno County, Kansas, where 10,000 to 12,000 people voluntarily left their homes Monday night, said Katie Horner, a state Department of Emergency Management spokeswoman. She said 66 people were in shelters Tuesday in Hutchinson, 40 miles northwest of Wichita. \n Among them was Shelley Wilson, who fled Monday with her disabled son and pets from a blaze encircling her farm outside of Hutchinson. She returned later that night with her adult daughter to retrieve her tractor. \n \"I don't know if I have a home,\" Wilson said at the shelter Tuesday as her daughter did her best to lighten her mood. \"In case I needed to rebuild, I wanted to at least have my tractor.\" \n Retiree Sheryl Stessen said she grabbed her cat and fled her apartment on the outskirts of Hutchinson when she saw the fire quickly go from a puff of smoke to a big, orange ball. \n \"Most of us are generally grumpy,\" she said Tuesday. \"I just want to go home.\" \n Several hundred more people evacuated their homes in Russell, Ellsworth and Comanche counties, in central Kansas. \n In the Texas Panhandle, three fires burned about 500 square miles of land and killed at least four people. One of them near Amarillo threatened about 150 homes, while a larger fire in the northeast corner of the Panhandle near the Oklahoma border was 50 percent contained as of late Tuesday morning, according to Texas A&M Forest Service. That larger fire was responsible for a death on Monday, authorities said Tuesday without providing details. \n A wildfire in Gray County, also in the Texas Panhandle, killed three ranch hands trying to save cattle, said Judge Richard Peet, the county's head administrator. One of the three apparently died of smoke inhalation Monday night and the other two were badly burned and died on the way to hospitals, he said. \n Forest Service spokesman Phillip Truitt said as many as four firefighters were hurt battling the fires Monday. He provided no details on their conditions this morning. \n In northeastern Colorado near the Nebraska border, firefighters battled a blaze that burned more than 45 square miles and was 50 percent contained Tuesday. Officials said the fire had destroyed at least five homes and 15 outbuildings, with no serious injuries. \n Dry conditions and strong winds had put the region at risk for wildfires. All of eastern Colorado is classified as either moderately or abnormally dry along with major parts of Kansas, almost all of Oklahoma and some of northern Texas, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. \n After several years of drought, Kansas got good to great rain the last two summers. But the taller grass provides more fuel to burn. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wildfires in 4 states kill 6, force thousands from homes"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Deputy Attorney General-designate, federal prosecutor Rod Rosenstein, listens on Capitol Hill in Washington today during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> Democrats pushed today for a special prosecutor to examine the Trump administration's potential ties to Russia, using a confirmation hearing to urge the No. 2 pick at the Justice Department to consider handing over any such investigation to an independent overseer. \n \"We need steel spines, not weak knees when it comes to political independence in the Department of Justice,\" said Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the Senate Judiciary Committee's top Democrat. \n The remarks came during a hearing for Rod Rosenstein, a longtime federal prosecutor tapped for deputy attorney general, which instead became a referendum on Russian meddling in the presidential election. \n As deputy, Rosenstein would assume oversight of a federal investigation into Russian influence following the recusal last week of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who said he would step aside from any probes into the Trump campaign after revelations of unreported contacts with the Russian ambassador last year. \n Though repeatedly pressed by Democrats, Rosenstein would not commit to appointing a special prosecutor and said he was unaware of a basis to do so at the moment. \n Rosenstein responded in lawyerly fashion to hours of questioning, saying he had no direct knowledge of any Russia-related investigation and had not read the intelligence community's formal assessment that Russia interfered during the campaign on behalf of President Donald Trump. That review, from the country's intelligence agencies, concluded in January that Russian intelligence agencies were behind the hack of Democratic National Committee networks and had worked to harm Hillary Clinton's chances of election. \n He promised to handle that investigation like any other if evidence of criminal wrongdoing emerged. \n \"I don't know the details of what if any investigation is ongoing, but I can certainly assure you, if it's America against Russia or America against any other country I think everyone in this room knows which side I'm on,\" Rosenstein said. \n That commitment was not enough for some Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n Sen. Richard Blumenthal said he could not support Rosenstein's nomination \u2014 despite his apolitical reputation and service as a U.S. attorney under presidential administrations of both parties \u2014 unless Rosenstein could commit to recusing himself and appointing what some have taken to calling a special prosecutor \u2014 though special counsel is technically the correct title. \n \"I say so with some sadness and regret because of my respect for you, but this issue of principle is so profoundly important. Only you \u2014 only you \u2014 have the power to appoint a special prosecutor,\" said Blumenthal, D-Conn. \n He added: \"We are in an extraordinary time, careening toward a constitutional crisis with the intelligence agencies in complete agreement that the Russians launched a massive attack on our democracy.\" \n The committee chairman, Sen. Charles Grassley, said such calls were premature and that the appointment of a special counsel was not the best way to ensure transparency. \n \"There is no mandatory public report or other finding at the end of the investigation if no charges are filed. The investigations can just disappear into a black hole without the public ever understanding what the facts were,\" said Grassley, R-Iowa. \n Rosenstein passed up opportunities to criticize Trump for his unsubstantiated assertions on Twitter that President Barack Obama had ordered his phones tapped during the campaign, though Rosenstein did say that any such action would have to be done through a court order and with ample probable cause. \n Asked about any of his own contacts with Russian officials, Rosenstein said he had not knowingly had any such interactions, though he did acknowledge that as U.S. attorney, he has had meetings with visiting lawyers from abroad. \n \"Over the course of my career from time to time, I have spoken to groups of visiting lawyers and judges from foreign countries,\" Rosenstein said. \"It's certainly possible there may have been Russian officials there. But I don't recall any such meetings, no.\" \n The deputy attorney general is responsible for day-to-day operations and oversight of the Justice Department's law enforcement component agencies such as the FBI. \n Rosenstein has served as U.S. attorney for Maryland since 2005, having been appointed by President George W. Bush and then serving for the duration of the Obama administration. \n Rachel Brand, another former Justice Department attorney, also faced a confirmation hearing today for the job of associate attorney general, the department's No. 3 position. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democrats push No. 2 Justice pick for special Russia probe"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n State Sen. Breene Harimoto talks about his experience with pancreatic cancer and why he opposed a bill to allow terminally ill patients to receive medical aid in dying today at the Legislature. \n The Hawaii Senate passed a bill to allow terminally ill patients to receive medical aid in dying, one of hundreds of bills lawmakers passed today ahead of a legislative deadline. \n State Sen. Breene Harimoto voted against the measure after sharing a story about facing the prospect of his own death when he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. He said he's glad he didn't have the option of taking pills to end the his life when his pain and suffering reached a dark point. \n \"Life is a precious gift,\" Harimoto said. \"No matter how bad things may seem to be, that sense of hope is what keeps us all going. And unexplained miracles happen.\" \n State Sen. Rosalyn Baker said the bill is about giving people the choice to die surrounded by loved ones celebrating their last breaths, receiving hospice care or choosing other options. \n \"That's the ultimate choice. How are we going to meet our maker?\" Baker said. \n The following is a sampling of other bills that passed, and a few that died. \n SAVING OBAMACARE \n On the same day that federal lawmakers introduced plan to repeal and replace former President Barack Obama's signature health care law, Hawaii senators passed a bill to ensure parts of the Affordable Care Act remain in state law. The bill preserves the mandate that individuals buy health insurance and keeps tax credits for people with low to moderate incomes while preserving a host of benefits insurance plans must cover. \n FERTILITY TREATMENT PARITY \n Married heterosexual couples in Hawaii have long enjoyed a law that requires insurers to cover in vitro fertilization under certain conditions. But same-sex couples and single women are excluded from the law. A bill passed by the Senate seeks to extend that benefit beyond heterosexual married couples. \n PRESIDENTIAL TAX RETURNS \n The House and Senate both passed separate bills to require presidential candidates to release copies of federal tax returns after President Donald Trump refused to release his. But some in the House cautioned that the state should carefully choose its battles with Trump. \n SICK LEAVE \n Employers with more than 50 employees would be required to provide paid sick leave to some service workers under a bill passed by the Senate. Opponents warned of increased costs to businesses. \n NO SMOKING HERE \n Smoking in a car while a minor is present would be banned under a bill that passed in the Senate. The bill was supported by health groups and government agencies that want to protect youngsters from secondhand smoke. The Hawaii Smokers Alliance opposed the bill, saying government should not tell families how to raise their children. \n DIAGNOSING HOMELESSNESS \n A bill to classify homelessness as a medical condition and allow doctors to write prescriptions for housing was changed. It now requires the state auditor to study the possibility of using Medicaid funds to provide coverage for the treatment for homelessness. The bill was passed by the Senate. \n PROTECTING BIRDS \n Lawmakers want to protect native birds after several albatrosses died in 2015. A bill passed in the Senate would add Hawaii's indigenous birds to a law that makes cruelty to pets and horses a felony. \n BILLS THAT DIED \n OXYBENZONE BAN \n Lawmakers in the House and Senate proposed bans on the sale of sunscreens containing oxybenzone, which they believe may be damaging coral reefs. The bills to ban selling those sunscreens died. However, a Senate proposal to ban using sunscreens containing oxybenzone while on the beach or in the ocean survived. \n LEGALIZING PROSTITUTION \n A bill to legalize prostitution in Hawaii died after it didn't get a hearing. \n HIGHER WAGES \n Bills to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour also died. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii lawmakers pass aid in dying, Obamacare-type law"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ANCHORAGE, Alaska >> A pipeline spewing natural gas into Alaska's Cook Inlet may have started leaking in December, two months before the leak was spotted from the air, according to a federal pipeline safety office. \n The estimate of when gas started leaking into winter habitat for the endangered Cook Inlet beluga whales was issued in a proposed safety order last week by the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration that the agency confirmed today. \n Processed natural gas continues to leak from a Hilcorp Alaska LLC pipeline that supplies four oil platforms in the inlet south of Anchorage \u2014 at a rate estimated by the company of 210,000 to 310,000 cubic feet of gas daily. \n A Hilcorp helicopter crew Feb. 7 spotted gas bubbling to the surface about four miles off shore. \n However, the company in late January reported that it had detected increased gas flow through the pipeline in January and started looking for a leak, according pipeline safety office's report. \n A subsequent analysis of gas flow indicated the pipeline likely began leaking in December, the agency said. \n The agency late Friday issued the proposed safety order requiring the line to be repaired by May 1 or shut down. \n Hilcorp has 30 days to respond. In a statement this afternoon, company spokeswoman Lori Nelson said the safety of response personnel is the company's top priority. She said Hilcorp is pleased that the proposed safety order recognizes that immediate repair is not viable. \n The pipeline is in 80 feet of water. Repairs by divers cannot be made in current winter conditions that include sea ice, severe weather and extreme tides, according to Hilcorp. \n The company told the federal pipeline office safe diving operations cannot start until late March at the earliest. \n Shutting the gas pipeline down is not an option, Hilcorp said. Before the pipeline carried natural gas, it moved crude oil. Without pressure in the line, seawater could enter and allow residual crude oil to leak, the company said. \n Hilcorp purchased the pipeline and other oil and gas facilities from XTO Energy, Inc., in September 2015. The 8-inch line also leaked in June and August 2014. The leaks were 42 yards apart about two-thirds of a mile from the current leak. They were repaired with clamps. \n XTO Energy concluded that previous leaks were caused by rocks contacting the pipe in locations where the line was not continuously supported by seabed. \n Annual side-scan sonar or multi-beam echo-sounder surveys conducted by the company do not detect external loads on the pipe, eroded pipe, rock impingements, metal loss, dings or gouges, the federal pipeline office said. The agency called for creating modifications to the pipe to allow in-line inspections or alternative technologies. \n Besides endangered beluga whales, Cook Inlet is home to salmon and other fish. Hilcorp last week said its modeling consultants conclude that only tiny amounts of natural gas likely are dissolving into the water. \n The company said today that based on observations so far, the natural gas release does not pose a threat to the public or the environment. \n In a letter today to the Trump administration, however, seven environmental groups strongly disagreed. They called for the federal pipeline safety office to issue an emergency order shutting down the line. The leak is creating a low-oxygen dead zone that threatens belugas and other wildlife, the groups said. \n \"This dangerous leak could stop immediately if regulators did their job and shut down this rickety old pipeline,\" said Miyoko Sakashita of the Center for Biological Diversity. Her group is one of two that have given formal notice that they intend to sue Hilcorp Alaska over the leak. \n Hilcorp faces issues elsewhere in Alaska. \n The Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, which oversees oil and gas drilling and production on state and private lands, last week fined Hilcorp $200,000 for unsafe practices in September 2015 at the Milne Point oil field northwest of Prudhoe Bay. \n The commission said the company without authorization used nitrogen to clean a well. The gas entered an enclosed \"mud trailer\" with three workers inside and \"nothing but luck\" prevented their deaths, according to the commission. \n Hilcorp in a statement said it has taken steps to make sure similar incidents don't happen in the future. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alaska underwater pipeline leak may have started in December"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. speaks about health care today, during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> A powerful conservative backlash threatened to sink the new Republican health care bill today less than 24 hours after its launch, even as President Donald Trump and congressional leaders began trying to sell the legislation as the long-promised GOP cure for \"Obamacare.\" \n \"We're going to do something that's great and I'm proud to support the replacement plan released by the House of Representatives,\" Trump declared at the White House as he met today with the House GOP vote-counting team. \"We're going to take action. There's going to be no slowing down. There's going to be no waiting and no more excuses by anybody.\" \n Meanwhile, Vice President Mike Pence told GOP lawmakers at the Capitol this was their chance to scuttle President Barack Obama's 2010 law, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell forecast congressional passage by early April. \n But major obstacles loomed as key Republican lawmakers announced their opposition, and one conservative group after another torched the plan. The Club for Growth, Heritage Action for America, Americans for Prosperity and Tea Party Patriots variously derided the new bill as Obamacare Lite, Obamacare 2.0 and even RyanCare, in a dig at House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. \n The new GOP plan would repeal the current law's unpopular fines on people who don't carry health insurance. It also would replace income-based subsidies, which the law provides to help millions of Americans pay premiums, with age-based tax credits that may be skimpier for people with low incomes. Those payments would phase out for higher-earning people. \n The legislation also would limit future federal funding for Medicaid, which covers low-income people, about 1 in 5 Americans. And it would loosen rules that Obama's law imposed for health plans directly purchased by individuals. \n Republican supporters and opponents are all intent on reducing the role of government in health care, but some House conservatives say the new bill doesn't go nearly far enough. \n For example, they are focusing on the system of refundable tax credits they denounce as a costly new entitlement. They're demanding a vote on a straightforward repeal-only bill. \n At the White House meeting today, Trump made clear to House Republicans that he would be personally engaging with individual members who oppose the bill as leadership tries to round up votes, according to a lawmaker present who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private gathering. \n Not long after, Trump appeared to be making good on his promise, tweeting at Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, who has criticized the bill. \n \"I feel sure that my friend RandPaul will come along with the new and great health care program because he knows Obamacare is a disaster!\" the president wrote. The president plans to reconvene the group next week and will meet with conservative leaders to discuss the issue Wednesday. \n The concerted conservative opposition was a remarkable rebuke to legislation GOP leaders hope will fulfill seven years of promises to repeal and replace Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act, pledges that played out in countless Republican campaigns for House and Senate as well as last year's race for president. Instead, the groups that are uniting to oppose the new House legislation include many that sprang up to oppose passage of \"Obamacare\" in the first place. \n \"As the bill stands today, it is Obamacare 2.0,\" the billionaire Koch Brothers-backed Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce said in a statement. \"Millions of Americans would never see the improvements in care they were promised, just as Obamacare failed to deliver on its promises.\" \n Republicans are pushing forward even without official estimates from the Congressional Budget Office on the cost of the bill and how many people would be covered, although GOP lawmakers acknowledge they can't hope to match the 20 million covered under Obamacare. \n Democrats say the bill would leave many people uninsured, shifting costs to states and hospital systems that act as providers of last resort. The bill also adds up to big tax breaks for the rich, cutting more than 20 taxes enacted under Obama's heath law, with the bulk of the savings going to the wealthiest Americans. \n \"This is a tax cut for the wealthy with some health insurance provisions tacked alongside of it,\" said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. \n Many conservatives are hardly happier. \n The new legislation is \"not the Obamacare replacement plan, not the Obamacare repeal plan we've been hoping for. This is instead a step in the wrong direction,\" Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, said at an afternoon news conference with Rand Paul and members of the House Freedom Caucus. \n Caucus members command enough votes to take down the bill in the House, but the group's chairman, Rep. Mark Meadows of North Carolina, struck a conciliatory tone, emphasizing they are open to negotiation and view the leadership bill as a starting point. \n Notes of caution also came from GOP governors, with Ohio Gov. John Kasich arguing that phasing out expanded Medicaid coverage without a viable alternative is \"counterproductive\" and Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner saying he was \"very concerned\" that people will be \"left in the lurch\" under the House GOP plan. \n AARP also objected, saying the bill would \"dramatically increase health care costs for Americans aged 50-64\" and put the health care of millions at risk. The organization, which has nearly 38 million members, was pivotal to the passage of Obama's law in 2010. \n Meanwhile, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce sent congressional leaders a letter praising the GOP plan, calling it \"absolutely critical in taking steps to restore choice, flexibility and innovation to the nation's health care markets.\" \n Committee votes on the new bill are to begin Wednesday in the House, and GOP leaders hope to push it through the Senate soon thereafter. \n Even as some Republicans expressed doubts about whether that would be possible, Speaker Ryan said at an afternoon news conference, \"We'll have 218 when this thing comes to the floor, I can guarantee you that.\" That's the number of votes needed for passage. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Conservative backlash threatens to sink new GOP health bill"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "CANBERRA, Australia >> The Australian government minister in charge of the suspended seabed search for the Malaysia Airlines jet told victims' families and friends at an anniversary church service today that he remained hopeful that Flight 370 would be found. \n Darren Chester, minister for infrastructure and transport, and Angus Houston, the former Australian defense chief who coordinated the early months of the search efforts, were among around 100 who attended the private ceremony at St. John's Anglican Cathedral in the east city of Brisbane to mark the third anniversary of the mysterious tragedy. \n Several victims and relatives of the 239 passengers and crew aboard the Boeing 777 live in or near Brisbane. \n Chester told the congregation that included families of New Zealand victim Paul Weeks, and Australians Robert and Catherine Lawton and Rodney and Mary Burrows that searchers had tried their best to end the uncertainty surrounding the crash. \n \"While to date we have been unsuccessful, we remain hopeful that at some stage in the future, there will be a breakthrough, the aircraft will be found, and we will be able to answer more of your questions,\" Chester said. \n He told the gathering that included diplomats from Malaysia, China and New Zealand that a memorial to the lost passengers and crew would be erected in the west coast city of Perth which had been a base for Indian Ocean air and sea search crews. \n Chester said before the service that he understood the frustration that many would feel on the anniversary of the tragedy that there was no longer an active search for the crash site. \n Australia, Malaysia and China in January suspended the sonar search for the airliner after a sweep of 120,000 square kilometers (46,000 square miles) of the Indian Ocean southwest of Australia failed to find any trace. The airliner for unknown reasons flew far off course during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing on March 8, 2014. \n Chester declined to comment on a suggestion by some relatives of raising funds to continue a private search of the ocean floor. \n \"I'm not going to offer advice to those who want to fund-raise privately to extend the search, but from the Australians government's perspective, the search remains suspended,\" Chester told the AP. \n Australia's prime minister at the time of the tragedy, Tony Abbott, said in a newspaper interview last month that areas north and south of the searched zone should also be examined. \n \"When you've got nearly 240 people missing, the greatest mystery of modern times, as long as there is any reasonable prospective place to search, you just keep searching,\" Abbott told New Corp. Australia. \n Abbott, who remains a government lawmaker, said \"the most plausible scenario\" was that a pilot had deliberately crashed the plane. A pilot could have flown the plane further south than the area searched, Abbott said. Abbott had not responded by today to a request for comment. \n A lawsuit filed in the United States on behalf of the families of 44 people on board Flight 370 alleges a series of catastrophic electrical and other failures may have led to the crash. \n The lawsuit, filed Friday against Boeing in U.S. District Court in South Carolina, names seven malfunctions, from an electrical fire to depressurization of the plane's cabin, that could have led to the crew losing consciousness, the plane's transponder stopping its transmission and the plane flying undetected until it crashed after running out of fuel. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Australian service marks third anniversary of MH370 tragedy"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "PHOTO BY DENNIS ODA / doda@staradvertiser.com \n State of Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin, right, stands with members of Hawaii's Muslim community and other local leaders and community activists at a press conference at the Muslim Association of Hawai'i mosque in Manoa today. \n Hawaii is expected to become the first state in the nation to challenge President Donald Trump's revised travel ban. \n In a motion filed in U.S. District Court in Honolulu today, state attorneys said they would be asking a federal judge as soon as Wednesday to issue a temporary restraining order blocking the new executive order. \n Ismail Elshikh, imam of the Muslim Association of Hawai'i, is listed as co-plaintiff. \n Trump's revised order, issued Monday, continued to impose a 90-day ban on visitors from six Muslim-majority nations but removed Iraq from the list of countries of origin. It also exempts permanent residents and current visa holders, and discontinued language offering preferential status to persecuted religious minorities. \n State Attorney General Doug Chin could not be reached for comment late this afternoon, but in a news release this evening he confirmed the state's next move. \"The state of Hawaii intends to pursue legal action regarding President Trump's new travel ban, which was issued yesterday,\" he said. \"The state, together with the Department of Justice, asked Judge Derrick K. Watson for an expedited briefing schedule on a motion for temporary restraining order. If Judge Watson agrees, this schedule will allow the court to hear the state's motion before the new travel ban goes into effect on March 16, 2017.\" \n He said the state anticipates filing a second amended complaint and a motion for temporary restraining order soon. \n According to the web site of Katyal's firm, the state today filed a joint motion setting out a proposed court schedule. Under the schedule, the temporary restraining order would be filed Wednesday. The U.S. government would file their opposition Monday and oral argument would be held March 15. The district court has not yet ruled on the request, according to the web site. \n Chin appeared at a press conference at the Muslim Association of Hawai'i mosque in Manoa earlier today, but he did not mention the suit. \n Chin urged people to stand up against the executive order, which he earlier described as \"Muslim Ban 2.0.\" He said Trump has sold the executive order under the pretense that it is essential for national security and safety. But Chin said that's not what it's about. \n \"It's about discrimination,\" he said. \"It's discriminating against people based on their national origin or based on their religion. It's disenfranchising people who are not of the majority race or majority religion. It puts them in a place that smears their culture or a religion that is not accepted by everyone else. And that's wrong.\" \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii plans to be first state to challenge Trump's new travel ban"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes tells reporters he will hold an open hearing on March 20 to investigate alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election, on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> The top Republican on the House intelligence committee said he has not seen any evidence to back President Donald Trump's claim that the Obama administration wiretapped him during the 2016 campaign and suggested the news media were taking the president's weekend tweets too literally. \n \"The president is a neophyte to politics \u2014 he's been doing this a little over a year,\" Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., told reporters today. \"I think a lot of the things he says, I think you guys sometimes take literally.\" \n On Saturday, Trump tweeted: \"Is it legal for a sitting President to be 'wire tapping' a race for president prior to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW!\" He followed up with: \"How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!\" \n Top former Obama administration officials have refuted Trump's claims. Trump asked Nunes' committee and the other congressional committees investigating Russia's interference in the 2016 election to look into this matter. \n Nunes, who was a member of Trump's transition team, said whether the Obama administration had secret warrants to listen to Trump or his associates during the campaign would have been part of his committee's investigation regardless. \n Nunes also said the first public hearing of its investigation would be held March 20. And the initial invite list includes the directors of the FBI and National Security Agency as well as former top Obama administration intelligence officials and two cyber security experts. \n The committee has the power to subpoena officials to testify, but Nunes did not indicate that the committee had plans to do so and said he hoped they would come freely. \n The ranking Democrat on the committee, Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said he planned to ask FBI Director James Comey directly about the matter at the hearing, which is scheduled on the first day of a confirmation hearing for Supreme Court nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch. \n \"The president has said that this is a scandal that dwarfs Watergate \u2014 that his predecessor engaged in an illegal wiretap of his campaign. That is one potential scandal,\" Schiff said. \"The alternative is a different kind of a scandal and that is a scandal of a sitting U.S. president alleging that his predecessor engaged in the most unscrupulous and unlawful conduct. That is also a scandal if those allegations prove to be false.\" \n The House intelligence committee is one of three congressional committees investigating Russia's interference in the 2016 election. The Senate intelligence committee is conducting a separate investigation, and most of its hearings are expected to be closed to the public to discuss classified information. A subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee held its first hearing related to its investigation on today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House intel chair: Media take Trump tweets too literally"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY JASON LAQUIHON \n A still from a video of the crash on Farrington Highway on Monday. \n The man who died in a three-vehicle collision in Kapolei Monday afternoon has been identified as 65-year-old Keith Komatsubara of Pearl City, the Honolulu Medical Examiner said. \n Komatsubara was a retired Honolulu fire fighter. \n \"Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family during this difficult time,\" said Honolulu Fire spokesman Capt. David Jenkins. \n Honolulu police said medication or a medical condition of a another driver may have been a factor in the collision. \n The incident happened at about 3:20 p.m. Monday, when a vehicle traveling west driven by a 64-year-old Kahuku man veered left and crossed the center median and collided head-on with two vehicles traveling east on Farrington Highway, police said. \n Both the Kahuku man and a 48-year-old Waianae woman in a third vehicle were in serious condition when taken to the Queen's Medical Center. \n Police said their conditions have improved. \n Police closed part of Farrington Highway for close to four hours to investigate the crash near Honokai Hale. \n Police shut down both town-bound lanes and one Waianae-bound lane on Farrington near Laaloa Street until 7:30 p.m. \n \"I saw on the far left two cars in the bushes,\" said passerby Jason Laquihon. \n \"There was also a minivan in the middle of the road with the front end smashed.\" \n Laquihon, who was driving west, said one of the cars had the front driver-side roof smashed in. \n He said three ambulances from the Campbell area responded to the accident. \n Police reopened traffic flow at about 7:30 p.m. \n The death was the seventh traffic fatality on Oahu this year, compared to six for the same period last year. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Honolulu Medical Examiner identifies victim in fatal Farrington crash"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks to employees of the EPA in Washington on Feb. 21. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is moving to roll back federal fuel-economy requirements that would have forced automakers to increase significantly the efficiency of new cars and trucks, a key part of former President Barack Obama's strategy to combat global warming. \n The Environmental Protection Agency is close to an announcement reversing a decision made in the waning days of the Obama administration to lock in strict gas mileage requirements for cars and light trucks through 2025. \n Automakers asked EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to discard a Jan. 13 decision that requires the fleet of new cars to average a real-world figure of 36 miles per gallon. \n The automakers said the Obama rules could add thousands of dollars to the price of new cars and cost more than a million jobs. \n Lawmakers, industry groups and environmentalists say the administration has signaled it plans to take this step. An announcement could come as early as this week, although changes in the standards could take years to fully implement. \n A decision to review the Obama rule sets up a potential legal battle with California and other states that have adopted tough tailpipe standards for drivers. California has received a waiver allowing the state to enforce its standards, which have also been adopted by 12 other states, including New York and Massachusetts. \n The White House and the EPA declined to comment. \n \"Attacking the California waiver is a recipe for chaos,\" said Sen. Edward Markey, D-Mass., who has pushed for higher fuel standards. California and other states that have adopted its standard will almost certainly file a legal challenge if pushed by the EPA, Markey and other lawmakers said. \n \"The auto companies don't want 50 state standards,\" he said. \n Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., called her state \"a model for the country\" on environmental standards and said she strongly opposes any attempt to \"roll back the progress we've made. That's counterproductive and could absolutely be harmful to the health and well-being of the residents of our state and the people of our nation.\" \n The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents a dozen major car manufacturers, including General Motors, Ford and Toyota, declined to comment. \n But in a Feb. 21 letter to Pruitt, the group said the EPA's Jan. 13 decision on fuel economy \"may be the single most important decision that EPA has made in recent history.\" The alliance urged Pruitt to reconsider the plan, which it said could \"depress an industry that can ill-afford spiraling regulatory costs.\" \n The automakers estimated they would have to spend a \"staggering\" $200 billion between 2012 and 2025 to comply with the tailpipe emissions rule \u2014 far more than industry would spend under the Clean Power Plan, Obama's signature effort to reduce carbon pollution from coal-fired power plants. Trump is also expected to roll back the power-plant rule in coming days. \n Markey and other Democratic senators criticized the EPA emissions review before it has even been issued. \n \"President Trump is waging a war on the environment, and he wants EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to make our strong fuel economy emissions standards his latest victim,\" Markey said at a news conference today. \n Trump and Pruitt \"want to pump the brakes on fuel efficiency standards, throw us into reverse and recklessly roll back down the road we just came from,\" said Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore. \"It's bad for our economy, it's bad for the environment and it's bad for middle-class families.\" \n The fuel-economy regulations for model years 2017-2025 were imposed in 2012 as one of Obama's major initiatives to reduce global warming. \n Seven days before Obama left office, the EPA decided to keep the requirements for model years 2022 to 2025 after completing a legally required review. The standards are flexible and automakers can meet them with existing technology, the agency said, adding that its review was thorough. \n But the industry contends the decision was rushed to beat the change in administrations, noting that the original timeline called for a review by early 2018. Trump, a billionaire businessman who has vowed to roll back a host of regulations, is considered to be more favorable to the industry than Obama. \n The trade groups said the January rule did not account for cheaper gasoline that has helped fuel consumers' love for gas-guzzling trucks and SUVs over more efficient cars. When the standards were conceived in 2012, gas was $3.60 per gallon, compared with around $2.30 currently. In 2012, more than half the new vehicles sold in the U.S. were cars. Now, six of every 10 are trucks or SUVs, making the average fuel-economy figure more difficult to achieve. \n The industry contends the Obama standards will drive up new car prices, while the EPA under Obama said gasoline cost savings will offset nominally higher vehicle prices. \n As a practical matter, experts on both sides say it could take years for the Trump administration to change the standards, if it decides to. The EPA would have to produce data showing the change was justified and overcome an almost certain legal challenge from states and environmental groups. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump set to roll back federal fuel-economy requirements"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The seal of the Central Intelligence Agency at CIA headquarters in Langley, Va. in April. \n NEW YORK >> Maybe the CIA is spying on you through your television set after all. \n Documents released by WikiLeaks allege a CIA surveillance program that targets everyday gadgets ranging from smart TVs to smartphones to cars. Such snooping, WikiLeaks said, could turn some of these devices into recorders of everyday conversations \u2014 and could also circumvent data-scrambling encryption on communications apps such as Facebook's WhatsApp. \n WikiLeaks is, for now, withholding details on the specific hacks used \"until a consensus emerges\" on the nature of the CIA's program and how the methods should be \"analyzed, disarmed and published.\" But WikiLeaks \u2014 a nonprofit that routinely publishes confidential documents, frequently from government sources \u2014 claims that the data and documents it obtained reveal a broad program to bypass security measures on everyday products. \n MORE PRIVACY CLASHES \n If true, the disclosure could spark new privacy tensions between the government and the technology industry. Relations have been fraught since 2013, when former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden disclosed secret NSA surveillance of phone and digital communications. \n Just last year, the two sides feuded over the FBI's calls for Apple to rewrite its operating system so that agents could break into the locked iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino attackers. The FBI ultimately broke into the phone with the help of an outside party; the agency has neither disclosed the party nor the nature of the vulnerability, preventing Apple from fixing it. \n According to WikiLeaks, much of the CIA program centered on dozens of vulnerabilities it discovered but didn't disclose to the gadget makers. Common practice calls for government agencies to disclose such flaws to companies privately, so that they could fix them. \n Instead, WikiLeaks claims, the CIA held on to the knowledge in order to conduct a variety of attacks. As a result, tech companies such as Apple, Google and Microsoft haven't been able to make the necessary fixes. \n \"Serious vulnerabilities not disclosed to the manufacturers places huge swathes of the population and critical infrastructure at risk to foreign intelligence or cyber criminals who independently discover or hear rumors of the vulnerability,\" WikiLeaks wrote in a press release. \"If the CIA can discover such vulnerabilities so can others.\" \n A BIG YAWN TO SOME \n Not everyone is worried, though. \n Alan Paller, director of research for the cybersecurity training outfit SANS Institute, said the case boils down to \"spies who use their tools to do what they are paid to do.\" He said criminals already have similar tools \u2014 and he's more worried about that. \n Rich Mogull, CEO of the security research firm Securosis, said that agencies gathering intelligence on other organizations and governments need, by definition, technical exploits that aren't public. \n If they're authentic, the leaked CIA documents frame a stark reality: It may be that no digital conversation, photo or other slice of life can be shielded from spies and other intruders prying into smartphones, personal computers, tablets or just about device connected to the internet. \n \"It's getting to the point where anything you say, write or electronically transmit on a phone, you have to assume that it is going to be compromised in some way,\" said Robert Cattanach, a former U.S. Department of Justice attorney who now specializes in cybersecurity and privacy for the law firm Dorsey & Whitney. \n SIDESTEPPING ENCRYPTION \n WikiLeaks claims the hacks allowed the CIA to collect audio and other messages from data-scrambling communication apps such as WhatsApp, Signal, Telegram and Confide by intercepting data before it is encrypted or after it's decoded. The CIA didn't appear to compromise the apps themselves, but rather the phone's underlying operating system. \n WikiLeaks says the CIA had separate teams looking for vulnerabilities in iPhones and Android phones and also targeted tablets such as iPads. According to WikiLeaks, the vulnerabilities were discovered by the CIA itself or obtained from other government agencies and cyberweapon contractors. \n CARS, TRUCKS AND TVS \n WikiLeaks also claims that the CIA worked with U.K. intelligence officials to turn microphones in Samsung smart TVs into listening devices. The microphones are normally there for viewers to make voice commands, such as requests for movie recommendations. If the TV is off, there's no listening being done. \n But WikiLeaks claims that a CIA hack makes the target TV appear to be off when it's actually on \u2014 and listening. WikiLeaks says the audio goes to a covert CIA server rather than a party authorized by Samsung. In such cases, audio isn't limited to TV commands but could include everyday conversations. \n Other tools in the CIA's arsenal target PCs running Microsoft's Windows system, according to WikiLeaks, which says many of the attacks are in the form of viruses designed to spread through CDs and USB drives. \n WikiLeaks also says the CIA was also targeting control systems used by cars and trucks. Although WikiLeaks didn't have details on how that might be used, it said the capability might allow the CIA to \"engage in nearly undetectable assassinations.\" \n Microsoft said it was aware of the reports and was looking into them. Apple, Google and Samsung didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. In a statement, General Motors said it would be premature to comment on the documents, including its authenticity. But GM added that it knew of no injuries or death resulting from the hacking of a vehicle. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "WikiLeaks: CIA has targeted TVs, phones, and cars for snooping"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "RICK WINTERS / WEST HAWAII TODAY \n Meadow Gold Dairy Pure 2 percent milk sits on the shelf at Safeway in Kailua-Kona in February. \n The state Department of Health said today that Meadow Gold Dairies may resume selling 2 percent reduced-fat milk processed at its Honolulu plant after sales were suspended more than a week ago because of signs of potential contamination. \n Meadow Gold, a brand of Dallas-based Dean Foods Co, received a cease-and-desist order on Feb. 27 from the Hawaii Department of Health (DOH) to stop sales of the 2 percent milk in response to milk samples exceeding limits for coliform bacteria \u2014 an indicator of contamination. The DOH tests of the 2 percent milk on Jan. 19, Feb. 6 and 22 showed coliform counts of nearly 15 times the maximum allowed. \n The maximum allowed coliform limit for pasteurized milk is 10 coliforms per milliliter. \n DOH said today that tests conducted on March 1, 2 and 6 found the 2 percent milk in compliance with coliform counts of less than 1 coliform per milliliter. \n Reace Smith, spokeswoman for Meadow Gold owner Dean Foods, said Meadow Gold fixed an equipment problem that led to the earlier results. \n Smith said the milk was never recalled or pulled from the market. \n \"We were able to continue supplying our neighbors with additional milk from our plants on the Big Island and the mainland,\" she said in an email. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State lifts suspension on Meadow Gold's 2 percent milk"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KEVIN OLSON \n Vehicles were stuck during flooding this afternoon in South Kihei. \n COURTESY KEVIN OLSON \n Flood waters rose this afternoon in South Kihei. \n COURTESY NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE HONOLULU \n Radar shows storms over Hawaii this afternoon. \n Update Thursday 5:15 a.m. \n A flash flood watch for all islands has been extended through this afternoon. \n \"Flash flooding potential will remain high due to a combination of an upper disturbance over the region and plenty of lingering moisture and instability,\" the National Weather Service said in an alert. \n Update 9:30 p.m. \n More rain is expected for Oahu and possibly Kauai on Thursday as a band of moisture was moving northwards over the islands. \n \"Unsettled weather, with heavy rain and thunderstorms, will prevail through Thursday,\" the National Weather Service said. \n However, conditions were expected to improve for the weekend with light winds, but possibly humid conditions, the weather service said. \n Tonight, a flash flood watch remained in effect for the entire state. \n In addition, a large northwest swell was spreading down the island chain. \n Forecasters issued a high surf warning that was in effect until 6 p.m. Thursday for north- and west-facing shores of Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, and Molokai, and north-facing shores of Maui with surf of 25 to 30 feet. The surf was expected to decrease to 20 to 25 feet Thursday. \n A high surf advisory was in effect for the northern shores of Hawaii island through 6 p.m. Thursday with surf reaching 10 to 15 feet. \n A high wind warning and a winter storm warning also were in effect until 6 p.m. Thursday for Big Island summits. \n Winds were forecast to be 30 to 50 mph with 70 mph gusts. Delay travel to the summit areas until the winds subside, the weather service said. \n The winter storm warning said snowfall of three to six inches was possible with poor visibility and icy roads. \n Update 6 p.m. \n The National Weather Service has issued a flood advisory for Maui until 8:45 p.m. and a winter storm warning for the Big Island summits until Thursday evening. \n \"At 5:43 p.m., radar indicated that rainfall has temporarily decreased across windward east Maui, though streams remain elevated. Additional heavy showers are expected to redevelop into the evening,\" the flood advisory said. \n The advisory covers Haiku-Pauwela, Pauwela, Huelo, Nahiku, Kipahulu, Hana, Kailua, Wailua and Haleakala National Park. \n The winter storm warning is in effect until 6 p.m. Thursday for summits above 12,000 feet. Forecasters said up to 6 inches of snow is possible and southwest winds from 30 to 50 mph, with gusts up to 70 mph. A high wind warning is also in effect for the area for the same time period. \n The entire state remains under a flash flood watch through late tonight. The heavy-rain threat was concentrated near Maui and the Big Island, but \"this band is expected to move north tonight, potentially shifting the threat of heavy rain to Kauai and Oahu,\" forecasters said. \n Also, a high surf warning is in effect until 6 p.m. Thursday for north- and west-facing shores of Niihau, Kauai, Oahu and Molokai, and northern shores of Maui with waves up to 30 feet, decreasing to 20 to 25 feet on Thursday. Northern shores of the Hawaii island are under a high surf advisory, with waves up to 15 feet. \n Update 12 p.m. \n A high surf warning is in effect for most islands and weather officials expect surf to be even bigger than originally forecast. \n The affected areas remain the same, except for the addition of the west-facing shores of Oahu, but surf up to 25 to 30 is expected today. \n Also, a high surf advisory is scheduled to go into effect at 6 p.m. for the north and east shores of Hawaii island. Surf in those areas is expected to reach 10 to 15 feet. \n The advisory is scheduled to expire at 6 a.m. Thursday. \n Update Wednesday 5:00 a.m. \n A flash flood watch remained in effect through late tonight, the National Weather Service said. \n Locally heavy showers and thunderstorms could develop throughout the islands today as a band of moisture stalled over Maui and Hawaii island moves north over the rest of the islands later today, forecasters said. \n A high surf warning for most islands is scheduled to take effect at 10 a.m. today and is scheduled through 6 a.m. Thursday. \n Weather officials expect surf to peak at up to 20 to 25 feet in warning areas. \n Affected areas include the north and west shores of Niihau, Kauai and Molokai and north shores of Oahu and Maui. \n Update 7:30 p.m. \n The state remained under a flash flood watch through late Wednesday night, the National Weather Service said. \n A flash flood warning for Maui expired at 7:30 p.m. \n While heavy showers could develop over all the islands, the main threat for heavy rain will be along a band of moisture stalled over Maui and the northern part of Hawaii island, the weather service said. \n That band could drift northward tonight. \n The weather service warned that heavy downpours could lead streams to quickly overflow and cause life-threatening flash flooding. \n Update 5 p.m. \n The island of Maui is under a flash flood warning until 7:30 p.m., forecasters said. \n The warning includes, but is not limited to, Kahului, Kihei, Waikapu, Maalaea, Pauwela, Wailea, Huelo, Paia, Makawao, Puunene, Kula and Waiehu. \n \"At 4:37 p.m., flooding from Kulanihakoi Gulch has closed South Kihei Road between Kaonoulu and Kulanihakoi Street,\" the warning from the National Weather Service said. \"Heavy rainfall is also moving over the leeward Haleakala slopes from the southwest. This rainfall can produce flash flooding in normally dry gulches from Makena to Kihei and in the Keokea and Kula areas of Upcountry Maui.\" \n Maui Police said this afternoon that sections of South Kihei Road were closed due to flooding, with water up to 2 feet deep in some areas. \n The entire state is under a flash flood watch until Wednesday night. \n Update 4:10 p.m. \n The entire state is under a flash flood watch until late Wednesday night, forecasters at the National Weather Service in Honolulu said this afternoon. \n \"While isolated heavy showers could develop over all islands, the main threat for heavy showers and thunderstorms will be along a band of moisture currently stalled over Maui and northern Big Island. This band may drift northward on Wednesday night,\" the advisory said. \n East Maui also remains under a more-immediate flood advisory. \n Maui Police said this afternoon that sections of South Kihei Road were closed due to flooding, with water up to 2 feet deep in some areas. \n Previous coverage \n The National Weather Service in Honolulu has issued a flood advisory for East Maui this afternoon. \n The advisory, which is in effect until 5:15 p.m., includes Kahului, Kihei, Pauwela, Wailea, Huelo, Paia, Makawao, Puunene, Kula, Pukalani, Haliimaile and Ulupalakua. \n \"At 2:20 p.m., radar indicated areas of heavy showers and thunderstorms along both windward and leeward slopes of Haleakala. The heaviest showers were producing rain rates in excess of 2 inches per hour,\" the advisory said. \"Expect continued areas of heavy showers and possible rises in streams through the afternoon.\" \n Forecasters said the advisory maybe extended if heavy rain persists. \n The weather service also issued a wind advisory for Big Island summits until 6 p.m. Wednesday, saying southwest winds as high as 50 mph are expected. \"Motorists, especially those in high profile vehicles, are urged to drive with extra caution,\" the advisory said. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "More rain forecast for Oahu, Kauai"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Responders works the scene where a train hit a bus in Biloxi, Miss., today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Biloxi firefighters assist injured passengers after their charter bus collided with a train in Biloxi, Miss., today. \n BILOXI, Miss. >> A freight train smashed into a charter bus in a coastal Mississippi city today, pushing the bus 300 feet down the tracks and leaving at least four people dead, authorities said. Rescuers spent more than an hour removing passengers, cutting through the bus's heavily damaged frame to extract the last two. \n The bus could be seen straddling the tracks, with a CSX Transportation locomotive pushed up against its left side. The bus was apparently stopped on the tracks when the 52-car train, pulled by three locomotives, slammed into it, said Biloxi Police Chief John Miller. \n \"We're not sure why,\" Miller said. \"We don't know if there were mechanical issues or what was taking place.\" \n Miller said passengers on the Echo Transportation bus had come from Austin, Texas, carrying passengers to one of Biloxi's eight casinos. Ameet Patel, senior vice president of regional operations for Penn National Gaming, owner of Hollywood Gulf Coast Casino in Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi Casino, said the bus was traveling from the Hollywood casino to the Boomtown casino at the time of the crash. \n \"It's a terrible tragedy,\" Miller said. \"I know there's a lot of families that are going to be impacted here.\" \n There were conflicting reports of the number killed in the crash. Officials initially said four people died and then revised it down to three. But Vincent Creel, a spokesman for the city of Biloxi, later said after consulting with the coroner's office that four were killed. \n Creel emphasized it's a \"very fluid situation.\" \n \"Any time you have a major incident like this, the information can change,\" he said. \n The names of the dead have not been released. \n The bus was carrying people on a trip organized by a Texas senior center. A flier for the tour says some passengers boarded Sunday in Austin, Texas, and others boarded about 30 miles east in Bastrop, Texas. \n Michelle Crowley of the Biloxi fire department said 40 people were injured; of those, seven were in critical condition. \n A woman who lives about a block from where the train and bus finally came to a stop after the train crashed into the bus says she heard a \"loud boom\" and knew immediately what had happened. \n Cecelia McDonald said she ran out of her house and saw a scene of carnage. \n Witnesses told the Sun Herald of Biloxi that the bus was stuck on the tracks for about five minutes before he saw the train hit it. Mark Robinson said some people were getting off the bus as the driver tried to move it, and at least one person was shoved under the bus when the train hit. A nearby car was used as a stepladder after the crash to get people off the bus, and emergency workers pulled passengers through windows. \n Robinson said he thinks the train track, which is on an embankment, poses safety issues. \n In addition to bells, warning lights and crossing arms, the crossing has yellow signs warning drivers that it has low ground clearance. \n \"It's too steep there,\" Robinson said. \n Biloxi Fire Chief Joe Boney says rescuers needed one hour and four minutes to clear everyone from the wreckage. Two people had to be cut out of the bus. \n Creel, the city spokesman, said 48 passengers and the driver were on the bus; a bus manifest had listed 50 passengers but two of them did not make the trip. \n Medical workers from a hospital blocks away set up a triage area at the scene, and helicopters carried some of the passengers to other hospitals. \n The train was headed from New Orleans to Mobile, Alabama, at the time of the crash, said CSX spokesman Gary Sease. He said the train crew was not injured. The single track is the CSX mainline along the Gulf Coast, passing through densely populated areas of southern Mississippi. \n Federal Railroad Agency records show 10 trains a day typically use the track, with a maximum speed of 45 mph. Records show there have been 16 accidents at the crossing since 1976, including in 1983 and 2003, each of which involved one fatality. A delivery truck was also struck at the same crossing in January, WLOX-TV reports. No one was injured in that crash. \n The bus was marked as belonging to Echo Transportation, which Texas corporate records show is a unit of a company called TBL Group, based in Grand Prairie, near Dallas. \n \"We can't confirm anything at this point,\" said Elisa Fox, a lawyer for the bus company. \"We're trying to mobilize to assess the situation.\" \n Federal Railroad Administration spokesman Marc Willis said the agency is sending three inspectors to investigate, while Mississippi is sending one. The National Transportation Safety Board said it is also investigating. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Train hits bus, killing 4 passengers on senior center trip"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Skyler Jackson salvaged items from a friend's destroyed home today after a tornado tore through Oak Grove, Mo., Monday night. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kadin Lance, right, and his brother Carter Lance picked up debris at a friend's destroyed home today after a tornado damaged tore through Oak Grove, Mo., Monday night. \n KANSAS CITY, Mo. >> Mark and Jennifer Swartz moved into their first home in November. Today, only a section of floor was left of their three-bedroom, two-bath house in Oak Grove, Missouri, after a storm system that dropped more than 30 tornadoes across the Midwest tore it apart. \n \"It's all we got left, just a slab,\" Swartz said as he surveyed the damage to his home in the town about 25 miles east of Kansas City, Missouri. \"Right now, I'm in total shock. We're blown away, figuratively and literally.\" \n Despite the destruction, Swartz said he and his wife felt blessed by God because they were eating dinner at a restaurant Monday night when the storm hit. Their home had no basement, so they would have had nowhere to hide. \n \"If we'd been here, we'd be dead,\" he said, adding, \"We'll try to pick up the pieces and move on.\" \n The Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Oklahoma, said dozens of tornadoes struck overnight in Missouri, Kansas, Iowa and Illinois. The National Weather Service was assessing the exact number and strength of twisters Tuesday. The same storm system brought huge hailstones and powerful winds as far south as the Ozark Mountains in Arkansas and as far north as Wisconsin. \n The Swartz house was one of 483 homes and 10 to 12 commercial buildings with some type of damage in Oak Grove, said Sni Valley Fire Protection District Chief Carl Scarborough. Twelve people were treated for injuries that weren't life-threatening, he said. \n \"It looks like the injuries are minimal so, based on some of the damage I've seen, it's rather amazing\" that no one died, Oak Grove Mayor Jeremy Martin said in a Tuesday morning news conference. \n Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens declared a state of emergency and surveyed the damage in Oak Grove on Tuesday. \n The National Weather Service said Tuesday that the Oak Grove tornado was an EF3, with an estimated peak wind of 152 mph. \n In Smithville, Missouri, an EF2 tornado with peak winds of 132 mph, damaged or destroyed between 60 and 70 homes, Police Chief Jason Lockridge said. The damage will be \"well north of seven figures\" in the town of around 9,000 residents about 25 miles north of Kansas City. No serious injuries were reported. \n A suburban Kansas City airport was hit by straight-line winds averaging 80 to 85 mph, not a tornado, the weather service said. The Johnson County Executive Airport in Olathe, Kansas, reopened to limited air traffic but remained closed to the public Tuesday. Nine public and three private hangars were damaged, with one demolished, and officials were still working to determine how many airplanes were damaged. \n About 46 homes sustained some damage, with a handful having major damage, in the nearby suburb of Leawood, Kansas, said Johnson County spokeswoman Sharon Watson. No injuries were reported in Olathe or Leawood. \n Police said several homes, barns and sheds were damaged in rural areas near Plattsburg and Lathrop in Missouri, and four people were treated for minor injuries. \n EF1 tornadoes, which have wind speeds of 86 mph to 110 mph, were reported in three Missouri communities: the Kansas City suburb of Lee's Summit, Macks Creek in southwest Missouri and Wentzville near St. Louis. \n In northeast Missouri, Shelby County canceled classes after strong winds damaged several school buildings. And in Odessa, about 40 miles east of Kansas City, people were told to boil their water because the city's water treatment plant was damaged. \n In Iowa, where hurricane-force winds were reported, the National Weather Service in Davenport confirmed three injuries and 80 homes damaged in Muscatine from a tornado that traveled nearly 2 miles leaving a swath of damage 200 yards wide. The EF2 tornado struck Monday night with peak winds of 115 miles per hour. \n Another EF2 tornado swept along 25 miles through Blue Grass, northwest Davenport and Eldridge damaging a home, farm buildings, trees and power poles. A suspected tornado also damaged a school in the south-central Iowa community of Seymour. \n Minnesota got hit with two tornadoes Monday evening \u2014 the earliest twisters to ever strike the state. Forecasters say one damaged buildings and took down trees and power lines near Zimmerman, about 35 miles north of Minneapolis-St. Paul. The second caused damage in Clarks Grove, about 15 miles north of Albert Lea in southern Minnesota. \n The storm system was weakening as it moved to the east but the Storm Prediction Center said parts of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama could see severe thunderstorms today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Storm system drops more than 30 tornadoes on Midwest"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "UPDATE: 1:20 p.m. \n A flood advisory is in effect for Maui until 4 p.m. today. \n The National Weather Service issued the advisory at around 1 p.m. after radar indicated heavy rain falling at 2 to 3 inches per hour along the leeward slopes of Haleakala. \n Locations in the advisory include but are not limited to Kahului, Kihei, Pukalani, Haliimaile, Pauwela, Wailea, Huelo, Keanae, Haiku-Pauwela, Paia, Makawao and Puunene. \n PREVIOUS COVERAGE \n An approaching large northwest swell could bring surf up to 20 feet to some shores and prompted forecasters today to issue a high surf advisory for most islands. \n National Weather Service officials expect the swell to bring surf up to 15 to 20 feet along the north and west shores of Kauai County and the north shores of Oahu, Maui and Molokai. Oahu's leeward coast could see surf up to 10 to 15 feet, forecasters said. \n The advisory is scheduled to go into effect at 10 a.m. Wednesday and run through 6 p.m. Thursday. \n \"Expect strong breaking waves, shore break and strong longshore rip currents making swimming difficult and dangerous,\" weather officials said in the advisory. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Approaching swell could bring high surf; Maui under flood advisory"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "The state Department of Health's Clean Water Branch posted advisory signs at various beaches on the Big Island and Maui to notify the public of high levels of enterococci. \n Stuart Yamada, chief of the Environmental Management Division, said the high count is due to storm water runoff associated with last week's heavy rainfall. \n Water samples collected Mar. 2 showed bacterial levels at Kihei (South) at 1,184 colony-forming units (cfu) per 100 milliliters, far exceeding the recreational water quality standard of 130 cfu per 100 milliliters. At Launiupoko Beach Park, the count was 364 cfu. \n On the Big Island, water samples collected at Kona Coast Beach Park indicated increased levels of enterococci at 384 cfu. \n Health officials warn the public that contact with the water may cause nausea, stomach pains, diarrhea, fever or infection to the eyes, ears nose and throat. \n The Clean Water Branch visited affected beaches Monday to collect water samples to determine whether there has been a drop in the bacteria count. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High bacteria levels prompt warning signs at Big Isle, Maui beaches"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided today by the Thoiry zoo shows the rhinoceros Vince, center, at the zoo, west of Paris. \n PARIS \u00bb A zoo director says a 5-year-old rhinoceros at the wildlife park he runs near Paris has been shot three times in the head by assailants who stole the animal's horn. \n Thierry Duguet told The Associated Press that poachers broke into the Thoiry Zoo overnight and used a chain saw to remove the horn from the rhino named Vince. Zookeepers discovered his carcass Tuesday in the rhinoceros' enclosure. \n Duguet says police are investigating and the suspects still are at large. \n The Thoiry Zoo is famous for its safari park that can only be explored from inside a vehicle. \n According to Le Parisien newspaper, a rhinoceros horn can be sold for up to 40,000 euros on the black market because of a strong demand linked to the belief that the horns have aphrodisiac powers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rhinoceros shot, killed for horn at French wildlife park"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An aerial photo, taken Feb. 13, shows the site where the final phase of the Dakota Access Pipeline will be built with boring equipment routing the pipeline underground and across Lake Oahe. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A large crowd representing a majority of the remaining Dakota Access Pipeline protesters, on Feb. 22, marched out of the Oceti Sakowin camp before the 2 p.m. local time deadline set for evacuation of the camp mandated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers near Cannon Ball, N.D. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A group protesting the Dakota Access oil pipeline set up teepees on the National Mall near the Washington Monument in Washington today. A federal judge declined to temporarily stop construction of the final section of the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, clearing the way for oil to flow as soon as next week. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> A federal judge declined today to temporarily stop construction of the final section of the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, clearing the way for oil to flow as soon as next week. \n The Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes pledged to continue their legal fight against the project, even after the pipeline begins operating. \n The tribes had asked U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in Washington to direct the Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw permission for Texas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners to lay pipe under Lake Oahe in North Dakota. The stretch under the Missouri River reservoir in southern North Dakota is the last piece of construction for the $3.8 billion pipeline to move North Dakota oil to Illinois. \n The tribes argued that a pipeline under the lake violates their right to practice their religion, which relies on clean water, and they wanted the work suspended until the claim could be resolved. \n When they filed their lawsuit last summer, the tribes argued that the pipeline threatens Native American cultural sites and their water supply. Their religion argument was new, however, and disputed by both the Corps and the company. \n Boasberg in his ruling today said the tribes didn't raise the religion argument in a timely fashion. He also questioned its merit. \n \"Although the tribe's members may feel unable to use the water from Lake Oahe in their religious ceremonies once the pipeline is operational, there is no specific ban on their religious exercise,\" he said. \n The judge's decision came as American Indians from across the country gathered in Washington to protest President Donald Trump's policies encouraging oil pipelines. Native Americans are planning four days of activities including lobbying lawmakers and culminating in a march on the White House. Tribal members and supporters plan to camp each day on the National Mall, with teepees, a ceremonial fire, cultural workshops and speakers. \n \"Trump and his friends at Big Oil have not won,\" Standing Rock Sioux Chairman Dave Archambault said in response to Boasberg's ruling, adding that \"the bigger legal battle is ahead \u2014 we stand strong.\" \n Standing Rock attorney Jan Hasselman and Cheyenne River attorney Nicole Ducheneaux said they hadn't decided whether to appeal Boasberg's ruling. In the meantime, they said, they'll continue to argue for more environmental study and for the government to recognize the tribe's treaty rights to clean water. \n They don't expect a court hearing until at least April \u2014 long after pipeline operations are expected to begin \u2014 but Boasberg \"can order the pipeline turned back off, and that's what we'll be asking for,\" Hasselman said. \n Work under Lake Oahe had been held up in the courts until Trump last month instructed the Corps to advance construction. The Army is involved because its engineering branch manages the river and its system of hydroelectric dams, which is owned by the federal government. \n The company began drilling under the lake Feb. 8. Company attorney William Scherman said in court documents that the pipeline could be moving oil as early as next week, and company spokeswoman Vicki Granado said it could be fully operational about three weeks later. \n The MAIN Coalition, an industry group made up of agriculture, business and labor entities that benefit from Midwest infrastructure projects, praised Boasberg's ruling paving the way for the project's completion. The decision \"further demonstrates that both the Army Corps of Engineers and Dakota Access have fully complied with all established laws and regulations,\" spokesman Craig Stevens said. \n The pipeline saga has endured for months. Hundreds and sometimes thousands of pipeline opponents who sided with tribal opposition to the pipeline camped on federal land near the drill site for months, often clashing with police. There have been about 750 arrests in the region since August. Authorities last month closed the camp in advance of spring flooding season and set up roadblocks to prevent protesters from returning. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge won't stop construction of Dakota Access pipeline"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n \"Bad\" foods or nutrients that were over-eaten, according to new research, include salt and salty foods; processed meats including bacon, bologna and hot dogs; red meat including steaks and hamburgers; and sugary drinks. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Canadian certified organic farm-raised King Salmon filets were placed on a tray, in April 2015, in a store in Fairfax, Va. Overeating or under-eating 10 foods and nutrients contributes to nearly half of U.S. deaths from heart disease, strokes and diabetes, a study released today suggested. \n CHICAGO >> Gorging on bacon, skimping on nuts? These are among food habits that new research links with deaths from heart disease, strokes and diabetes. \n Overeating or not eating enough of the 10 foods and nutrients contributes to nearly half of U.S. deaths from these causes, the study suggests. \n \"Good\" foods that were under-eaten: nuts and seeds, seafood rich in omega-3 fats including salmon and sardines; fruits and vegetables; and whole grains. \n \"Bad\" foods or nutrients that were overeaten include salt and salty foods; processed meats including bacon, bologna and hot dogs; red meat including steaks and hamburgers; and sugary drinks. \n The research is based on U.S. government data showing there were about 700,000 deaths in 2012 from heart disease, strokes and diabetes and on an analysis of national health surveys that asked participants about their eating habits. Most didn't eat the recommended amounts of the foods studied. \n The 10 ingredients combined contributed to about 45 percent of those deaths, according to the study. \n It may sound like a familiar attack on the typical American diet, and the research echoes previous studies on the benefits of heart-healthy eating. But the study goes into more detail on specific foods and their risks or benefits, said lead author Renata Micha, a public health researcher and nutritionist at Tufts University. \n The results were published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association. \n Micha said the 10 foods and nutrients were singled out because of research linking them to the causes of death studied. For example, studies have shown that excess salt can increase blood pressure, putting stress on arteries and the heart. Nuts contain healthy fats that can improve cholesterol levels, while bacon and other processed meats contain saturated fats that can raise levels of unhealthy LDL cholesterol. \n In the study, too much salt was the biggest problem, linked with nearly 10 percent of the deaths. Overeating processed meats and undereating nuts and seeds and seafood each were linked with about 8 percent of the deaths. \n The Food and Drug Administration's recent voluntary sodium reduction guidelines for makers of processed foods and taxes that some U.S. cities have imposed on sugar-sweetened beverages are steps in the right direction, Micha said. \n A journal editorial said public health policies targeting unhealthy eating could potentially help prevent some deaths, while noting that the study isn't solid proof that \"suboptimal\" diets were deadly. \n The study's recommended amounts, based on U.S. government guidelines, nutrition experts' advice, and amounts found to be beneficial or harmful in previous research. \n \"Good\" ingredients \n \u2014Fruits: 3 average-sized fruits daily \n \u2014Vegetables: 2 cups cooked or 4 cups raw vegetables daily \n \u2014Nuts/seeds: 5 1-ounce servings per week \u2014 about 20 nuts per serving \n \u2014Whole grains: 2 \u00bd daily servings \n \u2014Polyunsaturated fats, found in many vegetable oils: 11 percent of daily calories \n \u2014Seafood: about 8 ounces weekly \n \"Bad\" ingredients \n \u2014Red meat: 1 serving weekly \u2014 1 medium steak or the equivalent \n \u2014Processed meat: None recommended \n \u2014Sugary drinks: None recommended \n \u2014Salt: 2,000 milligrams daily \u2014 just under a teaspoon. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bacon, soda, too few nuts tied to big portion of U.S. deaths"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korea launched four missiles in an undisclosed location North Korea on Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester wearing a jacket with \"No THAAD\" participated during a rally to oppose the plan to deploy the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or THAAD, in front of the Defense Ministry in Seoul, South Korea today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Trucks carrying U.S. missile launchers and other equipment needed to set up the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system arrived at the Osan air base in Pyeongtaek, South Korea on Monday. \n SEOUL >> U.S. missile launchers and other equipment needed to set up a controversial missile defense system have arrived in South Korea, the U.S. and South Korean militaries said today, a day after North Korea test-fired four ballistic missiles into the ocean near Japan. \n The plans to deploy the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or THAAD, within this year have angered not only North Korea, but also China and Russia, which see the system's powerful radars as a security threat. \n China responded quickly, saying it will take \"necessary measures\" to protect itself and warning that the U.S. and South Korea should be prepared to bear the consequences. \n Washington and Seoul say the system is defensive and not meant to be a threat to Beijing or Moscow. The U.S. military said THAAD can intercept and destroy short and medium-range ballistic missiles during the last part of their flights. \n \"Continued provocative actions by North Korea, to include yesterday's launch of multiple missiles, only confirm the prudence of our alliance decision last year to deploy THAAD to South Korea,\" Adm. Harry Harris, head of the U.S. Pacific Command, said in a statement. \n Some South Korean liberal presidential candidates have said that the security benefits of having THAAD would be curtailed by worsened relations with neighbors China and Russia. \n \"China firmly opposes the deployment of THAAD,\" Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said at a regular briefing today. \"We will definitely be taking necessary measures to safeguard our own security interest. All consequences entailed from that will be borne by the U.S. and (South Korea). We once again strongly urge the relevant sides to stop the process of deployment and refrain from going further down that wrong path.\" \n China's condemnation of South Korean plans to deploy THAAD has triggered protests against a South Korean hypermarket chain, Lotte Mart, whose parent company agreed to provide one of its golf courses in southern South Korea as the site of THAAD. Visits by South Korean film stars and singers have been canceled and shipments of South Korean cosmetics have been held up at customs. \n Experts say China could also send Chinese coast guard ships to escort fishing boats into waters claimed by South Korea, dispatch military aircraft and ships into South Korean air and sea space, and suggest that it might do less to restrain North Korea from provocative behavior. \n Russia has supported China's opposition to the system. Militarily, Russia and China could deploy more missiles, especially those with maneuverable warheads to overwhelm THAAD, along with the use of decoys and attempts to jam the system, analysts say. \n China's Global Times, an outspoken nationalist tabloid published by the ruling Communist Party's flagship People's Daily, today criticized North Korea over its missile tests. \n \"By firing four missiles at once this time, the military confrontation between Pyongyang, Seoul and Washington escalates a notch,\" the newspaper said. \"Noticeably, the Chinese public is angry that Pyongyang's nuclear program has provided an excuse for Seoul to deploy THAAD.\" \n An official from South Korea's Defense Ministry, who didn't want to be named, citing office rules, said the equipment that arrived in South Korea included launchers, but didn't confirm how many. \n While South Korean media speculate that the THAAD deployment could be completed as early as April, the ministry official couldn't confirm those reports. The official said the plan was to have the system operational as soon as possible. \n On Monday, North Korea fired four ballistic missiles in an apparent protest against ongoing U.S.-South Korean military drills that it views as an invasion rehearsal. The missiles flew about 620 miles on average, three of them landing in waters that Japan claims as its exclusive economic zone, according to South Korean and Japanese officials. \n The North's state media today said leader Kim Jong Un supervised a ballistic rocket launching drill, a likely reference to the four launches reported by Seoul and Tokyo. Involved in the drills were artillery units tasked with striking \"U.S. imperialist aggressor forces in Japan,\" according to the Korean Central News Agency. \n There was pride and defiance among the elite citizens who live in North Korea's showcase capital, Pyongyang. \n \"If the U.S. imperialists and their South Korean puppets shoot even just one spark into our sovereign territory, we will completely destroy those aggressors, without any mercy, with our invincible Hwasong artillery, which are loaded with nuclear warheads,\" Sim Chol Su, echoing the propaganda often found in state media, told The Associated Press. \n North Korea uses \"Hwasong\" to describe a broad range of its ballistic missiles, including Scuds and the mid-range missiles that are referred to as Rodong and Musudan by outside analysts. \n South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said the missiles fired by the North were believed to be \"improved versions\" of Scud missiles. South Korean experts say North Korea's extended-range Scuds and mid-range Rodong missiles are capable of hitting Japan, including U.S. military bases in Okinawa. \n Kim \"ordered the KPA (Korean People's Army) Strategic Force to keep highly alert as required by the grim situation in which an actual war may break out anytime,\" a KCNA dispatch said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China issues warning as U.S. deploys missile defense system in S.Korea"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE \n Gafatasi Napoleon \n KAILUA-KONA >> A Hawaii man pleaded guilty Monday to fatally shooting another man near a homeless camp on the Big Island and then discarding the body along a highway. \n Napoleon told the judge he loaded shotgun cartridges with rock salt and shot Alanaokala Solomon Covington in the chest. \n He said he only meant to hurt the 36-year-old victim, not kill him. \n \"I expected it to just sting,\" Napoleon said. \"I didn't think it'd go through.\" \n Authorities were acting on an anonymous tip about a possible killing when they found Covington's body buried under lava rock and dry cement along Highway 190 in North Kona. \n A witness testified at an October hearing in the case that he and Napoleon had initially planned to assault Covington. \n \"I knew we were going to beat the (expletive) out of somebody,\" Rex King testified, adding that Napoleon did not seem upset after the incident. \"He didn't panic, he didn't freak out. But neither did I.\" \n Napoleon was arrested a week after the killing. \n The Kailua-Kona man faces six to eight years in prison when he is sentenced in May. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Big Island man pleads guilty in Kailua-Kona slaying"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "CHRIS PIZZELLO/INVISION/AP \n Pete Davidson spoke at a Comedy Central Roast, in March 2015, at Sony Pictures Studios in Culver City, Calif. The \"Saturday Night Live\" cast member said on Instagram, Monday, that he has quit drugs and is \"happy and sober for the first time in 8 years.\" \n Pete Davidson of \"Saturday Night Live\" just explained why he's \"kinda been missing\" from the show and from social media: The medical marijuana fan was busy kicking drugs. \n \"Just wanted to let you guys know I'm okay \u2026 ,\" the 23-year-old comic said Monday night on Instagram. \"I quit drugs and am happy and sober for the first time in 8 years.\" \n \"SNL\" honcho Lorne Michaels told the New York Times in October 2015, \"Pete's really focused for someone who mostly talks about how much pot he smokes.\" \n In April 2016, the comic taped a stand-up special that aired in October on Comedy Central. In it, he joked about going to rehab during his holiday break as a Christmas gift to his mom. \n \"I tried to go to rehab because I wanted to smoke weed less. I didn't even want to quit,\" he said. \"Don't tell anybody that in rehab, by the way.\" \n Davidson has been very open about smoking weed, telling High Times last September that medical marijuana was the only thing that allowed him to function with the Crohn's disease he came down with when he was \"17 or 18.\" (You do the math.) \n He said weed worked better than the medicines he was being prescribed and was the only thing that allowed him to eat food \u2014 or do \"SNL.\" \n \"Me performing not high has gone awful. It's awful for me because I don't feel well,\" Davidson said, smoking a joint during the 2016 High Times interview. \n \"I know everyone's offended today, but I kind of do get a little offended when people are just like, you're just a pothead watching cartoons,\" he added. \"I work really \u2026 hard and I take care of my (life), and I need weed in order to do that because I have \u2014 I'm sick, I have Crohn's, so it sucks.\" \n Now it's different, Davidson's Instagram post would suggest. \n \"It wasn't easy, but I got a great girl, great friends and I consider myself a lucky man,\" he wrote. \"I'll always be here for you guys, I promise. Remember to never give up hope because sometimes that's all we got. We are a family and I appreciate all your love and support. It's nice to be back in action.\" \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "'SNL' star Pete Davidson gets sober, returns to public life"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "A 50-year-old man was taken to a hospital in critical condition after he was found unresponsive at a surf break on Oahu's south shore. \n Emergency Medical Services reported that the man was found unresponsive at Tonggs at about 10:25 a.m. Monday. Lifeguards brought him to the shore and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation until paramedics arrived. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man in critical condition after being pulled from south shore surf break"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christopher Steele, former British intelligence officer in London, today, where he spoke to the media for the first time. Steele, who compiled an explosive and unproven dossier on President Donald Trump's purported activities in Russia, has returned to work. \n LONDON >> A former British spy who compiled an explosive and unproven dossier on President Donald Trump's purported activities in Russia has returned to work. \n Christopher Steele said today he is \"really pleased\" to be back in his London office after a prolonged period out of public view. He went into hiding in January after his name was published in connection with the dossier. \n The 52-year-old runs London-based Orbis Business Intelligence, a private security firm. He made a statement outside the firm's central London office. \n \"I'm now going to be focusing my efforts on supporting the broader interests of our company here,\" he said without addressing the Trump dossier. \n He thanked the public for its support and said he won't be making any further comments. \n Trump has described the lurid reports in the dossier as \"phony allegations\" concocted by his political opponents. \n The dossier was reportedly produced as opposition research for the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. \n It contains unproven allegations of coordination between Trump's advisers and Russians on hacking the emails of prominent Democrats and claims about sexual activities. \n The 35-page dossier was circulated in political and media circles in the United States but was not published for some time because the information could not be verified. \n The entire contents became public in January when it was published by BuzzFeed. \n The Associated Press has not authenticated the claims. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-British spy who compiled unproven Trump dossier surfaces"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a male suspect in connection with a robbery that occurred at Tantalus early today. \n Police said the robbery occurred at about 3 or 3:30 a.m. near the lookout where a male victim suffered injuries. \n Additional details are pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest suspect in Tantalus robbery"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, right, and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., wrapped up a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, as House Republicans introduced their plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Budget Director Mick Mulvaney spoke to reporters, Feb. 27, during a daily press briefing at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump and his top health official praised the new House Republican health care legislation today, even as surging conservative opposition complicated party leaders' drive to sell the proposal to rank-and-file lawmakers and the public. \n Trump's morning tweet lauding \"our wonderful new Healthcare Bill\" kicked off the day. Shortly afterward, Health Secretary Tom Price wrote to the chairmen of the two House committees that wrote the measures, saying \"they align with the president's goal of rescuing Americans from the failures of the Affordable Care Act,\" former President Barack Obama's prized 2010 law. \n Yet by lunchtime, conservative lawmakers and others were blasting the bill, underscoring the challenge Republicans face in pushing one of their top priorities to passage. \n The legislation would primarily affect some 20 million people who purchase their own private health plans directly from an insurer and the more than 70 million covered by Medicaid, the federal-state program for low-income people. \n In the first official though partial measurement to emerge of the bill's financial impact, Congress' nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would cut more than 20 taxes imposed by Obama's law at a cost of nearly $600 billion over a decade. The bulk of the savings would go to the wealthy. \n The estimate did not include the cost of tax credits the measure proposes to help people buy coverage. \n Republicans say they've not yet received an estimate of the bill's overall cost or the number of people it would cover from the Congressional Budget Office. \n \"What Obamacare did was make insurance affordable but care impossible to actually afford,\" White House budget chief Mick Mulvaney said on NBC's \"Today Show.\" \"The deductibles were simply too high. So people could say they have coverage but they couldn't actually get the medical care they needed when they get sick.\" \n \"Obamacare\" plans did typically come with high deductibles, but the law also provided cost-sharing subsidies to people with modest incomes. Those subsidies will be eliminated under the Republican plan, and it's unclear how high the deductibles would be under the new approach. \n House committees planned to begin voting on the legislation Wednesday, launching what could be the year's defining battle in Congress and capping seven years of GOP vows to repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act. Before prevailing, leaders will have to heal internal divisions. \n In his letter, Price commended GOP plans to provide millions of Americans with a refundable tax credit \u2014 meaning even people without tax liability would receive the assistance. Congressional conservatives have opposed a refundable credit, saying it would create a new entitlement program the government cannot afford. \n \"It is a missed opportunity and a step in the wrong direction,\" said Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, one of three conservative senators who've criticized GOP leaders for not aggressively repealing Obama's law. He said it was unknown if the bill would make health care more affordable. \n Conservative groups like Heritage Action for America and the Club for Growth also piled on. Club for Growth President David McIntosh called the measure a \"warmed-over substitute for government-run health care.\" \n \"As Republicans we have a choice,\" House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, an author of the measure, told reporters. \"We can act now or we can keep fiddling around and squander this opportunity to repeal 'Obamacare.'\" \n The Republican legislation would limit future federal funding for Medicaid, which covers low-income people, about 1 in 5 Americans. And it would loosen rules that Obama's law imposed for health plans directly purchased by individuals, while also scaling back insurance subsidies. \n Republicans say their solutions would make Medicaid more cost-efficient without punishing the poor and disabled, while spurring private insurers to offer attractive products for the estimated 20 million consumers in the market for individual policies. \n Democrats say the bill would make many people uninsured, shifting costs to states and hospital systems that act as providers of last resort. Individual policy holders might be able to find low-premium plans, only to be exposed to higher deductibles and copayments. \n The plan would repeal the unpopular fines on people who don't carry health insurance. It would replace income-based subsidies the law provides to help millions of Americans pay premiums with age-based tax credits that may be skimpier for people with low incomes. Those payments would phase out for higher-earning people. \n Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia opted to expand Medicaid coverage under the Obama-era law to an estimated 11 million people. Around half those states have GOP governors, who are largely reluctant to see that spending curtailed. \n In another feature that could alienate moderate Republicans, the measure would block for one year federal payments to Planned Parenthood, the women's health organization long opposed by many in the party because it provides abortions. \n In a last-minute change to satisfy conservative lawmakers, business and unions, Republicans dropped a plan pushed by Ryan to impose a first-ever tax on the most generous employer-provided health plans. Instead, a similar tax imposed by Obama's law on expensive plans set to take effect in 2020 would now begin in 2025. \n Popular consumer protections in the Obama law would be retained, such as insurance safeguards for people with pre-existing medical problems, and parents' ability to keep young adult children on their insurance until age 26. \n To prod healthier people to buy policies, insurers would boost premiums by 30 percent for consumers who let insurance lapse. \n Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick, Andrew Taylor and Stephen Ohlemacher contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump praises health care bill, but conservatives skeptical"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The new CIA Director Michael Pompeo, as he testified on Capitol Hill, Jan. 12, in Washington. WikiLeaks has published thousands of documents that it says come from the CIA's Center for Cyber Intelligence, a dramatic release that appears to give an eye-opening look at the intimate details of the agency's cyberespionage effort. \n WASHINGTON >> WikiLeaks today published thousands of documents purportedly taken from the Central Intelligence Agency's Center for Cyber Intelligence, a dramatic release that appears to expose intimate details of America's cyberespionage toolkit. \n It was not immediately clear how WikiLeaks obtained the information, which included more than 8,700 documents and files. The CIA tools, if authentic, could undermine the confidence that consumers have in the safety and security of their computers, mobile devices and even smart TVs. \n WikiLeaks said the material came from \"an isolated, high-security network situated inside the CIA's Center for Cyber Intelligence in Langley, Virginia.\" It didn't say how the files were removed, such as possibly by a rogue employee, by hacking a federal contractor working for the CIA or breaking into a staging server where such hacking tools might be temporarily stored. \n The more than 8,000 documents cover a host of technical topics, including what appears to be a discussion about how to compromise smart televisions and turn them into improvised surveillance devices. WikiLeaks said the data also include details on the agency's efforts to subvert American software products and smartphones, including Apple's iPhone, Google's Android and Microsoft Windows. \n The information dump could not immediately be authenticated by The Associated Press, and the CIA declined comment, but WikiLeaks has a long track record of releasing top secret government documents. Experts who've started to sift through the material said that it appeared legitimate and that the release was almost certain to shake the CIA. \n Jonathan Liu, a spokesman for the CIA, said: \"We do not comment on the authenticity or content of purported intelligence documents.\" \n WikiLeaks said the archive \"appears to have been circulated among former U.S. government hackers and contractors in an unauthorized manner, one of whom has provided WikiLeaks with portions of the archive.\" \n If the authenticity of the documents is officially confirmed, it would represent yet another catastrophic breach for the U.S. intelligence community at the hands of WikiLeaks and its allies, which have repeatedly humbled Washington with the mass release of classified material, including hundreds of thousands of documents from the State Department and the Pentagon. \n WikiLeaks, which has been dropping cryptic hints about the release for a month, said in a lengthy statement that the CIA had \"recently\" lost control of a massive arsenal of CIA hacking tools as well as associated documentation. \n \"There's no question that there's a fire drill going on right now,\" said Jake Williams, a security expert with Augusta, Georgia-based Rendition Infosec. \"It wouldn't surprise me that there are people changing careers \u2014 and ending careers \u2014 as we speak.\" \n One of the purported CIA malware programs is described in the WikiLeaks documents as a \"simple DLL hijacking attempt\" that had been tested against Microsoft Windows XP, Vista and 7 operating systems. The technique, which the document called a \"Windows FAX DLL injection,\" introduces computer code that allows an attacker to gain access to a computer process' memory and permissions while at the same time masking the attack. \n Williams, who has experience dealing with government hackers, said the voluminous files' extensive references to operation security meant they were almost certainly government-backed. \"I can't fathom anyone fabricated that amount of operational security concern,\" he said. \"It rings true to me.\" \n \"The only people who are having that conversation are people who are engaging in nation-state-level hacking,\" he said. \n WikiLeaks said its data also included a \"substantial library\" of digital espionage techniques borrowed from other countries, including Russia. \n Bob Ayers, a retired U.S. intelligence official currently working as a security analyst, noted that WikiLeaks has promised to release more CIA documents. \n \"The damage right now is relatively high level,\" he said. \"The potential for really detailed damage will come in the following releases.\" \n Associated Press writer Stephen Braun contributed from Washington. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "WikiLeaks publishes CIA trove alleging wide-scale hacking"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Retired police officer Arturo Lascanas gestured as he testified before a Senate inquiry, Monday, in suburban Pasay city, south of Manila, Philippines. Lascanas has linked President Rodrigo Duterte when he was mayor, and his men to nearly 200 killings including foreign drug suspects, that the officer and other members of a so-called death squad allegedly carried out. \n MANILA >> A retired Philippine police officer testified Monday that President Rodrigo Duterte and his men were linked to nearly 200 killings that the officer and a \"death squad\" carried out when Duterte was mayor of a southern city. \n Arturo Lascanas outlined at a Senate inquiry some of the key killings he and others allegedly staged \"with the prior knowledge, direct orders, consent, tolerance or acquiescence\" of Duterte, who was mayor of Davao city. \"What is related here is just the tip of a bloody iceberg,\" Lascanas said in a statement distributed to senators. \n Duterte is also under fire for his more recent national anti-drug crackdown that has left thousands of suspected dealers and users dead since he became president last June. \n Pro-administration senators grilled Lascanas in the televised inquiry, asking why he had earlier denied both any involvement in the Davao killings and the existence of a \"Davao death squad.\" \n Duterte's spokesman, Ernesto Abella, described Lascanas as a \"perjured witness\" and called his testimony \"fabricated and unacceptable.\" \n Lascanas said Monday he had lied earlier about his role because he was concerned about his family's safety. \n He testified that he was given large amounts of money and monthly allowances by Duterte, a few times directly and often through other police officers, for carrying out the Davao killings and for \"blind obedience and loyalty\" to the mayor. \n Lascanas said he knew of Duterte's direct involvement in some of the killings, and that his group carried out other attacks led by police officers who told him the assaults were ordered by Duterte. \n One target was radio commentator Jun Pala, who had angered Duterte with critical broadcasts. Lascanas said he was in a group of gunmen who killed Pala in 2003, and that Duterte personally gave him a reward of 1 million pesos ($19,800). \n In a separate Senate inquiry last year, alleged gunmen Edgar Matobato linked Lascanas to the Davao killings. Lascanas, who also testified, denied under oath that he took part. \n Lascanas, 56, who retired as a Davao police officer last December, said Monday that his conscience bothered him and that he had a spiritual awakening after suffering a kidney ailment that prompted him to publicly confess. He said he had two of his brothers killed for their involvement in illegal drugs. \n \"I regret what I did and I know I have to answer for all my misdeeds before the people, the law and before God,\" he said in the written statement. Some crime suspects were taken to Duterte before they were killed, he said. \n Lascanas first made the allegations at a news conference two weeks ago, and repeated them under oath in Monday's Senate hearing. He gave details of other killings and suggested Duterte's son, now the vice mayor of Davao city, and the current national police chief may have been aware of the extrajudicial killings. \n There was no immediate reaction from Duterte's son or the police chief. \n Lascanas said the victims included 11 Chinese drug suspects who tried to bribe their way out of trouble but were gunned down in a quarry on orders from Duterte. He said his group also killed a supposed Pakistani terror suspect on an island near Davao city. \n Police Chief Superintendent Augusto Marquez Jr. told the Senate inquiry that details and names provided by Lascanas may be used to reopen the investigation of the killings. \n National police chief Director-General Ronald Dela Rosa, meanwhile, announced Monday that the police force will rejoin the president's crackdown on drugs after being barred about a month ago over an extortion and murder scandal. \n Police participating in the next stage of the campaign, called \"Double Barrel Reloaded,\" will be carefully screened to prevent rogue officers from using the crackdown as a cover for extortion and other crimes, he said. Duterte had wanted the national police to be cleansed thoroughly of corruption and it is not clear how extensive the internal cleansing has been. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-cop links Philippine leader to killings in Senate inquiry"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "MANILA >> Philippine police killed eight crime suspects in separate gunbattles and arrested 21 others in a northern province Tuesday, a day after police were allowed to rejoin the president's deadly anti-drug crackdown while also launching a drive against illegal guns. \n Police Senior Superintendent Romeo M. Caramat Jr. said the suspects were killed or arrested in 19 raids in Bulacan province, north of Manila, some of whom turned violent when policemen were fired upon. He said most of the slain suspects had links to illegal drugs. \n President Rodrigo Duterte angrily banned the national police more than a month ago from enforcing his anti-drug crackdown, which has left thousands of suspects dead, after some antinarcotics officers were implicated in an extortion bid that left a South Korean businessman dead. \n National police chief Director-General Ronald Dela Rosa, however, announced Monday that the 170,000-strong police force was being redrafted to enforce the campaign after the police's brief absence sparked a resurgence in illegal drug trade in many communities. \n \"We cannot turn our back in this fight because the future of succeeding generations depends on how well we fight the war on drugs today,\" Dela Rosa said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Drug suspects killed as police rejoin Philippine crackdown"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson smiles during a news conference about President Trump's new executive order Monday, March 6, 2017, in Seattle. Trump signed an executive order Monday ordering new travel restrictions for residents of six Muslim-majority countries as well as a temporary ban on refugees from around the world, retooling a directive issued five weeks ago that stoked chaos at airports and drew international condemnation and a rebuke in the federal courts. The new ban, which takes effect March 16, halts travel for 90 days for residents of Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. \n WASHINGTON >> After a federal appeals court unanimously refused to immediately reinstate his travel ban last month, President Donald Trump tweeted a warning: \"SEE YOU IN COURT. THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!\" \n The courts never did get to decide the full merits of that case before Trump replaced the travel ban Monday with a much narrower version \u2014 one supporters say is well within his authority, but which critics say is more palatable but still problematic. \n \"Bottom line is the president has capitulated on numerous key provisions that we contested in court about a month ago,\" Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson, who led the legal challenge to the initial ban, told a news conference Monday. \n But the original ban was motivated in part \"to target predominantly Muslim countries,\" Ferguson said, adding, \"We still have concerns about that intent.\" \n The new ban temporarily bars new visas for citizens of six predominantly Muslim countries \u2014 one fewer than the original, with Iraq removed from the list. It also suspends the entire U.S. refugee program. \n The measure applies only to refugees who are not already on their way to the United States and people seeking new visas. It removes language that gave priority to religious minorities. Critics said the language was designed to help Christians get into the U.S. and to exclude Muslims. \n Ferguson and Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring, both Democrats, said they were evaluating whether to bring further legal challenges before the new order takes effect March 16. Although the order is scaled back, \"it still sends a horrible message to the world, to Muslim-Americans, and to minority communities across the country, without any demonstrable benefit to national security,\" Herring said. \n The American Civil Liberties Union promised \"to move very quickly\" to try to stop the order. \n Nevertheless, the changes will make it \"much, much tougher\" for a federal judge to block the ban, said New York immigration attorney Ted Ruthizer. \n Courts could find it compelling that the order does not cover all Muslims from all countries, he said. And judges have a history of upholding portions of immigration law that discriminate on the basis of race and nationality when national security is an issue. \n \"There's still the argument that, when you take down all the window dressing, it's still a religion ban, but these are the kinds of nuances that the courts will look at,\" Ruthizer said. \n Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration law professor at Cornell University Law School, said that even if the new order is on more solid legal footing, it \"will not quell litigation or concerns.\" \n \"U.S. relatives will still sue over the inability of their loved ones to join them in the United States,\" he said. \"U.S. companies may sue because they cannot hire needed workers from the six countries. And U.S. universities will worry about the impact of the order on international students' willingness to attend college in the United States.\" \n Top Republicans welcomed Trump's changes. Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah said the revised order makes significant progress toward what Hatch called for after the first version: to avoid hindering innocent travelers or refugees fleeing violence and persecution. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan said the order \"advances our shared goal of protecting the homeland.\" \n Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, who supported the court challenge, described the updated ban as \"a clear attempt to resurrect a discredited order and fulfill a discriminatory and unconstitutional campaign promise.\" \n Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, who backed the first ban, said in a statement that the president had the authority to secure the nation's borders \"in light of the looming threat of terrorism.\" \n A spokesman for the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which upheld a Seattle judge's restraining order in the Washington case, said the court was evaluating the new executive order's effect on the existing case. The Justice Department filed papers Monday in federal court in Seattle arguing that the restraining order should not block the new ban from taking effect. \n Critics said the new order failed to address their concerns that the measure attempts to enact the Muslim ban Trump advocated during his campaign. Washington state, joined by Minnesota, argued that the original order violated the First Amendment's separation of church and state. \n The 9th Circuit's ruling did not deal with that argument, but the court said it would evaluate it after further briefing. The states' claims \"raise serious allegations and present significant constitutional questions,\" the judges wrote. \n Larry E. Klayman, a founder of and lawyer for the conservative group Freedom Watch, supported the original ban when it was before the appellate court and called the new version \"quite modest.\" \n \"Right now, we're in a state of war with certain countries, and this is a reasonable approach to it,\" Klayman said. \n Additionally, a question remained over whether the new ban conflicted with federal immigration law, said Jorge Baron, executive director of the Seattle-based Northwest Immigrant Rights Project. His organization filed a class-action complaint over the initial ban and said it would amend its arguments in light of the new one. \n \"Our immigration laws specifically say you cannot discriminate on basis of nationality in this process,\" Baron said. \"The president can't rewrite the law by executive order.\" \n ___ \n Johnson reported from Seattle. Associated Press writers Steve Peoples in Washington, Brady McCombs in Salt Lake City and Matthew Barakat in McLean, Virginia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Critics on new travel ban: more palatable, still problematic"}

{"date": "March 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 1, 2017 photo, displaced resident Hien Nguyen exits the home of her grandson who has also been displaced for flood damage to his residence while interviewed in San Jose, Calif. When the floodwaters rushed in last month in San Jose, a firefighter hauled Nguyen to safety. She left behind the two-bedroom apartment she shared with a roommate for $1,000 a month, managing only to take her identification and her phone. \n SAN JOSE, Calif. >> When the floodwaters rushed in last month in San Jose, a firefighter hauled Hien Nguyen to safety. She left behind the two-bedroom apartment she shared with a roommate for $1,000 a month, managing only to take her identification and her phone. \n \"Everything is destroyed,\" the 70-year-old said, surveying her home last week, where she returned to clean and pick up clothing. \n Now, Nguyen is living at a city shelter and like many others in San Jose's Vietnamese community \u2014 the largest population of Vietnamese outside of Vietnam \u2014 she is trying to figure out how to rebuild and find a home in high-cost Silicon Valley. \n City officials say about 80 percent of the 400 families who are still displaced are Vietnamese and have little more than the clothes on their backs. \"They are working families,\" said city councilman Tam Nguyen, who represents a district that is about a third Vietnamese. \n The flooding also displaced low-income Latino families, said Councilman Sergio Jimenez, who is trying to help them find new homes and replace possessions. \n The heavy rains from recent storms sent flood waters rushing through several of the city's neighborhoods. Nguyen's first-floor apartment sits along a crowded main street, not far from strip malls that sport signs in both Vietnamese and Spanish. \n The area's relatively low rents attract seniors, those with single incomes as well as families. \n \"I'm concerned about how we are going to get a place to live. I'm concerned about getting a really high rent,\" said Van Fousek., who was living with her sister and paying just $400 a month for a rented room before the flood. \n Fousek came to the U.S. in 1972 after she met and later married a U.S. Army soldier fighting in the Vietnam War. They brought with them three small children to California and began to build a life in the South Bay. They owned a home and raised their children. \n But in 2014, financial and health problems forced them from the home and they separated. Fousek sold clothes at the local flea market to make ends meet. But her health worsened and she had to quit. \n \"I can't do it anymore. I'm completely worn out. I have arthritis so bad and asthma and diabetes,\" she said. Still, she said, \"even in dark times, I try to see the silver lining in things and stay positive.\" \n San Jose saw another silver lining last week when a California billionaire donated $5 million for flood relief efforts. Kieu Hoang was a refugee from Vietnam himself who once went on to build a fortune in medical products. He presented a check to city officials for a relief fund operated by various charities. \n \"This is the time you need to pay back,\" said the 70-year-old Hoang. \"These (flooding victims) are the old, the sick, the disabled.\" \n At a news conference, residents clapped at the donation news and snapped selfies with the businessman. \n City councilman Lan Diep also represents an area where many flood victims live. He said Vietnamese people are inherently self-reliant and often band together in crisis rather than waiting for the government to step in and assist. \n Diep, 33, went to New Orleans after the Hurricane Katrina flooding in 2005 and saw firsthand how the Vietnamese community there handled the crisis. \n \"The Vietnamese community didn't wait for FEMA or state assistance,\" Diep said. \"They pooled their resources and all cleaned up one home and then they all moved along to fix up another.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Vietnamese families forced out by San Jose floods"}

