{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image made from a mobile video shows Republican Sen. Janet Nguyen being removed from the Senate floor in Sacramento, Calif., Thursday. Nguyen was removed from the state Senate floor after refusing to stop delivering a speech criticizing late state Sen. Tom Hayden for his leadership role in the anti-Vietnam War movement of the 1960s. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> California's Senate leader said today that he takes full responsibility after a senator was removed from the chamber last week \u2014 a stunning and extraordinarily unusual move that raised questions about the Legislature's commitment to free speech. \n Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon said the incident was not one of the Senate's finest moments and will be investigated by the Rules Committee. Security officials ushered Sen. Janet Nguyen off the floor on Thursday when she refused to stop delivering a speech critical of former Sen. Tom Hayden's activism opposing the Vietnam War. \n \"Here, we make policy. And the tools of our trade are our words and ideas,\" de Leon, D-Los Angeles, said at the start of today's Senate session. \"As such, we should always err on the side of more free speech and not less. So last Thursday we failed to keep faith with this historical standard.\" \n Every senator has a right to speak in on behalf of his or her constituents, de Leon said. \n Nguyen, a Republican from Orange County, initially said she was swayed by the support she received from fellow senators, saying the public discussion today \"reaffirms my faith in America's deep belief in the democratic process of freedom of speech.\" \n But about two hours later, her office sent a statement saying Democrats have failed to acknowledge wrongdoing. \n \"Their continued attempts to mischaracterize this incident as a result of a lack of understanding of the rules is a quick jump to judgment and wrong,\" Nguyen's statement said. \"I hope that never again, a sitting senator will go through the trauma of being forcibly removed from the Senate floor.\" \n Nguyen lived in South Vietnam as a child and fled with her family after its U.S.-backed government fell. Her Senate district includes the largest concentration of Vietnamese people outside of Vietnam. Many fled South Vietnam and blame the U.S. anti-war movement for undermining American forces and contributing to the victory by the communist North. \n Senate Minority Leader Jean Fuller, R-Bakersfield, called for a public investigation of the incident and an apology. \n Democrats said Nguyen was silenced because she violated Senate rules and would have been allowed to make her speech if she'd waited until later in the session and made the appropriate motion. \n Several sergeants-at-arms surrounded Nguyen and gently nudged her toward the door. Nguyen dodged them and continued yelling passages from her speech for nearly a minute as the presiding Democrat, Sen. Ricardo Lara of Bell Gardens, repeatedly told her to stop. Lara was absent from today's session. \n De Leon stopped short of offering a public apology demanded by Republicans. His spokesman, Anthony Reyes, said de Leon apologized personally to Nguyen following the incident last week. \n Hayden was a student radical in the 1960s and helped organize protests against the war. He later became a legislator and elder statesman of the country's left. He died in October, and the Senate held a celebratory memorial for him two days before Nguyen offered her rebuke. \n The incident has become a rallying cry for Republican lawmakers and activists, many of whom said it was an example of liberals shutting down speakers with whom they disagree. \n Delegates to the GOP state convention over the weekend wore pins with Nguyen's photo. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California Senate's removal of lawmaker to be investigated"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "THE BISMARCK TRIBUNE VIA AP \n An elderly woman was escorted to a transport van after being arrested by law enforcement at the Oceti Sakowin camp as part of the final sweep of the Dakota Access pipeline protesters in Morton County on Feb. 23. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> A federal judge will hear arguments Tuesday about whether to stop the final bit of construction on the disputed Dakota Access pipeline, perhaps just days before it could start moving oil. \n U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in Washington will consider a request by the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes to order the Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw permission for developer Energy Transfer Partners to lay pipe under Lake Oahe in North Dakota. The stretch under the Missouri River reservoir is the last piece of construction for the $3.8 billion pipeline that's to move oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n The tribes argue that the mere existence of an oil pipeline under the reservoir that provides water to the neighboring reservations violates their right to practice their religion, which relies on clean water. \n \"The granting of the easement and resulting construction activity violates the tribe's and its members' constitutional rights, and will result in immediate and irreparable harm to the tribe and its members before this court will be able to rule on the merits of this claim,\" tribal attorney Nicole Ducheneaux said in court documents. \n When they filed the lawsuit last summer, the tribes argued that the pipeline threatens Native American cultural sites and their water supply. Their religion argument is new, however, and both the Corps and Energy Transfer Partners argue that the delay in raising it is a reason for Boasberg to reject the argument. \n Company attorney William Scherman also said the tribes' claim is suspect based on other man-made infrastructure under the lake, and that the company respects the tribe's religious beliefs but has no legal duty to make concessions for them. \n Corps attorney Erica Zilioli said the government's permission for the company to lay pipe under the lake \"does not substantially burden the exercise of the tribe's religious beliefs.\" \n Earlier this month, Boasberg declined the tribes' request to order an immediate halt to the pipeline construction, ruling that as long as oil wasn't flowing through the pipeline, there was no imminent harm to the tribes. \n In a court filing Friday, Ducheneaux argued the claim is \"about the religious harm arising from the mere siting of this pipeline under the tribe's sacred waters.\" \n Boasberg's decision on the matter won't be the end of the court battle. Both tribes have asked him to overturn the federal permission for the Lake Oahe crossing and to bar the Corps from granting permission in the future. The judge won't rule until at least April. \n Hundreds and sometimes thousands of pipeline opponents who sided with tribal opposition to the pipeline camped on federal land near the drill site for months, often clashing with police. There have been about 750 arrests in the region since August. Authorities last week closed the camp in advance of spring flooding season and set up roadblocks to prevent protesters from returning. \n Work under Lake Oahe had been held up in the courts until President Donald Trump last month instructed the Corps to advance construction. The Army is involved because its engineering branch manages the river and its system of hydroelectric dams, which is owned by the federal government. \n Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners began drilling under the lake Feb. 8. The pipeline could be operating as early as Monday and no later than early April, according to Scherman. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge to hear arguments on Dakota Access oil pipeline work"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Visitors look at vegetables growing up at Living Box, a mobile farming system, at the Four Years From Now (FYFN) show, a sidebar event of Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pibo robot, whose main purpose is getting you and your loved ones sharing your daily life again, receives instructions from her owner, at the Four Years From Now (FYFN) show, a sidebar event of Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, today. \n BARCELONA, Spain >> While smartphones get top billing at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, it's the quirky, under-the-radar products that are getting a lot of the visitors' attention. \n Here's a glimpse of some of the gadgets and apps displayed by start-up companies this week at the fair, the world's largest for wireless technology. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n CUTE ROBOT \n Living in Seoul, Jong-Gun Park looked around him one day and decided his fellow South Koreans needed some help expressing their emotions. \n \"We are so busy these days, always running to and from work, taking our kids to school, studying, that we no longer find the necessary time to interact with each other,\" said Park, CEO of the company Circulus. \n Enter Pibo, the friendly dinner table ice-breaker. \n Pibo is a charming little robot whose goal is to get you and your loved ones sharing your daily life more. \"Are you tired?\" he asks, \"I will play music without boredom.\" \n Sure, he still needs to hone his English, but he's always eager to ask about your day or provide updates on weather conditions. \n Still a prototype, Pibo comes in a case, should you wish to take him along on vacation. He is, after all, a member of the family. For an expected $490 a pop. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n JUST ADD WATER \n Growing your own veggies may become possible even for urbanites with tiny studio apartments. \n Israeli startup Living Box offers a modular, unfoldable, solar-powered little greenhouse that you can use to harvest anything from tomatoes to tea and herbs. \n \"We have a slow release water system for irrigation, with a novel liquid nutrient solution and bacteria to avoid the use of pesticides, as well as an app prototype updating weather conditions and other relevant data right to your smartphone, so you don't have to monitor it,\" explained Nitzan Solan, CEO of the company. \n The idea was to create a sustainable, affordable and simple mobile farming system that could be operated by anyone around the globe. \n As of now, Living Box is testing in 50 sites around Israel, the U.S. and Nigeria, and aims to try locations in Spain and Fiji. It is expected to carry a market price of $300. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n COOL HANG \n The hang, a metal percussion instrument shaped like a flying saucer, is beloved of street performers the world round and often associated with meditation practices like yoga. Now it comes in a fully digital version. \n When delicately tapped, the Oval can reproduce the sounds of a hang as well as other instruments, like drums, trumpets and even violins. \n Musicians Ravid Goldschmidt and Alex Posada, the co-founders of the Spanish startup that makes the Oval, say they sought to start a \"revolution of percussion\" with this instrument. \n Already on the market, the Oval is aimed at all kinds of consumers, with about 40 percent estimated to be amateur or professional musicians. \n It goes for about $950. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n TO SEE OR NOT TO SEE \n Samsung's Relumino headset aims to do nothing less than help the blind see. \n The gadget, shaped like virtual reality glasses, recasts images of the world in a way that someone with vision problems can see more clearly. \n The glasses are still in a developmental stage and, although it's still too early to venture a market price for them, Samsung Senior Engineer Junghoon Cho hopes to compete with other more expensive visual aids out there. \n Besides correcting blurred images, the headset can eliminate blind spots and improve peripheral vision. \n \"If we make our own project, people who are visually impaired can walk outside using our glasses\u2026 We want to help them have a better social relationship with other people,\" said Cho. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n SHOPPING VISION \n Worried the new couch might not squeeze through door? \n Sri Lanka-based startup Liveroom is trying to solve your angst. Its virtual reality technology aims to give shoppers a live look at how products in online stores would fit into your home. \n This is how it works: you shoot an image of the space in question via a liveview button and then consult their catalog on the app for the item you want. The item will pop up on your tablet or smartphone set in the image of your home. You can move and rotate the item and change its colors, fabric and material. \n \"If you're buying online, via e-commerce, you have only images. You have to visualize the product in your mind and maybe the dimensions and the colors are wrong,\" said founder and CTO Sameera Nilupul. \"With this technology, you can see exactly how the products look in your own home.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chatting robots and music: fun gadgets on show in Barcelona"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lori McKearney, of Lancaster, N.H., right, and Kaylin Pettit, of Stewartstown, N.H., post missing posters for 11-year-old Celina Cass in Colebrook, N.H. in July 2011. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wendell Noyes appears via a video arraignment from the county jail in Stewartstown, N.H., as prosecutor Jane Young, right, listens in district court in Berlin, N.H. in June 2016. Noyes was charged with second-degree murder in the death of his 11-year-old stepdaughter Celina Cass, who was reported missing from her home on July 26, 2011. \n CONCORD, N.H. >> A judge on Monday dismissed charges against a man accused of drowning his 11-year-old stepdaughter after finding him incompetent to stand trial. \n Prosecutors said the man confessed to killing the stepdaughter five years ago because he believed he had impregnated her. But defense attorneys suggested another man living in their home was the killer. \n Wendell Noyes, 42, was charged with murder in the July 2011 death of Celina Cass, whose body was found six days after she was reported missing, wrapped in a comforter and weighed down by a sandbag in the Connecticut River. Noyes was arrested in June at the state psychiatric hospital, where he had been hospitalized after being found incompetent to stand trial on unrelated misdemeanors. \n Judge Paul Desjardins on Monday granted the prosecution's request to dismiss the charges, find that Noyes is dangerous to himself or others and require him to be evaluated for involuntary commitment. In a separate motion, his attorneys argued that he was not dangerous and said the state lacked evidence linking him to the girl's death. \n Defense lawyers instead pointed to Kevin Mullaney, whose father was a former boyfriend of Celina's mother. Mullaney, who was 22 at the time, is serving two to six years in prison for receiving stolen property and other charges. \n According to Noyes' attorneys, Celina's pajama bottoms and underwear were found stuffed in a tire in the back of Mullaney's truck and semen on a pair of sandy, muddy boxer shorts found in her clothes hamper tested positive for Mullaney's DNA. \n It was unclear whether Mullaney has an attorney. According to prosecutors, he has denied involvement in the girl's death and said Noyes must have planted her clothing in his truck to frame him. \n Investigators say Noyes made numerous inconsistent statements about where he last saw Celina the night before she was reported missing, how many beers he drank that night and what time he got up the next morning. Three days after Celina disappeared, he told a reporter the family was \"grieving,\" which struck investigators as unusual and indicative of knowing that she was dead. \n A sandbag was missing from the back of his truck, and during the search for the girl he led investigators on a route that was \"basically a circle around the body,\" police said. \n A jail inmate who served time with Noyes in 2015 told investigators that Noyes confessed to the killing, though police say that man's credibility has not been established. The inmate said Noyes admitted that he and another man had been having sex with his stepdaughter and \"they had to get rid of her\" because they thought she was pregnant. \n At the time of Noyes' arrest, Louisia Cass said she hoped her ex-husband would end up in prison rather than the hospital. She said Noyes had seemed like a loving and caring husband but as time passed after Celina's death she began to believe he was responsible. \n \"I hope he rots in hell,\" she said. \n The girl's disappearance led to an intense search by federal, state and local law enforcement in the tiny North Country town of Stewartstown, a mile from the Canadian border. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Murder charge nixed against stepdad who is ruled incompetent"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lee Jae-yong, a vice chairman of Samsung Electronics Co., arrived for a hearing at the Seoul Central District Court on Jan. 18 \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean special prosecutors said they would indict Samsung's de facto chief today on bribery, embezzlement and other charges linked to a political scandal that has toppled President Park Geun-hye. \n The planned indictment of Samsung Electronics vice chairman Lee Jae-yong is a huge hit for the largest and most successful of the big businesses that dominate the South Korean economy. It also signals the still roiling state of South Korea's political and economic circles after weeks of massive demonstrations that led to Park's impeachment. \n The announcements of the planned indictments came after a three-month investigation by the special prosecution team, which ended today after the country's acting leader refused a request for an extension. \n Prosecutors say the Samsung heir gave bribes worth $36 million to Park and her confidante to help win government support for a smooth leadership transfer from Lee's ailing father to Lee. \n Lee also allegedly hid assets overseas, concealed proceeds from criminal activities and committed perjury. The 48-year-old billionaire was arrested Feb. 17. Samsung has denied wrongdoing. \n Prosecutors also said they planned to indict four other Samsung executives on charges of offering bribes, embezzlement, hiding assets overseas and concealing proceeds from criminal activities. \n The planned indictments mean that key figures at a powerful yet secretive Samsung office that wielded influence over dozens of Samsung affiliates face trial. Lee promised in December to disband the secretive office, called the Corporate Strategy Office, which allegedly orchestrated bribery schemes centered on Choi Soon-sil, Park's confidante. \n Shortly after the prosecutors' announcement, Samsung announced a series of measures to improve its transparency, including disbanding the secretive office and resignations from top executives who prosecutors said they would indict. Lee wasn't included in the resignations, implying he will keep his position and board membership at Samsung Electronics during court proceedings. \n The office consists of close Lee family aides who worked to help ensure the father to son leadership transition. Some say that the contentious merger of Samsung C&T and Cheil Industries in 2015 was also overseen by the office, not by the board of directors at the two Samsung companies. The merger, a crucial step for Lee to strengthen his grip on Samsung Electronics, was a key benefit that Samsung sought from the government by offering millions of dollars to Choi's various entities, according to the prosecutors. \n The merger, despite opposition from some shareholders who argued that it unfairly benefited the Lee family, was approved by shareholders thanks to the support of a state-controlled national pension fund, a key Samsung investor. \n The special prosecution team said they also plan to pursue additional charges of bribery and concealing proceedings from criminal activities against Choi, who allegedly exploited her presidential ties to extort money and favors from companies and manipulate state affairs from the shadows. \n The special prosecution team finished its inquiry without questioning Park, after she backed off from a Feb. 9 interview. The country's acting leader, Hwang Kyo-ahn, refused to extend the investigation past today's deadline. \n Lee was once the face of the new Samsung, but now follows in the footsteps of his father, Samsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-hee. The senior Lee was indicted in 2008 on charges of tax evasion and a breach of trust. He was later convicted and then pardoned by a former president. \n Corruption has dogged many other business leaders in South Korea's family-controlled conglomerates, which are known as chaebol. \n When the elder Lee was indicted, Samsung vowed a series of measures to improve transparency. It is expected to announce more measures following the younger Lee's indictment. \n Since Lee's father fell ill in May 2014, the younger Lee has stepped up his leadership role. Samsung appeared to be trying to change its top-down, hierarchical, authoritarian corporate culture under Lee. \n Fluent in foreign languages, educated overseas and linked to Silicon Valley luminaries, Lee was seen as the new face of Samsung. Samsung promised to remove obstacles to creativity and innovation in recent years by introducing a nimble, startup-like attitude. It has increased returns to shareholders and acquired several companies outside South Korea. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korean prosecutors to indict Samsung's de facto chief"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Hawaii Senate Ways and Means Committee holds a hearing for legislation today. The committee passed a bill that would create a group to develop a way to collect data on how vacation rentals affect Hawaii's tax revenue, housing supply and brand as a visitor destination. \n  Hawaii lawmakers may create a group to develop a way to collect data on how vacation rentals affect Hawaii's tax revenue, housing supply and brand as a visitor destination. \n The Senate Ways and Means Committee on Monday passed a bill to set up the group made up of industry and government officials. The measure next goes to the full Senate for a vote. \n The legislation says the state is losing tax revenue as some owners and operators of short-term rentals are not paying transient accommodations taxes and general excise taxes. \n It says counties are losing revenue when vacation rental owners receive homeowner discounts on property taxes. \n The legislation says some of the units rented to visitors could be rented to residents, helping alleviate Hawaii's affordable housing crisis. \n The bill calls on the group to establish a way for state and county governments to monitor the number of units being offered to visitors on a part-time and full-time basis. It also asks the group to identify how vacation rentals are affecting real estate markets, the availability of long-term rentals, rent and property taxes. \n The working group would include representatives from the state tax department, the Hawaii Tourism Authority, hotel industry, licensed short-term rental operators and short-term rental websites. They would submit their findings to lawmakers shortly before the next legislative session. \n Vacation rental operator associations submitted testimony in support of the bill. \n The ILWU Local 142, which represents many Hawaii hotel workers, submitted testimony saying adequate financial resources for the working group would help in the gathering of accurate data and assessing the industry's impact. \n The bill doesn't indicate how much money would be allocated for the working group. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii panel passes bill to get vacation rental data"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A frosted glass curtain hides a portion of the bar at Brio Tuscan Grille at Fashion Place Mall in Murray City, Utah in 2011. In heavily Mormon Utah, a lawmaker introduced a proposal today that allows restaurants to get rid of barriers known as \"Zion Curtains\" that block people from seeing alcoholic drinks being made. \n SALT LAKE CITY >> In heavily Mormon Utah, a lawmaker introduced a proposal today allowing restaurants to stop using walls or backrooms known as \"Zion Curtains\" that block customers from seeing alcoholic drinks being made. Supporters say the longtime requirement helps curb underage drinking by hiding the glamour of bartending. \n In exchange, restaurants in the state with some of the nation's strictest alcohol laws would be required to install a buffer zone around bars or areas where drinks are poured. A buffer zone extending 10 feet from the bar would be off-limits to those under 21. But the area could still be in full view of the rest of the restaurant, bill sponsor Republican Rep. Brad Wilson clarified tonight. \n Wilson said he's working on a change to allow a third option to create a smaller 5- to 6-foot buffer zone that's partitioned off by a half wall about 3.5 feet tall. \n Customers who enter the buffer zones that appear to be under 35 years old would have their IDs scanned. Those seated in the dining room could still drink alcohol, but depending on the restaurant, they may or may not be able to see it prepared. \n Restaurants that don't create a buffer area would have to keep or put in Zion Curtains, a reference to Utah's teetotaler Mormon population. They are often visual barriers like frosted glass panels atop counters or a separate back room for making drinks. \n The Utah-based Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which plays a big role in the state's liquor laws, appears to support the measure. \n Church spokesman Eric Hawkins said in a statement that the bill appears to make \"an admirable attempt\" to address concerns about underage drinking and alcohol abuse and includes appropriate protections. \n The Salt Lake Area Restaurant Association criticized the plan, warning that the buffer zones would be impossible for small restaurants, reaching to the front door of some small spaces and limiting where they could seat families. \n \"It's going to put some of them out of business,\" executive director Michele Corigliano said. \"It's going to make Utah look ridiculous.\" \n Wilson told reporters earlier today that at least a dozen states require restaurants to have something like a 21-and-older bar area. He said Utah, like those other states, wants to keep children from sitting in bars. \n He acknowledged that the changes may be tough for some restaurants, saying, \"There are a few where it's a little tricky to figure it out, so we're trying to work through that.\" \n This is the latest attempt to address the controversial barriers, which have been required for decades in some form and were preserved despite a major loosening of the state's liquor laws in 2009. Restaurants built before 2009 are generally exempt. \n The Utah Restaurant Association says most of the state's 4,000 restaurants are grandfathered in and don't have the barriers, but the rule puts newer establishments at a disadvantage. \n Wilson's bill currently requires all restaurants to choose by summer 2018 to have barriers or install a buffer zone, meaning older restaurants will have to make changes. \n But Wilson said tonight he's working on a change that would allow a five-year grace period for those older restaurants or restaurants holding a particular type of dining license that currently allows them to make more money from the sale of alcohol than food alone. \n Corigliano of the Salt Lake Area Restaurant Association said tonight that Wilson has made helpful changes but her group wants to see the latest adjustments in writing and still has other concerns. She said if they can't be addressed, her group, representing 89 restaurants, would rather see Utah's liquor laws left alone. \n The proposal has not yet had a hearing. Republican Gov. Gary Herbert said in January that he supports the work Wilson is doing on the bill, but his office said tonight that he had not yet reviewed it. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah bill loosens who sees booze poured but keeps barriers"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated image made from militant video and released by SITE Intel Group on Feb. 24, shows German hostage Jurgen Gustav Kantner at an undisclosed location. Abu Sayyaf extremists in the Philippines have released a video of the beheading of Kantner. \n MANILA, Philippines >> Abu Sayyaf extremists in the Philippines released a video showing the beheading of a German hostage in the first sign the brutal Filipino militants carried out a threat to kill him after a ransom deadline lapsed over the weekend. \n President Rodrigo Duterte's adviser dealing with Muslim rebel groups, Jesus Dureza, condemned the killing of Jurgen Gustav Kantner as barbaric, saying the Philippine military and other groups \"exhausted all efforts to save his life\" up to the final moment. \n \"We grieve as we strongly condemn the barbaric beheading of yet another kidnap victim,\" Dureza said in a statement. \"We all tried our best. But to no avail.\" \n The brief video circulated today by the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadi websites, shows Kantner sitting in a grassy clearing and saying \"Now he kill me\" shortly before a masked militant beheads him with a curved knife. \n A few gunmen mutter \"Allahu Akbar,\" or \"God is great,\" in the video that lasts a minute and 43 seconds. \n The Philippine military confirmed that Kantner had been \"mercilessly and inhumanly murdered.\" \n \"Our operations in the past several days and nights using all our resources were unrelenting. We lost some of our best men in the process, because we value the life of Mr. Kantner and that of the others who have fallen prey to this terrorist group,\" spokesman Col. Edgard Arevalo said in a statement. \n An intelligence report seen by The Associated Press said an Abu Sayyaf militant, Moammar Askali, had wanted Kantner to be killed as announced but others wanted to wait out for a ransom payment. The militants circulated a video earlier this month in which Kantner said he would be killed if ransom was not paid by 3 p.m. Sunday. \n Philippine officials have said the militants were seeking a ransom of 30 million pesos ($605,000). \n In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel condemned \"this abominable act, which shows once again how inhumane and without conscience these terrorists act,\" spokesman Steffen Seibert said in a statement. \"We must all stand together to fight against them.\" \n German Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer would not give any details on possible negotiations with the kidnappers, including whether there was a ransom demand, citing government policy and saying that \"public comment never helps in finding a solution\" in such cases. \n The Abu Sayyaf claimed in November that its gunmen had kidnapped Kantner and killed a woman sailing with him off neighboring Malaysia's Sabah state. Villagers later found a dead woman on a yacht with the German flag off Laparan Island in Sulu province in the southern Philippines, the military said. \n Kantner and his partner, Sabine Merz, were taken hostage by Somali pirates in 2008 and later freed, officials said. \n The Abu Sayyaf, which the U.S. and the Philippines have blacklisted as a terrorist organization, is holding more than 20 foreign and local hostages in jungle encampments in the country's south. They beheaded two Canadian men last year after separate ransom deadlines lapsed. \n Duterte has ordered troops to destroy the Abu Sayyaf extremists, saying their ransom kidnappings were embarrassing and were creating a security alarm in the waters bordering the south, Malaysia and Indonesia. The three countries have made efforts to jointly shore up security along their busy sea border but the kidnappings by the Abu Sayyaf and allied gunmen of passing crews have persisted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine militants release video of German's beheading"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "THE PRESS-ENTERPRISE VIA AP \n Smoke rised from a fire after a plane crashed in Riverside, Calif., today, \n RIVERSIDE, Calif. >> Three people died and two were injured, one critically, when a small plane carrying them home from a cheerleading competition slammed into two Southern California homes and sparked a raging fire, authorities and witnesses said. \n The twin-engine plane with five occupants had just taken off from Riverside Municipal Airport at 4:40 p.m. Monday intending to return to San Jose after the weekend Disneyland event when it crashed about a mile away in the residential neighborhood, Riverside Fire Chief Michael Moore said. \n One of the survivors was hospitalized with critical burns and the other was in stable condition, police Officer Ryan Railsback said today. He said both were adult women recovering after undergoing surgery. \n The remains of an adult woman were removed from the wreckage, which was still smoldering the morning after the crash, Railsback said. \n The bodies of an adult man and a female teenager remained the site of the crash that destroyed two suburban houses and sent debris flying down the block of single-family homes. One of the plane's propellers landed on a rooftop. \n \"It's unrecognizable really as a plane,\" said Railsback, who added that it was \"remarkable\" no one on the ground was hurt. \n One of the destroyed houses was empty at the time and a man escaped the neighboring home without suffering injuries. Nearly all of about 40 residents evacuated after the fiery crash returned home. \n One of the survivors was thrown from a back seat of the plane but suffered only minor injuries, Moore said. \n Three witnesses told TV stations one survivor crawled from the home asking for help. She was able to talk to firefighters about what had happened as she was taken to a hospital, Moore said. \n Police said the airport's control tower called local authorities after the plane went down. Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board will try to determine what occurred in the minutes after takeoff. \n Witness Brian Marsh, driving nearby, said he saw the Cessna turn moments before the crash. \n \"All of a sudden it turned into a freefall,\" he told the Press-Enterprise. \"Flames were everywhere. Smoke was billowing out.\" \n Ken Sampson told the newspaper the flames shot so high that he could see them from his house six blocks away. \n Firefighters entered one of the burning houses and pulled out another passenger, who was unconscious. \n \"It's horrible,\" Moore said, especially given that they had gone to a cheerleading competition and it was \"supposed to be a happy time.\" \n Authorities initially said four people died, and that the critically injured victim was a resident of the homes. They later reduced the death toll to three and said all five victims had been on the plane. They have not given the ages or identities of the victims. \n Moore did not provide the name of the cheerleading competition, but the Jr. USA Nationals for girls age 15 and under was held at Disney California Adventure Park over the weekend. Officials with the competition did not immediately return calls today. \n The two homes that were hit directly were destroyed, and there was minor damage to neighboring houses, Moore said. \n H.L. Reyes, who lives about a quarter-mile from the crash site, told The Associated Press she felt the ground shake and saw plumes of black smoke. \n \"I thought it was a possible earthquake, and we heard all the birds just suddenly react outside, too,\" Reyes said. \"This was just like a nightmare coming true.\" \n Shannon Flores, a teacher at an elementary school about three blocks away, said she saw the plane out her classroom window. She said it was raining during the crash, though other witnesses said the rain was very light. \n \"As soon as we saw it fly over, we knew it wasn't a good thing,\" Flores told KABC-TV. \"We watched it go down very quickly \u2026 Before we knew it, there was a loud crash and huge plumes of smoke.\" \n Associated Press writers Christopher Weber, John Antczak and Andrew Dalton in Los Angeles contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 dead after plane hits houses in California"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "INVISION/AP \n Jordan Horowitz, producer of \"La La Land,\" showed the envelope revealing \"Moonlight\" as the true winner of best picture at the Oscars on Sunday. \n LOS ANGELES >> Oscars host Jimmy Kimmel shared his perspective on the show's best-picture gaffe during his Monday monologue on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live !\" \n \"As I'm sure you've at least heard, 'La La Land' was simultaneously somehow the biggest winner and loser last night,\" Kimmel said. \n Presenters announced \"La La Land\" as the best picture winner at Sunday's Academy Awards, though \"Moonlight\" was the actual winner. Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway had been given the best actress envelope to open instead of best picture. The accounting firm responsible for the integrity of the awards has taken responsibility for the error and apologized to all involved. \n \"It was the weirdest TV finale since 'Lost,'\" Kimmel cracked. \n He said the plan had been for him to end the Oscar show in the audience, seated next to Matt Damon, when rumblings began that there'd been a mistake. \n \"We're sitting there and we notice some commotion going on,\" Kimmel said. \"And Matt says, 'I think I heard the stage manager say they got the winner wrong.' \u2026So you just kind of figure, well, the host will go onstage and clear this up. And then I remember, oh I'm the host.\" \n Three \"La La Land\" producers gave acceptance speeches before the error was corrected and \"Moonlight\" received the award. \n Kimmel said it was \"mass confusion\" when he got onstage and no one seemed sure what to do. Then Denzel Washington, sitting in the front row, got Kimmel's attention and shouted, \"Barry!\" \n \"Eventually I figured out that Barry Jenkins, the director of 'Moonlight,' is standing behind me and Denzel wanted me to get him to the microphone to make a speech, which makes sense,\" Kimmel said. \"Thank God Denzel was there to make sense.\" \n After ending the show, Kimmel spoke to Beatty backstage, who showed him the envelopes. Dunaway, \"made quite a getaway,\" Kimmel said, leaving immediately after the show. \n \"Have any of you here ever hosted the Oscars before?\" Kimmel joked with his audience tonight. \"Well, except for the end \u2014 it was a lot of fun.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kimmel shares insights on Oscar gaffe"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Police were looking for this man who robbed a person Feb. 18 in an apartment building in Makiki. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n This image from security footage shows a suspect in a Feb. 18 robbery in Makiki. \n Honolulu police detectives are looking for a man who robbed a person earlier this month in an apartment building in Makiki. \n Police said the man entered the elevator with the victim in an apartment on Heulu Street at about 2:50 a.m. on Feb. 18. \n When the victim left the elevator, the suspect put on a mask and robbed the victim at gunpoint. \n \"The victims started yelling and the suspect fled when other residents came out of their apartments,\" police said. \n Police have classified the incident as first-degree robbery and disseminated a photograph and video of the alleged suspect. \n The suspect is described as 5-foot-8, 150 pounds, and in his 30s. \n Anyone with information about the suspect is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek masked Makiki robber"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rabbi Joshua Bolton of the University of Pennsylvania's Hillel center surveys damaged headstones at Mount Carmel Cemetery. \n Jewish centers and schools across the nation coped with another wave of bomb threats today as officials in Philadelphia made plans to repair and restore hundreds of vandalized headstones at a Jewish cemetery. \n Jewish Community Centers and day schools in at least a dozen states received threats, according to the JCC Association of North America. No bombs were found. All 21 buildings \u2014 13 community centers and eight schools \u2014 were cleared by late today and had resumed normal operations, the association said. \n It was the fifth round of bomb threats against Jewish institutions since January, prompting outrage and exasperation among Jewish leaders as well as calls for an aggressive federal response to put a stop to it. \n \"The Justice Department, Homeland Security, the FBI, and the White House, alongside Congress and local officials, must speak out \u2014 and speak out forcefully \u2014 against this scourge of anti-Semitism impacting communities across the country,\" said David Posner, an official with JCC Association of North America. \"Members of our community must see swift and concerted action from federal officials to identify and capture the perpetrator or perpetrators who are trying to instill anxiety and fear in our communities.\" \n The FBI and the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division are probing the threats. \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions called the vandalism and bomb threats serious, unacceptable behavior and said the department will \"do what it can to assist in pushing back \u2026 and prosecuting anybody that we can prove to be a part of it.\" \n \"We are a nation that is a diverse constituency, and we don't need these kind of activities,\" Sessions said. \n In Philadelphia, police investigated what they called an \"abominable crime\" after several hundred headstones were damaged during the weekend at Mount Carmel Cemetery, a Jewish cemetery dating to the late 1800s, said Steven Rosenberg, chief marketing officer of the Jewish Federation of Greater Philadelphia. \n Police said the vandalism appeared to be targeted at the Jewish community, though they cautioned they had not confirmed the motive. Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney said authorities were doing everything possible to find those \"who desecrated this final resting place.\" \n \"I'm hoping it was maybe just some drunk kids,\" said Aaron Mallin, who discovered the damage during a visit to his father's grave. \"But the fact that there's so many, it leads one to think it could have been targeted,\" he told WPVI-TV. \n The vandalism comes less than a week after a Jewish cemetery in suburban St. Louis was targeted. More than 150 headstones there were damaged, many of them tipped over. \n Both acts of vandalism spurred offers of help. \n The Philadelphia Building & Construction Trades Council, an umbrella group for more than 50 union locals that work in the construction industry, offered to repair the damage at Mount Carmel free of charge, calling it a \"cowardly act of anti-Semitism that cannot be tolerated.\" A community cleanup organized by the Jewish Federation was to begin Tuesday with as many as 50 volunteers per hour. \n And in Missouri, a Muslim crowdfunding effort to support the vandalized Jewish cemetery near St. Louis had raised more than $136,000 by today, with organizers announcing they would use some of the money for the Philadelphia cemetery. \n Today's bomb threats caused no physical damage but were no less worrisome. \n \"There's plenty of people who are scared,\" said Rosenberg, who denounced the hoaxsters as \"an embarrassment to civilized society.\" \n Some 200 people were evacuated from a Jewish Community Center in York, Pa., after a caller told the front desk there was a bomb in the building, said Melissa Plotkin, the York JCC's director of community engagement and diversity. Police entered the building and cleared it, she said. \n Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf, who has long ties to the York center, having served on its board, called the bomb threats and cemetery vandalism reprehensible. \n \"These acts are cowardly and disturbing,\" Wolf told reporters in a conference call today. \"We must find those responsible and hold them accountable for these hate crimes.\" \n Jewish centers and schools in Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island and Virginia also were threatened, according to the JCC Association of North America. \n Since January, the group has tracked a total of 90 incidents in 30 states and Canada. \n Paul Goldenberg, director of the Secure Community Network, a nonprofit founded by several national Jewish groups to bolster security in the Jewish community, said Jewish Community Centers and other Jewish institutions have extensive security protocols in place. \n After dealing with Monday's threats, he said, the \"Jewish community is back in business.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jewish centers cope with bomb threats; graves vandalized"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "COURTESY USGS \n Recent earthquakes on the Big Island \n Three earthquakes with a magnitude larger than 2.0 struck Hawaii island within an hour this afternoon. \n The seismic activity began with a magnitude 2.3 quake in Kau at 3:36 p.m., followed five minutes later by a magnitude 2.5 temblor less than a mile away, the U.S. Geological Survey said. \n At 4:34 p.m., a magnitude 2.7 quake struck near Waimea, about 5 miles west-northwest of Mauna Kea's summit and at a depth of about 13 miles, the Geological Survey said. \n The first earth tremor, about 4 miles northeast of Kaena Point, originated about 2 miles below ground, while the second was centered at a shallower depth of about three-quarters of a mile. \n Proceeding the series of quakes, at 3:21 p.m., was a micro earthquake of magnitude 1.8 about 3 miles south-southwest of Mauna Loa summit. \n Several people reported feeling the largest quake in Waimea, according to the Geological Survey's website. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Three quakes rattle Big Isle"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII TRIBUNE HERALD \n Jugs of milk are filled at the Meadow Gold processing plant in Hilo. \n The State Department of Health ordered Meadow Gold Dairies to stop selling its 2-percent reduced fat milk because of signs of potential contamination. \n The state issued a Cease and Desist Order to the company today after laboratory results from milk samples exceeded limits for coliform bacteria \u2014 an indicator of contamination post-pasteurization. \n The DOH tests of the 2-percent reduced fat milk on Jan. 19, Feb. 6 and 22 showed coliform counts of nearly 15 times the maximum allowed. \n The tests revealed 150 coliforms per milliliter, 130 per milliliter and more than 150 per milliliter respectively. The maximum allowed coliform limit for pasteurized milk is 10 coliforms per milliliter. \n Meadow Gold Dairies can resume distribution and selling of 2-percent reduced fat milk if it passes health inspections and undergoes additional testing, the Department of Health said. \"All other milk products from Meadow Gold Dairies meet state and federal standards required for distribution and sale,\" the agency said. \n Jamaison Schuler, spokesman for Dean Foods, the Dallas-based owner of Meadow Gold, said internal testing did not reveal quality or safety concerns but the company is \"taking this situation very seriously.\" \n \"We test our products regularly before, during and after processing to ensure quality, and it's important to understand that product being sold in stores is not affected,\" Schuler said in a statement. \"We have not received any consumer complaints.\" \n Schuler said the coliform found in milk is safe to drink but could cause the milk to spoil faster than usual. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Meadow Gold Dairies ordered to stop selling 2% milk"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> The Senate on Monday confirmed billionaire investor Wilbur Ross as commerce secretary as President Donald Trump adds to his economic team. \n The vote was 72-27. \n Breaking with Republican orthodoxy, Ross said the Trump administration will work quickly to re-do the North American Free Trade Agreement. That's the massive trade pact with Canada and Mexico that has boosted trade but still stings laid-off workers across the Midwest. \n Senators from both political parties were deferential to Ross at his nearly four-hour confirmation hearing, which was much more subdued than the confirmation hearings of other Trump nominees. Former commerce secretaries have praised him, including one who served under former President Barack Obama. \n \"Mr. Ross will bring decades of business, entrepreneurial and civic experience to this important position,\" said Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., chairman of the Commerce Committee. \"I believe his extensive management experience in the private sector, and his understanding of the challenges faced by workers and businesses alike, will equip him well for the job of leading the Department of Commerce.\" \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts criticized Ross' business ties to Russia and the way he ran a mortgage lender during the housing crisis. \n \"Mr. Ross has extensive ties to Russia. He plans to keep making money from his major oil shipping companies while working as Commerce Secretary. He's made billions off the backs of struggling home owners,\" Warren said Monday. \"He is practically a cartoon stereotype of a Wall Street fat cat.\" \n As part of his ethics agreement, Ross is giving up his position at Diamond S. Shipping, but he will retain a stake in the company, which ships petroleum and other products. As part of the agreement, Ross has promised not to take any action as commerce secretary that would benefit any company in which he has a financial interest. \n At his confirmation hearing, Ross was not asked about business ties to Russia or his work as a mortgage lender, and he did not address the issues. \n Senators did note that Ross is divesting from much of his business empire. \n Worth an estimated $2.9 billion, Ross has extensive business ties around the globe. In 2000, he founded WL Ross & Co., a private equity firm. As part of his ethics agreement, Ross will divest from the firm. \n So far, the Senate has confirmed 15 out of 22 Trump Cabinet or Cabinet-level picks requiring confirmation. Senators also moved forward Monday on Trump's nomination of Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke to lead the Interior Department, voting 67-31 to limit debate. A final vote on confirmation could occur on Tuesday or Wednesday. \n During the presidential campaign, Trump criticized U.S. trade deals, including NAFTA. Trump's stance on trade is at odds with many Republicans in Congress, but it endeared him to some voters in the Midwest who believe trade deals cost American jobs. \n NAFTA was negotiated and signed by President Bill Clinton, with broad support among Republicans in Congress. \n Ross said all free trade agreements should be systematically re-opened every few years to make sure they are working in the best interests of the U.S. \n Ross said he is pro-free trade but noted his close relationship with the United Steelworkers union as proof that he will fight to protect American jobs. The union has endorsed him. \n The commerce secretary has several roles in promoting American business interests in the U.S. and abroad. The department handles trade issues, working to attract foreign investment to the U.S. The department also oversees agencies that manage fisheries, weather forecasting and the Census Bureau, which will conduct a count in 2020. \n Ross said he has experience at that agency; he was a census-taker while he attended business school. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate confirms billionaire investor as commerce secretary"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Astrid Silva of PLAN speaks during the first day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. \n LAS VEGAS >> An immigration activist who will deliver a Democratic response in Spanish to President Donald Trump's first speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday plans to address the Republican administration's crackdown on immigrants living illegally in the U.S. and the need for affordable health care. \n Astrid Silva is a so-called Dreamer who was brought into the country illegally as a child. Her remarks will come as Trump's efforts have spread anxiety among immigrants and led many to fear arrest. \n Former Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear will give the Democratic Party's English-language response. \n Silva says immigration is an important issue for Latinos, but the community also cares about health care and women's rights. \n The 28-year-old Silva came to the U.S. with her parents at age 4 and has lived in Las Vegas since she was 5. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Activist to address immigration, health after Trump speech"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUNA KEA WEATHER CENTER \n An image from a web camera showing the Keck 1 telescope this afternoon on the summit of Mauna Kea. \n More than six inches of snow and cloud-to-ground lightning strikes could hit the summits of Hawaii island beginning tomorrow, the National Weather Service said. \n Big island summits above 11,000 feet were scheduled to be under a winter storm watch from Tuesday morning to Wednesday afternoon. The watch means significant snow accumulations could impact travel and create dangerous conditions for hikers. \n A low pressure area northwest of Hawaii was creating the storm and allowing deep moisture to spread over the islands this week, bringing potentially heavy snow to Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea. \n The Weather Service warned of visibility of less then a quarter-mile, 10- to 15-mph winds with higher gusts, and slick, snow-covered roads. \n The Weather Service urged travelers to consider postponing summit trips until the weather improves. \n The National Park Service said today that Mauna Loa summit was closed due to the winter storm watch. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Heavy snow and lightning strikes forecast for Big Isle summits"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thousands of demonstrators march in Phoenix in support of those in cities around the globe protesting against Donald Trump as the new United States president. \n PHOENIX >> The speaker of the Arizona House said Monday he won't hear a bill that makes participating in or helping organize a protest that turns into a riot an offense that could lead to criminal racketeering charges, a move prompted by widespread criticism that the legislation sought to limit First Amendment rights. \n The measure passed last week by the Senate drew nationwide attention, particularly from civil libertarians, because it classified violent protest as an organized crime and said protesters who didn't initially intend to riot could still face criminal charges. That attention led Speaker J.D. Mesnard to decide Monday to kill it for the session. \n Mesnard told The Associated Press that people all across the country now believe that the Arizona Legislature is trying to enact a law that will suppress their First Amendment right to assemble. \n \"It's gotten a lot of attention, and frankly whether it's fair or unfair, whether its accurate or inaccurate, at this point doesn't matter,\" he told the AP. \"That's certainly not what the Legislature wants to be about \u2014 I know that's not what the sponsor wanted in the first place. The best way to send a very clear signal that we're not doing it is to not move the bill.\" \n The Republican House speaker controls the path of legislation through his chamber, so Mesnard's decision means the bill is dead. \n The Arizona legislation is the latest in a string of proposals in Republican-led states intended to crack down on protests. South Dakota Gov. Dennis Daugaard is pursuing legislation to make it clear that his emergency response powers apply to destructive protests, create new trespassing penalties and make it a crime to obstruct highways, a move prompted by protests in North Dakota over the Dakota Access pipeline. A recent Washington Post tally showed efforts in 18 states, with proposals like stiffer penalties for blocking highways to increased trespassing penalties on critical infrastructure. \n Arizona passed a law last year making it a mid-range misdemeanor to intentionally block access to a political campaign event or a government meeting or hearing. That bill was prompted by protesters who blocked a highway leading to a Donald Trump campaign event outside Phoenix. \n Republican Gov. Doug Ducey has worked to avoid divisive legislation since he took office in 2015 as he works to change the perception that Arizona is a state where such legislation is enacted. Mesnard said he hadn't been pressured by the governor's office, but Ducey's spokesman did issue a statement praising the decision. \n \"While we do not comment on pending legislation, we have been advised that SB1142 isn't moving forward, which we are pleased to hear,\" Ducey spokesman Daniel Ruiz said in a statement. \n All 17 Senate Republicans supported the measure and all 13 Democrats voted no last week. \n Senate Bill 1142 would allow prosecutors to seize a person's assets in addition to enhanced criminal charges. Sen. Sonny Borrelli, R-Lake Havasu City, has said his bill is needed to deter violent riots and go after groups he says are paying protesters. Opponents said it is so broadly written that it could ensnare innocent people and chill free speech rights. \n During last Wednesday's vote, Democrats said there is no evidence that current laws against rioting, property destruction and assault are ineffective. They said the measure will having a chilling effect on free speech rights by adding new crimes under racketeering laws commonly called RICO statutes. \n \"This is a total perversion of the RICO process, the racketeering process, and I see major Constitutional issues down the line,\" said Sen. Steve Farley, D-Tucson. \"I don't think this is going to do anything but get us into more lawsuits.\" \n Republicans pointed to violent riots that broke out last month in Washington, D.C., among peaceful demonstrations after the inauguration of President Donald Trump, and violent protests in Berkeley, California, against a prominent right-wing speaker who backs Trump, Milo Yiannopoulos. They alleged the violence in some cases was the result of paid agitators. \n \"I have been heartsick at what is going on in our country, what young people are being encouraged to do,\" said Sen. Sylvia Allen, R-Snowflake. \"And there's a difference between a protest and a riot. And what we have been watching is riots.\" \n Sen. Katie Hobbs, D-Phoenix, chastised Republicans, calling it \"fake news that people are being paid to riot.\" \n Mesnard said his decision was a practical one to end an unnecessary distraction and that trying to undo the perception in people's minds at this point just isn't possible. \n \"I did look at the bill, it's actually a bill of relatively few words, but they insert the word riot there sort-of in the racketeering. You put it right below terrorism and people think 'Oh my goodness, really, riot and terrorism is the same thing?' \" Mesnard said. \"Well, they're not the same thing. I don't think that's what the bill is trying to get at.\" \n Mesnard said he has told Gov. Doug Ducey's office, and Republican leadership in the House and Senate of his decision. And he told Borrelli of his reasons. \n \"I've explained that to the sponsor. He's very gracious about that,\" he said. \"I know firsthand that's not his motivation at all.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arizona leader kills protest bill after widespread criticism"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Over a hundred protestors gather during a rally in Portland, Ore. Immigrants and their supporters met outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement building in downtown Portland to protest President Trump's immigration policies. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> Openly defying President Donald Trump's plans to step up deportations of immigrants in the U.S. illegally, several hundred of them and their supporters staged a rally Monday right next to a building of the federal immigration agency. \n \"We are undocumented, and we are unafraid,\" protesters chanted at the rally, held in bone-chilling rain near downtown Portland. Uniformed guards at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement building kept an eye from behind windows on the peaceful protest, but they did not intervene. Some motorists driving by tooted their horns and gave thumbs-up in a show of support. \n Speakers at the rally gave their names to the crowd and the media. Some said that while they are worried that this could bring them to the attention of ICE agents, they felt they had to speak out to dispel the climate of fear that has gripped the immigrant community in Oregon, where a few towns have a majority Latino population, and in much of the rest of the nation. \n \"I am very afraid,\" Juan Avalos said in an interview. \"But that's the point today, coming out of the shadows. We will no longer be afraid, and this is the main point of the event.\" \n Now 21, Avalos had come to America from Salamanca, a town in Guanajuato state in central Mexico, when he was only 12. He is a student at a community college and works at an auto body shop. \n \"We are students. We are brothers. We are people who are just trying to be someone in life,\" he said. \n Trump says deportations are needed to keep America safe, and that the priority is to get criminals out. But some of those with no criminal history, or minor infractions, are also being detained. \n During the rally, one of the protesters was on the phone, being told there had been people detained in the last few days in Woodburn, a predominantly Latino town south of Portland. \n On Feb.9, a Woodburn man, a father of two who has lived in the U.S. for 30 years, was detained by ICE agents and sent to a detention center in Tacoma, Washington. ICE did not immediately confirm any additional detentions in Woodburn. \n Luna Flores, who spoke at the rally, has lived in Portland for 16 years, and she is the mother of a U.S. citizen. She worries that she will be separated from her daughter if she is deported. \n \"We try to send a message to the ICE, to the government, to the whole administration, we are not criminals,\" she said. \"They are separating our families.\" \n Hannah Zaiv, a retired mental health counselor from Portland, held a sign saying \"Let Them Stay\" as she listed to the speakers. \n \"This is a country made for everyone,\" she said. \"The world should be made for everyone. Like John Lennon sang in 'Imagine': 'Imagine there's no countries.' \" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Immigrants in U.S. illegally stage a rally by ICE building"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions is greeted by employees as he arrives at the Justice Department in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> The Justice Department will try to adopt \"responsible policies\" for enforcement of federal anti-marijuana laws, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Monday, adding that he believes violence surrounds sales and use of the drug in the U.S. \n In a meeting with reporters, Sessions said the department was reviewing an Obama administration Justice Department memo that gave states flexibility in passing marijuana laws. \n \"Experts are telling me there's more violence around marijuana than one would think,\" Sessions said. \n The comments were in keeping with remarks last week from White House spokesman Sean Spicer, who said the Justice Department would step up enforcement of federal law against recreational marijuana. Sessions stopped short of saying what he would do, but said he doesn't think America will be a better place with \"more people smoking pot.\" \n \"I am definitely not a fan of expanded use of marijuana,\" he said. \"But states, they can pass the laws they choose. I would just say, it does remain a violation of federal law to distribute marijuana throughout any place in the United States, whether a state legalizes it or not.\" \n Eight states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana for recreational use. The Justice Department has several options available should it decide to enforce the law, including filing lawsuits on the grounds that state laws regulating pot are unconstitutional because they are pre-empted by federal law. \n Studies have found no correlation between legalization of marijuana and violent crime rates. But law enforcement officials in states such as Colorado say drug traffickers have taken advantage of lax marijuana laws to hide in plain sight, illegally growing and shipping the drug across state lines, where it can sell for much higher. \n Pot advocates say the officials have exaggerated the problem. \n \"You can't sue somebody for a drug debt. The only way to get your money is through strong-arm tactics, and violence tends to follow that,\" Sessions said. \n Sessions said he met with Nebraska's attorney general, who sued Colorado for allegedly not keeping marijuana within its borders. That lawsuit was dismissed by the U.S. Supreme Court, but neighboring states continue to gripe that Colorado and other pot-legal states have not done enough to keep the drug from crossing their borders. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sessions: More violence around pot than 'one would think'"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Hawaiian Airlines will become the first U.S. airline to join an international research project on climate change and air quality. \n Hawaiian Airlines says it's become the first U.S. airline to join an international research project on climate change and air quality. \n The airline said today technicians recently installed equipment on one of its Airbus A330 airplanes that will collect atmospheric air samples from takeoff to landing and record key high-altitude greenhouse gas measurements. \n The project is run by an international not-for-profit organization based in Belgium called In-service Aircraft for a Global Observing System. \n Members include research organizations, universities and weather services from Germany, France and the United Kingdom. The data are used by about 200 universities in Europe, the United States, Japan, South America, India and China. \n Scientists expect Hawaiian to produce valuable metrics thanks to its central Pacific location and non-stop flights around the Pacific and U.S. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaiian Airlines joins international climate change study"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Veterans Affairs Department in Washington, as seen in June 2013. Federal authorities are stepping up investigations at Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers due to a sharp increase in opioid theft, missing prescriptions or unauthorized drug use by VA employees since 2009, according to government data obtained by The Associated Press. \n WASHINGTON >> The Department of Veterans Affairs said today it would boost employee drug testing and inspections amid rising cases of opioid theft and missing prescriptions, acknowledging gaps that had allowed thousands of doctors, nurses and other staff to go unchecked for signs of illicit drug use. \n Testifying at a House hearing, Carolyn Clancy, a deputy VA undersecretary for health, said the department was moving aggressively to stem VA drug crimes. She said the VA was adding some inspectors to help check drug inventories across a network of 160 medical centers and 1,000 clinics. Computer systems also were being fine-tuned to ensure that all employees subject to drug testing were flagged for monitoring. \n In the last week, she said, the VA held a conference call with hundreds of health clinics to develop action plans of improvement. The department was also considering more internal audits to make sure hospitals are complying with VA policy. \n \"The use of illegal drugs by VA employees is inconsistent with the special trust placed in such employees who care for veterans,\" Clancy told the House Veterans Affairs subcommittee on oversight. \"We actually need to up our game.\" \n The panel held a hearing today aimed at the VA's efforts to deter drug theft. \n The Associated Press reported last week on government data showing a sharp increase since 2009 in opioid theft and drugs that had simply disappeared at the VA, amid rising opioid abuse in the U.S. \n Reported incidents of drug losses or theft at federal hospitals jumped from 272 in 2009 to 2,926 in 2015, before dipping to 2,457 last year, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. \"Federal hospitals\" include the VA's facilities as well as seven correctional hospitals and roughly 20 hospitals serving Indian tribes. \n Out of those cases, only a small fraction of VA doctors, nurses or pharmacy employees were disciplined. \n About 372 VA employees were dismissed, suspended or reprimanded for a drug or alcohol-related issue since 2010, according to VA data obtained by AP. Roughly translated, VA employees were disciplined in 3 percent of cases. \n Adding to the problem is that some VA hospitals have been lax in tracking drug supplies. Congressional auditors said spot checks found four VA hospitals skipped monthly inspections of drug stocks or missed other requirements. \n Pressed to estimate what percentage of VA's total facilities likely had notable problems with inspections, Randall Williamson, health care director at the Government Accountability Office, cited between 85 percent and 90 percent. He referred to \"not a great track record\" of accountability at the VA. \n Rep. Jack Bergman, R-Mich., who chairs the House panel, said he was troubled by the reports, coming after repeated audit warnings dating back to at least 2009 of gaps in VA's monitoring programs. \n \"Unfortunately, the news has recently been filled with story after story of drug diversion within VA,\" Bergman said. \"In case after case, what we see are examples of drugs being diverted for personal use or personal gain, yet there does not seem to be much progress being made by VA.\" \n \"We are in the midst of an opioid epidemic, and it is time for VA to start making effective changes to avoid putting veterans and the employees who serve them at risk.\" \n Rep. Ann Kuster of New Hampshire, the panel's top Democrat, said she worried that the VA may not be receiving adequate resources to stem drug theft. She pointed to President Donald Trump's federal hiring freeze. \n \"Without adequate support staff in place, VA medical facilities will struggle to comply with the procedures and programs they must follow to ensure our veterans receive safe, high quality care,\" she said. \n VA acknowledged it has had spotty compliance with drug inspections and employee drug testing and said most reform efforts were already underway. Among other problems, the VA inspector general's office found the department had failed to test 70 percent \u2014 or 15,800 \u2014 prospective employees over a 12-month period who would serve in sensitive VA positions such as doctor, nurse or police officer. \n At the Atlanta medical center, mandatory drug testing for new hires did not occur at all for a period of at least 6 months between 2014 and 2015. \n Clancy said the VA was now committed to \"100 percent testing\" of new hires in sensitive VA positions and would fix gaps that had allowed nearly 1 in 10 employees subject to random drug testing to avoid being monitored at all. She also cited strong policies, such as 72-hour inventory checks and \"double lock and key access\" to drugs, to keep VA drug crime in check. \n Keith Berge, a Mayo Clinic anesthesiologist who chairs its Medication Diversion Prevention group, said drug theft was serious and patients could be seriously harmed if deprived of medication. Conducting drug tests before hiring at the VA was critical, he said. \n \"It is not good enough to merely have effective policies and procedures on the books; they must actually be rigorously followed.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "VA pledges more inspections, drug tests to stem opioid theft"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The SpaceX Dragon capsule sits aboard a ship in the Pacific Ocean west of Mexico's Baja Peninsula after returning from the International Space Station, carrying about 3,700 lbs of cargo for NASA. SpaceX announced Monday, Feb. 27, 2017 that it would send two paying customers to the moon next year on a private flight aboard its Dragon capsule. The company said the unnamed customers have paid \"a significant deposit\" for the moon trip. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> SpaceX said Monday it will fly two people to the moon next year, a feat not attempted since NASA's Apollo heyday close to half a century ago. \n Tech billionaire Elon Musk \u2014 the company's founder \u2014 announced the surprising news Monday. \n Two people who know one another approached the company about sending them on a weeklong flight just beyond the moon, according to Musk. He won't identify the pair or the price tag. They've already paid a \"significant\" deposit, he noted. \n Musk said SpaceX is on track to launch astronauts to the International Space Station for NASA in mid-2018. This moon mission would follow about six months later, by the end of the year under the current schedule, using a Dragon crew capsule and a Falcon heavy rocket. \n The moon mission is designed to be autonomous \u2014 unless something goes wrong, Musk said. \n \"I think they are entering this with their eyes open, knowing that there is some risk here,\" Musk told reporters in a telephone news conference, a day after teasing via Twitter that an announcement of some sort was forthcoming. \n \"They're certainly not naive, and we'll do everything we can to minimize that risk, but it's not zero. But they're coming into this with their eyes open,\" said Musk, adding that the pair will receive \"extensive\" training before the flight. \n Musk said he does not have permission to release the passengers' names, and he was hesitant to even say if they were men, women or even pilots. He would only admit, \"It's nobody from Hollywood.\" \n The passengers would make a long loop around the moon, skimming the lunar surface and then going well beyond, perhaps 300,000 or 400,000 miles distance altogether. The mission won't involve a lunar landing, according to Musk. \n It's about 240,000 miles to the moon alone, one way. \n NASA will have first dibs on a similar mission if it so chooses, Musk said. The space agency learned of his plan at the same time as reporters, and was busy preparing a statement following the announcement. \n \"This should be a really exciting mission that hopefully gets the world really excited about sending people into deep space again,\" he said. \n The crew Dragon capsule has not yet flown in space. Neither has a Falcon Heavy rocket, which is essentially a Falcon 9 rocket with two strap-on boosters, according to Musk. He said there will be ample time to test both the spacecraft and the rocket, before the moon mission. \n Musk expects to have more moon-mission customers as time goes by. \n Just late last week, NASA announced it was studying the possibility of adding crew to the test flight of its megarocket, at the request of the Trump administration. Such a flight to the lunar neighborhood wouldn't happen before 2019 at best \u2014 if, indeed, that option is even implemented. \n Musk said anything that advances the space exploration cause is good, no matter who goes first. \n \"This should be incredibly exciting,\" he said. \n SpaceX is also working on a so-called Red Dragon, meant to fly to Mars around 2020 with experiments, but no people \u2014 and actually land. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "SpaceX says it will fly 2 people to moon next year"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke to a meeting of the National Governors Association, today, at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's first address to Congress gives him a welcome opportunity to refocus his young administration on the core economic issues that helped him get elected \u2014 and, his allies hope, to move beyond the distractions and self-inflicted wounds that have roiled his White House. \n Trump's advisers say he will use his prime-time speech Tuesday to declare early progress on his campaign promises, including kick-starting construction of his proposed southern border wall, and to map a path ahead on thorny legislative priorities, including health care and infrastructure spending. \n \"We spend billions in the Middle East, but we have potholes all over the country,\" Trump said today as he previewed the address during a meeting with the nation's governors. \"We're going to start spending on infrastructure big.\" \n Republicans, impatient to begin making headway on an ambitious legislative agenda, hope Trump arrives on Capitol Hill armed with specifics on replacing the \"Obamacare\" health law and overhauling the nation's tax system, two issues he's so far talked about in mostly general terms. More broadly, some Republicans are anxious for the president to set aside his feuds with the media, the intelligence community and the courts, which have overshadowed the party's policy priorities. \n \"Results aren't going to come from that,\" said Judd Gregg, the former Republican senator from New Hampshire. \"Results are going to come from driving the policies he said he would do.\" \n The pressure from Republican lawmakers makes this a critical moment for a new president who ran for office on a pledge to swiftly shake up Washington and follow through on the failed promises of career politicians. \n While most new presidents enjoy a honeymoon period, Trump is saddled with record low approval ratings \u2014 just 44 percent of Americans approve of his job performance, according to a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey. His most sweeping executive order was blocked by federal courts, sending advisers scrambling to write a new travel and immigration directive, which the president is expected to sign on Wednesday. \n Morale is also plummeting among some White House staffers following a string of leaks that have left aides questioning each other. On Sunday, Politico reported that White House press secretary Sean Spicer had sprung surprise \"phone checks\" for members of his communications team after details from a staff meeting were made public. \n In public, Trump has continued to speak about his presidency with his usual confident bluster, declaring that there's \"never been a presidency that's done so much in such a short period of time.\" But he's privately vented frustrations to friends and associates, particularly about what he sees as the ineffectiveness of the White House's communications efforts and the scattershot nature of his first weeks in office. \n Trump recently complained to one associate that the White House was trying to do too many things at once and none of it was breaking through. He told another associate that the White House had lost control of the story surrounding Michael Flynn, who was fired as national security adviser after misleading Vice President Mike Pence and others about his contacts with Russia. \n The White House looked to be finding its footing for a stretch last week, beginning with Trump's widely praised rollout of Flynn's replacement, Lt. General H.R McMaster. On domestic issues, the White House largely stuck to its script, focusing on manufacturing and the budget. Fewer aides appeared on television, part of an effort to apply some message discipline to a White House that has frequently contradicted itself. \n One of the most notable changes was made by the president himself, who scaled back his use of Twitter for a few days, particularly in the pre-dawn hours. \n One aide said the reduction in Trump's early morning tweets was a result of his ending his habit of watching \"Morning Joe,\" the MSNBC show hosted by Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, longtime friends of the president who have been critical of some of his early moves. \n Brzezinski said Trump made similar claims of avoiding the TV during the campaign. \"Then I would see him and Joe talking and he would say 'Joe, you know I really watch every day,'\" she said. \n The aide who told the story about Trump and early-morning TV insisted on anonymity in order to discuss internal White House dealings. So did other advisers and associates cited in this story. \n By the end of last week, the White House was back in the throes of some of the same sideshows that had overshadowed the policy issues Trump advisers have insisted they want to focus on. The president doubled down on his media bashing during a free-wheeling speech to conservative activists. Questions about his advisers' contacts with Russian intelligence agents were revived by revelations that chief of staff Reince Priebus discussed the matter with high-level FBI officials, in the midst of an investigation into those contacts. \n The White House today tried to start over again. Trump huddled with governors and health care executives, pledging to work together to \"save Americans from Obamacare.\" The Office of Management and Budget also laid the groundwork for a budget that will propose a massive increase in defense spending and sweeping cuts to domestic programs. \n \"We're going to do more with less and make the government lean and accountable to the people,\" Trump said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump looks to refocus his presidency in address to Congress"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chinese State Councilor Yang Jiechi speaks during a cooperation conference with Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh in Hanoi, Vietnam. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump met China's top foreign policy adviser Monday, and U.S. officials huddled with key Asian powers to discuss tensions with North Korea, which have been stoked by a recent missile test and an airport killing officials believe was ordered by Pyongyang. \n State Councilor Yang Jiechi is the first senior Chinese official to visit the U.S. since Trump took office five weeks ago. Yang led a six-member delegation in talks first with Trump's new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, senior Trump adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and others. \n The two sides \"discussed shared interests in national security,\" White House press secretary Sean Spicer said, without elaborating. Yang's two-day visit comes amid uncertainty about how the world's two largest economies will manage their trade relationship and security challenges in East Asia. \n In that region, North Korea's rapid progress toward acquiring a nuclear-tipped missile that could strike the U.S. mainland poses one of the sternest national security challenges for Trump. His administration is currently reviewing how to deal with young dictator Kim Jong Un. \n Also Monday, U.S. Special Representative for North Korea Policy Joseph Yun huddled at the State Department with his Japanese and South Korean counterparts, Kenji Kanasugi and Kim Hong-kyun. The meeting was part of continued U.S. efforts to get its main allies in Asia to cooperate more closely on security. \n In a potentially hopeful sign for the U.S., China recently announced it was suspending coal imports from North Korea, increasing economic pressure on its traditional ally. In return, Beijing wants the U.S. to restart long-stalled negotiations with North Korea. \n But on Friday, the U.S. government nixed what would have been the first unofficial talks on U.S. soil in five years between North Korean government officials and former U.S. officials. No current U.S. officials were to participate in the talks in New York in early March. But allowing them to proceed could have signaled the Trump administration's openness to U.S. engagement with North Korea. \n The decision came after Malaysian authorities announced earlier Friday that the exiled half brother of Kim Jong Un was assassinated using VX nerve agent. The killing is widely blamed on North Korea. In Congress, lawmakers are seeking tougher sanctions and for the North again to be declared a state sponsor of terrorism, a designation lifted in 2008. \n Tensions could rise further. \n The U.S. is due to begin annual military exercises with South Korea in March, which invariably provoke warlike rhetoric and threats from North Korea. Pyongyang views the joint military exercises as preparation by the U.S. and South Korea for an invasion across the heavily militarized border between the two Koreas. \n North Korea hasn't directly criticized Trump but is determined to advance its nuclear and missile programs. On Feb. 12, it tested a new type of ballistic missile as Trump met Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Florida. \n Among Asian nations, China holds the greatest power to change North Korea's calculus. The North is heavily reliant on trade with China. Trump accuses Beijing of failing to use its leverage. \n Trump on Monday talked up his selection of Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad as U.S. ambassador to China. He told a state governors' meeting at the White House that Beijing was \"very happy\" with the choice. The Senate hasn't confirmed Branstad yet. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rising tensions loom as U.S., Asian powers discuss N. Korea"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump meets with health insurance company CEOs, Monday, Feb. 27, 2017, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump declared Monday that \"Nobody knew that health care could be so complicated.\" Yet the opposite has long been painfully obvious for top congressional Republicans, who face mounting pressure to scrap the law even as problems grow longer and knottier. \n With the GOP-controlled Congress starting its third month of work on one of its marquee priorities, unresolved difficulties include how their substitute would handle Medicaid, whether millions of voters might lose coverage, if their proposed tax credits would be adequate and how to pay for the costly exercise. \n The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office made their job even dicier recently, giving House Republicans an informal analysis that their emerging plan would be more expensive than they hoped and cover fewer people than former President Barack Obama's statute. The analysis was described by lobbyists speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations with congressional aides. \n For many in the party, those problems \u2014 while major \u2014 are outweighed by pledges they've made for years to repeal Obama's 2010 law and substitute it with a GOP alternative. Conservatives favoring full repeal are pitted against more cautious moderates and governors looking to curb Medicaid's costs also worry about constituents losing coverage. But Republicans also see inaction as the worst alternative and leaders may plunge ahead as soon as next week with initial House committee votes on legislation. \n \"I believe they have left themselves no choice. Politically they must do something,\" Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a Republican economist and health analyst, said Monday. \n Trump spoke about health care's complexities on a day he held White House talks with dozens of governors worried Republicans could shift a huge financial burden to the states by curbing Medicaid, the federal-state program that helps low-income people and those in nursing homes pay bills. Republican governors told reporters later that Trump would describe some specifics of his own health care plan in an address Tuesday to a joint session of Congress. \n Trump also met with insurance company executives concerned that uncertainty about possible GOP changes could roil the marketplace. Insurers said they remain committed to working with the administration and the GOP-led Congress. \n Trump said the current health insurance market is \"going to absolutely implode\"\u2014 a contention he and other Republicans have made repeatedly. With premiums, deductibles and other out-of-pockets costs increasing in many individual markets, Democrats concede that changes are needed. But they contest that dire description and have shown no interest in helping Republicans kill Obama's statute. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., told reporters Monday that Republicans have yet to win any Democratic support for their effort and said \"the odds are very high\" Obama's law won't be repealed. \n Congress returned Monday from a recess that signaled that the GOP faces a lot of difficulties in its task. \n Many Republicans received rough receptions at town hall meetings from activist backers of Obama's overhaul. Governors meeting in Washington received a consultants' report warning that planned Republican cuts in Medicaid and federal subsidies for consumers buying private insurance would risk coverage for many people and serious funding gaps for states. \n Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, said she wouldn't support blocking federal payments to Planned Parenthood or repealing the health law's expansion of Medicaid \u2014 two staple GOP proposals. And former House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, predicted at a Florida health care forum last week that full repeal and replacement of Obama's law is \"not going to happen\" and suggested they'd end up leaving much of the law intact. \n The plan House Republicans are considering includes helping people pay doctors' bills with tax credits based on age, not income, and expanding tax-advantaged health savings accounts. They would also end Obama's expansion of Medicaid to more low earners and the open-ended federal payments states currently receive to help pay for the program. \n Although \"Obamacare\" has never been popular, public opinion polls show most Americans want changes but not a complete takedown of the law. Consumers are unhappy that Obama's statute did not tame the problem of costs but don't see taking coverage away as the answer. \n At the same time, a number of Republican governors have taken a different path from the congressional GOP. Instead of insisting that the law be repealed, they reached accommodations with the previous administration that allowed the statute's Medicaid expansion to proceed in their states. According to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, there are now 16 states with GOP governors that have expanded Medicaid. \n The consequences of GOP actions could make many people unhappy \u2014 not just the 20 million covered through the law but insurers, hospitals and drug companies who have benefited from Obamacare. \n \"Republican governors who took the expansion could be held responsible if hundreds of thousands of people lose coverage,\" said Robert Blendon of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, an expert on public opinion about health care. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pressure on GOP to revamp health law grows, along with rifts"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo provided by Kranti Shalia, Srinivas Kuchibhotla, left, poses for photo with Alok Madasani and his wife Sunayana Dumala in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. \n OLATHE, Kan. >> A bartender at the restaurant where a man was arrested last week for an apparently racially motivated bar shooting in Kansas told a 911 dispatcher that the man admitted shooting two Iranians and needed a place to stay for a couple of days. \n A recording from Henry County, Missouri, 911 reveals that the bartender warned police not to approach the building with sirens blaring or the man would \"freak out\" and \"something bad's going to happen.\" \n The man, Adam Purinton, 51, of Olathe, is scheduled to appear in court today. He has been charged with first-degree murder and first-degree attempted murder. According to witnesses, Purinton yelled \"get out of my country\" at two 32-year-old Indian men, Srinivas Kuchibhotla and Alok Madasani, before he opened fire at Austin's Bar and Grill in the Kansas City suburb on Wednesday evening. \n Kuchibhotla was killed and Madasani injured. The two had come to the U.S. from India to study, and they worked as engineers at GPS-maker Garmin. A third patron, Ian Grillot, 24, was wounded when he tried to intervene. \n After the shooting, Purinton, who is white, drove 70 miles east to an Applebee's restaurant in Clinton, Missouri, where he made the shocking admission to the bartender. \n In the 911 call, the bartender told the dispatcher a man had come into the bar and said he'd done something \"really bad\" and was on the run from the police. \n \"He asked if he could stay with me and my husband, and he wouldn't tell me what he did. I kept asking him, and he said that he would tell me if I agreed to let him stay with me,\" the bartender said. \"Well, I finally got him to tell me and he said, like, that he shot and killed two Iranian people in Olathe\u2026.\" \n Authorities have declined to discuss a possible motive for the attack or to say if they were investigating it as a possible hate crime. But the incident has raised concern about the treatment of immigrants, who feel targeted by President Donald Trump's promises to ban certain travelers, build a wall along the Mexico border and put \"America first.\" \n The University of Kansas Health System released a video Sunday of an interview with Grillot, of Grandview, Missouri, who is recovering after a bullet went through his right hand and into his chest. \n Grillot said he had to do something because there were families and children in the bar when the gunfire erupted. Grillot, said he is grateful that the attack is bringing the community together and that it is \"awesome honestly to be able to give people a hope that not everybody hates everybody.\" \n Madasani addressed a crowd of hundreds during a vigil Sunday night at the Ball Conference Center in Olathe, Kansas. \n He described the killing of Kuchibhotla, his friend and co-worker, as \"a senseless crime,\" the Kansas City Star reported (http://bit.ly/2mkJVIS ). \n \"The main reason why I am here is that's what my best friend, Srinivas, would have done,\" Madasani said. \"He would have been here for me.\" \n \"I wish it was a dream,\" Madasani said. \n Still walking on crutches, Madasani drew applause when he called the shooting \"an isolated incident that doesn't reflect the true spirit of Kansas, the Midwest and the United States.\" \n At the vigil, Madasani recalled how Kuchibhotla never complained about picking him up and driving him to work for six months. \n \"He waited till I bought a car. That's the kind of guy he was \u2014 is,\" Madasani said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "911 call: Kansas bar shooting suspect said he'd killed 'Iranians'"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Class rings of deceased members of West Point's \"Long Grey Line\" rest on memorial plaques at the Pease & Curren foundry Monday, Feb. 27, 2017, in Warwick, R.I. \n PROVIDENCE, R.I. >> A Rhode Island refinery melted class rings donated by U.S. Military Academy graduates on Monday in an annual tradition, so the gold can be used for new class rings. \n The West Point Association of Graduates' Class Ring Memorial Program links its corps of graduates, known as the Long Gray Line, with members joining the ranks. \n Forty-one rings were donated this year, most by families in memory of a deceased relative. \n During Monday's ceremony at Pease & Curren in Warwick, Rhode Island, the rings were ceremoniously placed into a crucible, and a biography of each donor was read. Many of their families attended. \n \"A lot of times, families will view this as their final farewell so it's an emotional time,\" said Cathy Kilner of the West Point Association of Graduates. \n One of the rings donated this year belonged to Lt. Gen. James M. Gavin, Class of 1929. Known as Jumpin' Jim, Gavin parachuted into combat four times during World War II, the most of any U.S. general officer, according to West Point. \n Kilner said the rings provide a tangible link between the past and the future. Rings donated this year were worn by members of classes ranging from 1924 to 1968. \n The gold bar that was made was handed off to a ring manufacturer, Jostens. It will be sent to the company's plant in Owatonna, Minnesota, where the gold will be poured in with an additional 600 ounces of gold. From there, the gold goes to Jostens' plant in Denton, Texas, where the new rings will be made. \n Cadets in the Class of 2018 will receive rings in August before their senior year. The Class of 2002 was the first to receive rings that were made in this way. \n In total, 451 rings have now been donated for the program. A small amount of gold is preserved after each melt and used the following year, so new rings have gold from all the rings that have been donated. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Class rings from West Point grads are melted for new rings"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, left, and Vice President Mike Pence, right, participate in a meeting with health insurance company executives in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, Monday, Feb. 27, 2017. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump warned Monday that the nation's health care system was in danger of imploding and said Congress must make fundamental changes to the sweeping health law passed by his predecessor. \n Trump said at a White House meeting with dozens of governors that he hoped to overhaul the American tax system but that was a \"tiny little ant\" compared to what he would need to do to remake the so-called Obamacare law. \n The president's first major meeting with governors comes as Congress prepares to move forward on a repeal and replacement of the health care law, one of Trump's main campaign promises. Governors have raised concerns that the changes could undermine their efforts to expand Medicaid in their states and leave them stuck with a bigger share of the health care tab. \n \"It's an unbelievably complex subject. Nobody knew that health care could be so complicated,\" Trump told the governors. \n Trump met later Monday morning with health insurance executives, some of whom are worried that the uncertainty over the health care law's future is spilling into the marketplace. \n The president and the Republican-led Congress have made the overhaul of the health care law one of their top priorities at the start of Trump's administration. The Affordable Care Act has subsidized private health insurance available in all 50 states while an optional Medicaid expansion has been accepted by 31 states and the District of Columbia. The two components cover more than 20 million people. \n A report by the consulting firms Avalere Health and McKinsey & Company presented to the governors during a weekend of meetings with the National Governors Association concluded that the changes under consideration by the GOP-led House would reduce significantly federal funding for Medicaid and subsidize private insurance, creating funding gaps for states and threatening a loss of coverage for many participants. \n Without offering specific details about what he wants in a replacement package, Trump said the current health insurance market is \"going to absolutely implode\" and called on the executives to work with the government on a way forward. \n \"We must work together to save Americans from Obamacare,\" Trump said. \n A group of Republican governors said after the meeting that Trump would provide details of his repeal and replace plan in his address to Congress on Tuesday night. They declined to offer specifics in deference to the president. \n The GOP governors said Obama's health overhaul had focused on access to health care, but had failed to contain costs. \n \"This is a time for reform, to broaden the issue from beyond coverage to how do we do better quality, better cost-containment for long-term and ultimately it's about compassion,\" said Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder. \"We're talking about real people here.\" \n The insurers said after their meeting that Trump and Health Secretary Tom Price pledged to stabilize the insurance markets and bring down costs in the industry. \n \"President Trump and Vice President Pence were very clear that they will work toward a clear transition,\" said Dan Hilferty, CEO of Independence Blue Cross. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump warns health care system will 'implode' unless fixed"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A marijuana joint was rolled, in Nov. 2016, in San Francisco. \n CHICAGO >> An influential doctors group is beefing up warnings about marijuana's potential harms for teens amid increasingly lax laws and attitudes on pot use. \n Many parents use the drug and think it's OK for their kids, but \"we would rather not mess around with the developing brain,\" said Dr. Seth Ammerman. \n The advice comes in a new report from the American Academy of Pediatrics, published today in Pediatrics. The group opposes medical and recreational marijuana use for kids. It says emphasizing that message is important because most states have legalized medical use for adults, and many have decriminalized or legalized adults' recreational use. \n Those trends have led parents to increasingly ask doctors about kids' use, said Ammerman, a Stanford University pediatrics professor who co-wrote the report. \n \"Parents will say, 'I use it moderately and I'm fine with it, so it's really benign and not a problem if my kid uses it,'\" he said. \n Doctors need to know how to respond to that thinking, and parents and teens need to know the risks, Ammerman said. \n POTENTIAL HARMS \n The brain continues to develop until the early 20s, raising concerns about the potential short- and long-term effects of a mind-altering drug. Some studies suggest that teens who use marijuana at least 10 times a month develop changes in brain regions affecting memory and the ability to plan. Some changes may be permanent, the report says. \n Frequent use starting in the early teen years may lower IQ scores, and some studies have shown that starting marijuana use at a young age is more likely to lead to addiction than starting in adulthood. Not all teen users develop these problems and some may be more vulnerable because of genetics or other factors. \n MEDICAL VERSUS RECREATIONAL USE \n Solid research on medical marijuana's effects in children and teens is lacking, although some studies have suggested it may benefit kids with hard-to-treat seizures. The report says other potential benefits, doses and effects are mostly unknown. \n Recreational use is illegal for those under age 21 even in states that allow adult use. Parents should avoid using marijuana in front of their kids and should keep all marijuana products stored out of kids' sight, the academy says. Some young children who accidentally swallowed their parents' pot-containing cookies or drinks have landed in the emergency room for mostly minor symptoms although some developed breathing problems. \n WHO'S USING \n Government data show that almost 40 percent of U.S. high school students have tried marijuana, about 20 percent are current users and close to 10 percent first tried it before age 13. Use has increased in recent years among those aged 18 and older but not among young teens. Still, kids aged 12-17 increasingly think that marijuana use is not harmful. \n Dr. Sheryl Ryan, a Yale University pediatrics professor and lead author of the academy report, said marijuana \"is the drug of choice\" for many of her teen patients in New Haven, Connecticut. Some think daily use is safe, noting that their parents or grandparents smoked pot in college and turned out OK. But today's marijuana is much more potent and potentially more risky, Ryan said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Doctors warn against teen pot use amid looser marijuana laws"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., is questioned by reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> House Intelligence chairman Devin Nunes said Monday that Congress should not begin a McCarthy-style investigation based on news reports that a few Americans with ties to President Donald Trump had contacted Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.  \n \"I want to warn all of you,\" Nunes, R-Calif., told reporters on Capitol Hill. \"We can't have McCarthyism back in this place. We can't have the government, the U.S. government or the Congress, legislative branch of government, chasing down American citizens, hauling them before the Congress as if they're some secret Russian agent.\" \n \"I want to be very careful that we can't just go on a witch hunt against Americans because they appear in a news story somewhere,\" Nunes said. \n Nunes's comments came on the same day that the Trump administration was pushing back against reports that Trump aides were in contact with Russian intelligence officials during the 2016 presidential campaign. \"I haven't called Russia in 10 years,\" President Donald Trump said. \n Trump's comment came in response to a question from a reporter about whether he would support a special prosecutor to investigate Russia's hacking in the election and potential contacts between his campaign advisers and Russian intelligence agents during the election. The president did not say whether he supported a special prosecutor. \n Trump has denied knowing that any of his campaign advisers were in contact with Russians during the campaign. He has also denied that he has financial ties or other connections to Russia. The White House has enlisted the help of the FBI and lawmakers to counter news reports about contacts. \n Nunes said he knows of no evidence that Trump aides were in contact with Russian agents. He said he will continue to ask for evidence. Nunes is leading one of three congressional investigations into Trump's Russia ties. \n \"We still have not seen any evidence of anyone that's \u2014 from the Trump campaign or any other campaign for that matter \u2014 that's communicated with the Russian government,\" Nunes said. \n He said that doesn't mean the contacts don't exist and that the committee will continue to investigate. \n Asked if the FBI had specifically told him that the agency has not found any contacts between any Trump associates and Russian officials, Nunes said: \"What I've been told is, by many \u2014 by many folks, is that there's nothing there.\" \n Nunes said he would not specify which agency has told him that. He said he has been talking with intelligence officials across the government. \"In this case, as it relates to any campaign officials dealing with Russians, we don't have any evidence right now,\" Nunes said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House Intel chair: Trump-Russia ties can't become witch hunt"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the media gather outside the Supreme Court in Washington. With a nod to the importance of social media in American life, the Supreme Court signaled Monday, Feb. 27, 2017, it could strike down a North Carolina law that bars convicted sex offenders from Facebook, Twitter and other popular sites. \n WASHINGTON >> With a nod to the importance of social media in American life, the Supreme Court signaled Monday it could strike down a North Carolina law that bars convicted sex offenders from Facebook, Twitter and other popular sites. \n At least five justices, a majority of the court, suggested during argument that they would rule for North Carolina resident Lester Packingham Jr. His Facebook boast about beating a traffic ticket led to his conviction for violating a 2008 law aimed at keeping sex offenders off internet sites children might use. \n The state's lawyer said the law deals with the virtual world in the same way that states keep sex offenders out of playgrounds and other places children visit. More than 1,000 people have been prosecuted under the law, Packingham said in his court filing. \n Justice Samuel Alito, who has backed restrictions on speech more often than his colleagues, appeared to be more open to North Carolina's argument. \n But several justices said the law was so broad that it could violate free-speech rights, even of people convicted of sex crimes. \n Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are so popular that they \"have become embedded in our culture,\" Justice Elena Kagan said. \n The 56-year-old Kagan, the youngest justice and seemingly most conversant on the subject, said the law could prevent people from looking at the Twitter feeds of President Donald Trump and other elected officials. \n Justice Anthony Kennedy voiced his concerns with the law by reaching back to before the digital age to note that more communication takes place online than in the traditional \"public square,\" where the court has been skeptical of limits on speech. \n Deputy North Carolina Attorney General Robert Montgomery acknowledged that some digital avenues are cut off from people convicted under the law, but he said alternatives exist. \"This is a part of the internet, but it's not the entire internet that is being taken away from these offenders,\" Montgomery said. \n Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was among those who wondered if a narrower law that specifically tried to prevent sex offenders from communicating with minors through social media might withstand court review. \n A more constrained law might be constitutional, lawyer David Goldberg said on behalf of Packingham, but North Carolina's version goes too far. \n \"The law does not operate in some sleepy First Amendment quarter,\" Goldberg said. Instead, it \"forbids speech on the very platforms on which Americans today are most likely to communicate, to organize for social change, and to petition their government.\" \n Louisiana is the only other state with a law similar to North Carolina's, although the Louisiana law applies only to people convicted of sex crimes with children, according to a legal brief the state filed with the Supreme Court. But many states have laws that require sex offenders to provide information about their internet use to authorities. Separately, many states limit internet use as a condition of parole or probation. \n Packingham, 36, originally pleaded guilty in 2002 to taking indecent liberties with a child. He had been indicted for the statutory rape of a 13-year-old and ordered to register as a sex offender. \n In 2010, a Durham police officer was using his own Facebook account to look for people who shouldn't be on the site. He came across a post from Packingham, who used an alias but also included a photo of himself and linked to an account used by his father and namesake. The officer found six other registered sex offenders in the same session, Montgomery said. \n \"No fine. No Court costs. No nothing. Praise be to God. Wow. Thanks, Jesus,\" Packingham wrote in the post that led to his conviction and suspended prison sentence. \n A decision in Packingham v. North Carolina, 15-1194, is expected by late June. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court skeptical of sex offender social media ban"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump smiled while speaking to a meeting of the National Governors Association, today, at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is proposing a huge $54 billion surge in U.S. military spending for new aircraft, ships and fighters in his first federal budget while slashing big chunks from domestic programs and foreign aid to make the government \"do more with less.\" \n The Trump blueprint, due in more detail next month, would fulfill the Republican president's campaign pledge to boost Pentagon spending while targeting the budgets of other federal agencies. The \"topline\" figures emerged today, one day before Trump's first address to a joint session of Congress, an opportunity to re-emphasize the economic issues that were a centerpiece of his White House run. \n Domestic programs and foreign aid would absorb a 10 percent, $54 billion cut from currently projected levels \u2014 cuts that would match the military increase. The cuts would be felt more deeply by programs and agencies targeted by Trump and his fellow Republicans, like the Environmental Protection Agency as well as foreign aid. Veterans' programs would be exempted, as would border security, additional law enforcement functions and some other areas. \n \"We're going to start spending on infrastructure big. It's not like we have a choice \u2014 our highways, our bridges are unsafe, our tunnels,\" the president told a group of governors at the White House today. He added, \"We're going to do more with less and make the government lean and accountable to the people.\" \n However, Trump's final version of the budget is sure to leave large deficits intact \u2014 or even add to them if he follows through on his campaign promise for a huge tax cut. \n His plan faces strong opposition from Democrats, who possess the power to block it. The immediate reaction from Republicans was mixed, with prominent defense hawks like Sen. John McCain of Arizona saying it would do too little to help the Pentagon and fiscal conservatives and supporters of domestic agencies expressing caution. \n A congressional showdown is inevitable later this year, and a government shutdown a real possibility. \n White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said the spike in Pentagon spending would bring the total defense budget to a record $603 billion \u2014 and that's before including tens of billions of dollars for overseas military operations. \n The United States already spends more on defense than the next seven countries combined, but military leaders have complained repeatedly that aircraft are aging. Congress was told recently that the average age of Air Force aircraft is 27 years, and more than half of the service's inventory would qualify for antique vehicle license plates in Virginia. \n \"It is a true America first budget. It will show the president is keeping his promises and will do exactly what he said he was going to do,\" Mulvaney said. \"It prioritizes rebuilding our military, including restoring our nuclear capabilities, protecting the nation and securing the border, enforcing the laws currently on the books, taking care of vets and increasing school choice.\" \n Senate Democratic leader Charles Schumer of New York said, \"It is clear from this budget blueprint that President Trump fully intends to break his promises to working families by taking a meat ax to programs that benefit the middle class.\" He declared, \"A cut this steep almost certainly means cuts to agencies that protect consumers from Wall Street excess and protect clean air and water.\" \n Mulvaney said the plan wouldn't add to the budget deficit \u2014 currently projected to hit about $500 billion next year \u2014 but it wouldn't reduce it, either. The administration again made clear that the government's largest benefit programs, Social Security and Medicare, would be exempt from cuts when Trump's full budget submission is released in May. \n McCain said Trump's Pentagon plans would fall short by almost $40 billion. \n \"With a world on fire, America cannot secure peace through strength with just 3 percent more than President Obama's budget,\" said McCain, chairman of the Armed Services Committee. \n Tentative proposals today for the 2018 budget year that begins Oct. 1 were being sent to federal agencies, which will have a chance to propose changes. \n Before the new budget year, there's an April 28 deadline to finish up spending bills for the current 2017 budget year, which is almost half over, and any stumble or protracted battle could risk a government shutdown then as well. \n There's expected to be an immediate infusion of 2017 cash for the Pentagon of $20 billion or more, and also the first wave of funding for Trump's promised border wall and other initiatives like hiring immigration agents. \n The president previewed a boost in military spending during a speech Friday to conservative activists, pledging \"one of the greatest buildups in American history.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Big surge for military in Trump budget, big cuts elsewhere"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "A 39-year-old Waipahu woman told police that her 37-year-old boyfriend choked her during an argument Sunday morning. \n The man was arrested at 10:45 a.m. for investigation of abuse and strangulation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested in domestic assault in Waipahu"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A pedestrian walked in the rain this morning on South School Street near Kalihi. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Rain poured down on a homeless woman and her belongings this morning at the intersection of South School and Lusitana streets. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Steady rain soaked Honolulu this morning. \n COURTESY NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n A composite radar image showed areas of heavy rain over Oahu and Kauai this morning. \n MAUNA KEA WEATHER CENTER \n The view Tuesday morning from the webcam aimed north-northeast toward the Keck Telescope. \n Update: 7:00 a.m. \n The National Weather Service has issued a special marine warning for the waters of the windward side of Hawaii island. \n \"Mariners can expect gusty winds, high waves, dangerous lightning and heavy rains,\" the warning said. \n Radar showed a line of thunderstorms east of Cape Kumukahi producing winds of 39 mph and higher, weather officials said. The warning is in effect through 7:30 a.m. \n Boaters should seek safe harbor until the storms pass. \n Update: Thursday 4:30 a.m. \n Most weather advisories and watches have expired or been canceled. \n The only advisories remaining are a small craft advisory for coastal waters off Oahu and Kauai through noon today and brown water advisories for Oahu, Maui and Kauai. \n Forecasters expect southerly winds of 17 to 28 mph and seas of 6 to 9 feet in affected areas. \n Update: 10:10 p.m. \n A storm system that dumped rain throughout the islands for two days was slowly moving away from the state but the threat of flooding remained late tonight. \n A flash flood watch was still in effect late tonight from Oahu to the Big Island, with National Weather Service forecasters in Honolulu saying that the saturated ground and higher stream and river levels means that lingering showers could still cause flooding even if the rainfall accumulation is not high. \n Earlier flood advisories for Oahu and Maui, however, have expired. \n The forecast calls for more humid weather with the possibility of \"spotty heavy rainfall\" Thursday; mostly sunny, but hazy skies Friday; and a cold front bringing an increased chance of rain over the northern half of the state this weekend, the weather service said. \n Heavy rain caused road closures and some flooding throughout the state over the last two days. \n Over the 24 hours ending 9 p.m. Wednesday, about 5 inches of rain fell in Kahuku on Oahu and on Kauai's Mount Waialeale. More than 3.6 inches of rain fell at Honolulu Airport, according to the weather service. \n Previous coverage \n Heavy rain continued falling over Maui tonight, while downpours over Oahu have diminished, the National Weather Service said. \n At 6:32 p.m., radar indicated moderate to heavy showers moving over Maui from the south, mainly impacting the area from Napili to Lahaina to Kihei, the weather service said. Lighter showers were spreading to windward areas. \n One to two inches of rain per hour can be expected. \n Portions of South Kihei Road were closed due to ponding on the roadway. \n The weather service extended the flood advisory for Maui to 9:45 p.m. A flood advisory for Oahu remained in effect until 8:15 p.m. \n On Oahu, light to moderate showers continued to move in from the south. \n The weather service said ponding could be expected on roadways, especially in town, as showers moved ashore from Honolulu to Hawaii Kai. \n Locations included, but not limited to, in the advisory for Oahu were: Pearl City, Moanalua, Honolulu, Hawaii Kai, Salt Lake, Kalihi, Halawa, and Waimalu. \n The rest of the islands east of Kauai remained under a flash flood watch through late tonight. The watch means conditions may develop that lead to flash flooding. \n Update: 5:40 p.m. \n Heavy rain again moved over Oahu this evening, placing most of the island back under a flood advisory until 8:15 p.m. \n \"At 5:17 p.m., radar indicated moderate to heavy showers moving over Oahu from the south, affecting urban Honolulu, and spreading over the Koolau and affecting windward communities from Kaneohe to Kahaluu,\" the National Weather Service advisory said. Rain was falling at a rate of 2 inches an hour. The advisory includes, but is not limited to, Honolulu, Kalihi, Nuuanu, Maunawili, Kailua, Waikane, Salt Lake, Kaneohe, Waiahole, Moanalua, and Halawa. \n Most of the state, from Oahu to the Big Island, is also under a flash flood watch through tonight. \n Update: 3:45 p.m. \n All islands except Kauai and Niihau remain under a flash flood watch until late tonight, forecasters said. \n The National Weather Service in Honolulu said the storm system that has been dumping rain across the state since Tuesday \"will lift away to the north tonight \u2026 resulting in heavy rain and thunderstorms with the potential to produce flash flooding. Maui County will have the highest chance with Oahu and the Big Island more of a periphery flash flood threat.\" \n Kauai and Niihau were removed from the watch by mid-afternoon. \n But a flood advisory is in effect for the Valley Isle until 6:45 p.m. \"At 3:28 p.m., radar indicated moderate to heavy rainfall over the south-facing slopes of Maui from Kaupo to Maalaea. Another area of rainfall was headed toward Maui from the south and is expected to reach the island within the next hour,\" forecasters said. The advisory includes, but is not limited to, Kahului, Kihei, Lahaina, Kaanapali, Waikapu, Maalaea, Honokohau, Wailea, Puunene, Kula, Waiehu and Pukalani. \n The weather service forecast for the rest of the week calls for more humid weather with the possibility of \"spotty heavy rainfall\" Thursday; mostly sunny, but hazy skies Friday; and a cold front bringing an increased chance of rain over the northern half of the state this weekend. \n Update: 1:45 p.m. \n Maui County remains under severe thunderstorm watch until 4 p.m. today, according to the National Weather Service. \n A severe thunderstorm warning for Molokai was canceled at 12:45 p.m. \n A flash flood watch is in effect for all islands through late tonight. \n Update: 12:15 p.m. \n The National Weather Service has posted a severe thunderstorm warning for Molokai. \n \"At 12:06 p.m., radar indicated a severe thunderstorm 12 miles southwest of Kaunakakai, moving north at 25 mph. This storm is capable of producing damaging winds up to 60 mph,\" the warning said. \n \"Severe thunderstorms produce damaging winds, destructive hail, deadly lightning and very heavy rain.\" \n The warning is scheduled through 12:45 p.m. today. \n The severe thunderstorm watch for Maui County and the coastal waters from Molokai to just off Hawaii island has been extended through 4 p.m. today. \n A flood advisory has been issued for Lanai through 2:30 p.m. \n The severe thunderstorm watch for the Kaiwi Channel has been canceled. \n Update: 11:30 a.m. \n Heavy rains looming just off Lanai and Kahoolawe prompted the National Weather Service to issue a special weather statement for those islands. \n \"At 11:30 a.m., radar indicated heavy downpours with gusty winds were located along a line extending from 10 miles west of Lanai to 20 miles southwest of Makena. Movement was northeast at 35 mph,\" the statement said. \n \"Wind gusts up to 50 mph, very heavy rain, and maybe a rumble or two of thunder can be expected as this line comes across those islands between 11:45 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.\" \n Update: 10:30 a.m. \n Weather officials have canceled the flash flood warning for Oahu. \n \"Weather radar showed that heavy rain has ended over Oahu and runoff has receded,\" the National Weather Service said in a statement. \n A flash flood watch remains in effect for Honolulu through tonight. \n Update: 10:15 a.m. \n The National Weather Service has canceled the severe thunderstorm watch for Oahu and surrounding waters. \n Update: 9:30 a.m. \n Strong thunderstorms approaching West Molokai from the southwest have prompted weather officials to issue a special weather statement for the Friendly Isle. \n \"At 9:24 a.m., radar indicated strong thunderstorms located over the Kaiwi Channel, moving northeast at 40 mph,\" the statement said. \n Forecasters expect torrential rainfall and gusty winds for affected areas. \n Locations in the bulletin include, but are not limited to, Kepuhi, Hoolehua, Kualapuu, Maunaloa, Kaunakakai and Molokai Airport. \n A severe thunderstorm watch remains in effect through noon for the state. \n The flash flood warning for Kauai has been canceled. However, Kuhio Highway remains closed at the Hanalei Bridge as the Hanalei River water level has not yet receded to a safe point. \n A flash flood watch remains in effect for Kauai County through tonight. \n Update: 8:15 a.m. \n Despite easing rains, an area of rainfall approaching combined with saturated ground has prompted weather officials to extend the flash flood warning for Oahu to 11 a.m. \n \"At 7:44 a.m., radar data, rain gages, and spotter reports showed that rainfall has eased over most of Oahu for now. However, an area of heavy rainfall is approaching the island from the south. This rainfall is expected to produce rapid runoff on saturated ground and urban flooding,\" the warning said. \n Update: 6:50 a.m. \n Strong thunderstorms around the islands have prompted weather officials to issue a severe thunderstorm watch for the waters around Oahu and Maui County. \n \"At 6:47 a.m., radar indicated strong thunderstorms capable of producing winds 46 mph or greater. These storms were located over the leeward Oahu waters, moving northeast at 28 mph toward the Kaiwi channel and windward waters,\" the warning said. \n Areas covered under the warning include the Kaiwi Channel, Kauai Channel, Maui County windward and leeward waters, and Oahu windward and leeward waters. \n Mariners are advised to expect gusty winds, high waves, lightning and heavy rains in affected areas. \n The weather service also said that radar showed more heavy rain sitting just off the Waianae coast and south shore, moving north at a rate of 15 to 20 m.p.h. Flash flooding can occur when the rain moves on shore, according to the weather service. \n Update: 4:45 a.m. \n The flash flood warning for Oahu has been extended through 8 a.m. today, according to the National Weather Service. \n \"At 4:26 a.m., radar indicated heavy rain has temporarily eased across Oahu. However, radar shows more heavy rain located just off the Waianae coast and south shore. These cells are moving north at 15 to 20 mph. Flash flooding can occur when they move ashore,\" the warning said. \n Police closed Kamehameha Highway in both directions in front of Turtle Bay around 4:15 a.m. due to roadway flooding. \n Locations in the warning include, but are not limited to, Honolulu, Maunawili, Kailua, Waikane, Mililani, Waialua, Hawaii Kai, Salt Lake, Kaneohe, Waiahole, Moanalua and Halawa. \n The flash flood warning for Kauai has been extended through 6:45 a.m. today. \n \"Radar shows an extensive area of moderate to heavy rain that will be affecting the island for about the next two hours. Some of the streams especially on the north and east side of the island are swollen and running high. And with a rainfall rate of 2 inches an hour, there is a high potential for flash flooding,\" the warning said. \n Locations in the warning include, but are not limited to, Lihue, Kapaa, Kalaheo, Kekaha, Princeville, Kilauea, Wailua Homesteads, Barking Sands, Moloaa, Anahola, Kokee State Park and Mana. \n The summits of Hawaii island, blanketed by snow on Tuesday, are now under a blizzard warning. \n \"An approaching upper-level trough will pass from west to east across the islands through tonight. Heavy snow showers, strong winds and poor visibilities are expected at the Big Island summits, with a chance for thunderstorms as well,\" the warning said. \n The warning applies to summits above 11,000 feet and is in effect through 6 a.m. Thursday. \n Forecasters expect snowfall of 6 to 10 inches and southwesterly winds of 45 to 55 mph, with gusts to 65 mph. \n Update: 1:45 a.m. \n The National Weather Service has extended a flash flood warning for Oahu until 5 a.m. today as a persistent storm system continues to dump rain throughout the state. \n \"At 1:25 a.m, radar indicated much of the heavy rain has abated across the warning area. However, the ground is saturated from the heavy rain in the past few hours and any additional heavy rain will easily lead to flash flooding. Some of the rivers are still swollen and running high as well,\" the warning said. \n The warning, which was issued late Tuesday night, may be extended again if heavy rain persists, forecasters said. \n Honolulu police said that Kamehameha Highway was closed in both directions from Sunset Beach Elementary to the Sunset Beach Chevron gas station after 8 p.m. because of flooding. \n Kauai, meanwhile, remained under a flood advisory until 4:30 a.m. as heavy showers continued to pound the Garden Isle. \n \"At 1:03 a.m., radar and rain gauge reports indicated heavy rain across parts of Kauai with rainfall rates up to 2 inches an hour. Also, the Hanalei River has shown a significant rise in the past half hour. At this rate a flash warning may be needed,\" forecasters said early this morning. \n On Tuesday, the state Department of Education closed Hanalei School due to the rain and rising river levels. \n Big Island summits remained under a winter storm warning until 6 p.m. today with up to a foot of snow possible above 11,000-feet elevation. \n The entire state is under a flash flood watch through Wednesday afternoon. \n An earlier flash flood warning for Maui expired before midnight as rain over the Valley Island abated. \n Forecasters expect the storm system to continue into tonight, followed by humid weather with occasional heavy showers on Thursday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Two days of rain saturate Hawaiian Islands"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "A 31-year-old man allegedly entered a vehicle stopped in traffic in Kalihi Sunday afternoon, struggled with the 69-year-old, female driver and grabbed her property before running away. \n The incident occurred at 4:30 p.m. and police found the suspect near the scene and arrested him without incident at 5:16 p.m. \n The woman's property was not found, police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman robbed in Kalihi while stopped in traffic"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating the unattended death of a 72-year-old man who died while being flown to Queen's Medical Center after suffering multiple injuries from a fall in the Kona district of Hawaii island Sunday. \n Police said there were no initial signs of foul play but assigned the case to homicide investigators. \n The man was pronounced dead at 12:23 a.m. Sunday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police investigate death of man who fell in Kona"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n Traffic was backed up past the H-1 H-2 merge this morning after an earlier accident near the Waimalu exit. \n GOAKAMAI.ORG \n Traffic backed up this morning on the H-1 eastbound near the Waimalu exit. \n Police reopened the three right lanes of the H-1 eastbound near the Kaahumanu overpass this morning after an accident. \n Police sent out a bulletin at 5:48 a.m. that the right three lanes of the freeway were closed due to an accident. \n The state transportation department opened the Zipper Lane to all vehicles shortly before 6:30 a.m. and the accident was cleared around 7 a.m. However, eastbound traffic remained backed up to Kapolei as of 7:30 a.m. \n Motorists are advised to expect delays. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Eastbound H-1 traffic backed up after morning accident"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former tallest man in Britain and Game of Thrones actor Neil Fingleton, as seen in Nov. 2013, has died at the age of 36. Fingleton with a height of 7 ft 7 inches played Mag The Mighty in the fantasy series and also took on roles in \"X-Men: First Class\" and \"Jupiter Ascending\". \n LONDON >> Neil Fingleton, a 7-foot 7-inch actor who played the giant Mag the Mighty in \"Game of Thrones\" has died at 36. \n The Tall Persons Club says Fingleton, who was Britain's tallest man, died Saturday. British media reported the cause as heart failure. \n Fingleton was recognized by Guinness World Records in 2007 as the U.K.'s tallest man. \n Born in northeast England in 1980, Fingleton told the Guinness records website in 2006 that \"I have always been taller than everyone since I can remember.\" \n His height made him a basketball natural, and Fingleton played college basketball in the United States for the University of North Carolina and the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts. \n He went on to a short professional basketball career in the U.S. and Europe before turning to acting. \n He appeared in films including \"47 Ronin\" and \"X-Men: First Class\" and in TV shows including \"Doctor Who\" and the hit fantasy series \"Game of Thrones.\" \n In the \"Games of Thrones\" the fearsome Mag was a giant on the northern side of the great ice wall that was guarded by Lord Commander Jon Snow and the black-clad men of the Night's Watch. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "7-foot-7 'Game of Thrones' actor Neil Fingleton dies at 36"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President George W. Bush spoke, Sept. 24, in Washington. Bush said today, \"we all need answers\" on the extent of contact between President Donald Trump's team and the Russian government, and he defended the media's role in keeping world leaders in check. \n WASHINGTON >> Former President George W. Bush said today \"we all need answers\" on the extent of contact between President Donald Trump's team and the Russian government, and didn't rule out the idea that a special prosecutor could be necessary to lead an investigation. \n The Republican also defended the media's role in keeping world leaders in check, noting that \"power can be addictive,\" and warned against immigration policies that could alienate Muslims. \n \"I am for an immigration policy that's welcoming and upholds the law,\" Bush told NBC's \"Today\" show. \n Bush's comments came after a prominent Republican in Congress, Rep. Darrell Issa of California, called for a special prosecutor to investigate whether Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election and was in touch with Trump's top advisers during the campaign. \n Bush said he would trust Senate Intelligence panel Chairman Richard Burr to decide if a special prosecutor is necessary. \n But, Bush added, \"I think we all need answers \u2026 I'm not sure the right avenue to take. I am sure, though, that that question needs to be answered.\" \n The former president, who is promoting a book of his paintings of wounded veterans, also took issue with Trump's characterization of the media as an \"enemy of the people.\" Bush said the U.S. won't be able to convince authoritarian governments, including Russia, to open up their governments to media scrutiny if U.S. leaders try to discredit their own press. \n \"We need an independent media to hold people like me to account,\" Bush said. \"Power can be very addictive, and it can be corrosive. And it's important for the media to call to account people who abuse their power, whether it be here or elsewhere.\" \n On the issue of immigration and Trump's recent attempt to ban travelers from seven Muslim-majority nations, Bush warned that if the U.S. freezes out other countries and turns inward, that would only make it more difficult to fight the Islamic State group and other foreign extremists. \n \"I think it's very hard to fight the war on terrorism if we're in retreat,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "George W. Bush on Trump and Russia: 'We all need answers'"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The men of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity Inc. lead a crowd of people in prayer outside the Emanuel AME Church, after a memorial for the nine people killed by Dylann Roof in Charleston, S.C. Nearly a month after returning a death sentence against Roof for the racist church massacre, the jurors in his case visited the house of worship on Feb. 5, 2017, for a Sunday service. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. >> The jurors who sentenced Dylann Roof to death for the racist massacre of nine black church members quietly visited the Charleston house of worship weeks later for a Sunday service. \n In a newspaper opinion piece, the 18 jurors and alternates said Emanuel AME pastor the Rev. Eric Manning identified them only as \"civil servants\" at the Feb. 5 service. \n After the service ended, they walked downstairs to the fellowship hall where Roof killed the nine people in June 2015. \n \"It was difficult to grasp that we were in the room that had existed in our minds only as graphic images presented at trial. Most of us became very quiet. One juror described the moment as 'surreal' while another noted how wonderful it was to see children playing and parishioners enjoying each other's company in this now secured space,\" the jurors wrote in the piece published Sunday in the Post and Courier of Charleston (http://bit.ly/2lOszB8 ). They signed the piece with just their first names. \n The jurors thanked Manning for not identifying them to the congregation so they could appreciate the music and the message from what they called \"truly a special church.\" They said they recognized the three survivors of the massacre and the family members of those killed. \n \"Seeing everyone in their beloved church praising God and enjoying fellowship left us all with an incredible feeling of peace,\" the jurors wrote. \n The jurors spent about a month hearing testimony and seeing graphic, bloody pictures of Emanuel AME church. They deliberated only a few hours before finding Roof guilty on Jan. 11, and later for a few hours more before sentencing him to death for hate crimes. \n Manning met with the jurors after the service, and the pastor told them they would forever be part of the Emanuel AME family. \n \"We were not identified as the jury, and that's the way we agreed with Rev. Manning that it should be. Keeping our names out of the public has been our choice, and this was as close to being publicly recognized as we care to be,\" wrote the 18 jurors and alternates. \n On Thursday, the judge who presided over Roof's trial will sentence his friend who pleaded guilty to failing to report Roof planned the crime and lying to federal investigators. \n Prosecutors filed a motion Monday asking U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel for a harsher sentence than the federal guidelines call for, saying Meek knew about the full scope of Roof's hatred and desire to start a race war. \n Meek also didn't call police after hearing about the attack and being certain Roof had done it, they said. \n A stiff sentence would serve as an example and better account for the horrible nature of Roof's massacre, the prosecution wrote. \n They also wrote that the victims' relatives are expected to ask for a substantial sentence for Meek. \n The court papers don't specify the guidelines for Meek's sentence, but they appear to land between about 2 \u00bd and 3 \u00bd years in prison. The maximum sentence is eight years. \n Meek's lawyer, Deborah Barbier, filed a motion Monday that was not made public. A listing of its contents, all sealed, includes a statement from Meek, letters to the victims' families, charts of sentences for similar crimes and remarks from President Barack Obama. \n Barbier would not discuss her motion Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dylann Roof's jurors worship at church where he massacred 9"}

{"date": "February 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A supporter of impeached South Korean President Park Geun-hye is detained by police officers during a rally opposing her impeachment as the Constitutional Court holds its final hearing in the impeachment trial of Park in front of the court in Seoul in Seoul, South Korea, Monday, Feb. 27, 2017. A special investigation team is wrapping up its probe into a huge scandal involving Park after the country's acting leader refused to extend its investigation past a Tuesday deadline. The sign read: \"Nullity of impeachment.\" \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korea's main opposition parties threatened Monday to impeach the country's acting leader after he refused to extend a special investigation into the huge corruption scandal that toppled conservative President Park Geun-hye. \n If successful, the impeachment of Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn would rile an already tumultuous political landscape, putting another interim leader in power while the Constitutional Court decides the fate of both Hwang and Park, who's now on trial. \n On Monday, Hwang refused a request by the investigation team to extend its probe past Tuesday's deadline. A spokesman for Hwang said the team led by independent counsel Park Young-soo has already indicted key figures implicated in the scandal and that state prosecutors can look into any other areas. \n Prosecutors say President Park allowed her confidante to meddle in state affairs and that they colluded to extort money from companies. \n The three main liberal opposition parties spearheaded Park's December impeachment and vowed immediately to push for Hwang's. \n His decision shows he's trying \"to become Park's shield to protect her and her associates,\" said Choo Mi-ae, leader of the main opposition Democratic Party. \n Impeaching a prime minister requires support from half of the 299-member parliament. The three parties have a total of 166 seats, meaning they can easily reach the threshold to strip Hwang of power. But critics say the opposition parties must also consider the possibility of a strong backlash from conservatives if they make another high-profile impeachment effort. \n Monday was also the final day of arguments at the Constitutional Court, which is deliberating on whether to formally end Park's rule or restore her presidential powers. It's not clear when there will be a decision. If Park is ousted for good, a presidential election must take place within two months of the ouster to choose her successor. \n Hwang is considered a potential conservative contender for president if that by-election occurred. In an opinion poll released Monday, Hwang ranked third behind two liberal opposition politicians. \n Lee Kyu-chul, a spokesman for the investigation team, described Hwang's decision to reject the extension of investigation as regrettable. \n Weeks of rallies by huge crowds angered by the scandal forced Park to offer a public apology and approve the independent counsel investigation days before her impeachment. \n The team has since arrested former top Park administration officials and other high-profile figures such as Samsung heir Lee Jae-yong. Park, who denies the allegations, has avoided a direct investigation because of a law that gives a sitting leader immunity from prosecution. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea's opposition threatens to impeach acting leader"}

