{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, made famous by the television show \"Whale Wars\" discusses a recent legal battle over anti-whaling activities, at his home office in Woodstock, Vt. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> Sea Shepherd Australia said Thursday that a legal settlement involving the conservation group's U.S. founder will not affect its anti-whaling campaign in the Southern Ocean. \n Spokesman Adam Burling said the Australian arm of the group has been deliberately independent from the U.S. organization since the court case began several years ago. \n This week, Japan's Institute of Cetacean Research and a whale ship operator announced they'd reached an agreement with the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society in the U.S. and its founder Paul Watson. \n The group was made famous by the television show \"Whale Wars.\" Typically each Southern Hemisphere summer, Sea Shepherd sends out boats to try and stop Japan's whaling fleet from catching whales in the Southern Ocean. \n Burling said the Japanese fleet has a quota of 333 minke whales this summer, and Sea Shepherd Australia plans to make an announcement next week about what kind of campaign it intends to run this year. \n \"We've got a brand-new vessel, the first ship in 40 years that has been custom-built for us, called the Ocean Warrior,\" he said. \"We've got a long-term commitment to end whaling.\" \n Burling said most of its budget comes from fundraising within Australia and that Sea Shepherd New Zealand also provides support for the ships at New Zealand docks. \n Speaking this week from his home office in Woodstock, Vermont, Watson said the settlement only prevents the group's U.S. organization from interfering with Japanese whalers in the Southern Ocean. \n \"What it means is Sea Shepherd USA cannot contribute money toward the Southern Ocean campaign, cannot be involved in the Southern Ocean campaign, and that's fine. We've got plenty of other campaigns to do,\" said Watson, who recently returned to the U.S. \n \"Whether Sea Shepherd Australia or Sea Shepherd Global \u2026 if they intend to return to the Southern Ocean that's their business, it's not ours and I can't control them,\" he said of the settlement filed on Tuesday. \n The Institute of Cetacean Research, which studies whales, also is paying an undisclosed amount to the anti-whaling group on the condition the money will not be transferred to its affiliates elsewhere, including in Australia. \n Japan Agriculture Minister Yuji Yamamoto on Thursday welcomed the agreement, saying, \"I take it as a positive development that would contribute to the safety of the research whaling fleet.\" \n Yamamoto, however, said that Japanese whalers should continue to use caution and be aware that there are staunch opponents of whaling. \n Sea Shepherd Global media director Heather Stimmler said all of its entities around the world \u2014 except those in the United States \u2014 will continue to oppose what it believes is illegal Japanese whaling near Antarctica. \n The International Whaling Commission imposed a commercial ban on whaling in 1986, but Japan has continued to kill whales under an exemption for what the country says is research. \n Interpol lists Watson as being wanted in Japan on charges of conspiracy to trespass on a whaling ship and interference with business, and in Costa Rica on a charge of interfering with a shark finning operation. \n Watson, a dual U.S.-Canadian citizen, was arrested in Germany but then fled to sea for 15 months when he said he heard that he would be extradited to Japan. He then lived in France for two years before he said he was allowed to come back to the U.S., which he did within the last two weeks. \n In his office, surrounded by artifacts from his journeys, the 65-year-old Watson said he will continue to coordinate with other Sea Shepherd entities. As president of Sea Shepherd USA, he said is in touch every day with the ship captains who are working on campaigns, such as with the Mexican Navy to protect an endangered fish and dolphin, and doing research on viruses and parasites among farm-raised salmon. \n \"Japan made a big mistake because they thought by removing me they'd shut down Sea Shepherd. That's precisely why I wanted Sea Shepherd to become a movement and not something controlled by me. A lot of people think I am Sea Shepherd. No I'm not, I'm just part of it,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. anti-whaling group to stop interfering with Japanese"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY CITY & COUNTY OF HONOLULU \n Rickey Lee Shankles, left, Katherine Luo, and Katchina Moore were indicted on a charge of illegal ownership of a business on Wednesday. \n Three people were indicted and arrested Wednesday in connection with a prostitution business in the Pawaa area, a prosecutor's office spokesman said. \n Police arrested the three at about 1:30 p.m. in the area of Gogo Spa, 1507 S. King St. \n Arrested are: Katchina Moore, 41, of Kaimuki; Rickey Lee Shankles, 52, whose address is the same as Gogo Spa; and Katherine Luo, 54, of Pawaa. \n All three were indicted on a charge of illegal ownership of a business. Their bails were set between $10,000 and $50,000. \n A prosecutor's office spokesman said in a statement that the three were indicted in connection with operating a business used for prostitution. \n The prosecutor's office will hold a news conference at 11 a.m. today with police and U.S. Homeland Security to discuss the case. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "3 arrested for allegedly running prostitution business in Pawaa"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / OCT. 2015 \n Lee Yong-soo, left, who was forced by the Japanese government to serve as a sexual slave during World War II, shouts slogans with students near the statue symbolizing \"a wartime sex slave\" during a rally demanding full compensation and apology for wartime sex slaves from Japanese government near the Japanese Embassy in Seoul on Oct. 28. \n SEOUL \u00bb South Korea says surviving South Korean women who were forced into sexual slavery by Japan's military in World War II will be eligible to receive 100 million won (about $90,000) each from a foundation that will be funded by the Japanese government. \n Seoul's Foreign Ministry said Thursday that the families of deceased victims will be able to receive 20 million won ($18,000), and added it expects the Japanese government to soon transfer a promised 1 billion yen ($9.9 million) to a foundation formally launched in Seoul last month. \n South Korea and Japan agreed to set up the foundation in December as they settled a decades-long dispute over South Korean sex slave victims. Seoul then said there were 46 surviving South Korean victims and 196 victims who had died. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul: Surviving sexual slavery victims will receive $90,000"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "REDWOOD CITY, Calif. >> Hillary Clinton mingled with Hall of Fame basketball player Magic Johnson and Apple CEO Tim Cook, vamped in a photo booth with actor Justin Timberlake and dined with some of California's richest families on what was likely the most lucrative fundraising swing of her presidential campaign. \n The Democratic presidential candidate raised $18 million on a three-day trip through California, or roughly $270,000 an hour. \n The visit to the West Coast comes amid a prosperous August for Clinton's campaign, with the candidate and her surrogates hosting at least 54 events over the final two weeks of the month, according to a fundraising schedule obtained by The Associated Press. A weekend trip to Cape Cod featured stops at seaside estates and a Sunday \"summer celebration\" with the pop star Cher. \n Clinton is trying to use the relatively quiet month of August, when voters are more focused on vacation than politics, to fill her campaign war chest. \n In the Golden State, many of her events were at well-worn stops on the Democratic money trail. In Los Angeles, she stopped by Johnson's Beverly Hills compound, where she spoke to the 500 supporters gathered outside. \n Then she headed a few house down the street to entertainment executive Haim Saban's sprawling property, where she was feted at a 100-person dinner on grounds that included some of Saban's lighted animal-shaped topiary. The price of admission: $50,000 a plate. \n President Barack Obama had visited the same homes in 2013. But unlike Obama, who allows reporters to observe some of his opening remarks to donors, Clinton leaves the press waiting outside in vans and guesthouses, giving no hints at what she might be telling some of the country's most powerful people. \n Behind closed doors, Clinton soothed the worries and answered the questions of some of her most ardent backers. \n At an intimate Bay Area dinner for 30, one donor asked about \"healthers,\" likening the unfounded rumors about Clinton's health to the so-called birthers who questioned Obama's birthplace. \n Outside the Piedmont mansion, a crowd of children and their parents waited over two hours for Clinton, chanting her name in the chilly night air. \n Clinton emerged from the home and, for about a few brief moments, campaigned. She made her way down the hastily assembled police line, shaking hands, snapping selfies and admiring the homemade signs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton's Gold Rush: $18 million raised on three-day swing"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY \n The restored rock lined channel in Pilaa stream shows native shrubs along stream banks and native trees on slope to the left. In 2001, mud from a construction site on James Pflueger's property flowed into the bay and destroyed coral. \n COURTESY U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY / 2004 \n This photo from 2004 shows construction to terrace and stablize a road cut on Pila'a property. It was taken prior to environmental damage caused by unauthorized grading and landscaping by retired car dealer James Pflueger. \n COURTESY U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY / 2004 \n This photo shows the site of the 2004 slope terrace in 2016. It was taken prior to environmental damage caused by unauthorized grading and landscaping by retired car dealer James Pflueger. \n 2016 August 24 rec'd - CTY - COURTESY U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Landslide.jpg - This is aerial photo of Pila'a shoreline approx. early 2002.\tNote bare red soil on slopes of the bluff above ocean. Photos from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of Pilaa in Kauai show environmental damage due to unauthorized grading and landscaping by retired car dealer James Pflueger. This batch are \"before photos,\" before Pfleuger conduction restoration work after sued by state, federal government and two community groups. \n COURTESY U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY \n This photo was taken from the bluff at Pila'a property looking east, showing Pila'a Bay and shoreline. It was taken prior to environmental damage caused by unauthorized grading and landscaping by retired car dealer James Pflueger. \n A Honolulu federal district court judge has granted an order to close a long-standing case against retired car dealer James Pflueger for environmental damage to coastal property in Pilaa on Kauai's North Shore. \n U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry Kurren recently granted a joint motion filed by Pflueger and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to terminate a consent decree in the case involving damage to coral reef and bay at Pilaa caused by a massive mudslide from Pflueger's property in November 2001 during heavy rainfall. \n A recent inspection to the site where remediation and restoration work was conducted by Pflueger satisfied the EPA. \n In an EPA news release, Alexis Strauss, acting regional administrator for the Pacific Southwest, said: \"Thanks to the work completed under this settlement, this once-degraded land has a healthy population of native trees and shrubs and restored stream channels.\" \n The federal government, state Department of Health and two community groups \u2014 Limu Coalition and the Kilauea Neighborhood Association \u2014 sued Pflueger in connection with unauthorized grading and dirt filling at a 378-acre coastal site without permits required by the federal Clean Water Act. \n EPA said Pflueger's unpermitted construction activities included \"excavating a hillside to expose a 40-foot vertical road cut, grading a coastal plateau, creating new access roads to the coast and dumping dirt and rock into three perennial streams.\" \n Sediment destroyed 100-year-old coral heads in the bay, according to Earthjustice attorney David Henkin who represented the two community groups. \"That kind of damage can't be undone.\" \n Under a consent decree settlement in 2006, Pflueger was required to conduct restoration work including construction of a wall to stabilize the road cut; remove dam material in streams; and install erosion controls on roadways and trails and terrace slopes. Also, Pflueger was required to build natural rock-lined stream beds and plant native plants along the banks. \n The recent termination of the federal consent decree comes two years after Pflueger completed stabilization and restoration work in June 2014. Attorney Wesley Ching who represented Pflueger, Pflueger Properties and Pilaa 400 LLC, said a two-year monitoring period of vegetation growth at the property took place following completion of restoration work. \n Henkin said the restoration work has been \"very successful in stabilizing the landslide of the property so that there are no additional flows of mud and muck on to the reef.\" \n A final inspection of the property was conducted in June. The federal environmental agency was satisfied with restoration work, prompting the federal government and Pflueger to jointly file a motion at federal court requesting termination of the consent decree. \n Pflueger paid approximately $2 million in penalties to the state and U.S, described by the federal environmental agency as the largest Clean Water Act penalty for violations at a single site by a sole landowner in the U.S. \n Preliminary estimates on remediation and restoration costs was approximately $5.3 million. Ching did not have an exact figure on final costs but did note it was in the \"millions.\" \n In an e-mailed statement, Stuart Yamada, chief of the Department of Health's Environmental Management Division, said, \"The Department of Health is pleased that the restoration activities were successful and that this case is now behind us. We hope that others will learn from this and prevent pollution from construction activities.\" \n Pflueger's 378-acre property was sold in the fall of 2014. A small section on the Kilauea side was purchased by an individual on the mainland, and the lion's share of the land on the Lihue side was bought by an entity under Facebook chief executive officer Mark Zuckerberg. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Pflueger's environmental fixes on Kauai shoreline pass muster with EPA, court"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "Firefighters were investigating the cause of a fire today that engulfed a two-story home in Waipahu. \n Nine fire companies with 35 firefighters responded to the two-alarm fire at 5:11 p.m. and found smoke and flames emanating from most of the structure, said Honolulu Fire Department Capt. David Jenkins. \n Firefighters brought the flames under control at 5:24 p.m. and extinguished the fire by 6:13 p.m. \n A man and woman in the home at the time the fire started noticed an odor of smoke and escaped without injury, Jenkins said. The American Red Cross was assisting. \n The cause and damage estimate were under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire damages most of two-story Waikele home"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People pass by a TV news program showing a file footage of North Korea's ballistic missile that the North claimed to have launched from underwater, at Seoul Railway station in Seoul, South Korea Wednesday. \n SEOUL >> North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said Thursday that his country had achieved the \"success of all successes\" in launching a missile from a submarine, saying it effectively gave the country a fully equipped nuclear attack capability and put the U.S. mainland and bases in the Pacific within striking distance. \n Kim's comments, carried by Pyongyang's official Korean Central News Agency, came a day after South Korean officials said a ballistic missile fired from a North Korean submarine was tracked flying about 500 kilometers (310 miles), the longest distance achieved by the North for such a weapon. \n North Korea already has a variety of land-based missiles that can hit South Korea and Japan, including U.S. military bases in those countries. But its development of reliable submarine-launched missiles would add a weapon that is harder to detect before launch. \n The KCNA said Kim watched from an observation post as the test-firing happened, which the agency said was carried out without \"any adverse impact\" on neighboring countries. \n The North's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper published several photos that showed the missile, with the name Pukguksong printed on its side, soaring into the sky, and Kim smiling and embracing with one of the North Korean officials accompanying him from what appeared to be an observation deck. \n The KCNA quoted Kim as saying the successful test showed that North Korea had joined the \"front ranks\" of military powers fully equipped with nuclear attack capabilities. Kim also said it is undeniable that the U.S. mainland and key operational areas in the Pacific were within North Korea's striking distance. \n \"I do not guess what ridiculous remarks the U.S. and its followers will make about this test-fire, but I can say their rash acts will only precipitate their self-destruction,\" the KCNA quoted Kim as saying. \n The KCNA said the test was aimed at evaluating the stability of the underwater launching system, the flight features of the solid-fuel missile, the reliability of the control and guidance system, and the accuracy of the warhead in hitting targets after it re-enters the atmosphere. \n Wednesday's launch came two days after the U.S. and South Korea began their 12-day Ulchi Freedom Guardian exercises, prompting North Korean threats of retaliation for the military drills, which it views as an invasion rehearsal. North Korea usually responds to regular South Korea-U.S. military drills with weapons tests and fiery warlike rhetoric. \n The United Nations Security Council agreed at an emergency meeting late Wednesday requested by the United States and Japan to consider issuing a statement on the missile launch. \n Malaysia's U.N. Ambassador Ramlan Bin Ibrahim, the current council president, told reporters after the closed meeting that \"there was a general sense of condemnation by most members of the council.\" \n He said the United States is drafting the text of a press statement \"and we will have a look at it.\" \n State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau said in a statement that the U.S. strongly condemned the launch and called on North Korea to \"refrain from actions and rhetoric that further raise tensions in the region.\" She said the missile launch marked the latest in an \"accelerating campaign\" of missile tests that violate multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions. \n South Korea's military condemned the launch but acknowledged it was an improvement over previous tests of similar missiles. \n North Korea fired two missiles from submarines earlier this year, but South Korean defense officials believe they exploded in midair after flying less than 18 miles. \n The missile, fired from a submarine off the eastern North Korean coastal town of Sinpo, reached into Japan's air defense identification zone, according to Seoul and Tokyo officials. Its longer distance puts all of South Korea within its range if it is fired near the border. \n Missiles of such capability could also potentially strike parts of Japan, including U.S. military bases on the island of Okinawa, considering the operational range of North Korea's Sinpo-class submarines, said analyst Kim Dong-yub at Seoul's Institute for Far Eastern Studies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kim: Submarine missile test shows N. Korea can strike U.S. Pacific bases, mainland"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION \n The state Department of Transportation tweeted a photo of the repairs to utility poles knocked down by a truck Tuesday morning. \n The Department of Transportation will close Kamehameha Highway again near Waimea tonight to allow Hawaiian Telcom crews to complete repairs after a truck crashed into three utility poles Tuesday. \n Both lanes of the highway will be open until 8 p.m. when one lane will be closed and traffic contra-flowed until 11 p.m., DOT said. The highway will be closed from 11 p.m. today to 1 a.m. Thursday, Honolulu police said. Then the highway will be contra-flowed until 3 a.m., DOT said. \n Shelly Kunishige, Transportation Department spokeswoman, said Hawaiian Tel was working in the area during the day, but needed to close lanes to finish repairs. \n The damage was caused by a truck that damaged three utility poles on Kamehameha Highway near Waimea Bay on Tuesday. \n The crash closed Kamehameha in both directions at about 8:30 a.m. and knocked out power to some 260 residents, said Darren Pai, Hawaiian Electric Co. spokesman. \n HECO rerouted customers to a backup generator and restored power in about an hour. But repairs to the poles were initially delayed so a fuel spill from the crash could to be cleaned up. Then crews digging holes to replace two poles found the ground to be solid rock, creating additional slowdowns, Pai said. \n Kamehameha Highway was closed for most of the day Tuesday while crews worked in the area. Police opened part of the road for about for a few hours Tuesday night. \n HECO crews finished repairs and were off the road by 5 a.m. today, Pai said. \n He said crews worked as quickly as they could to reopen the roadway. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kamehameha Highway to be closed for two hours for utility pole repairs"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The spattering lava lake in Halemaumau Crater is seen from the Jaggar Museum on Tuesday. \n COURTESY USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The level of Kilauea's summit lava lake rose over the past day and was 92 feet below the vent rim Tuesday morning. Between passing heavy fog and rain showers, vigorous lava spattering was visible from the Jaggar Museum Overlook in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. \n Mother Nature put on a show at the summit of Kilauea above and below the Halemaumau Crater floor. \n Kilauea is in a period of inflation and the lava lake level rose to a point where lava spattering is visible from the Jaggar Museum overlook. \n Janet Babb, a spokeswoman for the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, said the lava was especially active Tuesday and posted photos of the activity on the HVO website. \n \"It was one of those magical days on Kilauea,\" Babb said. \"We had thunder and lightning and we had visible (lava) spatter.\" \n Fog, rain and low clouds sometimes obscured the view of the crater, but when the fog pulled back and during breaks in the rain, the glow from the lava reflects off the clouds and fog, she said. \n The lava lake level was about 92 feet below the crater floor Tuesday and was about 66 feet below the floor today, allowing visitors to see lava from the visitor's center at the Jaggar Museum. \n In addition, calm winds allowed the sounds of the crater \u2014 the rumbling of rocks moving in the lava lake \u2014 to be heard from the overlook. \n \"The sounds vary from whooshing sounds to sharp cracks,\" she said. \n Babb said the tradewinds usually send the sound away from the overlook. \n On Tuesday, the rumblings of the volcano were occasionally interrupted by thunder. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima", "title": "Lava, thunder and lightning, seen, heard at Kilauea's summit"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY GOAKAMAI.ORG \n A traffic camera at Ward Avenue showed vehicles backed up in the eastbound direction at about 5:30 p.m. before the Punahou offramp. \n Honolulu police reopened the two right lanes of the H-1 freeway eastbound before the Punahou offramp after clearing the scene of a traffic accident. \n The closure was reported at 5:10 p.m. and the lanes reopened by 5:45 p.m. \n The Honolulu traffic information website shows an accident in the area at about 3 p.m. \n Traffic reporter Danielle Tucker, who is at the city's Traffic Information Center, tweeted that a vehicle overturned on the freeway and that traffic had backed up to Aiea, following the afternoon rush-hour crash. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "All lanes of H-1 freeway near Punahou offramp reopened"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "LOS ANGELES COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department shows Brayden Watkins, 3, left, and Rylee Watkins, 5, who have gone missing along with their 2-year-old sister Joslynn Watkins. \n LOS ANGELES COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This photo combination provided by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department shows Joshua Robertson and Brittany Humphrey, who authorities are seeking in connection with the killing of Kimberly Harvill and kidnapping of her three small children. Authorities say the couple may have left California with the children, Rylee Watkins, 5, Brayden Watkins, 3, and Joslynn Watkins, 2. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza speaks about a woman's killing and the kidnapping of her three children, at a news conference at the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles today. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Three children kidnapped after their mother was killed in a remote area outside Los Angeles were found safe today as authorities continued to search for the couple wanted in connection with both crimes.  \n Joshua Aaron Robertson, 27, and Brittany Humphrey, 22, fled the Los Angeles area with the children on Interstate 40, and drove through Arizona and into New Mexico, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. \n The children, two girls and a boy between 2 and 5, were found safe in a motel on the outskirts of Albuquerque after the couple left the children with a man staying there, Lt. Joe Mendoza said. \n When the couple didn't return, the man called police. \n The Albuquerque motel is nearly 700 miles east of where the children's mother was found dead with multiple gunshot wounds along a road in a remote area of Los Angeles County on Aug. 14. \n Their mother, who didn't have identification on her body, was identified four days after her death as Kimberly Harvill. Authorities said they believe she had been killed within 24 hours of being found, though it's unclear where the killing took place. \n Humphrey is Harvill's half-sister, and therefore the children's aunt. \n The sheriff's department still considers Humphrey and Robertson as on the run and armed and dangerous. Investigators believe they were headed to parts east of New Mexico. \n The couple has family in Nebraska and ties to Kansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, Mendoza said. \n Sheriff's officials say Robertson has an infant with him who is unrelated to Harvill's children, who were in the custody of authorities working to return them to California. \n The children's father died previously, but they have a grandmother in Fresno, authorities said. \n Harvill and her children most recently lived in Fresno and were transitory, moving from motel to motel, sheriff's Capt. Steve Katz said, adding that they depended on panhandling to survive. \n Harvill was involved with methamphetamine, as were Humphrey and Robertson, Katz said. \n Humphrey and Robertson were living in Lebec, the unincorporated area of Los Angeles County where Harvill was recently staying with her children and where she was killed, Mendoza said. \n It appears that Harvill and her children had been staying with Humphrey and Robertson, he said. \n Investigators know of no ongoing conflict between the sisters, Mendoza said. \n An arrest warrant for kidnapping was issued for the couple. Investigators say the couple are considered persons of interest in Harvill's death. \n \"Due to the fact that immediately after the murder or sometime shortly after, it is suspicious that they did not come forward to law enforcement and instead they fled eastbound towards other states,\" Mendoza said. \n The couple is believed to be in Harvill's 1999 green Ford Expedition, which has California plates 7BEK024 that may have been swapped for temporary paper tags, stick-figure stickers of a family and a sticker that reads \"R.I.P. Chad Watkins.\" \n Robertson has a criminal history that includes a conviction on illegal weapons charges. He is on probation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Couple sought in killing of mother, kidnapping her 3 kids"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION VIA AP \n Former President Bill Clinton, left, says hello to Megan Bartlett, of Decatur, Ga., and her 3-month-old daughter Hannah Rice, as he works the crowd at historic Manuel's Tavern today during a stop in Atlanta. \n ATLANTA \u00bb Former President Bill Clinton said today that he's proud of people who have donated to the Clinton Foundation and the work the organization has done, as he waded into a dispute that Republicans are hoping will damage his wife's presidential campaign. \n \"We're trying to do good things,\" Bill Clinton said. \"If there's something wrong with creating jobs and saving lives, I don't know what it is. The people who gave the money knew exactly what they were doing. I have nothing to say about it except that I'm really proud. I'm proud of what they've done.\" \n He also defended Hillary Clinton's contact with donors to the foundation while serving as secretary of state, saying foundation donors like Bangladeshi economist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus have no trouble reaching officials around the world. \n An Associated Press report Tuesday found more than half of the non-government officials who met with Hillary Clinton while she was secretary of state gave money to the Clinton Foundation. \n The meetings between Clinton, now the Democratic presidential nominee, and foundation donors don't appear to violate legal agreements both Clintons signed before she joined the State Department in 2009. State Department officials have said they are unaware of any agency actions influenced by the foundation. \n Yet the frequency of the overlaps shows the mixing of access and donations. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has criticized the links between the foundation and the State Department, accusing the Clintons of establishing \"a business to profit from public office.\" \n Bill Clinton said changes at the foundation are needed if Hillary Clinton becomes president that weren't necessary when she led the State Department. The foundation won't accept foreign donations, and he will stop personally raising money for the foundation, he said. \n \"We'll have to do more than when she was secretary of state, because if you make a mistake there's always appeal to the White House if you're secretary of state,\" Clinton said. \"If you're president, you can't.\" \n A statement Clinton issued on Monday said those changes will go into effect if Hillary Clinton is elected. Bill Clinton said Wednesday that the foundation has begun looking for partners to take over some of its work in preparation for that outcome. That type of transition \"takes a reasonable amount of time,\" he said. \n \"You have to do it in a way that no one loses their job, no one loses their income and no one loses their life,\" he said. \"That's all I'm concerned about. We'll do it as fast as we can.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill Clinton defends embattled family foundation"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n This map shows the location of a magnitude 3.8 earthquake that struck near Kilauea volcano this afternoon. \n A magnitude 3.8 earthquake, followed by a magnitude 3.5 aftershock struck near Kilauea volcano this afternoon. \n The larger temblor struck at 12:17 p.m. at a depth of about 1.9 miles. It was centered about 4 miles south of Volcano and 25.6 miles south-southwest of Hilo in the upper east rift zone of Kilauea volcano. \n People reported feeling the earthquake in Volcano and the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, according to the U.S. Geological Survey's \"Did you feel it?\" website. \n An aftershock of magnitude 3.5 hit at 1:12 p.m. at a depth of 1.3 miles in about the same location. \n Janet Babb, a spokeswoman for the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, said earthquakes in the upper east rift zone are generally related to the underground movement of magma. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Magnitude 3.8 earthquake strikes near Kilauea"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "Cancer has surpassed heart disease as the leading cause of death in California and 21 other states, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  \n That total is in stark contrast to the situation at the start of this century, when only two states \u2014 Alaska and Minnesota \u2014 lost more people to cancer than heart disease. \n And it's a huge departure from the situation in the 1950s, when the number of heart disease deaths was 2 1/2 times bigger than the number of cancer fatalities. \n Nationwide, heart disease still edges out cancer as the top killer of Americans. In 2014, 614,348 U.S. residents died of heart disease, compared with 591,699 who succumbed to cancer, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tally of death certificates from the 50 states and the District of Columbia. \n That gap is small, but it was even smaller in 2012. Demographers predicted that cancer would overtake heart disease within a few years. \n Then heart disease, which had been on the decline since the early 1990s, began to tick up. Between 2011 and 2014, the number of deaths attributable to heart disease rose 3 percent, compared with a 2.6 percent increase for cancer. \n Among some groups of Americans, cancer now claims more lives than any other cause of death. \n Asian Americans were the first to cross that threshold, in 2000. That year, the National Vital Statistics System recorded 9,069 cancer deaths, compared with 8,949 for heart disease. \n Since then, the number of annual cancer fatalities among Asian Americans has grown by 79.6 percent (to 16,292), while annual heart disease fatalities rose a more modest 45.5 percent (to 13,021). \n Latinos followed in 2009, with 29,935 cancer deaths and 29,611 heart disease deaths that year. By 2014, that margin had widened to 36,447 cancer deaths and 34,021 heart disease fatalities. \n Alaska became the first state to see cancer edge out heart disease as the leading cause of death, in 1990. Minnesota joined the club about a decade later. \n Since 2000, 20 more states have followed suit. They are: Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and West Virginia. \n The report was published Wednesday by the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Karen Kaplan Los Angeles Times", "title": "Cancer surpasses heart disease to become leading cause of death in 22 states"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marquez Tolbert watches during the trial for Martin Blackwell in Atlanta today. Blackwell is accused of pouring hot water on him and another man as they slept. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n During the trial for Martin Blackwell, a lawyer holds a pot they say Blackwell used to pour boiling water on his girlfriend's gay son and his friend as they slept, in Atlanta, on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Martin Blackwell watches arguments in his trial in Atlanta today. Blackwell was convicted of pouring hot water two gay men as they slept and sentenced to 40 years in prison. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marquez Tolbert cries on Tuesday as he listens in Atlanta to testimony in the trial of Martin Blackwell who is accused of pouring boiling water on him and a friend Anthony Gooden, right, as they slept. \n ATLANTA \u00bb A judge sentenced a Georgia man to 40 years in prison today for throwing scalding water on a gay couple sleeping in an apartment, leaving them with severe burns that required surgery.  \n Jurors deliberated for about 90 minutes before finding Martin Blackwell, 48, guilty of eight counts of aggravated battery and two counts of aggravated assault in the February attack on Anthony Gooden and Marquez Tolbert. \n Fulton County Superior Court Judge Henry Newkirk said the evidence was overwhelming and that Blackwell had behaved in a soulless and malicious way. He noted that it \"takes a long time\" for a pot of water to boil. \n \"You had so many outs where the voice of reason could have taken over,\" the judge told Blackwell, who had faced up to 80 years in prison. \n Prosecutors said it was a vicious, premeditated attack. Tolbert testified that after pouring hot water on them, Blackwell grabbed him as he jumped and screamed in pain and told him: \"Get out of my house with all that gay.\" \n Georgia doesn't have a hate crime law. The FBI said in March that it had opened a hate crime investigation, but spokesman Kevin Rowson said Wednesday that the agency isn't commenting on that probe. \n Blackwell's defense attorney acknowledged that he poured water on the pair, but asked jurors to find that it was reckless conduct. \n \"It's not about hate. It's about old-school culture, old-school thinking,\" Monique Walker told the jury. \n The defense didn't call any witnesses and didn't present any evidence. Blackwell, who remained stoic throughout the trial, did not take the stand. He showed no reaction when the verdict was read. \n Blackwell was a long-distance truck driver and lived with his girlfriend, Kim Foster, at her sister's apartment in College Park when he was in town. Gooden, who is Foster's son, and Tolbert had been dating about a month and were sleeping at the apartment Feb. 12 after working an overnight shift when Blackwell dumped scalding water on them. \n Blackwell's attorney said her client felt the young men's behavior was disrespectful and that there were certain things people sharing a house shouldn't do. \n Prosecutor Fani Willis scoffed at the idea. \n \"We're not going back to when you get to treat people differently because of who they are,\" she said in closing arguments. \n Walker said Blackwell often made inappropriate comments to various members of the household \u2014 asking about their sex lives and calling them derogatory names \u2014 and throwing water on the pair was just an extension of that reckless behavior. He didn't intend to hurt the young men, he just wanted to get them to stop their disrespectful behavior, she said. \n The prosecutor said Blackwell's actions were well thought out. He took the time to select the biggest pot in the house, filled it with water and waited for it to boil. That gave him plenty of time to think about what he was doing and the consequences, Willis said. \n Gooden, 24, spent about a month in the hospital, two weeks of that in a medically induced coma, and Tolbert, 21, spent 10 days in the hospital. Both men suffered severe burns that required multiple surgeries and skin grafts. \n They both testified Tuesday that they suffered great pain and were unable to perform even the most basic everyday tasks \u2014 eating, bathing and using the bathroom \u2014 without help when they got out of the hospital. \n \"I'm ecstatic. I think justice has been served,\" Tolbert told reporters after the verdict. He was nervous before the trial, but once he testified about what had happened he felt a weight lift, he said. \n Having gone through such an ordeal makes him realize that life is precious, Tolbert said, and he's ready to move on and focus on going to school to study architecture with a minor in computer engineering. He and Gooden remain friends and check in on each other to see how the other is healing, he said. \n Prosecutors asked jurors to find Blackwell guilty of aggravated battery for disfigurement and loss of use of body parts and guilty of aggravated assault for dumping the hot water on them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man gets 40 years for pouring scalding water on gay couple"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD VIDEO \n A Hawaii woman was one of two wilderness guides who were mauled by a brown bear as they were leading cruise ship passengers on a hike in the Tongass National Forest. \n JUNEAU, Alaska >> A bear that mauled two cruise ship wilderness guides during a hiking excursion in Alaska attacked so quickly that there was little time to defend against the animal, the CEO of the cruise ship company said. \n \"I can't express enough about how rapidly this happened,\" Blanchard said. \n The guides are crew members of the 74-passenger vessel and receive training on bear safety and other topics each spring, he said. \n The Coast Guard rescued the injured guides, who were identified by Alaska state troopers as 41-year-old Anna Powers of Hawaii and 26-year-old Michael Justa of Juneau. \n Justa was treated and released the in Sitka. Powers was in satisfactory condition Wednesday at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. \n The Aug. 18 hike in Tongass National Forest has been part of the Wilderness Explorer's regular eight-day itinerary since the early 2000s. \n The lead guide was in front of the 22 passengers who were hiking and the other guide was at the rear when the bear attacked. \n The group was walking single file and had spread out as much as 200 feet along a trail. When the group came upon the bear and cub, the lead guide put out her arms and told the party to back up, Blanchard said. \n The hikers had started to do so when the adult animal attacked the guide, who didn't have a chance to use her bear spray, he said. \n \"Within seconds, the bear stood up, groaned so loud that every person in the group heard the groan, including the guide in the back, and charged at very short range,\" Blanchard said. \n The guide at the back of the group ran to the front, getting out his bear spray. The bear charged the guide, who started spraying the animal from about 20 feet away. \n \"He said it was a direct hit into the eyes and mouth,\" Blanchard said. \"As he was spraying it, the bear reached down, grabbed his leg.\" \n The male guide's injuries were relatively minor, according to Blanchard, who declined to elaborate. The Coast Guard has said the victims each sustained severe lacerations and multiple injuries. \n Authorities have said they have no plans to hunt down the bear. Tongass officials say bears are common in the area near a stream filled with salmon at this time of the year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cruise line CEO details Alaska bear mauling of Hawaii woman, fellow guide"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "NOAA / GOES WEST \n This satellite image shows Tropical Depression 13E just west of Mexico. Another storm system west of 13E, near the bottom center of the image, has an 80 percent chance of developing into a tropical depression by this weekend. \n Tropical Depression 13E, one of two systems in the East Pacific, formed this morning and is expected to intensify into a tropical storm by Thursday and could become a hurricane by the weekend. \n The storm system, which will be named Lester if it reaches tropical storm strength, is too far away from Hawaii to say if it will affect Hawaii's weather, but another system west of 13E could bring more humidity and the chance of rain to the islands as it moves near the state. \n At 5 p.m., Tropical Depression 13E was about 490 miles southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico, moving west-northwest at 12 mph. It had sustained wind of 35 mph. \n Another area of thunderstorms west of 13E has an 80 percent chance of intensifying into a tropical depression over the next few days. That system was about 1,300 miles southwest of Baja California. It is moving west to northwest and could pass near Hawaii next week. \n ", "author": "Craig Gima", "title": "Newly formed tropical depression forecast to become a hurricane"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH \n The Department of Health on Thursday showed a box of the Sea Port Bay Scallops that tested positive for the hepatitis A virus. The number of people who have contracted hepatitis A in Hawaii has climbed to 228. \n The number of people who have contracted hepatitis A in Hawaii has climbed to 228, a nearly 11 percent increase over the last week, health officials announced today. \n All the victims are adults, and 58 were so ill they required hospitalization. Three were visitors who returned to the mainland. \n The state Health Department has traced the outbreak to contaminated scallops that were imported frozen from the Philippines and served raw at Genki Sushi restaurants on Oahu and Kauai. All Genki Sushi outlets on the two islands were shut down last week and the scallops were recalled by their importer, Sea Port Products Corp., of Kirkland, Wash. \n Because the virus has a long incubation period, cases will continue to crop up long after the product was removed from circulation. \n The state Department of Education said a cafeteria worker at Kipapa Elementary School told her principal on Monday of a positive test for the virus. \n The school closed the cafeteria and is testing all of its workers. Lunches are being prepared at another school. \n On Tuesday, the Health Department confirmed that a second Hawaiian Airlines flight attendant had contracted the disease, but said the source was not the airline and the risk to passengers was \"extremely low.\" \n \"This case is a reminder that hepatitis A symptoms can appear up to 50 days after exposure,\" State Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Park said Tuesday. \"This is why we expect to continue to see cases in coming weeks, and why we need to remain vigilant to prevent further transmission, even though the product has been pulled off the market.\" \n The Health Department announces the number of cases every Wednesday. The pace of the outbreak is slowing. The total of 206 cases announced on Aug. 17 was a 22.6 percent increase over the previous week's tally. \n Symptoms of hepatitis A include fatigue, nausea, abdominal pain, fever, dark urine, pale stool and jaundice. Anyone with symptoms should contact their doctor. \n Vaccination is the best prevention against the liver disease. Vigorous hand washing after using the toilet and before eating can stem the spread of the infection. Thoroughly cooking food kills the virus. \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii hepatitis A cases climb to 228"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Daniel Dae Kim, who plays Chin Ho Kelly, signed autographs for the crowd during the \"Hawaii Five-0\" preseason premier in Waikiki. \n STAR-ADVERTISER \n The 6th Annual Sunset on the Beach 'Hawaii Five-0' preseason premiere in Waikiki. \n STAR-ADVERTISER \n Chi McBride, who plays Captain Lou Grover, gave a thank you speech to attendees during the 6th Annual Sunset on the Beach \"Hawaii Five-0\" preseason premier in Sept. 2015 in Waikiki. \n The stars of \"Hawaii Five-0\" will return to Waikiki next month for a special Sunset on the Beach on Sept. 23 commemorating the show's seventh season premiere, CBS representatives confirmed Tuesday. \n For the first time, the network will host the red carpet celebration on the same day the episode airs on television. Fans were previously able to watch the episode weeks before the rest of the country on a giant screen set up at Queen's Surf Beach. City officials have estimated the crowd at approximately 5,000 people each of the last two years. \n \"We are thrilled to be able to share the premiere of Season 7 with our extended ohana,\" said \"Five-0\" executive producer Peter Lenkov in an email sent Tuesday. \"Sunset on the Beach has become somewhat of a family reunion we've enjoyed immensely since Season 1. We look forward to seeing everyone for what we expect will be another memorable night.\" \n There's also no word yet on the addition of a special musical guest to the lineup, as has happened in recent years by recording artists who were in town to make guest appearances on the show. Singer-songwriter John Ondrasik, also known as Five for Fighting, performed last year, while Bush and the Jonas Brothers played on the beach in Waikiki in 2014 and 2013, respectively. \n Filming for the seventh season of \"Hawaii Five-0\" is currently underway on Oahu following a blessing ceremony held July 6 near the Hilton Hawaiian Village. \n ", "author": "By Jason Genegabus jason@staradvertiser.com", "title": "'Hawaii Five-0' returning to Waikiki for Sunset on the Beach premiere"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "WATERBURY, Conn. \u00bb Police say a woman delivering Chinese food in Connecticut has been shot and killed during a robbery. \n Waterbury police say the attack was reported at around 9:30 p.m. Tuesday. \n Responding officers found a man and a woman injured. Police say the two worked for a Chinese restaurant and had been robbed while making a delivery. \n The man had been assaulted, and the woman had been shot in the neck. \n The woman was identified as 59-year-old Helena Vargas. She died at a hospital. \n Police made four arrests Wednesday morning on murder charges. The suspects are 19-year-old Anthony Wright, a 16-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl and a 17-year-old girl. \n It couldn't immediately be determined if they had lawyers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman delivering Chinese food is fatally shot during robbery in Connecticut"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This satellite image taken at about 5 p.m. shows heavy rain over leeward slopes of Hawaii island and a few rain clouds over Oahu and Maui. \n The muggy weather and chance of heavy rain continues tonight, but National Weather Service forecasters say relief is in sight as cooling tradewinds return by Thursday. \n A flood advisory for Hawaii island expired at 6:30 after thunderstorms over leeward slopes eased. \n Forecasters also lifted a flash flood watch for the entire state this afternoon. \n However, they caution that there is still a possibility for heavy showers tonight because of the lingering tropical moisture and the forecast calls for scattered showers through the evening. \n Satellite photos show the area of heavy rain that passed over Oahu overnight and this morning has moved north of the state. \n Tradewinds should begin to return to the Big Island tonight and reach Maui County and Oahu Thursday morning, forecasters said. Kauai should get the trades again by Thursday afternoon. \n With the return of the tradewinds, expect the usual windward and mauka showers Thursday. \n The rains Tuesday nearly doubled the old rain record for the date at the Hilo Airport Tuesday. Rain gauges showed 7.15 inches fell at the airport, beating the old record of 3.7 inches set in 1982. \n On Oahu, in the 24 hours ending at 11 a.m., 4.6 inches fell on Kahuku, Kahana saw nearly 4 inches of rain and 3.7 inches was recorded at Poamoho. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Chance of rain continues tonight, but tradewinds return Thursday"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "A 40-year-old homeless man was released today pending investigation in an attempted murder and attempted robbery case in Kalihi. \n Police said the suspect is one of two men who robbed a Kalihi business with a dangerous instrument at about 12:50 a.m. today. \n The suspect was arrested at 2 a.m. on Middle Street near the Kalihi Transit Center of the Oahu Transit Services. He was booked for investigation of first-degree attempted robbery, driving without a license and a firearms violation. \n A second suspect remained at large. \n Police also opened an attempted murder investigation in connection with the robbery. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man, 40, released after attempted armed robbery in Kalihi"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "The Medical Examiner's Office said the 28-year-old Air Force sergeant died of multiple blunt force injuries when he was ejected from his motorcycle after failing to make a turn Sunday near Hickam Air Force Base. \n The cause of death for Staff Sgt. Shane Harding was accidental, the medical examiner said. Harding was a member of the 647th Civil Engineering Squadron and was the non-commissioned officer in charge of the sheet metal and welding shop, a Hickam spokeswoman said. \n Harding joined the 647th in February 2015. He enlisted in the Air Force nine years ago. \n \"Staff Sergeant Shane Harding was a talented non-commissioned officer,\" said Lt. Col. David Berrios, commander of the 647th Civil Engineering Squadron. \n \"His sharp and dependable character shined through in every aspect of his life. He was a true wingman, mentor and leader,\" Berrios said. \"He will be greatly missed by the men and women of the 647th Civil Engineering Squadron, 15th Wing and Joint Base Team. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. \" \n Police believe that Harding was speeding Sunday when he failed to make a turn in the road near Hickam Air Force Base and was ejected from his motorcycle and was killed. \n Police said witness reported the victim traveling at a high rate of speed traveling southbound on O'Mallery Boulevard at 1:50 p.m. near the North Nimitz Highway overpass. \n The victim failed to complete a left curve on O' Mallery Boulevard and hit a barrier, police said. The motorcyclist was thrown to a grassy area near the road. Paramedics treated the victim and took him to Pali Momi Medical Center in critical condition where he died. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Air Force sergeant killed in crash near Hickam was 'true wingman'"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This artist rendering provided by the European Southern Observatory shows a view of the surface of the planet Proxima b orbiting the red dwarf star Proxima Centauri, the closest star to the solar system. \n Pale blue dot, meet pale red dot. Astronomers have spent decades scouring the skies looking for Earth-sized planets around distant stars. And now they've found one, sitting smack in the habitable zone of our nearest stellar neighbor. \n The planet Proxima b, described in the journal Nature, could be one of the first planets outside our solar system where humans could go searching for life. \n \"It's the closest star, it has a potentially habitable world \u2014 I just think it's amazing,\" said Cornell astrophysicist Lisa Kaltenegger, director of Carl Sagan Institute, who was not involved in the study. \"This is just such a great exciting time to live in, because we'll figure out how we fit into all of this \u2014 and hopefully, also, if we're alone in the universe.\" \n Proxima b circles Proxima Centauri, the stellar third wheel to the binary pair of stars known as Alpha Centauri AB. It's the closest star to our solar system, sitting just 4.2 light-years away, but as an M-dwarf \u2014 a dim, red, low-mass star \u2014 it can't be seen with the naked eye. \n The newly discovered planet is estimated to hold at least 1.3 Earth masses, which means it's probably a rocky world like our own. And while it circles roughly 4.3 million miles from the surface of its star (taking just 11.2 Earth days to complete a revolution) Proxima Centauri is small and dim, with just 12 percent of the sun's mass and 0.15 percent of its luminosity. At that distance, it's still temperate enough for water, theoretically, to remain stable on the surface, assuming there's a protective atmosphere. \n Scientists discovered Proxima b thanks to what's known as the radial velocity method, which takes advantage of the Doppler effect. As a planet moves around its star, it tugs on the star just a little bit, causing it to wobble back and forth. When the wobble brings the star closer to us, the light reaching us is squeezed, making it bluer. When the star is pulled slightly away from us, the light is stretched, making it redder. By using that color shift to track that wobble, astronomers can determine the mass of the planet tugging on it. \n In some ways, this is simpler to do with M dwarfs; because they're much smaller than stars like our sun, they're also more easily pulled this way and that by their planets. And since Proxima b is so close to the star, it circles very frequently and should be easy to pick out. That's not to mention that Proxima Centauri, as the closest star to us, is arguably the best-studied red dwarf to date. \n And yet it took years to find the planet. That's in large part because M dwarfs are very noisy, variable stars, whose stellar activity can drown out that telltale Doppler signal. Earlier observations made years before revealed hints of the planet but could not decisively prove its existence. \n Earlier this year, a team of astronomers known as the Pale Red Dot campaign studied Proxima Centauri using the European Southern Observatory's HARPS instrument, a spectrograph installed on the 3.8-meter telescope at La Silla in Chile. Using other telescopes, including the ASH2 telescope at the San Pedro de Atacama Celestial Explorations Observatory and the Las Cumbres Observatory Global Telescope Network, they monitored the star's brightness to make sure that its variability wasn't producing the tantalizing exoplanetary signal. \n They found that, at times, Proxima Centauri was moving toward and away from Earth at about 3 miles per hour \u2014 a typical human walking pace. An unseen planet, they realized, must be tugging on this star. \n \"All the pieces together is what allows us to be very, very sure that we have it right this time,\" Guillem Anglada-Escude of the Queen Mary University of London said at a news briefing on his team's findings. \n As it turns out, there was also another signal mixed into the data \u2014 one that might potentially hint at the existence of a larger, more distant planet circling Proxima Centauri. \n Could life exist on Proxima b? There are several unknowns that make it impossible to say right now, scientists said. The planet is tidally locked to Proxima Centauri; one side of the planet may permanently face the star while the other half remains shrouded in darkness. But that shouldn't be a deal-breaker for the existence of life: If there is an atmosphere, it should redistribute heat across the surface, the researchers said. \n But as an M dwarf, Proxima Centauri is also far more mercurial a star than our own, prone to frequent flares and bursts of X-rays that would send down 400 times the X-ray flux that Earth receives from the sun. (In the news briefing, the study authors said they'd been conservative and overstated the risk; it was more likely on the order of 100 times.) And X-rays could eat away at the atmosphere, even if it does exist. \n And it's also not clear whether water could have truly survived on the planet over the eons; it depends on how violent the star was in the past, and where the planet actually originated \u2014 both of which remain a mystery. \n \"This is the biggest question mark for the question of whether it's an Earth-like planet or not,\" said study co-author Ansgar Reiners of the University of Gottingen. \"Whether there's water or not, we do not know; that entirely depends on the formation, on the history of the planet. And this will be subject to further studies.\" \n The good news: Proxima Centauri is so close that it should be relatively easier to start probing these questions. Some teams have already started. \n If life were on this planet, it probably survived either underground or deep within its hypothetical oceans, Kaltenegger said. But perhaps it could have eventually evolved to handle the extreme radiation that may reach the surface, she added, perhaps by using biofluorescence (an idea she and a colleague flesh out in a paper posted to arXiv). \n Others expressed mixtures of caution and hope. \n \"Personally I'm holding out for the Earth twin,\" Sara Seager, an MIT astrophysicist who was not involved in the study, said in reference to the search for an Earth-like planet around a sunlike star. \n The next step is to try and catch the planet transiting across the star's surface, she added. Seager is one of the scientists working on TESS, NASA's Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, which will launch in 2017 to hunt for nearby exoplanets. \n But in some ways the discovery of Proxima b heralds a new era, Seager added \u2014 one that moves from vast surveys like NASA's Kepler spacecraft (as well as TESS) and toward individual, in-depth profiles of particularly interesting planets. \n TESS may help identify many more interesting red dwarfs, which are the most common type of star found near our solar system. In fact, they're so plentiful that some scientists say these cool, dim stars might actually have a greater chance of hosting a life-friendly world than sunlike stars (though again, it's unclear what their variable nature may have on planets). \n In the meantime, Proxima b presents astronomers with an ideal opportunity to study one of these stars (and the planet that circles it). There's only a 1.5 percent chance that the planet transits in front of Proxima Centauri, which means researchers will probably not be able to study its atmosphere for a while. But as ever-more-powerful telescopes being to come online, it may be possible to actually take images of this nearby star system. \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Scientists spot a rocky, Earth-like planet that could have liquid water"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This radar image taken this morning shows heavy showers over Oahu. \n A flash flood advisory for Oahu expired today at 11:45 a.m., but a number of beaches on Oahu and Hawaii island are under brown water advisories due to heavy rains overnight and this morning, state officials said. \n The Clean Water Branch of the state Health Department issued brown water advisories for the following: \n \u00bb Honolii Beach Park near Hilo Bay. \n \u00bb Kailua Beach, Nanakuli Beach, Lanikai, Waimea Bay, and the surf spots Bamburas, Ala Moana Bowls and Rockpiles. \n \"The public is advised to stay out of flood waters and storm water runoff due to possible overflowing cesspools, sewer manholes, pesticides, animal fecal matter, dead animals, pathogens, chemicals and associated flood debris,\" officials said. \"If coastal waters are turbid and brown, stay out.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "State issues brown water advisories in wake of heavy rains"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Kipapa Elementary School in Mililani. \n Lunches for the 590 students at Kipapa Elementary School are being prepared at another school after a kitchen worker was confirmed to have contracted hepatitis A this week. \n Donalyn Dela Cruz, Department of Education spokeswoman, said the cafeteria worker called Kipapa Elementary School's principal Corrine Yogi Monday and informed her of the positive test result. \n Dela Cruz said the school immediately closed its cafeteria and began testing all of its cafeteria workers. \n \"All the tests have come in negative,\" Dela Cruz added. \n In addition, the Department of Education contracted a commercial company to clean the cafeteria and has asked the health department to inspect it. \n \"We are doing more than what is required,\" Dela Cruz said, \"because we feel strongly about protecting the children.\" \n In a letter sent to Kipapa Elementary School parents Tuesday, Yogi said the affected cafeteria employee worked in the kitchen from Aug. 3-16. \n \"At Kipapa Elementary School,\" Yogi said, \"the health and safety of our students and employees are of utmost importance. While our cafeteria is always run with safety precautions in mind, our kitchen will remain closed until the kitchen staff has cleared appropriate health requirements.\" \n The Health Department recommends schoolchildren receive the hepatitis A vaccination as part of routine childhood vaccinations and Yogi said that any \"previously vaccinated child would already be immune to hepatitis A infection.\" \n Children who have not previously been vaccinated should be seen by their pediatrician about the possibility of receiving a vaccine or immune globulin, which may provide some protection against the disease if administered within two weeks after exposure, she said. \n As of today, there have been 228 cases of hepatitis A in Hawaii, according to the health department. \n The health department Tuesday reported that a second Hawaiian Airlines flight attendant, who served in-flight food and beverages to passengers, was confirmed to have hepatitis A. \n Another flight attendant was infected last month. \n The Health Department has identified imported frozen scallops as the likely source of the outbreak and embargoed the product statewide on August 15. \n \"This case is a reminder that hepatitis A symptoms can appear up to 50 days after exposure,\" said State Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Park said in the news release. \"This is why we expect to continue to see cases in coming weeks, and why we need to remain vigilant to prevent further transmission, even though the product has been pulled off the market.\" \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Mililani school cafeteria worker tests positive for hepatitis A"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "COURTESY GOAKAMAI.ORG \n Traffic was backed up this morning on the H-1 freeway eastbound in Waikele. \n The Zipper lane was opened for an extra half-hour, until 9:30 a.m., because of heavy town-bound traffic on the H-1 freeway, state Department of Transportation officials said today. \n The combination of back-to-school traffic and wet roads clogged many roadways for this morning's commute. \n The Zipper lane normally closes at 9 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "State keeps Zipper lane open longer this morning"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Afghan policemen wounded in a complex Taliban attack on the campus of the American University in the Afghan capital Kabul today. University President Mark English said that security forces arrived on the scene soon after the attack began around 7 p.m. (1430 GMT). \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Afghan security forces rushed to respond to a complex Taliban attack on the campus of the American University in the Afghan capital Kabul today. \"We are trying to assess the situation,\" President Mark English told The Associated Press. (AP Photo/Rahmat Gul) \n KABUL, Afghanistan \u00bb Militants attacked the American University of Afghanistan today, according to an Associated Press photographer who was in class at the time. \n Massoud Hossaini said he was in a classroom with 15 students when he heard an explosion on the southern flank of the campus. \n \"I went to the window to see what was going on, and I saw a person in normal clothes outside. He shot at me and shattered the glass,\" Hossaini said, adding that he fell on the glass and cut his hands. \n The students then barricaded themselves into the classroom, pushing chairs and desks against the door, and staying on the floor. \n Hossaini and about nine students later managed to escape from the campus through a northern emergency gate. \n \"As we were running I saw someone lying on the ground face down, they looked like they had been shot in the back,\" he said. \n Hossaini and the nine students took refuge in a residential house near the campus, and were later safely evacuated by Afghan security forces. \n University President Mark English told The Associated Press that security forces had arrived on the scene soon after the attack began around 7 p.m. (1430 GMT) and that \"we are trying to assess the situation.\" \n Other witnesses say they heard explosions and automatic gunfire. Ambulances arrived at the campus in western Kabul, but it was not immediately clear how many people had been wounded. \n Dejan Panic, the program director at Kabul's Emergency Hospital, said 11 patients had so far been admitted, 10 men and one woman. He said three were \"seriously\" wounded, probably from automatic gunfire. \n Police spokesman Sediq Sediqqi said security forces were conducting a clearing operation to track down the \"terrorists.\" He said it was still not clear if there were one or two attackers. \n All other personnel on the campus were being evacuated, he said. He had no further details on the nature of the attack. \n The Pentagon said U.S. military advisers were on the ground with Afghan security forces at the university. Spokesman Adam Stump said the forces had been embedded with the Afghan units. \n The attack on AUAF comes two weeks after two university staff, an American and an Australian, were kidnapped from their car by unknown gunmen. Their whereabouts are still unknown. \n The university was established in 2006 to offer liberal arts courses modeled on the U.S. system. More than 1,000 students are currently enrolled in degree courses. \n The Taliban have been fighting to overthrow the Kabul government for 15 years, and regard foreign civilians as legitimate targets. \n Associated Press writers Rahim Faiez in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Lolita C. Baldor in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Militants attack American University in Afghanistan"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescuers search through debris following an earthquake in Pescara Del Tronto, Italy on Wednesday. \n ANSA VIA AP \n The side of a building is collapsed following an earthquake, in Amatrice Italy on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The body of a victim is pulled out of the rubble following an earthquake in Amatrice Italy on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man was pulled out of the rubble following an earthquake in Amatrice Italyon Wednesday. The magnitude 6 quake struck at 3:36 a.m. (0136 GMT) and was felt across a broad swath of central Italy, including Rome where residents of the capital felt a long swaying followed by aftershocks. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man was rescued from the rubble of a building after an earthquake, in Accumoli, central Italy on Wednesday. A devastating earthquake rocked central Italy early Wednesday, collapsing homes on top of residents as they slept. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Aerial view of Amatrice in central Italy, Wednesday, as it appears after a magnitude 6 quake struck at 3:36 a.m. (0136 GMT) and was felt across a broad swath of central Italy, including Rome where residents of the capital felt a long swaying followed by aftershocks. (AP Photo/Gregorio Borgia) \n AMATRICE, Italy \u00bb Rescue crews raced against time Thursday looking for survivors from the earthquake that leveled three towns in central Italy, but the death toll rose to 247 and Italy once again anguished over trying to secure its ancient communities built on seismic lands. \n Dawn broke over the rolling hills of central Lazio and Le Marche regions after a night of uninterrupted search efforts. Aided by sniffer dogs, firefighters and rescue crews using their bare hands pulled chunks of cement, rock and metal apart from mounds of rubble where homes once stood searching for signs of life. \n One area of focus was the Hotel Roma in Amatrice, famous for the Amatriciana bacon and tomato pasta sauce that brings food lovers to this medieval hilltop town each August for its food festival. \n Amatrice's mayor had initially said 70 guests were in the crumbled hotel ahead of this weekend's festival, but rescue workers later halved that estimate after the owner said most guests managed to escape. \n Firefighters' spokesman Luca Cari said that one body had been pulled out of the hotel rubble just before dawn but that the search continued there and elsewhere, even as aftershocks rattled the area a day after the magnitude 6 temblor struck at 3:36 a.m. on Wednesday. \n \"We're still in a phase that allows us to hope we'll find people alive,\" Cari said, noting that in the 2009 earthquake in nearby L'Aquila a survivor was pulled out after 72 hours. \n Worst affected by the quake were the tiny towns of Amatrice and Accumoli near Rieti, 100 kilometers (60 miles) northeast of Rome, and Pescara del Tronto, 25 kilometers (15 miles) further east. \n Italy's civil protection agency reported the death toll had risen to 247 early Thursday with at least 368 others injured. Most of the dead \u2014 190 \u2014 were in Amatrice and Accumuli and their nearby hamlets. \n The civil protection agency set up tent cities around the affected towns to accommodate the homeless. In Amatrice, many elderly and children spent the night inside a local sports facility. \n As the search effort continued, the soul-searching began once again as Italy confronted the effects of having the highest seismic hazard in Western Europe, some of it in its most picturesque medieval villages, and anti-seismic building codes that aren't applied to old buildings and often aren't respected when new ones are built. \n \"In a country where in the past 40 years there have been at least eight devastating earthquakes \u2026 the only lesson we have learned is to save lives after the fact,\" columnist Sergio Rizzo wrote in Thursday's Corriere della Sera. \"We are far behind in the other lessons.\" \n Experts estimate that 70 percent of Italy's buildings aren't built to anti-seismic standards. After every major quake, proposals are made to improve, but they often languish in Italy's thick bureaucracy, funding shortages and the huge scope of trying to secure thousands of ancient towns and newer structures built before codes were passed or after the codes were in effect but in violation of them. \n In recent quakes, some of these more modern buildings have been the deadliest: the university dormitory that collapsed in the 2009 L'Aquila quake, killing 11 students; the elementary school that crumbled in San Giuliano di Puglia in 2002, killing 26 children \u2014 the town's entire first-grade class. In some cases, the anti-seismic building standards have been part of the problem, including using reinforced cement for roofs that are then too heavy for weak walls when quakes strike. \n Premier Matteo Renzi, visiting the quake-affected zone Wednesday, promised to rebuild \"and guarantee a reconstruction that will allow residents to live in these communities, to relaunch these beautiful towns that have a wonderful past that will never end.\" \n While the government is already looking ahead to reconstruction, rescue workers on the ground still had days and weeks of work ahead of them. In hard-hit Pescara del Tronto, firefighter Franco Mantovan said early Thursday that crews knew of three residents still under the rubble, but in a hard-to-reach area. \n In the evening there, about 17 hours after the quake struck, firefighters pulled a 10-year-old girl alive from a crumbled home. \n \"You can hear something under here. Quiet, quiet,\" one rescue worker said, before soon urging her on: \"Come on, Giulia, come on, Giulia.\" \n Cheers broke out when she was pulled out. \n But there were wails when bodies emerged. \n \"Unfortunately, 90 percent we pull out are dead, but some make it, that's why we are here,\" said Christian Bianchetti, a volunteer from Rieti who was working in devastated Amatrice. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Italy toll rises to 247 as anguish mounts over quake past"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for three men who robbed the occupants of a Kaneohe home early this morning. \n The incident occurred at 12:40 a.m. \n The suspects allegedly threatened the residents and fled. \n Police did not release a description of the three suspects. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for trio in robbery at Kaneohe home"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestured with a fist bump during his visit to the Philippine Army's Camp Mateo Capinpin at Tanay township, Rizal province east of Manila, Philippines on Wednesday. \n TANAY, Philippines \u00bb The tough-talking Philippine president said Wednesday he will walk the extra mile for peace but warned China \"it will be bloody\" if the militarily superior Asian neighbor infringes on his country's territory. \n President Rodrigo Duterte issued the warning in comments on his country's territorial disputes with China in a speech before troops at an army camp east of Manila. He has been seeking talks with China on the long-unresolved conflict. \n Duterte said China has been conciliatory and he did not want any fight. \n \"We do not want a quarrel,\" he said. \"I would walk the extra mile to ask for peace for everybody.\" \n He expressed fears, however, about what will happen if the peaceful efforts fail, saying Filipino troops are ready to defend their country's sovereignty despite its weak military. \n \"I guarantee to (China), if you enter here, it will be bloody,\" he said. \"And we will not give it to them easily. It will be the bones of our soldiers, you can include mine.\" \n An international arbitration tribunal ruled last month that China's extensive territorial claims in the South China Sea were invalid under a 1982 U.N. treaty, in a major setback for Beijing, which has ignored the decision. \n Duterte's predecessor, Benigno Aquino III, initiated the arbitration case against China. Duterte has not pressed for Chinese compliance and does not plan to raise the decision at an annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders with their Chinese counterpart in Laos next month. \n Duterte said, however, that \"whether we like it or not, that arbitral judgment will be insisted not only by the Philippines\" but by other countries in Southeast Asia, suggesting China should take steps to resolve the territorial issues now while conditions are conducive. \n \"We will not raise hell now because of the judgment, but there will come a time that we have to do some reckoning about this,\" Duterte said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duterte: 'It will be bloody' if Philippine territory breached"}

{"date": "August 24, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/JACQUELYN MARTIN, FILE \n In this May 6, 2015 file photo, a computer-based practice ACT English test is displayed on a computer monitor in Washington. Nearly two-thirds of this year's high school graduates took the ACT college entrance exam, and their scores suggest that many remain unprepared for the rigors of college-level coursework. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Nearly two-thirds of this year's high school graduates took the ACT college entrance exam, and their scores suggest that many remain unprepared for the rigors of college-level coursework. \n The testing company said Wednesday that only 38 percent of graduating seniors who took the exam hit the college-prepared benchmark in at least three of the four core subjects tested \u2014 reading, English, math and science \u2014 down from 40 percent last year. The benchmark is designed to measure a strong readiness for college. \n The average composite score also declined a bit, down from 21 to 20.8 this year. The four tests are scored on a scale of 1 to 36. The composite is the average of the four scores. The vast majority of colleges use the composite in admissions. \n ACT's Paul Weeks says a decline in scores was expected, given the changing demographic of the testing population. \n \"Almost 2 out 3 students are taking the ACT and what's happened is the testing cohort has become increasingly representative of students at large,\" said Weeks, senior vice president for client relations, in an interview. \n A number of additional states also are giving the ACT to all of their 11th-grade students. \"That group of new states showed up in this year's grad class report so we would have expected it to have an impact\" on scores, Weeks said. \n Nearly 2.1 million graduating seniors took the ACT, up from 1.9 million in the last school year. \n By comparison, 1.7 million graduating seniors in 2015 took the SAT, the other major college entrance exam. The College Board expects to release updated 2016 numbers for the SAT later this fall. \n Of the ACT-tested high school graduates this year, 61 percent met the English benchmark of 18 points, which indicates a student is likely ready for a college composition course and would earn a \"C\" or better grade. \n In reading, 44 percent met the 22-point mark that suggests readiness for a college-level social-sciences course. For math, 41 percent met the 22-point threshold that predicts success in an algebra course. And in science, 36 percent hit the 22-point score that predicts success in an entry-level biology course. \n In contrast, 34 percent of 2016 grads did not meet any of the four benchmarks. Weeks called that number alarming, an indication that those students are likely to struggle with first-year courses and end up in remedial classes that will delay degree completion and increase college costs. \n The report showed a relatively wide gulf, by race, in the percentages of graduates hitting three or more of the college-ready benchmarks. Forty-nine percent of white test-takers met the three-or-more benchmark, compared to 11 percent of African Americans and 23 percent of Hispanic test-takers. But the gaps between the groups haven't shifted that much, for better or worse, in the last four years. \n When students register for the ACT, they can designate a college major. For 2016 grads, the most popular major selected was nursing, followed by pre-medicine, business administration and management and mechanical engineering. \n Other findings in the annual score report: \n \u2014Massachusetts had the highest average composite score, at 24.8. It was followed by Connecticut and New Hampshire, both with a 24.5 average composite score. \n \u2014In the last four years, the proportion of students saying they would like to pursue vocational/technical and two-year degrees increased by 2 percent. The proportion aspiring to higher levels of education dropped by 6 percent. \n The testing company says 20 states funded ACT testing for all public school students in the 2016 graduating class. Those states are: Alabama, Alaska, Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin and Wyoming. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Scores sagging for high school grads taking ACT college test"}

