{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The sea cliff, shown after the collapse, remained unstable and could collapse without warning, officials said. \n A dramatic \"fire hose\" of lava entering the ocean from Hawaii island has ended, for now at least, with the collapse of a nearby sea cliff, the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said. \n HVO geologists hiked to the site, known as the Kamokuna ocean entry, today and found the \"fire hose\" flow no longer visible. But lava was apparently flowing into the ocean, given the spatter and black sand flying through the steam plume. \n Shortly after the geologists arrived, the sea cliff makai of a \"hot crack\" collapsed at about 12:55 p.m. Volcano officials warned for days that the sea cliff may collapse after the crack widened by about a foot and a half this week. \n After the collapse, no lava was visible, but the steam plume and spatter explosions indicated lava from Kilauea volcano was still flowing into the sea, the observatory said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "'Fire hose' of lava ends with sea cliff collapse"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Firefighters extinguished a fire tonight on Kahuhipa Street. \n A man was transported to a hospital for smoke inhalation after a two-alarm fire occurred at a townhome in Kaneohe. \n Shortly before 8 p.m. Thursday, Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said firefighters responded to the townhome located at 46-411 Kahuhipa St. \n Two residents were home at the time and were alerted of the fire after they smelled smoke. All residents evacuated before firefighters arrived. \n When firefighters arrived, they observed smoke emerging from the top of the structure. Jenkins said they located the blaze in a bedroom on the second floor. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 8:06 p.m. and extinguished it by 8:12 p.m. \n Emergency Medical Services transported a 64-year-old man to a hospital in serious condition due to suffered smoke inhalation. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation. Damage to the structure and its contents is estimated at $70,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Neighbor treated for smoke inhalation in Kaneohe fire"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "COURTESY REV. JOHN HARA \n This temple bell was stolen from a Buddhist mission on Maui. \n A Buddhist temple on Maui is seeking the public's help in recovering a stolen bell. \n Wailuku Jodo Mission resident minister John Hara said he noticed the temple bell was missing at 5:30 p.m. today. \n \"We don't know exactly when it was stolen, but we are hoping that the public may know something or seen something,\" Hara said on Facebook tonight. \n The bell, cast from an unknown metal, was usually rung on Sundays before 8 a.m. services, Hara said by phone. \n The mission, founded in 1914, is located in an old section of Wailuku at 67 Central Avenue. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui temple bell stolen"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Israeli police evicts settlers from the West Bank settlement of Ofra, following the evacuation of Amona outpost, Thursday. Amona is the largest of about 100 unauthorized outposts erected in the West Bank without formal permission but with tacit Israeli government support. The outpost was found to be built on private Palestinian land and the Israeli Supreme Court ordered it demolished. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump on Thursday warned Israel that constructing new settlements \"may not be helpful\" to Middle East peace efforts, shifting toward a tougher line with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government. \n Still, the White House made clear that the Trump administration \"has not taken an official position on settlement activity,\" departing from previous administrations that have considered the settlements illegitimate. \n Trump has been perceived as sympathetic to the settlements. Shortly before taking office, he vigorously criticized the Obama administration for not vetoing a United Nations Security Council measure condemning settlements. \n But in a statement Thursday, the White House said, \"While we don't believe the existence of settlements is an impediment to peace, the construction of new settlements or the expansion of existing settlements beyond their current borders may not be helpful in achieving that goal.\" \n The White House said the president would discuss the issue with Netanyahu when he travels to Washington later this month. The two leaders are scheduled to meet at the White House on Feb. 15. \n The U.S. statement came hours after Netanyahu vowed to establish the first new West Bank settlement in over two decades \"as soon as possible,\" promising to make up for the court-ordered demolition of an illegal settler outpost. It was his latest step to expand Israeli settlement construction in the wake of Trump's inauguration. \n Netanyahu repeatedly clashed with President Barack Obama during the Democrat's eight years in office, and Trump has vowed to be a better partner for Israel. Following the U.N. vote, Trump tweeted, \"Stay strong Israel, January 20th is fast approaching!\" \u2014 referring to the date of his inauguration. \n Trump has already appeared to slow his promises to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem \u2013 a promise often made by presidential candidates, but never carried out in office because of fears the move would inflame tensions in the region. \n Newly sworn-in Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke by phone Thursday with Netanyahu. \n The prime minister's vow to establish new West Bank settlements came as Israeli security forces were completing the evacuation of Amona, where they broke into a synagogue to remove dozens of Israeli protesters who had barricaded themselves inside. Netanyahu's pro-settler government had unsuccessfully tried to block the evacuation of Amona, but Israel's Supreme Court rejected all appeals after determining the outpost was built illegally two decades ago on private Palestinian land. \n Speaking at a ceremony in the West Bank settlement of Ariel, Netanyahu expressed \"great pain\" over the removal of Amona. \n According to the Israeli anti-settlement watchdog Peace Now, Israel has not officially broken ground on a new settlement since 1992. \n Since that time, however, it has greatly expanded its existing settlements and allowed dozens of unauthorized outposts to sprout up, in some cases subsequently legalizing them. In all, some 400,000 Israelis now live in West Bank settlements, in addition to 200,000 others living in east Jerusalem. \n The Palestinians claim both areas, captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war, as parts of a future independent state. The international community has opposed the settlements, built on occupied lands sought by the Palestinians, as obstacles to peace. \n Britain and Germany, close Israeli allies, as well as the European Union criticized Netanyahu's approval this week of 3,000 new settlement homes in the West Bank. \n \"This spike in settlement activity undermines trust and makes a two-state solution \u2013 with an Israel that is safe from terrorism and a Palestinian state that is viable and sovereign \u2013 much harder to achieve,\" said Britain's minister for the Middle East, Tobias Ellwood. \n Amona has emerged as a symbol of settler defiance. On Thursday, Israeli police completed the evacuation of the wind-swept community, where hundreds of Jewish activists joined residents in resisting the pullout. \n Police began the evacuation Wednesday, but dozens of activists remained holed up in the synagogue. Police initially said 200 had barricaded themselves inside but later revised the number to about 100. \n On Thursday, several hundred Israeli forces surrounded the building, and officers wearing goggles and wielding plastic shields broke through the doors and sprayed water to push back defiant protesters. \n \"The officers faced especially tough and violent resistance,\" police said in a statement. Protesters sprayed fire extinguishers at police and threw rocks, paint bottles and wooden planks, police said. \n Slogans including \"Death to Zionists\" and a swastika comparing the Israeli police to Nazis were scrawled on the synagogue walls. The police later began dragging young protesters out of the building. \n Speaking to Israel Radio from inside the synagogue, the rabbi of Amona said the protesters were peacefully resisting the uprooting of the outpost. He spoke above loud noises and shouting in the background. Earlier Thursday, police removed protesters holed up in a small home nearby. \n Police said 24 officers were lightly injured throughout the evacuation, and 13 young protesters were arrested. \n Amona is the largest of about 100 unauthorized outposts erected in the West Bank without formal permission but with tacit Israeli government support. It witnessed violent clashes 11 years ago when police demolished nine homes found to have been built on private Palestinian land. \n The Supreme Court last year determined that the entire outpost was built illegally and ordered it demolished. \n \u2014 \n Bernstein reported from Amona, West Bank. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In shift, Trump warns Israel against new settlements"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Special Operations Battalion Police officers entered the Alcacuz prison amid tension between rival gangs in Nisia Floresta, near Natal, Brazil, on Jan. 21. Brazil incarcerates more than 620,000 people in a system that has space for a little over 370,000, according to a 2014 Ministry of Justice report. Forty percent of detainees are merely awaiting trial. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police officers entered the Alcacuz prison a couple of weeks ago amid tension between rival gangs in Nisia Floresta, near Natal, Brazil. Rio Grande do Norte state Gov. Robinson Faria has announced he will close the prison, though only after three new prisons are ready. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Inmates watched as another inmate, who was injured during conflicts, was lifted on a stretcher by police and firefighters amid tension between rival gangs in the Alcacuz prison in Nisia Floresta, near Natal, Brazil, on Jan. 20. After the riot, guards pulled back even farther, allowing prisoners to roam the entire facility unchecked. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An inmate took a selfie last week using his cellphone on the roof of Alcacuz prison in Nisia Floresta, near Natal, Brazil. Basic services may not be available at Alcacuz, but nearly everything else is: Police have seized cellphones, drugs, knives, handguns and several types of ammunition at the facility, which is built on sand soft enough to dig by hand. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The violence and the grisly killings go beyond the typical problems in Brazil's prisons and could signal the beginning of a nationwide gang war for control of the system, said Benjamin Lessing, a political scientist at the University of Chicago who studies criminal conflict in Latin America. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An inmate displayed a makeshift knife moments after police left the prison in the Alcacuz prison in Nisia Floresta, near Natal, Brazil, on Jan. 24. Military police entered the prison in northeastern Brazil, where a temporary wall separating two rival gangs is being built, after a week of chaos and fighting between rival gangs that left dozens of inmates dead. \n NATAL, Brazil \u2014 For nearly two years, guards didn't dare enter the cell blocks at the Alcacuz prison in northeastern Brazil. And with good reason. Only about a dozen at a time are supposed to watch some 1,500 inmates, whose gangs are supplied through tunnels that let them bring in guns, knives, cellphones and just about anything else. \n The lockup, nicknamed \"Swiss cheese\" by residents of the surrounding neighborhood, saw a Jan. 14 riot in which 26 prisoners died \u2014 and officials here are still trying to finally regain full control. \n \"The state has lost control,\" Vilma Batista, a guard at Alcacuz and president of the correction officers union in Rio Grande do Norte state, told The Associated Press, speaking just outside the prison in the wake of the clashes. \"We have lost all of the buildings in the prison where there are inmates, who remain in command and in control.\" \n Alcacuz is among the worst prisons in Brazil, but by no means an aberration. The problems here can be found across Latin America's largest nation, which is experiencing a wave of prison massacres and unrest that have left at least 130 inmates dead since the beginning of the year. \n Neglect has long been building at Alcacuz where more than 1,550 inmates are crammed into buildings meant for about 1,000. \n Batista said guards \u2014 no more than 12 are on duty at any time \u2014 haven't entered some parts of the complex since riots in March 2015. She said they are routinely paid late and their watchtowers are so decrepit that some are unusable. There are no x-ray machines to scan visitors, and a machine used to check food is often broken. \n Outnumbered and ill-equipped, Batista said, the guards can do little more than corral the prisoners into areas they themselves are afraid to enter. \n Authorities acknowledge that Alcacuz is beyond saving. Rio Grande do Norte state Gov. Robinson Faria has announced it will close, though only after three new prisons are ready. In the meantime, an emergency force of corrections agents has been sent in to establish order and repair the damaged facility. \n Even before the Jan. 14 riot, inmates spilled out of cells whose doors had been destroyed, often scavenged to make homemade knives. Guards merely locked the cell blocks, which they rarely entered except for occasional almost militaristic raids. \n After the riot, guards pulled back even farther, allowing prisoners to roam the entire facility unchecked, with security forces merely ensuring they didn't escape and occasionally breaking up fights. They were unable to enter even to rescue those wounded in fighting, instead lowering stretchers from outside. \n Cell blocks are divided up by gang affiliation as is typical in Brazilian prisons, with a handful of prisoners standing guard each night to ensure rivals don't attack inmates sleeping on the floors or nearby patios. \n Prisoners complained to the AP that they don't have regular access to legal assistance or medical care. According to relatives, some inmates with knife and even gunshot wounds from the most recent fighting have not been treated. \n Basic services may not be available at Alcacuz, but nearly everything else is: Police have seized cellphones, drugs, knives, handguns and several types of ammunition at the facility, which is built on sand soft enough to dig by hand. \n At least four tunnels have been found, popping up just beyond the lightly patrolled walls. \n \"Here, we have everything, even dogs,\" one prisoner, who is serving a sentence for robbery, boasted via the WhatsApp messaging service. Like all of the prisoners interviewed, he refused to be named. \n During the unrest, more than 50 prisoners also fled the facility, which neighbors refer to as the \"Penitentiary of Maximum Escape.\" \n Life in some Brazilian prisons, including Alcacuz, got even worse this year when fights between gangs led to a series of gruesome murders. \n As guards watched last month, a member of the Crime Syndicate of Rio Grande do Norte barbecued body parts of a slain rival and ate the flesh, according to Batista, the union leader. \n That kind of violence and the grisly killings seen in January go beyond the typical problems in Brazil's prisons and could signal the beginning of a nationwide gang war for control of the system, said Benjamin Lessing, a political scientist at the University of Chicago who studies criminal conflict in Latin America. \n The First Capital Command, the country's largest criminal organization, has picked fights with several gangs as it tries to expand its reach outside its traditional base in Sao Paulo. At Alcacuz, the First Capital Command is fighting the Crime Syndicate for control. \n Brazil incarcerates more than 620,000 people in a system that has space for a little over 370,000, according to a 2014 Ministry of Justice report. Forty percent of detainees are merely awaiting trial. \n There aren't enough public defenders, and cases languish for years. The stiffening of penalties for drug offenses and campaigns to crack down on crime have sent even more offenders into the prison system. \n In response to the crisis, President Michel Temer's government has promised around 30 new prisons. But the new facilities would make space for about 25,000 more inmates, plugging only 10 percent of the deficit reported in 2014. \n \"More prisons means more prisoners and stronger gangs,\" said Karina Biondi, author of \"Sharing this Walk: An Ethnography of Prison Life and the PCC in Brazil.\" \"The solution, in my view, is less prison.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Life at Brazilian prison where 'the state has lost control'"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "A screen shot of the video from Ivanka Trump's Twitter page. \n BEIJING >> A brief video clip of Donald Trump's granddaughter singing in Chinese is circulating to strong approval on the internet in China, even while some criticized the U.S. president's failure to send greetings for the Lunar New Year. \n Video from Ivanka Trump's Twitter page: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clip of Trump granddaughter singing spreads on Chinese web"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n A house fire in Haleiwa today started in a bedroom on Ke Nui Road. \n Honolulu fire officials were investigating a fire at a home in Haleiwa that began in a bedroom and resulted in a woman being treated for smoke inhalation. \n The 63-year-old woman was treated at the scene and was taken by paramedics to a hospital, according to Honolulu Emergency Medical Services. \n Firefighters had the fire under control 12 minutes after responding to the emergency call at 4:37 p.m. at 59-181 Ke Nui Road, the Honolulu Fire Department said. \n Light smoke was coming from a two-story home, and all five occupants evacuated the house before fire officials arrived, the fire department said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman treated for smoke inhalation after Haleiwa fire"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Milo Yiannopoulos spoke on campus at the University of Colorado in Boulder, Colo., on Jan. 25. \n NEW YORK >> Sales are soaring for the upcoming book by incendiary right-wing commentator Milo Yiannopoulos but details of his promotional tour \u2014 assuming there is one \u2014 are a mystery for now. \n A spokeswoman for Threshold Editions, the conservative imprint at Simon & Schuster, declined comment Thursday when asked where Yiannopoulos was expected to appear on behalf of \"Dangerous.\" Publishers would usually be anxious to share details about a book just a few weeks from publication, March 14, and in high demand from the public. \"Dangerous\" was No. 1 on Amazon.com as of Thursday evening. \n But the controversy that has driven pre-orders for \"Dangerous\" has also made promotion unusually complicated. The 32-year-old Breitbart editor, born in Greece and raised in England, is a walking challenge to free speech principles. A vocal supporter of President Donald Trump, Yiannopoulos has made vicious comments about Muslims, women and others, and on his web site offers such products as \"Feminism is Cancer\" T-shirts and \"Fat Shaming Works\" hoodies. His harassment campaign last summer against \"Ghostbusters\" star Leslie Jones led to his banishment from Twitter. \n Rowdy protests at UC Davis on Jan. 13 prompted campus Republicans to cancel his appearance at the last minute. His final stop was supposed to be UCLA on Thursday but the invitation was rescinded, making Berkeley his grand finale. \n Yiannopoulos' book deal was greeted with immediate anger when announced in late December. Hundreds of authors have objected and one writer, Roxane Gay, withdrew a book she had planned for Simon & Schuster. Many independent sellers have expressed uneasiness, saying they will make the book available if asked for, but will not promote it. One store, The Booksmith in San Francisco, has announced it will neither stock the book nor order a copy upon customer request. Booksmith also said it was cutting orders for Simon & Schuster books by 50 percent. \n \"While we respect Simon's decision to publish any book, we reserve the right to allocate our discretionary inventory dollars with publishers who act with ethical & moral standards consistent with our own,\" reads a posting from the store. \n Yiannopoulos' web site lists no future public appearances and information about a possible book tour is hard to find, as it has not been updated lately. A spokeswoman for the country's largest physical bookstore chain, Barnes & Noble, said that Yiannopoulos had no events planned at any of its stores. Simon & Schuster is part of CBS Corporation, but the network said Thursday that it had no interviews scheduled with the author. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sales soar for Milo book 'Dangerous'; publisher mum on tour"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Two women walked past graffiti on the wall of a Bank of America branch in Berkeley, Calif., today. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> The chaos at the University of California, Berkeley, was shocking: Protesters set fires, smashed windows, hurled explosives at police and ultimately achieved their goal of canceling an appearance by right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos. \n The scene gained worldwide attention not just because of the mayhem but because of where it took place. UC Berkeley is the birthplace of the free-speech movement and has been known for more than a half-century as a bastion of tolerance. \n As the university cleaned up today, it struggled with questions about why the violence spun out of control and what has happened to the open-minded Berkeley of the 1960s. \n \"It was not a proud night for this campus,\" school spokesman Dan Moguluf said, later adding, \"We are proud of our history and legacy as the home of the free speech movement.\" \n Officials knew there was a potential for violence and went to \"extraordinary lengths\" to prepare for the event, Mogulof said in a statement. But school authorities say they believe the instigators were not Berkeley students. \n Berkeley was the last stop on Yiannopoulus' college tour, which had sparked protests and sporadic violence around the country. He is a vocal supporter of President Donald Trump and a self-proclaimed internet troll whose comments have been criticized as racist, misogynist and anti-Muslim. \n Dozens of police were called to Berkeley from nine UC campuses. The student union where the talk was scheduled was locked down hours before the event. Layers of metal barricades were erected around the building with riot police standing guard inside. \n But Mogulof said what transpired Wednesday night was unprecedented. \n The protests started peacefully around 4 p.m. As night fell, the crowd swelled to more than 1,500, police estimated, and \"more than 100 armed individuals clad in ninja-like uniforms who utilized paramilitary tactics\" infiltrated the crowd and began hurling commercial grade fireworks, Molotov cocktails, rocks and other objects at police, Mogulof said. \n They toppled the metal barricades and used them to bash windows of the student union and then set fire to a kerosene generator, sparking a blaze that burned for over an hour. \n Later that night, after the crowds dispersed, a small group took the chaos off campus and into the nearby city streets of Berkeley. \n Workers at several banks downtown were replacing broken windows Thursday, repairing damaged cash machines and cleaning graffiti from brick walls. \n Amid the cleanup, a 21-year-old student who supports Trump was brazenly attacked on campus. The student, Jack Palkovic, was wearing a \"Make America Great Again\" cap as he headed to class when a white SUV slammed to a halt, and two students jumped out and pummeled him. Police arrived and arrested both men. \n Many students shook their heads at the violence and what it means at a place like Berkeley. \n \"Berkeley has always stood for self-expression,\" said Russell Ude, a 20-year-old football player. \"Things like this discredit peaceful protest.\" \n Freshman Grace Schnetzler, 18, said she worked hard in high school to attend Berkeley and was upset outside demonstrators were diminishing the campus' reputation for free speech and tolerance. \n \"On the other hand, I don't know why he picked Berkeley,\" Schnetler said about Yiannopoulos. \"What kind of reception did he expect?\" \n The unrest sparked a debate Thursday on the floor of the state Senate, where Republicans bemoaned what they characterized as a campus culture that devalues free speech. \n \"Universities should be the most open, the most welcoming harbor of all ideas, left or right,\" Republican state Sen. Ted Gaines said. \"But they have turned into rigid ideological prisons where stepping outside the latest progressive liberal path is considered a thought crime.\" \n The comment was echoed in a tweet by Trump who questioned whether Berkeley should be granted federal funding: \"If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view \u2014 NO FEDERAL FUNDS?\" \n Democrats condemned Trump's tweet, saying administrators worked hard to facilitate the speech and only canceled it once the security became untenable. \n \"Today, it's academic freedom,\" Democratic state Sen. Scott Wiener said. \"Tomorrow, Lord knows what it's going to be, and it has to stop.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Paul Elias in Berkeley and Jonathan J. Cooper in Sacramento contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Berkeley campus chaos spurs questions at free-speech bastion"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Rowena Akana, new chair of the board of trustees, Office of Hawaiian Affairs. \n After two months of turmoil, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs Board of Trustees today ousted Rowena Akana as chairwoman and elevated Vice Chairwoman Lei Ahu Isa to the top spot on an interim basis. \n Ahu Isa joined the board minority of Robert Lindsey, Dan Ahuna, Peter Apo and Colette Machado in voting against Akana, who had narrowly took over the leadership role in December. John Waihee IV, Carmen Hulu Lindsey and Keli'i Akina abstained, while Akana received only one vote: her own. \n A new leader will be selected at the next board meeting, according to the organization's bylaws. Ahu Isa said after the meeting that she is not interested in the permanent job. \n Ahu Isa said she voted to oust Akana to bring stability to the board. She also said she objected to a complaint filed by Akana in First Circuit Court Wednesday on behalf of OHA questioning the validity of the employment contract of CEO Kamana'opono Crabbe. \n Earlier in the day, a 9 a.m. board meeting scheduled to discuss a proposed forensic, or comprehensive, audit of OHA was deferred for lack of a quorum. \n At the meeting, Ahuna announced that five of the trustees were boycotting Akana as chairwoman. \n \"She has caused nothing but turmoil in this organization since being elected as chair,\" Ahuna said. \"And just within the last 48 hours she has gone on a spree personally attacking other trustees, and she unilaterally filed a lawsuit yesterday on behalf of OHA that will likely end up being found frivolous.\" \n The matter of the audit was rescheduled for an airing before the board's Resource Management Committee Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "OHA ousts Akana as chairwoman after months of turmoil"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Hawaii State Supreme Court Justices Richard Pollack, left, Paula Nakayama, Chief Justice Mark Recktenwald, Sabrina McKenna, and Michael Wilson heard arguments today on whether a federal agent should face a third trial for fatally shooting a man in a Waikiki fast-food restaurant. \n Prosecutors who failed to secure a murder conviction after two trials are unjustly trying to get any conviction against a federal agent who shot and killed a man in a Waikiki fast-food restaurant, the agent's lawyer argued before the Hawaii Supreme Court today. \n Putting State Department Special Agent Christopher Deedy through a third trial would be double jeopardy, said defense attorney Thomas Otake. \n Deedy was in Hawaii for the 2011 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting. After bar-hopping with friends on his first night in Waikiki, he fatally shot Kollin Elderts during an altercation in a McDonald's. Deedy testified at two trials that he was protecting others from an aggressive Elderts. Prosecutors say Deedy was drunk, inexperienced and fueled by warnings from a fellow agent that Hawaii locals are hostile toward federal workers and outsiders. \n The first trial in 2013 trial ended in a hung jury. After a second trial about a year later, jurors acquitted Deedy of murder but weren't able to reach a verdict on manslaughter. \n Prosecutors \"completely and wholeheartedly abandoned\" manslaughter with comments made in court and to the media that finding Deedy guilty of murder is the only possible verdict, Otake said. \n Judge Karen Ahn ruled the second jury could consider a lesser charge of manslaughter \u2014 an option the first jury didn't have. \n She later denied defense motions that would have prevented another trial for manslaughter and Otake appealed. \n Deputy Honolulu Prosecuting Attorney Donn Fudo said prosecutors never abandoned the lesser offenses. There needs to be justice in the case of a \"drunk tourist\" who killed a man, he said. \n \"This is someone who was supposed to be an individual that protects people with his weapon not shoots them dead at a McDonald's in the early morning,\" Fudo said. \n Elderts was attacked for being Native Hawaiian and for using the word \"haole,\" which can mean white person, said Kalamaokaaina Niheu, a spokeswoman for the group, Justice for Kollin Elderts, said outside the courtroom. \n Elderts parents couldn't bear to attend the hearing after having to relive his killing during two trials, Niheu said. She said the case is another example of \"militarization of police\" across the country. \n She criticized prosecutors for not heeding the family's wishes and including manslaughter in the first trial. \n It's not clear when the justices will issue a ruling. \n Deedy, of Arlington, Virginia, remains free on bail and on restricted employment duty. He didn't attend today's hearing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Case of federal agent Deedy who shot man goes before high court"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A sign posted on the closed doors of a deli owned by Haron Zokari, a Yemeni immigrant, alerted customers that the store would close because of a protest against President Donald Trump's travel ban, today, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Hundreds of ethnic Yemeni business owners who operate New York City corner bodegas and neighborhood delis closed shop today in protest of President Donald Trump's travel ban on people from seven Muslim-majority countries. \n The shops were locked at noon and were to remain shuttered until 8 p.m., according to organizers of a late afternoon rally in downtown Brooklyn. At least 1,000 Yemeni-run small businesses are a part of many New Yorkers' daily lives, said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, who planned to attend the rally. \n Haron Zokari closed his Manhattan deli at noon, as well. He said his wife and baby are stuck in Yemen after almost completing a four-year, green-card process. \n \"We are trying to stay strong,\" he said. \"There's people there who are refugees and who are starving and running for their lives, so thank God we don't have it as bad as they do.\" \n Trump's executive order barred people from Yemen, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Syria from entering the U.S. for 90 days. Under the order, travelers have been detained, sent back from the United States or stranded in other countries. \n Zaid Nagi, who owns three delis in the Bronx, said the ban disrupted plans to bring his mother to the United States, where he has lived for more than 20 years. The 36-year-old married father of four said the point of the protest was to say, \"We are part of this community. We are not who this order is trying to say we are.\" \n He said most of his customers had expressed solidarity with the shutdown. \n \"They know who we are. They know we are human beings just like them,\" he said. \"I believe in the good people of America.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NYC bodegas close up shop in protest of Trump travel ban"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Anini Beach \n Kauai police identified today a 22-year-old Baltimore woman who was swept out to sea off Anini Beach on Kauai on Monday as Destiny Marbury. \n The Kauai Fire Department suspended a four-day multi-agency search for Marbury this afternoon. \n Since Monday night, responders have scanned more than 545 square miles of water along Kauai's north shore with no sign of Marbury. \n Marbury became distressed at about 6 p.m. Monday after entering the water at the north end of the beach. The Coast Guard said she yelled for help about 300 yards from shore, and her friend, a 37-year-old Kapaa man, jumped into the water, but he got caught in a rip current and was rescued by a good Samaritan and a firefighter. \n A high surf warning was in effect for Kauai at the time. \n The Coast Guard began searching Monday night and deployed an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter, an HC-130 plane and the cutter Kittiwake. The Coast Guard ended its search Wednesday night. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai police identify Baltimore woman swept out to sea"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Frank Gehrke, chief of the California Cooperative Snow Surveys Program for the Department of Water Resources, plunged a survey tube into the snowpack, on Jan. 3, as he conducted the first snow survey of the season at Phillips Station near Echo Summit, Calif. \n PHILLIPS STATION, Calif. >> Sierra Nevada snow drifts are at a drought-busting 173 percent of average, with the most snow recorded since 1995, California water managers said today. \n State water managers poked rods into drifts as high as tree branches to measure the snowpack. \n They found far more snow than at the height of California's more than five-year drought, when the measurement was done in almost-bare mountain meadows. \n \"It gives everything a much brighter outlook,\" said Frank Gehrke, the state Department of Water Resources who conducted the manual snow measurements. \n The overall snowpack is vital to the state, providing a third of water supplies year-round. \n This year's bountiful snowpack came thanks to one of the stormiest Januarys in decades. The storms brought three-fourths of the state's normal yearly precipitation in just a few weeks. \n Gov. Jerry Brown is expected to wait until the end of the rainy season, in April, to decide whether to lift a drought-emergency in place since 2014. \n In January, back-to-back-to-back storms from the tropics that each dropped a hurricane's worth of water on the state put the state at 108 percent of its normal rain and snow for the year, with two months still left in the rainy season, said Michael Dettinger, a hydrologist for the U.S. Geological Survey. \n California had received just one-fourth of a normal year's precipitation when January started, he said. The storm systems, known as atmospheric rivers, \"caught us all off guard, how many came in so quickly, and turned everything around,\" Dettinger said. \n January's storms lifted the northern half of the state out of drought. This time last year, 95 percent of California was in drought, after the driest three-year stretch in the state's recorded history. \n In April of 2014, Gov. Jerry Brown stood in a Sierra meadow bare of its usual snow to declare a drought emergency in California, and ordered mandatory water conservation in cities and towns. \n State water officials, who lifted the statewide conservation mandate as the drought eased, say Brown's administration likely will wait for a final seasonal snow survey in April before deciding whether to officially end the state drought emergency. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California at heaviest snowpack in 22 years"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People watched as the sun rose in front of the summit of Haleakala volcano in Haleakala National Park on Maui on Sunday. Reservations can be made up to two months in advance at the website recreation.gov. \n HALEAKALA NATIONAL PARK, Hawaii >> Well before dawn each morning, throngs of tourists from around the world make their way to Maui's tallest peak, a dormant volcano, to see what Mark Twain called the \"sublimest spectacle\" he ever witnessed. \n They drive up a long, winding road through the clouds to an otherworldly, lava-rock landscape at 10,000 feet. Then they bundle up and take their place for a dazzling daybreak show. \n \"Just the sunrise from the top of the world \u2014 it's pretty remarkable and incomparable,\" Julia Grant of Mission British Columbia, Canada, said on a recent visit after watching the sun peek out from the horizon and saturate the sky in endless shades of yellow, orange and red. \n Over the past year, the sunrise view from atop Haleakala \u2014 Hawaiian for \"House of the Sun\" \u2014 has been attracting over a thousand people a day. The result, officials say, was a logjam of cars spilling out of the parking lots and onto the road, creating a safety hazard, and footsteps trampling sensitive habitat. \n To address the problem, the National Park Service this week started requiring reservations and limiting the number of vehicles to the volcano's available parking spaces, potentially cutting in half the number of early-morning visitors. \n Sunrise viewing has long been popular at Haleakala, one of the main attractions at Haleakala National Park, despite morning temperatures that often dip into the 30s. Red soil and lava rocks dominate the summit, and only a few hearty plants have adapted to its harsh, high-altitude conditions. The peak also is home to the nene, the Hawaiian goose, and colonies of spiders that feast on bugs blown in from the surrounding wilderness. \n Overcrowding started becoming a problem roughly 15 years ago, park superintendent Natalie Gates said. About a year ago, it got worse, likely as more people learned about the stunning sunrise views from images posted on Facebook and other social media sites. \n \"If you ever went up there, you would see that fully half to three-quarters of our visitors who are watching the sunrise are either taking photos that they immediately broadcast to their friends, or filming it,\" Gates said. \n The area at and near the summit has 150 parking spaces, but before the new system took effect, more than 300 rental cars and other vehicles often crammed onto Haleakala at daybreak. Drivers who couldn't find a spot would park on the side of the road or on the road itself, blocking the way for emergency responders. \n Though only 16 percent of park visitors come at sunrise, they account for 40 percent of the park's emergency medical calls. \n \"It's a dark place. It's rocky. And when people are moving away from crowds and trying to go off trail, often frequently stumbling around on cliff sides in the dark, we see trauma cases, altitude cases,\" Gates said. \"We sometimes see cardiac and other cases.\" \n Straying humans also trample on seedlings and root systems of the Haleakala silversword, a rare, bush-like plant with thick leaves. And they can disturb the ground nests of the Hawaiian petrel, an endangered seabird. \n Under the new system, only those driving to the summit between 3 and 7 a.m. need reservations, which cost $1.50 per car plus the $20 park entrance fee. \n The system closes to sunrise viewers after the allotted 150 vehicles per morning have made their reservations. The proceeds will pay for the expense of administering the reservation program. People on guided tours won't be affected as tour companies fall under different regulations. \n Reservations can be made up to two months in advance at the website recreation.gov. Other national parks with similar programs include Yosemite in California, which limits the number of people who can hike to the top of its iconic Half Dome rock formation. \n The change will require adjustments from people who don't normally plan ahead, said Carol Clark, Maui Visitors and Convention Bureau spokeswoman. But her agency believes the benefits far outweigh any inconvenience. \n Nettie Kuwamura, a Native Hawaiian who was born and raised on Maui, considers herself a protector of the summit. She reminds tourists to stay off the lava rocks and away from fragile areas. \n \"I'm passionate about this island. I'm passionate about this mountain,\" Kuwamura said. \"It's a very sacred mountain to the Hawaiians.\" \n For the past two years, Kuwamura has been driving tourists to the summit, where she recites a Hawaiian chant to welcome the rising sun each morning. \n \"Once the sun comes up, that's when the beauty comes up,\" she said. \n Associated Press writer Brian Skoloff contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui park limits entry for 'sunrise from top of the world'"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Arnold Schwarzenegger was seen in Los Angeles on Nov. 12. President Donald Trump sought prayers for Schwarzenegger over ratings for \"Celebrity Apprentice,\" the show Trump once hosted. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke during the National Prayer Breakfast, Thursday, in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Declaring that religious freedom is \"under threat,\" President Donald Trump vowed today to repeal a rarely enforced IRS rule that says pastors who endorse candidates from the pulpit risk losing their tax-exempt status. \n \"I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson Amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution,\" Trump said during remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast, a high-profile event bringing together faith leaders, politicians and dignitaries. \n Trump also defended his recent executive order on immigration, decrying \"generous\" immigration policies and arguing that there are people who seek to enter the country \"for the purpose of spreading violence or oppressing other people based upon their faith.\" He also pledged to take more immigration action in the name of religious liberty. \n \"In the coming days we will develop a system to help ensure that those admitted into our country fully embrace our values of religious and personal liberty and that they reject any form of oppression and discrimination,\" Trump said. \n He did not detail how he might scrap the IRS rule, which he has previously pledged to do away with. The rule, named after then-Sen. Lyndon Johnson, has been in place since 1954, but it is very rare for a church to actually be penalized. And while some conservative Christians would like to see it abolished, others, especially the younger generation, support a clear separation of church and politics. \n Repeal does not appear to have widespread public support. Eight in 10 Americans said it was inappropriate for pastors to endorse a candidate in church in a poll released last September by Lifeway Research, a religious survey firm based in Nashville. \n For many religious conservatives, whose overwhelming support helped propel Trump to the White House, a more pressing issue they hope he will address is protection for faith-based charities, schools and ministries who object to same-sex marriage and abortion. \n The president made no mention at the prayer breakfast of other steps he may take, saying only that religious freedom is a \"sacred right.\" \n During his remarks, Trump also took a dig at Arnold Schwarzenegger, the new host of \"The Apprentice,\" the reality TV show Trump previously headlined. Trump said that since Schwarzenegger took over, the show's ratings have been down, and he asked the audience to \"pray for Arnold.\" Schwarzenegger tweeted in response that he and Trump should switch jobs and Americans would sleep better. \n LGBTQ groups have been anxious that the president could use his executive powers to curb legal advances they have made. \n \"We think it is entirely possible there could be an executive order that creates religious exemptions,\" said James Esseks, LGBT project director for the American Civil Liberties Union. He added that the \"narrative\" that Trump won't harm the LGBTQ community was \"not correct.\" \n Earlier this week, the Trump administration announced that the president would leave intact a 2014 executive order that protects workers for federal contractors from anti-LGBTQ discrimination, saying in a statement that Trump \"continues to be respectful and supportive of LGBTQ rights, just as he was throughout the election.\" \n During a Monday news briefing, White House spokesman Sean Spicer offered no details on whether Trump could still issue an executive order affecting the LGBTQ community. \n \"There is a lot of executive orders, a lot of things that the president has talked about and will continue to fulfill, but we have nothing on that front now,\" Spicer said. \n Religious conservatives, who saw a series of defeats on same-sex marriage, abortion and other issues under former President Barack Obama, have been bolstered by Trump's win. In a letter last year to Roman Catholics, Trump pledged, \"I will defend your religious liberties and the right to fully and freely practice your religion, as individuals, business owners and academic institutions.\" \n Trump's Supreme Court pick this week was also considered a positive sign for conservatives. \n A favorite of conservatives, Neil Gorsuch serves on the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, where he sided with Hobby Lobby and the Little Sisters of the Poor when they mounted religious objections to the Obama administration's requirement that employers provide health insurance that includes contraceptives. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump vows to repeal political limits on churches"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KITV \n Paula Akana, left, and Robert Kekaula. Kekaula and Akana have been named the new weeknight 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. anchors at KITV effective Feb. 13, the station announced today, the first day of the February Nielsen TV ratings period. \n Robert Kekaula and Paula Akana have been named the new weeknight 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. anchors at KITV effective Feb. 13, the station announced today, the first day of the February Nielsen TV ratings period. \n Stepping down as sports director, Kekaula will succeed co-anchor Yunji de Nies, who will leave the station at the end of the month. \n \"We are incredibly proud of Robert and Paula for their respected careers and their impact on local news in Hawaii,\" said KITV President and General Manager Joe McNamara, in a statement. \n Kekaula's more than 30 years in radio and television have been spent primarily in sports, but with this change, fellow KITV anchor Mike Cherry will step in as sports anchor for the 5 p.m. weekday newscast. \n Brandi Higa will serve as sports anchor for the 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. news, and weather anchor Pete Caggiano will appear on all three weeknight newscasts. \n Kekaula served a recent, temporary stint as co-anchor of the weekday news. \n Akana started at KITV as an intern in 1983, and in the years since has produced many special reports for the station including coverage of the voyages of Hokule'a. \n De Nies, who recently gave birth, said via email, \"I have enjoyed my time at KITV and loved sharing the stories of Hawaii with viewers every night. Robert and Paula are veteran broadcasters and my dear friends, and I wish them success.\" \n De Nies left a network-level reporting job at ABC to join KITV, returning home to Hawaii where she was raised. She is a graduate of Yale University with a master's degree from the University of California Berkeley School of Journalism. \n ", "author": "By Erika Engle erika@staradvertiser.com", "title": "KITV names Kekaula, Akana as co-anchors"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A mock North Korea's Scud-B missile, center left, and South Korean missiles were displayed at Korea War Memorial Museum in Seoul on Thursday. In his first public remarks abroad as U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis criticized North Korea for provocative acts that require new consultations with Japan and South Korea. \n SEOUL >> In his first public remarks abroad as U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis on Thursday criticized North Korea for provocative acts and said he would consult with South Korean and Japanese officials about whether the current strategy for getting the North to curtail or eliminate its nuclear and missile programs is adequate. \n Mattis spoke to reporters aboard his military plane en route to Osan air base from Washington. In the brief interview, he said he would be discussing the plan to install a new U.S. missile defense system, called Thaad, in South Korea as a means of deterring the North's ballistic missile threats against South Korean and Japan. \n North Korea also has said it is nearly ready to test-launch a ballistic missile of intercontinental range, meaning it could theoretically threat the United States. \n \"Were it not for the provocative behavior of North Korea, we would have no need for Thaad out here,\" Mattis said. \n Alluding to China's objections to having Thaad deployed in South Korea, Mattis said, \"Thaad should be a worry to no nation other than North Korea.\" \n Mattis held an introductory meeting with Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, who said he looked forward to working with the Trump administration. \n Mattis said he was delivering a message from Trump. \n \"I talked to President Trump and he wanted to make a very clear statement about the priority that we place on this alliance between our two nations, the secretary said. \"Our new administration inherits a very strong, trusted relationship between our two countries and it's our commitment to make it even stronger especially in the face of the provocations that you face from North Korea.\" \n After a series of meetings in Seoul on Thursday and Friday, Mattis was scheduled to fly to Tokyo for further consultations. \n In Washington this week, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held its first policy hearing since Trump took office to discuss North Korea. There were more questions than answers. \n Last month, Trump fueled speculation of possible U.S. military action to pre-empt North Korea's weapons development. In response to Kim's threat, Trump tweeted, \"It won't happen!\" But he didn't elaborate how he could be so sure. \n \"Does that mean we have drawn a red line?\" Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., asked at Tuesday's Senate hearing. \n Those questions and more will be posed to Mattis when he meets top officials in Seoul on Thursday and Tokyo later in the week, two jittery allies that host nearly 80,000 U.S. troops. \n During the campaign, Trump complained that defense treaties disadvantaged the U.S. and that he would not rule out abandoning signatories if they refuse to pay more for their defense. He also suggested that South Korea and Japan, which are already within the range of North Korean missiles, might acquire their own nuclear weapons rather than rely on U.S. deterrence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mattis criticizes N. Korea ahead of talks with Japan, S. Korea"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Two guard towers at Oahu Community Correctional Center, as seen from Kamehameha Highway on Sept. 20. Replacing Hawaii's largest jail may cost an estimated $673 million, although that price tag could be reduced to as little as $433 million if lawmakers and prison officials opt for a less expensive low-rise design, according to a new report from consultants hired to plan and design the proposed facility. \n Replacing Hawaii's largest jail may cost an estimated $673 million, although that price tag could be reduced to as little as $433 million if lawmakers and prison officials opt for a less expensive low-rise design, according to a new report from consultants hired to plan and design the proposed facility. \n State lawmakers have long wanted to replace Oahu Community Correctional Center, arguing OCCC's 16-acre site in urban Honolulu along the planned rail line should be redeveloped for housing or other commercial uses. \n OCCC also has an outdated, sprawling design that requires high staffing levels, and the facility is both overcrowded and inefficient to run. Construction of the main jail at OCCC was completed in 1982 \n Prison officials on Wednesday announced they have narrowed the search for a replacement site for OCCC to four sites, including the current Halawa Correctional Facility site and the state Department of Agriculture's Animal Quarantine Facility site in Halawa Valley. \n Also included as finalists are the current OCCC site in Kalihi, and \"Lot 17\" in the Mililani Technology Park. The plan is to do further evaluation of those sites in an environmental impact statement before making a final selection. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Report: Replacement for OCCC could cost taxpayers $673 million"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a robbery that occurred in Kalihi Wednesday afternoon. \n At about 5:20 p.m., police said a male suspect allegedly used a dangerous instrument and physical force to take property from a 47-year-old man on Kalani Street before he fled. \n Police declined to say what type of weapon the suspect used. \n No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for suspect in Kalihi robbery"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n The view of Hanauma Bay from the access road that leads to the beach, as seen in Aug. 2014. The city has reopened the beach at Hanauma Bay today after lifeguards closed it Wednesday due to high surf conditions. \n The city has reopened the beach at Hanauma Bay today after lifeguards closed it Wednesday due to high surf conditions. \n Despite the reopening, a high surf warning remains in effect until 6 p.m. today for nearly all of the Hawaiian Islands. \n The National Weather Service forecasted 15- to 25-foot waves for north and east shores on Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui and the Big Island. \n High surf is likely to sweep over roadways near shorelines before ocean conditions subside tonight. \n A high surf advisory is also in effect for west shores on Maui and the Big Island. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "City officials reopen beach at Hanauma Bay"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Flames rose from a huge fire at the House Technology Industries (HTI) factory inside the Export Processing Zone Authority for more than twenty hours, Thursday, in General Trias township, Cavite province south of Manila, Philippines. The provincial governor said more than 100 workers, including three Japanese, were injured in a fire that hit a huge factory south of Manila that sent thousands of employees scampering to safety. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A huge fire continued to burn at the House Technology Industries (HTI) factory inside the Export Processing Zone Authority for more than twenty hours, Thursday, in General Trias township, Cavite province south of Manila, Philippines. The provincial governor says more than 100 workers, including three Japanese, were injured in the fire that sent thousands of employees scampering to safety. \n GENERAL TRIAS, Philippines >> More than 120 workers, including two Japanese, were injured and at least one was missing in a fire at a huge factory south of the Philippine capital that sent thousands of employees running to safety, an official said today. \n The fire at House Technology Industries was under control but had not been fully extinguished nearly 24 hours after it started in General Trias town in Cavite province south of Manila, Gov. Jesus Crispin Remulla said. \n Firefighters hoped to enter and inspect the gutted factory, which occupies 15 acres of land, later today. \n About four of the injured remained in critical condition, Remulla told reporters, adding that some employees jumped from windows to escape the blaze at the three-story building, where pre-fabricated house parts are manufactured for export to Japan. \n \"We can't conclude anything as long as the fire is still there and we have not seen any casualties,\" Remulla said on the possibility of workers being trapped in the overnight inferno. But he said \"we're ready for the worst-case scenario.\" \n The fire apparently started when a machine malfunctioned and triggered small explosions in a section with combustible materials as two shifts of workers of about 3,500 each were changing places, he said. \n Massive amounts of black smoke billowed in the night sky as red flames raged through the factory, which employs about 15,000 workers and is the largest in Cavite province, he said. \n Company officials were doing a count to find out if any more people were missing at the factory, located in a special economic zone in General Trias, about 16 miles south of Manila. \n In 2015, a fire that rapidly spread in a rubber slipper factory in a northern Manila suburb killed 72 people, prompting then President Benigno Aquino III to order a thorough inspection of some 300,000 factories in metropolitan Manila alone. He ordered charges to be filed against the owners of the Kentex Manufacturing Corp. and local officials, who he said ignored the factory's failure to meet safety requirements. \n The Kentex fire was one of the worst in the country after a 1996 disco blaze that killed 162 people in Manila. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More than 120 injured in fire at Philippines factory complex"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "REDDIT.COM \n A screenshot of the reddit.com website. \n Reddit has banned a forum for white nationalists from its social news website, citing the company's rules against posting personal information and online harassment. \n Reddit spokesman Anna Soellner said in a statement that the company banned its \"r/altright\" forum on Wednesday for repeated violations of its content rules. Soellner said Reddit users can be banned for posting personal information, but her statement doesn't cite any examples involving the banned forum. \n Thousands of users subscribed to the forum named for the \"alt-right\" fringe movement, a mix of racism, white nationalism and populism. Other sites, including 4chan.org, became popular forums for expressing \"alt-right\" ideology. \n Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian posted an open letter Monday in which he criticized President Donald Trump's recent executive order restricting immigration from seven countries, calling it \"deeply un-American.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reddit bans forum for alt-right from its website"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington on Jan. 17 at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's nomination of school choice activist Betsy DeVos as education secretary is on thin ice after two Republican senators vowed to vote against her. \n DeVos, a billionaire Republican donor who spent more than two decades promoting charter schools, has emerged as one of Trump's most controversial Cabinet picks facing fierce opposition from Democrats, teachers unions and civil rights activists. With Sen. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska in opposition, the nomination could die if DeVos loses the support of one more Republican \u2014 and all Democrats vote against her. \n Murkowski said she believed DeVos has much to learn about public education. \n \"I have serious concerns about a nominee to be secretary of education who has been so involved on one side of the equation, so immersed in the push for vouchers that she may be unaware of what actually is successful within the public schools and also what is broken and how to fix them,\" Murkowski said. \n If all other GOP senators support DeVos, and all Democrats oppose her, she would end up with a 50-50 vote in the Senate and Vice President Mike Pence would have to break the tie to confirm her. A vote is expected in the coming days. \n Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Republican chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, praised DeVos and expressed confidence that she would be confirmed. \n \"Mrs. DeVos believes in our children, their teachers and parents \u2014 she believes in the local school board instead of the national school board,\" Alexander said in a statement. \"She's committed to public education, and there's no better example of that than her work on the most important reform of public schools in the last 30 years \u2014 public charter schools.\" \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he wasn't concerned about the defections by Collins and Murkowski. \n \"I have 100 percent confidence she will be the next secretary of education. She is an unbelievably qualified educator and advocate for students, teachers, parents,\" he said after the two senators announced their opposition. \n Democrats have vigorously opposed DeVos, questioning her commitment to public education, her overall qualifications to lead the Education Department and her views on LGBT rights, the needs of students with disabilities and potential conflicts of interest arising from her business holdings. \n Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, expressed hope Wednesday that other Republicans would also reconsider their support for DeVos. \n \"The more people get to know how ill-equipped Betsy DeVos is to strengthen public schools, how disconnected she is from public schools, and how her record is focused on pursuing for-profit charters and vouchers and not on helping children, the more the people who believe in the importance of public education are joining to oppose her,\" Weingarten said. \n DeVos, 59, is the wife of Dick DeVos, the heir to the Amway marketing fortune. She has spent more than two decades advocating for charter schools in her home state of Michigan, as well as promoting conservative religious values. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos nomination on thin ice with 2 GOP senators opposed"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ahmed El Shenawy carries the American Flag around a wall of humans intended to protect the stage on the steps of the capitol for Texas Muslim Capitol Day, Tuesday, at the Texas Capitol in Austin, Texas. \n SALEM, Ore. >> President Donald Trump's promised crackdown on \"sanctuary cities\" has triggered divergent actions from blue and red states, revealing the deep national divide on immigration as some move to follow his order and others break with the U.S. government to protect immigrants in the country illegally. \n California, the nation's largest state, is pushing for a statewide sanctuary that would prohibit law enforcement from cooperating with federal immigration authorities, while a fellow U.S.-Mexico border state, Texas, is seeking to withhold funding from cities with the policies. \n Trump's recent executive orders threatening to withhold federal funding from communities with sanctuary policies and calling for a border wall have produced widespread protests and fears that more immigration restrictions are in the future. The president's supporters have hailed the efforts. \n Cities have mostly taken up sanctuary laws. There's no official definition, but often they tell police not to inquire about the immigration status of those they arrest or they decline requests from immigration officials to keep defendants in custody while they await deportation. \n But liberal states like California would not be the first to block police from enforcing federal immigration law. Oregon pioneered statewide sanctuary in a 1987 law, when immigrant workers and their families were sometimes housed in appalling conditions despite their importance to agricultural profits. \n Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said she will enforce that law. \n \"They mow our lawns. They pick our grapes,\" Brown said last week. \"They take care of our children and they take care of our seniors, and I want to make sure they feel welcome in Oregon.\" \n Advocates say the laws ensure people in the country illegally will come forward to report crimes without fear of deportation. Opponents cite concerns about crime, including the shooting death of Kate Steinle in San Francisco. Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, who was in the country illegally after multiple deportations to his native Mexico, has been charged with murder. \n San Francisco reaffirmed its commitment to sanctuary polices by suing Trump on Tuesday, the same day California state senators advanced legislation that would provide money for lawyers for immigrants facing deportation and hamper any attempt to create a Muslim registry. \n The state is home to an estimated 2.3 million immigrants in the country illegally. \n \"We want to make sure that police officers don't abandon their beat and go enforce immigration laws,\" said Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon of Los Angeles. \n Some California Republicans fought back. State Sen. Jeff Stone voted against the measure, saying, \"I think this bill is making it that much more difficult for the federal authorities to get the most dangerous criminals that we want to deport to keep our communities safe.\" \n Three states away, Texas' Republican governor, Greg Abbott, embraced Trump's order, saying the administration is showing the potential to secure the border. \n He instructed lawmakers to send him a bill by June that punishes local governments that don't cooperate with federal immigration authorities. Abbott wants to withhold taxpayer money to cities that don't detain immigrants and to remove locally elected officials if they don't comply. \n Travis County Sheriff Sally Hernandez, who runs the jails in the liberal enclave of Austin, plans this week to stop honoring all federal immigration requests to detain suspects and only comply with requests to hold those accused of murder, aggravated sexual assault and human trafficking. Abbott responded by blocking $1.5 million in criminal justice grants to the county. \n Idaho also is moving to enforce Trump's order, though the state has no sanctuary cities. A bill this week would hold back taxpayer money. \n The actions come in a different political climate from when Oregon instituted its statewide protections. The governor's office said Oregon has not faced any federal reprisals over the years but that it could change. \n Gov. Brown said she would fight for Oregon's law, including taking legal action, if Washington tries to withhold federal funding as leverage. \n The law means immigrants can go to police when they are a victim of a crime or witness one, without fearing deportation, said Jann Carson, associate director of the ACLU of Oregon. \n \"The biggest result is that Oregon police have not participated in INS, now ICE, raids on migrant farms, apartment buildings, roadblocks,\" Carson said. \n She said immigrants here illegally can't receive welfare benefits but that many pay taxes. The Social Security Administration estimated immigrants and their employers paid $13 billion in payroll taxes in 2010. \n Former lawmaker Dick Springer helped pass Oregon's measure 30 years ago. He said it was driven by unsanitary and crowded living conditions for migrant workers and the agriculture industry's dependence on those workers. \n \"We were aware of really atrocious conditions for farmworkers \u2026 50 people would be living in a barn,\" Springer said in a telephone interview Tuesday. \n The 1987 measure received bipartisan support. Asked if it makes Oregon a sanctuary state, Springer said that was his intent. \n \"We're not going to hassle people that want to make a living and are contributing to our economy,\" he said, choking up with emotion. \"They have a very strong work ethic. They have commitment to faith and to family. Those are the families we cherish, embrace and welcome.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press reporters Jonathan J. Cooper in Sacramento, California; Kimberlee Kruesi in Boise, Idaho; Paul J. Weber and David Saleh Rauf in Austin, Texas, contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Andrew Selsky on Twitter at https://twitter.com/andrewselsky \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Red, blue states split over Trump's 'sanctuary city' order"}

{"date": "February 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rachel Potter holds her son, Jude, at their home in Nashville, Tenn. on Tuesday. Potter, a Nashville-based singer, said she couldn't afford insurance before the Affordable Care Act. \n WASHINGTON >> From a return to higher premiums for women to gaps in coverage for birth control and breast pumps, the Republican push to repeal the Obama-era health care law already is raising concerns that women could be hit hard. \n The 2010 law ended a common industry practice of charging women more than men for policies purchased directly from an insurer. It made maternity and newborn care a required benefit for individual market health plans. And it set a list of preventive services to be provided at no extra cost to women, including birth control and breast pumps used by nursing mothers. That preventive care requirement also applies to most employer plans, which serve a majority of U.S. adults. \n Nearly half of pregnancies are unplanned, and prior to \"Obamacare\" some women would get pregnant only to learn that their insurance did not cover maternity and delivery, said Dr. John Meigs, a longtime family practitioner in the small town of Centerville, Ala. \n \"A lot of women were delaying their prenatal care until they could figure out what to do,\" said Meigs, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. Pregnancy \"is one of those things that ought to be covered, because it happens.\" \n Democrats are keying in on the issue. \"We don't want our country going backward when it comes to women's health,\" said Sen. Patty Murray, ranking Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. \n Women are widely seen as having benefited from the health law. In a recent AP-NORC poll, 44 percent said they thought women were better off as a result of the Affordable Care Act, while only 24 percent said women were worse off. \n \"The ACA set minimum levels of benefits that health plans have to cover and many are highly used, or exclusively used by women,\" said Usha Ranji, a health policy expert with the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. \"Repeal and replace could take away that minimum level of benefits, which includes really commonly used services like contraception and maternity care.\" \n Nashville-based singer Rachel Potter worries about what it could mean for her. In the past, she's been uninsured, but she says she was lucky to be covered under the ACA when she unexpectedly became pregnant last year. \n Bleeding early on and other complications sent her to the doctor's office frequently. \n \"We were able to monitor the pregnancy really closely,\" said Potter. \"I was able to go to an amazing OB-GYN and I wouldn't have had access to that care if I had not been on this insurance.\" Her son Jude was born in December and is already on the road with her. \n Potter's medical bill came to more than $40,000 but she only paid about $2,000 of that. \n She's now thinking about getting a long lasting form of birth control while her insurer is still required to cover it at no charge to her. \"I don't know the future of the health insurance situation,\" said Potter. \n A Trump administration spokesman says speculation about components of an \"Obamacare\" replacement is premature. \n Recently introduced legislation that seeks a middle path on health care would keep some of the Obama-era requirements, but make others a state option. \n The bill co-authored by Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, would allow states to keep the ACA or substitute an alternative with fewer federal requirements. \n Under that approach, insurance plans in states that pick the alternative would not be required to cover maternity and newborn care. However, plans in all states would have to cover the ACA's preventive benefits, including birth control. Collins staff said the draft bill is a starting point. \n Any changes are most likely to affect the estimated 18 million people who buy policies directly from an insurer, a group in which women tend to outnumber men. Most people covered by employers have broader benefits and are less likely to be affected. \n \"Obamacare\" critics argue that required benefits aren't the only basis for judging the value of a policy. Strip away costly federal requirements, and premiums will come down, they maintain. Women as well as men would benefit from lower-cost options. \n Ranji says the health law made significant improvements on women's health. Before the law: \n \u2014 Pregnancy, a prior cesarean-section, a history of domestic violence, or problems with depression could be deemed a pre-existing condition, triggering restrictions on coverage or higher premiums. \n \u2014 About one-third of plans on the individual insurance market charged women between the age of 25-40 premiums at least 30 percent higher than men of the same age. \n \u2014Only about 12 percent of plans were available directly to individuals, included maternity care. \n \u2014 About 20 percent of women of childbearing age covered by large employers spent some of their own money on birth control pills. Currently it's fewer than 4 percent. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Risk to women's health benefits seen in health law repeal"}

