{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH VIA AP \n Police investigated a scene where a St. Louis police officer was shot on Sunday night. \n A manhunt for a suspect in the fatal shooting of a veteran Texas police detective ended today with an arrest in the killing that was one of several weekend attacks against law enforcement in multiple states, authorities said.  \n The San Antonio detective and officers shot in Missouri and Florida were conducting routine tasks Sunday when they became the targets of violence. The detective was writing a traffic ticket when he was shot to death in his squad car Sunday morning outside police headquarters. \n \"I think the uniform was the target and the first person that happened along was the first person that (the suspect) targeted,\" San Antonio Police Chief William McManus said today. \n In Missouri, a St. Louis police sergeant was shot twice in the face Sunday evening while he sat in traffic in a marked police vehicle. He was released from a hospital today. \n Law enforcement officials say there's been an alarming spike in ambush-style attacks. Sixty officers, including the San Antonio detective, were shot to death on the job this year, compared to 41 in all of 2015, according to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. Of the 60 killed, 20 were purposely targeted by their assailant compared to eight last year, the group said. \n Police officers also were shot and injured during traffic stops in Sanibel, Fla., and Gladstone, Mo., on Sunday night, but authorities have not suggested these were targeted attacks. All the shootings come less than five months after a black military veteran killed five white officers at a protest in Dallas \u2014 the deadliest day for American law enforcement since Sept. 11, 2001. \n Race was a factor in the Dallas attack, but police have not said if race played a part in any of the attacks on Sunday. In San Antonio, police say the suspect is black and the officer was white. In St. Louis, the suspect was black, but police have not released the officer's race. Most killings of police officers are carried out by white men, and most people shot and killed by police are white, said Craig W. Floyd, president of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. \n San Antonio Detective Benjamin Marconi, who was killed Sunday while writing the ticket, was a 20-year veteran of the force. Chief McManus said today that a 31-year-old man, Otis Tyrone McKane, was arrested on a capital murder warrant without incident after the car he was riding in was stopped today on an interstate. \n McManus said earlier that he doesn't believe the suspect has any relationship to the motorist who was pulled over initially. \n Surveillance video shows the suspect at San Antonio police headquarters about four hours before the 50-year-old Marconi was shot. The suspect asked a desk clerk a question but left before receiving an answer, said McManus, who declined to say what the man asked. \n \"I don't know why he was in headquarters. We have some ideas,\" he said. \n St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson declined to name the 46-year-old officer who was shot and wounded there. He said the officer is a married father of three and has been with the department for about 20 years. \n \"This officer was driving down the road and was ambushed by an individual who pointed a gun at him from inside of his car and shot out the police officer's window,\" Dotson said. \n The suspect, 19-year-old George P. Bush III, was wanted for questioning in recent violent crimes that included several robberies, a carjacking and perhaps a killing, Dotson said without elaborating. \n \"We believe he knew he was good for those crimes and that we were looking for him,\" Dotson said. \"That's why he aggressively attacked a police officer.\" \n Police said Bush was later killed in a shootout with officers. \n At least two other police officers were wounded in shootings in other cities Sunday, but it wasn't clear whether they were targeted attacks. \n An officer with the Gladstone, Mo., police department near Kansas City was shot, and the suspect was shot and killed. The officer, whose name has not been released, is expected to recover. \n Sanibel, Fla., officer Jarred Ciccone was shot in the shoulder during a traffic stop and released after being treated for his injuries. Authorities said they arrested Jon Webster Hay, 49, about 90 minutes after the shooting. They said he was booked into jail on an attempted murder charge today once he was released from a hospital, where he was treated after being wounded during a standoff and shootout with officers. \n On July 7, Micah Johnson shot and killed five law enforcement officers who had been working to keep the peace at a protest in downtown Dallas over the fatal police shootings of black men in Minnesota and Louisiana. Ten days after that attack, a man wearing a ski mask and armed with two rifles and a pistol killed three officers near a gas station and convenience store in Baton Rouge, La.. And earlier this month, two Des Moines, Iowa-area police officers were fatally shot in separate ambush-style attacks while sitting in their patrol cars. \n \"It's always difficult, especially in this day and age, where police are being targeted across the country,\" McManus said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Officers shot in 3 states; 1 killed"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Aug. 28 file photo, Kanye West appears at the MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden in New York. West agreed to medical treatment today after Los Angeles police responded to a disturbance call involving the rapper. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP, File) \n LOS ANGELES >> The Los Angeles Police Department visited Kanye West as part of a disturbance call today, according to law enforcement sources, a day after the rapper abruptly canceled the rest of his tour. \n The sources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, did not provide details about the incident but confirmed that police were called about 1:20 p.m. The case turned into a \"medical emergency\" and was handed off from the LAPD to the Los Angeles Fire Department, the sources said. \n West agreed to seek medical treatment, a law enforcement source said. \n The incident comes at a turbulent period for West, who walked off the stage three songs into his Saturday night concert in Sacramento and canceled Sunday's concert at the Forum in Inglewood three hours before showtime. \n On Saturday, West ranted about a few longtime friends and acquaintances, including Jay Z, Beyonce and Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg. \n \"I've been sent here to give y'all my truth, even at the risk of my own life,\" West said on Saturday night. \"At the risk of my own success. I'll give y'all the truth. Jay Z, call me, you still ain't called me. \u2026 Jay Z, I know you got killers. Please don't send them at my head. Just call me. Talk to me like a man.\" \n On Thursday during his concert in San Jose, West editorialized about racism and the Black Lives Matter movement before praising President-elect Donald Trump. West has indicated that he may run for president in 2020.  \n ", "author": "By Richard Winton & Matt Hamilton Los Angeles Times", "title": "Kanye West agrees to medical treatment after visit by LAPD"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "Kauai police have identified the man and woman involved in a murder-suicide Saturday. \n Police said an autopsy performed today confirmed that Janese Singh died of multiple gunshot wounds. They said her ex-husband, Juanito Singh, died of a single, self-inflicted gunshot wound. \n Police arrived at an apartment at Kalepa Village in Hanamaulu early Saturday and found Juanito Singh dead. Janese Singh was taken to Wilcox Hospital where she later died. \n The couple's children are in Child Protective Services custody, according to police. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Autopsies confirm murder-suicide of Kauai woman, ex-husband"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement and protesters clashed near the site of the Dakota Access pipeline on Sunday in this image provided by Morton County Sheriff's Department. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Authorities today defended their decision to douse protesters with water during a skirmish in subfreezing weather near the Dakota Access oil pipeline, and organizers said at least 17 protesters were taken to the hospital \u2014 including some who were treated for hypothermia. \n The clash occurred late Sunday and early today as protesters trying to push past a long-blocked bridge on a state highway were turned back by authorities using tear gas, rubber bullets and water hoses. One officer was injured when struck in the head with a rock. One protester was arrested. \n Daniel Kanahele, 64, a Native Hawaiian, said he was hit with tear gas, water spray and a rubber bullet in a leg, and \"it took me off my feet.\" He was treated at the scene. \n Protesters and officers massed at the bridge again late this morning, but protesters dispersed a few hours later at the request of tribal elders after police warned the crowd that they'd identified firearms and that anyone with a weapon should leave. \n The Standing Rock Sioux and others oppose the 1,200-mile, four-state pipeline being built to carry oil from western North Dakota to a shipping point in Illinois because they say it threatens drinking water on their nearby reservation and cultural sites. Pipeline developer Energy Transfer Partners has said no sites have been disturbed and that the $3.8 billion pipeline will be safe. \n The pipeline is largely complete except for the section under a Missouri River reservoir in southern North Dakota, and ETP Chief Executive Kelcy Warren said Friday the company is unwilling to reroute the project. \n What's known as the Backwater Bridge on state Highway 1806 has been shut down for weeks because authorities say it might be unsafe due to earlier fires set by protesters. Protesters say the closed bridge near their main camp blocks emergency services, and they accuse authorities of keeping it shut down to block their access to pipeline construction sites. \n Authorities dispute that. Additional testing is needed to make sure the bridge is safe, and that can't be done until the area is deemed safe for inspectors, said state Transportation Department spokeswoman Jamie Olson. \n At least 17 protesters were injured severely enough to be taken to hospitals during the overnight skirmish at the bridge, said Dallas Goldtooth, an organizer with the Indigenous Environmental Network. \n \"Hypothermia, a number of head injuries from being shot with rubber bullets, one individual had a heart attack,\" he said. \n Although Goldtooth said a water cannon was used to douse the protesters, Morton County Sheriff Kyle Kirchmeier said only fire hoses were used. Sheriff's spokesman Rob Keller said a tactical vehicle spraying tear gas has been mistaken by some people as a water cannon.  \n Kirchmeier defended the use of water hoses, saying protesters were using aggressive tactics themselves. \n \"We're just not going to let people or protesters in large groups come in and threaten officers. That's not happening,\" the sheriff said. \n Mandan Police Chief Jason Ziegler said authorities won't rule out using water again if it's deemed necessary \"to maintain control and order.\" \n Margaret Huang, executive director of the human rights organization Amnesty International, sent a letter to Kirchmeier on Monday saying the water tactic \"risks potential injury and hypothermia.\" Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune issued a statement calling the use of water an \"act of brutality\" and \"inhumane.\" Greenpeace spokeswoman Mary Sweeters called it \"nothing short of horrific.\" \n U.S. Sen. Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, sent a letter today to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, calling the use of water \"excessive and unnecessary\" and urging the Justice Department to \"prevent further escalation of violence.\" \n Protesters also were active today in Bismarck, about 50 miles to the north. A group briefly blocked streets in the downtown area, and protesters later locked arms outside the police station and refused to leave. There was one arrest in the first incident and 16 arrests in the second. \n Doors at the state Capitol, where protesters have previously demonstrated, were locked due to the protest activity in the city. Access to the building was granted only to workers with security key cards and members of the public with legitimate business, according to Highway Patrol Lt. Tom Iverson. The patrol provides security at the Capitol. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Officers douse pipeline protesters in subfreezing weather"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a rally in New York. Here's the idea: Swiftly pass a repeal of President Barack Obama's health care law, perhaps so Donald Trump can sign it the day he takes the presidential oath. Then approve new legislation restructuring the nation's huge and convoluted health care system despite Republican divisions, Democratic opposition and millions of jittery constituents. \n WASHINGTON >> Here's the idea: Swiftly pass a repeal of President Barack Obama's health care law, perhaps soon enough for Donald Trump to sign it the day he takes the presidential oath. Then approve legislation restructuring the nation's huge and convoluted health care system \u2014 despite Republican divisions, Democratic opposition and millions of jittery constituents. \n What could go wrong? \n With Republicans controlling the White House and Congress in January, they're faced with delivering on their long-time promise to repeal and replace \"Obamacare.\" Here are hurdles they'll face: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n SPEED VS DELIBERATION \n Trump and congressional Republicans will be under intense pressure from their core conservative supporters to repeal Obama's 2010 health care law \u2014 and fast. After all, Congress already sent Obama a repeal bill last January, which he vetoed, and many GOP voters will see no reason for delays this time. \n But there probably won't be anything fast about this process, which is likely to take at least months. \n While the replacement effort is underway, Republicans will risk aggravating up to 30 million people who are covered by the law or buy policies with prices affected by its insurance marketplace. Democrats will be sure to accuse the GOP of threatening the health care of millions. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n A SOLUTION \n Nothing's been decided, but here's one likely scenario:(backslash). \n The new Congress, which convenes Jan. 3, tries to quickly approve legislation repealing Obama's health care law, maybe completing it by Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration or soon after. But the repeal would not take effect until the future, perhaps a year later, to give lawmakers time to fashion a replacement. The version Obama vetoed had a two-year delay. \n Seemingly acknowledging that two-step process, Vice President-elect Mike Pence said Sunday on \"Fox News Sunday\" that Trump \"wants to focus out of the gate on repealing Obamacare and beginning the process of replacing Obamacare.\" \n Because Republicans will control the Senate by just 52-48, Congress will first have to approve special budget procedures to prevent Democrats from stopping repeal legislation by filibuster. Bill-killing filibusters require 60 votes to end. \n But those special rules would apply only to items that affect the federal budget. Republicans, for example, would need a simple Senate majority to end IRS penalties against people who don't buy insurance but would still need 60 votes \u2014 requiring Democratic support \u2014 for other changes such as raising limits on older people's premiums. \n House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price, R-Ga., says that will restrain Republicans' ability to ram a \"lock, stock and barrel\" repeal through Congress. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n GOP RISKS \n One GOP danger: Congress and Trump might repeal Obama's law, but while they're laboring on a replacement, nervous insurance companies begin pulling out of markets and raising premiums. Insurers have been doing that under Obama, but now it would occur under a Republican government. \n Another hazard: Congress' work could spill into the 2018 campaign season, when the entire House and a third of the Senate face re-election. Republicans will grow increasingly timid about anything that might anger voters. \n \"We want to be the rescue party instead of the party that pushes millions of Americans who are hanging by the edge of their fingernails over the cliff,\" says Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., who chairs the Senate Health committee. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n GOP PATHWAYS \n Virtually all Republicans want to get rid of the health law's mandates that individuals buy coverage or risk IRS fines, and that large employers insure workers. \n They also want to erase taxes on higher-earning people and the health care sector. And they'd like to retain parts of the law guaranteeing coverage for people with pre-existing medical problems and keeping children under age 26 on family plans. \n Unifying Republicans much beyond that is a work in progress. \n Trump's health care views have varied and lack detail. His campaign website touts tax deductions for health insurance premiums and permitting policies to be sold across state lines. He'd also revamp Medicaid, which subsidizes health coverage for low-income people, directing fixed amounts of money to states and letting them structure benefits. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., last summer unveiled an outline of the House GOP's solution, though it lacked cost estimates and details. It would provide tax credits, impose taxes on the most generous employer-provided health care plans, revamp Medicaid and let Medicare beneficiaries pick private plans instead of today's fee-for-service coverage. \n Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, has also advanced a framework relying heavily on tax credits. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n REMAINING QUESTIONS \n Thirty-one states \u2014 including Pence's Indiana, where he is governor \u2014 plus the District of Columbia have expanded Medicaid coverage to 9 million additional people under Obama's law. Curtailing that program will divide Republicans. \n Taxing the value of some employer-provided health plans, aimed at curbing the growth of costs, is \"a political land mine,\" says GOP economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin. Republicans have long resisted tax increases. \n Obama's law mandates coverage for individuals because without that requirement many healthy people would forgo policies, driving up costs for everyone else and destabilizing insurance markets. Ryan has proposed shielding people from higher premiums if they've had \"continuous coverage,\" allowing higher rates for people who have not had policies, but Republicans have yet to decide how to keep insurance markets viable. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AP reporters Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington and Bill Barrow in Atlanta contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For Trump and GOP, 'Obamacare' repeal is complex and risky"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chattanooga Fire Department personnel work the scene of a fatal elementary school bus crash in Chattanooga, Tenn., today. (Bruce Garner/Chattanooga Fire Department via Chattanooga Times Free Press via AP) \n CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. >> Bloodied students lay on stretchers, while other children walked away dazed with their parents after an elementary school bus crash that killed six today in Chattanooga. \n Chattanooga police Chief Fred Fletcher said the crash was \"every public safety professional's worst nightmare.\" \n The bus was carrying 35 children from Woodmore Elementary, students in kindergarten through fifth grade, when it crashed about 3:30 p.m., turned on its side and wrapped around a tree. \n Fletcher told reporters later that investigators were looking at speed \"very, very strongly\" as a factor. The bus was the only vehicle involved but the crash scene covers a significant area, he said. \n Fletcher said later at news conference near where the crash occurred that the 24-year-old school bus driver, Johnthony Walker had been arrested and charged with five counts of vehicular homicide, reckless endangerment and reckless driving. \n \"There may be more charges added as this proceeds to the grand jury here in Hamilton County,\" Fletcher said. \n The National Transportation Safety Board tweeted that a team would be heading to Chattanooga on Tuesday morning to investigate. \n Twenty-three students were taken to hospitals, Fletcher said, but he did not have information about the extent of their injuries. Media reported it took about two hours to get the last children off the bus. \n Television stations reported that people lined up to donate blood and some donors were asked to make appointments for Tuesday. \n Kirk Kelly, interim superintendent for Hamilton County schools, said classes would be held on Tuesday, with counselors available for students and staff. \n Hamilton County District Attorney Neal Pinkston told media outlets that five people died at the scene and one died at the hospital. Melydia Clewell, the district attorney's spokeswoman, confirmed the number. \n Chattanooga police Assistant Chief Tracy Arnold said officials would not identify the students who died, or their ages, until parents were notified. \n \"Our hearts go out, as well as the hearts of all these people behind me, to the families, the neighborhood, the school, for all the people involved in this, we assure you we are doing everything we can,\" Fletcher said. \n At the state Capitol in Nashville, Gov. Bill Haslam called the crash \"a tragic event\" and offered assistance. \n \"We're going to do everything we can to assist in any way,\" Haslam said. \"It's a sad situation anytime there's a school bus with children involved, which there is in this case.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "6 killed, many wounded in school bus crash in Tennessee"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Two guard towers at Oahu Community Correctional Center with razor wire as seen from Kamehameha Highway on Sept. 20. \n There are 11 possible sites for rebuilding what is now Hawaii's most crowded jail. \n The state Department of Public Safety today announced officials are eyeing sites in Kalihi, Aiea, Kalaeloa, Mililani and Waiawa. \n Officials say Oahu Community Correctional Center needs to be rebuilt because it is old and obsolete. \n One possibility would be to rebuild it at the Kamehameha Highway property in Kalihi where the current jail has been since 1975. Another possibility is building it on Halawa Correctional Facility's property. \n The department says officials will look at the 11 sites and come up with a short list that will go through an environmental review process. \n Department Director Nolan Espinda says reducing the list will involve looking at costs and proximity to courts and services. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State officials weigh sites for new OCCC"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on July 20. \n MADISON, Wis. \u00bb Federal judges struck down Wisconsin's Republican-drawn legislative districts as unconstitutional today, marking a victory for minority Democrats that could force the Legislature to redraw the maps. \n The 2-1 ruling by a three-judge panel can be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. It gives hope to legislative Democrats who have been in the minority for six years and lost more ground in this month's election. The judges didn't order any immediate changes to district boundaries, instead saying they would accept ideas from state attorneys and the group of voters who challenged the districts on what to do next within the next 30 days. \n The lawsuit focuses on Assembly districts, but since Senate districts are based on the Assembly maps it invalidates the maps for both chambers. \n \"The court has clearly indicated the map is unconstitutional and that Wisconsin citizens deserve a fair map,\" said Sachin Ccheda, director of the Fair Elections Project, which organized the lawsuit. \"We're confident this is the first step in democracy being restored to the people of Wisconsin.\" \n A spokesman for the state Department of Justice, which defended the boundaries, didn't immediately return a message seeking comment. A spokeswoman for Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald referred questions to justice department. Republican Gov. Scott Walker's spokesman, Tom Evenson, had no immediate comment, saying only that Walker's office was reviewing the decision. \n Republicans drew the maps in 2011 after they took full control of state government in the 2010 elections. Assembly Republicans didn't lose a seat and defeated a Democratic incumbent in this month's elections to gain their largest majority in the chamber since 1957. Senate Republicans also didn't lose a single seat and defeated a Democratic incumbent to gain their largest majority since 1971. \n A dozen voters sued in July 2015, arguing the maps unconstitutionally discriminated against Democrats by diluting their voting power. They called it the worst example of gerrymandering in modern history. \n Attorneys for the state said the redrawn districts simply reflected that Wisconsin was trending Republican, and argued there is no legal way to measure gerrymandering \u2014 the process of dividing districts to gain an unfair advantage. \n The ruling came from a panel of three judges \u2014 U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Kenneth Ripple and U.S. District Judge William Griesbach. Griesbach was appointed by Republican President George W. Bush, Ripple by Republican President Ronald Reagan and Crabb by Democratic President Jimmy Carter. \n During a four-day trial in May, the voters' attorneys argued that the boundaries represented the worst example of gerrymandering in modern history. They said the maps aimed to marginalize Democrats by packing them into districts that already favored them \u2014 thus leading to a lot of wasted votes that could have helped Democrats elsewhere. One effect of the redistricting, according to plaintiff attorney Gerald Hebert, was to reduce the number of swing districts from 19 to 10. The voters also noted that under the new maps in 2012, Republicans won 60 of 99 Assembly seats even though Democrats won a majority of the statewide vote. \n State attorneys argued that partisanship should be expected when one party draws legislative boundaries. \n The U.S. Supreme Court has yet to come up with a legal standard for deciding when redistricting becomes unconstitutional gerrymandering. Plaintiff attorneys hoped to establish a new method for measuring partisanship that could be used to challenge voting maps around the country. \n They offered the judges an equation that included measuring and comparing each party's wasted votes in an election. State lawyers argued the equation lacked any constitutional basis and there was no way a court could measure gerrymandering. \n The majority of the panel \u2014 Crabb and Ripple \u2014 accepted the equation. \n \"We find that (the maps were) intended to burden the representational rights of Democratic voters throughout the decennial period by impeding their ability to translate their votes into legislative seats,\" Ripple wrote. \"We find that the discriminatory effect is not explained by the political geography of Wisconsin nor is it justified by a legitimate state interest.\" \n Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca called today's ruling a \"historic victory for voters.\" \n \"Voters should be able to choose their representatives, not the other way around,\" Barca said. \n Griesbach wrote in dissent that the Republicans' maps were politically motivated but comply with traditional redistricting principles. Republicans likely would have retained control of the Assembly and Senate in the 2012 and 2014 elections without the new maps, he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal judges block Wisconsin GOP's redistricting maps"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Passengers crowd at Sendai Station in Sendai, Miyagi prefecture, northern Japan Tuesday (Monday in Hawaii) after train services are suspended following an earthquake. Coastal residents in Japan were ordered to flee to higher ground after a strong earthquake struck off the coast of Fukushima prefecture. (Jun Hirata/Kyodo News via AP) \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vehicles make a line as they flee following a tsunami warning in Iwaki, Fukushima prefecture early Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016. Coastal residents in Japan were ordered to flee to higher ground on Tuesday after a strong earthquake struck off the coast of Fukushima prefecture. \n U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n A major earthquake struck off the coast of Japan this morning. \n TOKYO \u00bb At first, it was 2011 all over again. \n \"It really came back. And it was so awful. The sways to the side were huge,\" Kazuhiro Onuki said after northeastern Japan was jolted Tuesday by a magnitude-7.4 earthquake, the strongest since a devastating quake and tsunami five years ago. \n \"But nothing fell from the shelves,\" Onuki, 68, said in a phone interview, his voice calm and quiet. \n Coastal residents returned home from higher ground, and fishing boats to port, after tsunami warnings were lifted along Japan's Pacific coast. The earthquake gave Tokyo \u2014 150 miles away \u2014 a good shake, but was much less powerful than the magnitude-9.0 quake in 2011, and only moderate tsunami waves reached shore. \n The Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant, which leaked radiation for miles after the 2011 tsunami, reported no abnormalities. Decommissioning work on the destroyed reactors was suspended and the site inspected. \n At least 14 people were reported injured, three with broken bones, and Japanese TV showed items scattered on the floor in a store and books fallen from shelves in a library. \n On the coast, lines of cars snaked away in the pre-dawn darkness after authorities urged residents to seek higher ground immediately. \n The first tsunami waves hit about an hour later. The highest one, at 4.6 feet, reached Sendai Bay about two hours after the quake. By comparison, the waves in 2011 were 30 to 60 feet high. \n The evacuation appeared to proceed calmly. Katushiro Abe, a 47-year-old tourism official in Ishinomaki, a city hit hard by the 2011 tsunami, was on the early shift and already in the office, but his wife and teenage daughter fled their home. \n He said his family jumped in a car and drove to the foot of a nearby hill and rushed up. \n Tsunami alerts have been issued at least two times since 2011, he said, so his family was prepared and wasn't that alarmed. \"We stayed in touch by email,\" he said. \n It was the largest earthquake in northeastern Japan since the one in 2011 and some large aftershocks the same day. The U.S. Geological Survey measured Tuesday's quake at a lower magnitude 6.9. \n The Japan Meteorological Agency described it as an aftershock of the 2011 quake, which triggered a tsunami that killed about 18,000 people and wiped out entire neighborhoods. \n \"Aftershocks could continue not only for five years but as long as 100 years,\" Yasuhiro Umeda, a Kyoto University seismologist, said on Japanese broadcaster NTV. \n In some areas, water could be seen moving up rivers, which funnel the waves to even greater heights, but remained well within flood embankments. It was eerily reminiscent of the 2011 disaster, when much larger waves rushed up rivers and overflowed, sweeping away houses and automobiles. \n Captains took their boats out to sea to avoid any damage as the waves rolled in. \n \"When I evacuated offshore, I experienced unusual waves,\" crew leader Hideo Ohira said after returning to Onahama port. \"But they were not that big.\" \n TEPCO, the utility that operates the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant, said a swelling of the tide of up to 1 meter (3 feet) was detected offshore. \n The plant is being decommissioned after the 2011 tsunami sent three of its reactors into meltdown, but the site remains at risk as the utility figures out how to remove still-radioactive fuel rods and debris and what to do with the melted reactor cores. \n At the nearby Fukushima Dai-ni plant, TEPCO said a pump that supplies cooling water to a spent fuel pool stopped working, but a backup pump was employed after about 90 minutes, and the temperature rose less than one degree. \n Naohiro Masuda, head of TEPCO's decommissioning unit, said he believes a safety system shut off the pump automatically as the water in the pool shook. \n Onuki, the man who recalled the 2011 quake, has not been able to return to his home in Tomioka since then. The town remains a no-go zone because of radioactive contamination. He was staying at what he calls one of his temporary homes on Tuesday. \n \"I felt again that we should not have nuclear power,\" he said. \n Associated Press writers Yuri Kageyama and Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Koji Ueda in Onahama, Japan, contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A scare, then relief after powerful Japan quake and tsunami"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n The Kaneohe-bound lanes of the H-3 freeway were closed after multiple accidents this morning. \n Multiple accidents this morning prompted police to close all lanes of the H-3 in the Kaneohe-bound direction. \n HPD sent out an alert just before 10:30 a.m. that the H-3 Kaneohe-bound lanes were \"completely closed\" before the tunnel due to multiple accidents. There were no immediate reports of serious injuries. \n The freeway was reopened around 11:30 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "H-3 Kaneohe-bound reopened after multiple crashes"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "FARGO, N.D. \u00bb Relatives of a man who survived the attack on Pearl Harbor said they will soon travel to Hawaii to place his remains with those of his identical twin, who was killed when the Japanese attacked nearly 75 years ago. \n Keith Anderson, John Anderson's nephew, said Jake Anderson was killed by machine gunfire while trying to get to his anti-aircraft gun station on the deck. John Anderson, who survived a second wave of attacks on the ship, rescued others who were injured. \n \"The second wave came in and machine gunned his boat everyone died except John and he still swam back through burning water to shore where he spent the night,\" said Keith Anderson. \n A Navy SEAL team will dive underwater and inter the remains at Jake Anderson's final resting spot on Dec. 7, according to Keith Anderson. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pearl Harbor survivor's remains to be interred with his twin brother on USS Arizona"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "KAILUA-KONA \u00bb A former Big Island police officer has been indicted on charges related to the alleged beating of a man at an Ocean View market in 2014. \n An indictment filed last week alleges he \"intentionally or knowingly caused serious bodily injury\" to James Gonzales in February 2014. The incident took place months after Dubberstein left the police department. \n Deputy Prosecutor Rick Damerville said Gonzales suffered head injuries, a dislocated shoulder and broken ribs. Gonzales died in 2015 at age 65 for reasons unrelated to the alleged assault. \n A police spokeswoman said Dubberstein was with the department for more than 24 years. He worked as a patrol officer in the Kona and Kau districts before leaving the department in June 2013. The spokeswoman declined to state the reason for his departure. \n Dubberstein was one of 19 officers who sued Hawaii County, the police department and top police officials in 1997 for a promotion rigging scandal. The 19 plaintiffs were awarded a total of $4.6 million by a jury in 1999. \n Dubberstein told West Hawaii Today on Friday that he was unaware of last week's indictment by a Hilo grand jury. \n A bench warrant for his arrest set bail at $2,000. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former Big Isle officer charged with beating man in 2014"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "Police arrested two Kalihi men after they allegedly attempted to burglarize a furniture store in Kakaako. \n At about 11:24 pm. Saturday, patrol officers responded to an activated alarm and found a 21-year-old man hiding inside Pacific Home, a furniture store located at 744 Ala Moana Boulevard. \n Police said a 19-year-old man, a family member of the first suspect, was found right outside the store where the men accessed the business by forced entry. \n Police arrested both men on suspicion of second-degree burglary. The 21-year-old man also was arrested for an outstanding traffic-related warrant. \n Both men were released pending further investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi men arrested in Kakaako burglary"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-HI., nominated Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-VT., for President of the United States during the second day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on July 26. \n President-elect Donald Trump met today with Hawaii Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who is reportedly being considered for a job in the Trump administration. \n Gabbard released a statement after the meeting saying that she was invited by Trump to the meeting, where she had a \"frank and positive\" discussion with Trump about Syria, the battle against terrorism and other policy issues. \n Gabbard's statement did not say whether there is any specific job she is seeking in the Trump administration. \n Erika Tsuji, a spokeswoman for Gabbard, on Friday denied rumors that Gabbard is being vetted for a Trump administration post, saying that Gabbard \"just got re-elected and is focused on serving Hawaii's 2nd Congressional District.\" \n However, according to a tweet this morning from CNN's Sara Murray, \"a source tells me she's under consideration for State, Defense & UN Ambassador.\" \n The New York Times, citing an unidentified senior Trump aide, said Gabbard is being considered for several positions, including ambassador to the United Nations. \n Gabbard said in her statement today that \"I felt it important to take the opportunity to meet with the President-elect now before the drumbeats of war that neocons have been beating drag us into an escalation of the war to overthrow the Syrian government \u2014 a war which has already cost hundreds of thousands of lives and forced millions of refugees to flee their homes in search of safety for themselves and their families. \n \"While the rules of political expediency would say I should have refused to meet with President-elect Trump, I never have and never will play politics with American and Syrian lives.\" \n McClatchyDC.com reported that Gabbard met with Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence this morning, but Trump spokesman Jason Miller said it was \"premature\" to discuss Gabbard's potential role in the Trump administration. \n Gabbard was a strong supporter of Vermont U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders during the Democratic primary, but eventually shifted her support to Clinton after the primary. \n The representative of Hawaii's 2nd Congressional District at times has been a critic of the Obama administration's handling of issues related to Islamic extremism, and Gabbard has won praise from Stephen Bannon, who is Trump's chief strategist. \n Gabbard said in her statement that \"serving the people of Hawaii and our nation is an honor and responsibility that I do not take lightly. Representing the aloha spirit and diversity of the people of Hawaii, I will continue to seek common ground to deliver results that best serve all Americans, as I have tried to do during my time in Congress. \n \"Where I disagree with President-elect Trump on issues, I will not hesitate to express that disagreement. However, I believe we can disagree, even strongly, but still come together on issues that matter to the American people and affect their daily lives. We cannot allow continued divisiveness to destroy our country. \n \"President-elect Trump and I had a frank and positive conversation in which we discussed a variety of foreign policy issues in depth. I shared with him my grave concerns that escalating the war in Syria by implementing a so-called no fly/safe zone would be disastrous for the Syrian people, our country, and the world. It would lead to more death and suffering, exacerbate the refugee crisis, strengthen ISIS and al-Qaeda, and bring us into a direct conflict with Russia which could result in a nuclear war. We discussed my bill to end our country's illegal war to overthrow the Syrian government, and the need to focus our precious resources on rebuilding our own country, and on defeating al-Qaeda, ISIS, and other terrorist groups who pose a threat to the American people.\" \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Gabbard meets with Trump as he works on building his administration"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "The Kaneohe-bound lanes of the Likelike Highway were reopened before 6 p.m. today, after being shut for about an hour because of an accident, police said. \n Honolulu police say the lanes after the tunnel had been shut down. They had advised Windward-bound motorists to use the Pali Highway or H-3 freeway. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kaneohe-bound lanes of Likelike reopened"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement and protesters clashed near the site of the Dakota Access pipeline on Sunday, in Cannon Ball, N.D., as seen in this image provided by Morton County Sheriff's Department. The clash came as protesters sought to push past a bridge on a state highway that had been blockaded since late October, according to the Morton County Sheriff's Office. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement and protesters clashed near the site of the Dakota Access pipeline on Sunday, in Cannon Ball, N.D., as seen in this image provided by Morton County Sheriff's Department. The clash came as protesters sought to push past a bridge on a state highway that had been blockaded since late October, according to the Morton County Sheriff's Office. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. \u00bb Tension flared anew on the Dakota Access pipeline as protesters tried to push past a long-blocked bridge on a state highway, only to be turned back by a line of law enforcement using water cannon and what appeared to be tear gas. \n Sunday's skirmishes began around 6 p.m. after protesters removed a burned-out truck on what's known as the Backwater Bridge, not far from the encampment where they've been for weeks as they demonstrate against the pipeline. The Morton County Sheriff's Department estimated 400 protesters sought to cross the bridge on state Highway 1806. \n A live stream early today showed a continued standoff, with large lights illuminating smoke wafting across the scene. \n The sheriff's department said in a statement around 1 a.m. today that approximately 100 to 200 protesters were on the bridge or in the vicinity. It said law enforcement officers \"had rocks thrown at them, burning logs and rocks shot from slingshots,\" and that one officer had been hit on the head by a thrown rock. \n At least one person was arrested. Protesters said a gym in Cannon Ball was opened to aid demonstrators who were soaked on a night the temperature dipped into the low 20s or were hit with tear gas. \n Rema Loeb told The Associated Press he was forced to retreat from the bridge because he feared being doused with water on the freezing night. Others, he said, needed medical treatment after being hit with tear gas. \n \"It's been just horrible,\" said the 83-year-old Loeb, who traveled from Massachusetts about two weeks ago to join the protests. \n The 1,200-mile, four-state pipeline is being built to carry oil from western North Dakota to a shipping point in Illinois. But construction of the $3.8 billion pipeline has been protested for months by the Standing Rock Sioux, whose reservation lies near the pipeline route, and the tribe's allies, who fear a leak could contaminate their drinking water. They also worry that construction could threaten sacred sites. \n Energy Transfer Partners has said no sites have been disturbed and that the pipeline will have safeguards against leaks, and is a safer method of transport for oil than rail or truck. The company has said the pipeline is largely complete except for the section under Lake Oahe. \n The bridge lies near where protesters had set up camp on private property owned by the pipeline developer, Energy Transfer Partners, before they were forcibly removed by law enforcement Oct. 27. It's also about a mile from an uncompleted section under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir, where work has been on hold by order of federal agencies. \n Tara Houska, an organizer with Honor the Earth, told the Bismarck Tribune that the Cannon Ball gym was opened to aid people who had been doused with water or tear gas. \n Phone calls to the sheriff's department late Sunday went to an answering machine. \n On Friday, Kelcy Warren, the chief executive of Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners, said the company is unwilling to reroute the pipeline. \n Associated Press writer Mike Stewart contributed to this report from New York. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police, protesters face off at Dakota Access pipeline"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescuers worked at the site after 14 coaches of an overnight passenger train rolled off the track near Pukhrayan village in Kanpur Dehat district of the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Monday. Dozens died and dozens more were injured in the accident. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescuers worked at the site after 14 coaches of an overnight passenger train rolled off the track near Pukhrayan village in Kanpur Dehat district of the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India, Monday.Dozens died and dozens more were injured in the accident. \n PUKHRAYAN, India \u00bb The death toll from India's worst train accident in years rose to 146 on Monday after rescuers used cranes to lift the last of the twisted metal wreckage to check for bodies underneath. \n About 2,000 workers were clearing the tracks and checking for damage to the rail line in hopes of resuming traffic through one of India's busiest railway junctions by Monday evening, railway official Amit Kumar said. The government called for an investigation into what caused the accident, promising to punish anyone found responsible. \n The passenger train was about midway through a 27-hour journey between the cities of Indore and Patna when it slid off the tracks at 3:10 a.m. Sunday. The impact was so strong that one of the coaches landed atop another, crushing the one below. Passengers were flung from their beds. \n \"I heard a loud noise,\" passenger Satish Mishra said. \"The train then sped up, and all the coaches derailed.\" \n Rescue workers, soldiers and members of India's disaster management force pulled out people trapped inside the twisted metal and overturned coaches near Pukhrayan, a village outside Kanpur about 250 miles southeast of New Delhi. \n They used cutting torches to pry open cars and cranes to lift coaches from the tracks, moving carefully to avoid injuring those trapped inside. By Monday afternoon, they had lifted the last of the 14 wrecked cars from the tracks, finding no more bodies beneath. \n The accident killed at least 146, according to state official Debasish Panda. Doctors said 116 of the victims had been identified. \n Roughly 226 people were hurt, including 76 with serious injuries, according to local police Inspector General Zaki Ahmad. Medical teams provided first aid near the site, while those in more serious condition were moved to hospitals. \n Anxious relatives searched for missing family members among the injured and the dead at hospitals in Kanpur. \n At the accident site, some sifted through torn and broken luggage scattered across the ground in hopes of finding clues to where someone might have been at the time of the crash. \n \"I am looking for my brother,\" said Ramanand Tiwari, according to the Press Trust of India news agency. \"He may have changed his seat \u2026 we have searched everywhere.\" \n Nearby, a man sobbed after seeing the bodies of three family members who had been traveling together to a wedding. \n \"Whoever I tried to look for is dead,\" Nirmal Verma told PTI. \"I haven't found my mother \u2026 I fear I will find her in the same condition.\" \n Some railway officials told local media they suspected faulty tracks caused the derailment. \n \"We haven't seen an incident like this in Indian Railways for a long time,\" said state railways minister Rajen Gohain, according to the Indian Express newspaper. \"There must be a fault in the track as 14 bogeys have derailed, and this happened despite regular checking of the tracks.\" \n While accidents are relatively common on India's sprawling rail network, the derailment of the Patna-Indore Express Train was among India's deadliest in at least five years. \n It occurred near Kanpur city, a major railway junction and a key link in India's rail network for connecting the eastern and western parts of the country. Since the accident, some trains passing through Kanpur have been canceled and others have been diverted to stations to the north and south. \n India's vast railway system is the world's third largest, but lacks modern signaling and communication systems. Most accidents are blamed on poor maintenance, outdated equipment and human error. \n According to a government report in 2012, about 15,000 people are killed every year in train accidents. The worst occurred in 1981, when a train fell into the Baghmati River in northern India, killing nearly 800 people. \n Prime Minister Narendra Modi \u2014 who tweeted that he was \"anguished beyond words\" by Sunday's accident \u2014 pledged last year to invest $137 billion over the next five years to modernize India's railway network, which is used by about 23 million passengers a day. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Search for bodies at Indian train crash site ends; 146 dead"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "Wellington, New Zealand \u00bb Two strong earthquakes rattled different parts of New Zealand on Tuesday but there were no initial reports of serious damage or injuries. \n The first magnitude 5.6 quake struck off the coast of New Zealand's North Island at about 1:20 p.m. \n It was followed about five hours later by a magnitude 5.3 quake that struck the South Island and appeared to have been an aftershock from a powerful earthquake last week. \n That quake last Monday was measured at magnitude 7.8 and killed two people after it struck just near the coastal town of Kaikoura. \n The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center did not issue a tsunami warning for either of Tuesday's quakes. \n The epicenter of the first quake on Tuesday was about 200 kilometers (120 miles) northeast of the capital Wellington, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. It was at a relatively shallow depth of 10 kilometers (6 miles). \n The second quake was centered 78 kilometers (48 miles) northeast of Christchurch and was felt in the city. It was also at a shallow depth of 4 kilometers. \n An earthquake in the city five years ago killed 185 people and destroyed thousands of homes and buildings \n The nation of 4.7 million people sits on the \"Ring of Fire,\" an arc of seismic faults around the Pacific Ocean where earthquakes are common. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 strong quakes strike New Zealand; no reports of damage"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sting performs a medley at the American Music Awards at the Microsoft Theater on Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, in Los Angeles. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nicki Minaj, left, and DJ Khaled perform \"Do You Mind\" at the American Music Awards at the Microsoft Theater on Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, in Los Angeles. \n Coming on the heels of a divisive political election, the American Music Awards on Sunday night in Los Angeles became a platform for strong, and sometimes foul, political language. Here's a look at some of the top moments from the American Music Awards show: \n NOT TRUMP'S NIGHT \n Less than two weeks after the presidential election, President-Elect Donald Trump was bound to be hot and divisive topic at the show. And the insults and jokes came from all sides, including the hosts, the presenters and the performers. Co-hosts Gigi Hadid and Jay Pharoah started off the show with not-so-great impressions of Melania and Donald Trump. \n Singer Idina Menzel and businessman Mark Cuban commiserated about not getting invited to the presidential inauguration, as both were supporters of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. And Menzel gave a shout out to the cast of the Broadway show \"Hamilton\" who have been criticized by Trump on Twitter. \n And Rock And Roll Hall of Famers Green Day blasted Trump during their performance of \"Bang Bang\" when lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong sang a new chorus in the middle, \"No KKK, no fascist USA, No Trump.\" \n DRAKE WINS BIG \n Drake doesn't always show up to award shows even when he's likely to win, but since he set a record with 13 nominations, he must have felt obliged. \n In fact, he did win four awards, including favorite rap/hip hop artist and favorite rap/hip hop album for his hugely successful \"Views\" record, which has dominated radio with singles like \"Hotling Bling\" and \"One Dance.\" \n He thanked his hometown, Toronto, and his family and collaborators, and said he was just focused on the music. \n \"For our genre, I just like to keep things exciting and keep making music, shout out to everybody that's trying to do the same \n thing,\" he said. \n Although he didn't perform, Drake debuted a funny Apple Music commercial in which he lip-synced to Taylor Swift while working out, an homage to another Apple commercial starring Swift. \n He hinted at new music to come, but also seemed to reference some of the criticism he's received from other rappers for his success, adding quickly, \"so watch how you speak on my name.\" \n DROPPING THE F BOMBS \n The censors were on their toes with several unscripted moments in which curse words were flying profusely. \n Most award shows have to bleep out or mute some lyrics or accidental slips of the tongue, but this year's show seemed to be full of foul language, mostly on purpose. \n Chrissy Teigen unleashed a mouthful of colorful language about the election that most people didn't hear on the broadcast as she was introducing her husband, singer John Legend. \n Electronic duo The Chainsmokers also let a couple of curse words slip when they were caught unprepared for winning the favorite electronic dance music award. \n Former One Direction singer Zayn gave a big thank you to his \"(expletive-deleted) fans\" for winning new artist of the year. \n And artist of the year Ariana Grande was twice muted for language on the broadcast during her acceptance speech. \n Maybe next year the show should consider moving to cable. \n PURPLE REIGN \n The death of Prince earlier this year continues to have an impact on today's music and fans showed their appreciation again by voting for \"Purple Rain,\" as the favorite soundtrack, more than 30 years after it was released. \n His sister, Tyka Nelson, who noted that her brother had the courage to be different, accepted the award on his behalf. \n \"Prince defied the odds, a black teen from Minneapolis with the goal to electrify the world,\" Nelson said. \n But she said being known as a great songwriting was the most important to him. \n \"He wanted to be the world's most prolific songwriter, and with 984 titles to his credit and counting, he has done just that,\" Nelson said. \n Nelson began to tear up as she talked about her family and said she would keep the award at Paisley Park, the late singer's estate, and raised it in the air. \n \"Until we see you again, this is for you,\" Nelson said. \n SELENA SPEAKS OUT \n Selena Gomez also wasn't expected to be in attendance at the Microsoft Theater as she had been taking time off touring to treat depression and anxiety. \n Still one of the most followed celebrities on Instagram, earlier this year she stopped posting her to social media accounts. She took to the stage after winning favorite female artist \u2013 pop/rock to talk about dealing with an overexposed life. \n \"I think it's safe to say that most of you know a lot of my life whether I liked it or not, and I had to stop, 'cause I had everything, and I was absolutely broken inside,\" said 24-year-old Gomez. \n \"I don't want to see your bodies on Instagram. I want to see what's in here,\" she added, pointing to her heart. \n Even Lady Gaga appeared overjoyed for Gomez's honesty, with a big smile and her hands pressed together. \n \"I am not trying to get validation, nor do I need it anymore,\" Gomez announced to a round of applause from the crowd. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strong, sometimes foul political language marks music awards show"}

{"date": "November 21, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/LYNNE SLADKY \n Yessica Flores, who became infected with the Zika virus early in her pregnancy this summer, speaks to the news media following a news conference at Jackson Memorial Hospital, Monday, Oct. 24, 2016, in Miami. Flores is being treated by the University of Miami's Zika Response Team. So far, Flores' daughter seems to be developing normally. However, the family still faces years of uncertainty and monitoring after the baby is born in February. \n Jacksonville, Fla. \u00bb Tourists continue to visit Florida in record numbers during a year that saw two hurricanes hit the state and federal officials warn away pregnant women from Miami due to the Zika virus. \n Florida Gov. Rick Scott will announce Monday that 85 million tourists visited the state during the first nine months of 2016. \n State officials say that's the highest nine-month total ever and a 5.5 percent increase over last year. \n Scott in a statement said the record numbers show how well Visit Florida, the state's tourism marketing arm, is doing its job. Incoming House Speaker Richard Corcoran has questioned continued funding of the organization. \n The governor noted that record numbers of tourists visited the state despite the Zika outbreak, hurricanes and the tragic attack at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando that left 49 dead. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Florida still bringing in a record number of tourists"}

