{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cats are shown eating at feral cat colony near Honolulu on Sept. 15. Conservationists are concerned about the number of feral cats roaming Hawaii because cat feces washing into the ocean can spread toxoplasmosis, which can be deadly for endangered Hawaiian monk seals. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Hawaiian monk seal, an endangered species, lies on a Waikiki beach in Honolulu on Sept. 15. Conservationists are concerned about the number of feral cats roaming Hawaii because cat feces washing into the ocean can spread toxoplasmosis, which can be deadly for the seals. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chris Allejo, the director of operations for the spaying and neutering program run by the animal welfare group Poi Dogs and Popoki, pets cats at feral cat colony near Honolulu on Sept. 15. Conservationists are concerned about the number of feral cats roaming Hawaii because cat feces washing into the ocean can spread toxoplasmosis, which can be deadly for endangered Hawaiian monk seals. \n Two wildlife issues have collided in Hawaii, pitting one group of animal defenders against another in an impassioned debate. The point of contention? Deadly cat poop and the feral felines that produce it. \n Federal researchers believe feces from the legions of feral cats roaming Hawaii is spreading a disease that is killing Hawaiian monk seals, some of the world's most endangered marine mammals. Some conservationists advocate euthanizing those cats that no one wants, and that's got cat lovers up in arms. \n \"It's a very difficult, emotional issue,\" said state Sen. Mike Gabbard, chairman of a committee that earlier this year heard and then abandoned a proposal to ban the feeding of feral cats on state land after an outcry. \"It struck a nerve in our community.\" \n The problem stems from a parasite common in cats that can cause toxoplasmosis, a disease that killed at least five female Hawaiian monk seals and three males since 2001, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. \n \"While eight seals may not sound like a lot of animals, it actually has pretty large ramifications for an endangered population where there's only about 1,300 seals in existence at this point in time,\" said Michelle Barbieri, veterinary medical officer for NOAA's Hawaiian monk seal research program. \n Scientists believe monk seals become exposed to toxoplasmosis by ingesting contaminated water or prey. \n Felines are the only animals that can shed Toxoplasma gondii eggs, or oocysts. The parasites enter their digestive tract through infected prey then multiply in the small intestine and produce the eggs. Outdoor cats excrete the eggs in their feces, which researchers say washes into the ocean. \n The eggs accumulate in invertebrates that live along the sea floor, where monk seals often feed. They can survive in fresh water, saltwater and soil for up to two years. \n Any warm-blooded animal can become infected. California sea otters have died from toxoplasmosis, and it's one of the major reasons the Hawaiian crow, alala, is extinct in the wild. Toxoplasmosis is rarely problematic for people with healthy immune systems, but it's why doctors advise pregnant women not to handle kitty litter. \n Many cities struggle with feral cats, but the problem is particularly acute in Hawaii because of its sensitive ecosystem and at-risk native species, experts say. Only two mammals are native to Hawaii: the hoary bat and the Hawaiian monk seal. \n \"Everything else here\u2014 deer, sheep, goats, cats, mongoose \u2014 they're all invasive, they're all introduced,\" said Angela Amlin, NOAA's acting Hawaiian monk seal recovery coordinator, adding cats have no predators in Hawaii to control their population. \n Marketing research commissioned by the Hawaiian Humane Society in 2015 estimated some 300,000 feral cats roam Oahu alone. \n Marine debris, climate change, predation and human interaction all threaten the survival of Hawaiian monk seals. But feral cats present their greatest disease concern, Amlin said. \n \"As conservationists, what we really have to look at is this is what Hawaii's native ecosystem includes, and cats are unfortunately not part of that,\" Amlin said. \"When it comes to the feral cat population, there should be a program in place to bring in these animals, adopt the ones that are adoptable and humanely euthanize those that are not.\" \n Others take offense to that notion. \n Classifying animals with labels such as native and invasive creates a \"hierarchy in which the protection of certain animals comes at the suffering of others,\" Hawaiian Humane Society President and CEO Pamela Burns wrote in a letter opposing the state Senate bill that would have banned cat-feeding on state land. She contended the 300,000 figure overstates the problem because the study looked at how many cats people were feeding and might have missed instances where multiple people fed the same outdoor cat. \n Those who care for stray cats advocate trapping, neutering and spaying to help control their population. \n The University of Hawaii's Manoa campus, in Honolulu, started a feral cat management program \u2014 with authorized feeders trained in tasks like trapping and feces disposal \u2014 after the stench and mess from hundreds of cats prompted complaints, especially when children at a campus daycare center got flea bites, said Roxanne Adams, director of buildings and grounds. \n The program started in 2011 and appears to have reduced the number of felines, she said. \n Euthanizing cats is unacceptable unless they're extremely sick, said Alicia Maluafiti, board president of animal welfare group Poi Dogs and Popoki. \n \"I totally disagree with the \u2026 generalization that cat people love cats more than these endangered species,\" Maluafiti said. \"What we just don't advocate is the wholesale killing, the extermination, of one species \u2026 for one.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Much ado about poo: Feces fuels Hawaii feral feline debate"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / JUNE 2012 \n In this file photo, former Penn State University assistant football coach Mike McQueary arrives at the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pa. McQueary's defamation and whistleblower lawsuit against Penn State over how it treated him for complaining about assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky sexually abusing a boy in a team shower is scheduled to go to trial Monday. \n BELLEFONTE, Pa. \u00bb A civil trial set to begin Monday in a Pennsylvania courtroom will determine if Penn State should pay for a claim it mistreated a former assistant coach who provided key evidence used to convict child molester Jerry Sandusky. \n Mike McQueary's lawsuit against the university where he played quarterback and coached alleges the school defamed him, retaliated against him and misled him into thinking his report about Sandusky would be handled properly. \n He is seeking more $4 million in damages. A jury of nine women and three men was selected last week, and opening statements are scheduled for Monday morning. \n McQueary testified during Sandusky's 2012 criminal trial that he happened to go to the locker room late one Friday evening and saw Sandusky sexually abuse a boy in a team shower. \n He did not physically intervene or summon police, but the next day he reported what he saw to his boss, then-head coach Joe Paterno, and also told the story to two high-ranking administrators. \n Investigators got a tip in 2010 that McQueary might be able to help them in the Sandusky investigation, a key break that culminated in Sandusky being first charged in November 2011. \n McQueary was put on paid administrative leave when Sandusky was charged and never returned to the football program. His contract was not renewed when it expired in 2012, a decision McQueary argues was in retaliation for the help he gave police and prosecutors. \n He also is suing over a news release that then-university president Graham Spanier issued the day Sandusky was charged, expressing his support for Gary Schultz and Tim Curley, the administrators who met with McQueary about the abuse report in 2001. \n McQueary alleges that Spanier's news release, and his remarks to Penn State Athletics staff, were defamatory because McQueary says they suggested he was lying about what he saw. \n He also is suing for misrepresentation, an allegation that Curley and Schultz led him to believe they were taking his report seriously and would respond appropriately. \n They did not report it to authorities, and McQueary says that as a result he was seen as being involved in a cover-up \u2014 and that has prevented him from getting a coaching job. \n Neither Penn State nor McQueary's lawyers have said much publicly about the litigation. The trial in a courthouse near the Penn State campus could last two weeks or more. \n Spanier, Schultz and Curley appeared last week in a different Pennsylvania courtroom, for a pretrial hearing in their 5-year-old criminal case. They are charged with failure to properly report suspected abuse and endangering the welfare of children, allegations they have consistently denied. \n Sandusky was convicted of 45 counts of child sexual abuse and is serving 30 to 60 years in Greene State Prison. He maintains his innocence and was in court for a post-conviction appeal hearing in August. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawsuit by ex-coach against Penn State set to get underway"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Khaled Almilaji, who coordinated a campaign that vaccinated 1.4 million Syrian children and risked his life to provide medical care during the country's civil war, stands for a portrait on the campus of Brown University in Providence, R.I., on Thursday. Almilaji is now in the Ivy League, learning about how to rebuild Syria's health system when the war finally ends. \n PROVIDENCE, R.I. \u00bb Khaled Almilaji coordinated a campaign that vaccinated 1.4 million Syrian children and risked his life to provide medical care during the country's civil war. Now he's in the Ivy League, learning about how to rebuild Syria's health system when the war finally ends. \n He is one of three Syrian scholars studying at Brown University, which said last year it would welcome Syrians after dozens of governors attempted to block refugees. Almilaji, 35, received a scholarship to earn a master's degree in public health and moved to Rhode Island in August on a student visa with his wife. \n He said he feels lucky because many other Syrian doctors have had to give up their work after sacrificing for five years, watching their families suffer and seeing their children go without an education. \n \"Every time I go inside Syria, I see the smile on the face of families and people. They say, 'We will stay here. We will never go out, and we will still fight this regime,'\" he said. \"You cannot go out with less energy, just to continue supporting those people.\" \n Almilaji was born in Aleppo, now the epicenter of Syria's conflict. He studied in the coastal city of Latakia to treat disorders of the ear, nose and throat. He was preparing to go to Stuttgart, Germany, for a residency in March 2011 when anti-government protests sparked the conflict. \n He treated protesters who likely would have been arrested or killed if they went to government-run hospitals, he said, and he set up field hospitals. \n \"They accept to be killed if this is the way to show the world we are in a revolution here,\" he said. \"But I cannot accept that those people will never go to a protest because they don't have any hospitals to receive them in case they are injured.\" \n Almilaji said he was arrested in September 2011 in Damascus, interrogated and tortured. The savagery he witnessed during six months in prison convinced him he was \"one thousand percent correct\" in opposing the regime, he added. \n Almilaji returned to Aleppo after his release and cared for protesters' families, considered a crime. A friend who was helping those families was arrested in April 2012. Almilaji escaped to Gaziantep, Turkey, and his parents soon followed. \n A U.N. commission found government forces in Syria deliberately target medical personnel to gain a military advantage, by depriving the opposition and those perceived to support them of medical assistance. The commission called the targeting of medical personnel one of the most insidious trends of the war. \n Almilaji translated for Syrians in Turkish hospitals and worked to equip Turkey with ambulances to transfer Syrians from the border. He made trips into Syria to work in a medical clinic in Aleppo and deliver medical supplies. He successfully pushed for the building of underground hospitals because he expected health facilities to come under increasing attack, a fear that proved true. \n He said he joined the humanitarian arm of the opposition and began monitoring the spread of communicable diseases in northern Syria by setting up an early warning response and alert network. \n The first case of polio was discovered through the network in October 2013 in eastern Syria, he said. Almilaji planned the vaccination campaign as the administrative director. Teams went house to house and vaccinated 1.4 million Syrian children. \n He is working with Canadian doctors to establish safe health facilities in Syria, train medical workers and connect hospitals. The group formed the Canadian International Medical Relief Organization, and Almilaji reviews the projects from Providence. \n If insurgents are still fighting President Bashar Assad's forces when he graduates in two years, Almilaji plans to work from Turkey on relief efforts that can later facilitate redevelopment. When Syria is stable enough, he wants to return and work on preventing diseases and other health problems, since resources for treating ailments will continue to be scarce. \n More than 60 U.S. and international colleges provide scholarships for Syrian students to complete their degrees in North America and Europe. The consortium, led by the Institute of International Education, has supported more than 300 Syrian students to date. \n Brown is a consortium member. Almilaji was recommended to the university by an alumnus, while the institute helped connect the other two Syrian scholars with Brown. \n Brown Provost Richard Locke said it was a humanitarian statement, not a political one. School administrators wanted to help and show how a school could successfully host Syrians so other colleges would, too, he said. \n Locke said it's important to \"lead through our values, so that other people would at least have an alternative narrative to the one that was being disseminated by some of those governors.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Aleppo to the Ivy League: Syrian doctor preps for end of war"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "CHINATOPIX VIA AP \n Chinese astronauts Jing Haipeng, right, and Chen Dong, left, wave farewell to the crowd before getting on Shenzhou 11 spacecraft at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwest China on Monday. \n XINHUA VIA AP \n In this photo released by Xinhua News Agency, the Long March-2F carrier rocket carrying China's Shenzhou 11 manned spacecraft blasts off from the launch pad at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in Jiuquan, northwest China's Gansu Province on Monday. \n XINHUA VIA AP \n In this photo provided by China's Xinhua News Agency, the Long March-2F carrier rocket carrying China's Shenzhou 11 spacecraft blasts off from the launch pad at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in Jiuquan, northwest China's Gansu Province on Monday. \n BEIJING \u00bb China launched a pair of astronauts into space Monday on a mission to dock with an experimental space station and remain aboard for 30 days in preparation for the start of operations by a full-bore facility six years from now.  \n The Shenzhou 11 mission took off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center on the edge of the Gobi Desert in northern China at 7:30 a.m. (2330 GMT) aboard a Long March-2F carrier rocket. \n It will dock with the Tiangong 2 space station precursor facility within two days, conduct experiments in medicine and various space-related technologies, and test systems and processes in preparation for the launching of the station's core module in 2018. \n Space program commander-in-chief Gen. Zhang Youxia declared the launch a success at 7:46 a.m. (2346 GMT). Defense Minister Fan Changlong then read a congratulatory message from President Xi Jinping calling for China's astronauts to explore space \"more deeply and more broadly.\" \n Premier Li Keqiang and propaganda chief Liu Yunshan visited the Beijing control center to congratulate staff. It is the sixth time China has launched astronauts into space and the duration will be the longest by far. \n Following the attachment of two experiment modules, the completed station is set to begin full operations in 2022 and will run for at least a decade. \n An earlier Tiangong 1 experimental space station launched in 2011 went out of service in March after docking with three visiting spacecraft and extending its mission for two years. The Tiangong, or \"Heavenly Palace,\" stations are considered stepping stones to a mission to Mars by the end of the decade. \n The Shenzhou 11 astronauts are Jing Haipeng, who is flying his third mission, and 37-year-old Chen Dong. \n \"It is any astronaut's dream and pursuit to be able to perform many space missions,\" Jing, who turns 50 during his time in space, told a briefing Sunday. \n China conducted its first crewed space mission in 2003, becoming only the third country after Russia and the U.S. to do so, and has since staged a spacewalk and landed its Yutu rover on the moon. Administrators suggest a crewed landing on the moon may also be in the program's future. \n China was prevented from participating in the International Space Station, mainly due to U.S. concerns over the Chinese space program's strongly military character. Chinese officials are now looking to internationalize their own program by offering to help finance other countries' missions to Tiangong 2. \n China's space program also opened its massive fourth spacecraft launch site at Wenchang on China's southernmost island province of Hainan in June. It was inaugurated with the launch of the newly developed Long March 7 rocket that was hailed as a breakthrough in the use of safer, more environmentally friendly fuels. \n China is currently developing the Long March 5 heavy-lift rocket needed to launch the Tiangong 2's additional components and other massive payloads. \n China also plans to land a rover on Mars by 2020, attempting to recreate the success of the U.S. Viking 1 mission that landed a rover on the planet four decades ago. \n A source of enormous national pride, China's space program plans a total of 20 missions this year at a time when the U.S. and other countries' programs are seeking new roles. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China launches manned mission to experimental space station"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "LAS VEGAS SUN VIA AP \n Vice President Joe Biden campaigns for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and Nevada Democratic Senate candidate Catherine Cortez Masto, back right, during a rally at the Culinary Workers Union, Local 226, headquarters on Thursday in Las Vegas. \n BOSTON \u00bb Vice President Joe Biden is speaking in Boston about the White House's ambitious push to find a cure for cancer.  \n Biden will speak Wednesday afternoon about the so-called \"Cancer Moonshot\" initiative at the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the U.S. Senate. \n President Obama announced the initiative in his final State of the Union address in January. \n He's created a task force comprised of the heads of at least a dozen federal departments and agencies, including the National Cancer Institute, the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Health and Human Services. \n Biden, whose son died from cancer last year, serves as chair. The task force aims to double the rate of progress in cancer research and treatment, accomplishing what could be achieved in ten years in five. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Biden to speak about ambitious push to find cancer cure"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / OCT. 2015 \n This file photo shows the Golden Gate Bridge and San Francisco skyline from the Marin Headlands above Sausalito, Calif. \n SAN RAFAEL, Calif. \u00bb Five new officers will be hired to patrol the Golden Gate Bridge specifically to search for people looking to jump to their death.  \n Between 2000 and 2005, bridge officers were able to stop an average of 52 people a year from jumping from the span. So far in 2016, there have been 138 successful interventions and the number is projected to exceed 200 by the end of the year. \n The increase in successful interventions is directly related to having more officers patrolling the bridge's sidewalks, said Capt. Lisa Locati, the span's top law enforcement official. \n Having the additional officer will allow Locati to deploy three or four officers on the span at one time, up from the current two, she said. \n \"The officers want to be on the sidewalk detail,\" she said. \"They are the front line in these situations.\" \n The move by the bridge board is the latest to address suicide at the Golden Gate Bridge. \n In August, bridge officials announced a partnership with Crisis Text Line, which allows people in crisis to text GGB to 741741 and almost immediately have access to a counselor. Bridge security is also notified. Signs referring people to the service are now on the span. \n In June 2014, the bridge board unanimously agreed to build a suicide barrier expected to be completed by 2020. \n More than 1,400 people have jumped to their deaths since the bridge opened in 1937. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Golden Gate Bridge to hire more officers to prevent suicides"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Abana Muta, left, and Hawa Abana, right, look at photos of the 21 freed Chibok schoolgirls in newspaper including their daughter Blessing Abana, in Nasarawa Nigeria on Saturday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Abana Muta, left, and Hawa Abana, right, parents of Blessing Abana, one of the freed 21 Chibok schoolgirls smiles during an interview in Nasarawa, Nigeria on Saturday. \n ABUJA, Nigeria \u00bb Joy, jubilation and dancing erupted Sunday when a group of Nigerian parents were reunited with 21 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram 2 \u00bd years ago and freed in the first negotiated release organized by the government and the Islamic extremist group.  \n The girls were hugged and embraced by their parents when they were presented by the government, according to video obtained by The Associated Press. \n \"I never expected I will see my daughter again and I pray that those girls still left behind, that God will bring them out safely the way our own daughter came out alive,\" said a mother of one of the released girls, Raha Emmanuel, in the Hausa language. \n The girls were released Thursday and flown to Abuja, Nigeria's capital, but it's taken days for the parents to arrive. Most arrived Sunday after driving hours over potholed roads slowed by military checkpoints and the danger of attack by the insurgents, said community leader Tsambido Hosea Abana. \n The parents came from the remote northeastern town of Chibok, where nearly 300 girls were kidnapped on April 2014 in a mass abduction that shocked the world. Dozens of schoolgirls escaped in the first few hours but after last week's release, 197 remain captive. The government says negotiations are continuing to win their freedom. \n Muta Abana, the father of one of the released girls, has been living in Nasarawa state neighboring Abuja, expressed anxiety as many of the girls reportedly have been forced to marry Boko Haram fighters. \n \"Some of them came back with babies, but think about it, are we going to kill the children?\" Abana said to The Associated Press, speaking in Hausa. \"We won't be able to kill the children because it would be as if we don't want the girls to come back. God knows why it happened. It's God's will.\" \n He also said the girls' abduction has been politicized, complaining that, \"People's children aren't money, people's children are not clothes you wear to campaign, people's children are their pride.\" \n The girls are getting medical attention and trauma counselling in a hospital, said Tsambido Abana, the Chibok community leader in Abuja. Some are \"emaciated\" from hunger, he said. \n There are conflicting reports about how the girls were freed, with two military officers telling the AP they were exchanged for four detained Boko Haram commanders, and a Nigerian who negotiated previous failed attempts saying a large ransom was paid by the Swiss government on behalf of Nigerian authorities. The officers and the negotiator, who did not take part in the latest talks, spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to discuss the matter with the press. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nigerian parents reunite with 21 girls freed in first negotiated release by Boko Haram"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A burnt couch is shown next to warped campaign signs at the Orange County Republican Headquarters in Hillsborough, North Carolina today. Someone threw flammable liquid inside a bottle through a window overnight and someone spray-painted an anti-GOP slogan referring to \"Nazi Republicans\" on a nearby wall, authorities said today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A burned couch is shown next to warped campaign signs at the Orange County Republican Headquarters in Hillsborough, North Carolina today. Someone threw flammable liquid inside a bottle through a window overnight and someone spray-painted an anti-GOP slogan referring to \"Nazi Republicans\" on a nearby wall, authorities said today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Melted campaign signs are seen at the Orange County Republican Headquarters in Hillsborough, North Carolina today. Someone threw flammable liquid inside a bottle through a window overnight and someone spray-painted an anti-GOP slogan referring to \"Nazi Republicans\" on a nearby wall, authorities said today. State GOP director Dallas Woodhouse said no one was injured. \n HILLSBOROUGH, N.C. \u00bb A local Republican Party office in North Carolina was torched by a flammable device and someone spray-painted an anti-GOP slogan referring to \"Nazi Republicans\" on a nearby wall, authorities said Sunday. \n A bottle filled with flammable liquid was thrown through the window of the Orange County Republican Party headquarters overnight, according to a news release from the town of Hillsborough. The substance ignited and damaged the interior before burning out. No one was injured. \n On Sunday afternoon, the walls of the multi-room office were covered in black char, and a couch against one wall had been burned down to its springs. Shattered glass covered the floor, and melted campaign yard signs showed warped lettering. \n The news release from authorities said an adjacent building was spray-painted with the words: \"Nazi Republicans leave town or else.\" The graffiti had been covered in paint by late afternoon. \n Another business owner discovered the damage Sunday morning. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is working with local investigators. \n State GOP executive director Dallas Woodhouse said people sometimes work after-hours, and he felt lucky that no one was there at the time. He said the bottle appeared to have landed on or near the couch where volunteers sometimes take naps. \n \"They are working around the clock. It is a miracle that nobody was killed,\" he said in an interview, calling the fire \"political terrorism.\" \n He said Republican offices around the state were re-examining their security. \n The violent act in the key battleground state was condemned by public figures across the political spectrum. \n Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president said on Twitter that the attack \"is horrific and unacceptable. Very grateful that everyone is safe.\" \n Republican nominee Donald Trump blamed the act on Democrats in a Tweet and also he encouraged local Republicans, saying: \"With you all the way, will never forget. Now we have to win. Proud of you all!\" \n At a news conference, Woodhouse urged Republicans to respond peacefully by turning out to vote in November. He said he'd received messages of support from Democrats. \n Orange County GOP chairman Daniel Ashley told reporters that no one had previously made violent threats against the office several miles from the town's historic square. The GOP office is several doors down from a shuttered ice rink in what was once a frontier-themed amusement park that is now a retail complex known as The Shops at Daniel Boone. \n Tom Stevens, mayor of the town about 40 miles northwest of Raleigh, said that it was fortunate the fire didn't burn the office and other adjacent buildings that are decades old to the ground. \n Stevens, a Democrat, said the act doesn't represent the character of Orange County, which also includes much of Chapel Hill and the University of North Carolina campus. Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 3-1 margin in the county that picked President Barack Obama by a lopsided margin in the 2012 election. \n \"I'd like to believe we aspire to respect hearing differing views,\" Stevens said in an interview. \"This is very troubling.\" \n Stevens said he wasn't aware of any leads on suspects. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Carolina GOP office burned, graffiti sprayed nearby"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "A Wailuku couple was rescued safely after their outrigger canoe broke in two when it was walloped by a large wave Saturday about a mile offshore from Keawakapu Beach on Maui, firefighters said. \n The 55-year-old man and 56-year-old woman were trying to swim and pull the canoe pieces to shore when they were spotted by a kayaker, according to Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto, spokesman for Maui's Department of Fire & Public Safety. \n The kayaker brought the woman to the beach and went back to help the other paddler before Wailea firefighters arrived with a rescue watercraft at 5:03 p.m., he said. \n Firefighters found the kayaker and the man trying to tow the swamped and broken hull about 300 yards offshore. They brought everyone to the beach by 5:30 p.m. No one was injured. \n The Air 1 helicopter was dispatched after initial reports of a distressed boat at 4:45 p.m., but Wailea firefighters had the parties nearly ashore by the time it arrived. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Wailuku couple safe after their canoe broke at Keawakapu Beach"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "A 52-year-old Waipahu man was arrested late Saturday afternoon on suspicion of attempted murder and reckless endangerment after allegedly wielding a weapon against several people. \n The suspect is accused of using a dangerous instrument to threaten three adults, two teenagers and a 9-year-old boy in the Kunia area at about 3:45 p.m. Saturday, according to a police report. His actions put them at risk of death and or bodily injury, police said. \n The man was arrested at 4:08 p.m. and is being held in custody while police investigate the case. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waipahu man arrested on suspicion of attempted murder"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 15, 2016 photo provided by NBC, Alec Baldwin, left, as Republican presidential candidate, Donald Trump, and Kate McKinnon, as Democratic presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton, perform during the during the \"Debate Cold Open\" sketch. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump tweeted early Sunday morning, Oct. 16 that the show's skit depicting him this week was a \"hit job.\" Trump went on to write that it's \"time to retire\" the show, calling it \"boring and unfunny\" and adding that Alec Baldwin's portrayal of him \"stinks.\" \n LOS ANGELES >> Donald Trump has some choice words for \"Saturday Night Live.\" \n The Republican presidential candidate tweeted early Sunday morning that the show's skit depicting him this week was a \"hit job.\" Trump went on to write that it's \"time to retire\" the show, calling it \"boring and unfunny\" and adding that Alec Baldwin's portrayal of him \"stinks.\" \n Watched Saturday Night Live hit job on me.Time to retire the boring and unfunny show. Alec Baldwin portrayal stinks. Media rigging election! \n Saturday's show featured a send-up of the second presidential debate last held last Sunday at Washington University in St. Louis. \n Baldwin, who retweeted Trump's critique, has been playing him on \"Saturday Night Live\" since its 42nd season kicked off a few weeks ago, with Kate McKinnon depicting Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton. \n Trump himself hosted an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" last November. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump calls SNL spoof 'hit job,' calls for end of show"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks to the Republican Hindu Coalition, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016, in Edison, N.J. \n WASHINGTON >> Mike Pence said Sunday he and Donald Trump will abide by \"the will of the American people\" on Election Day, and suggested that Trump's claim of a 'rigged\" election stems from his belief the media is ganging up on him. \n \"We will absolutely accept the results of the election,\" Pence said in television interviews. He said Trump's complaint, articulated from the campaign stage and across Twitter but without evidence, reflects fatigue with \"the obvious bias in the national media. That's where the sense of a rigged election goes here.\" \n Not long after Pence said that, Trump partly undermined his comments. \n \"The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary \u2013 but also at many polling places,\" Trump tweeted. \"SAD.\" \n Pence's words were the latest attempt by Trump's surrogates to attempt to explain that some things the GOP presidential nominee has said and tweeted are not what he meant. \n Much of that cleanup duty has fallen to Pence little more than three weeks before the Nov. 8 vote. Trump is struggling to change the focus away from mounting accusations that he sexually assaulted women in ways similar to what he is recorded describing on recently released video. Trump says all of the accusations are fabricated. \n Several of Trump's unfounded claims \u2014 such as the one Saturday that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton was on drugs at the most recent debate and his call for drug testing before the next \u2014 also overshadowed the release over the weekend of more emails hacked from accounts of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. \n Some showed the campaign worrying whether Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., might endorse Sen. Bernie Sanders in the party's primary, and wrestling with how to respond to revelations about Clinton's private email use. Another subject: lining up materials to respond to fresh accusations from a woman who accused Bill Clinton of raping her decades ago. The former president denied the accusation, which was never adjudicated by a criminal court. \n Amid the intensity, Trump reiterated this weekend that a conspiracy is responsible for the FBI declining to prosecute Clinton for mingling private and official business on a homebrew email server so that she might compete in a fraudulent election. \n \"Hillary Clinton should have been prosecuted and should be in jail. Instead she is running for president in what looks like a rigged election,\" Trump tweeted to his 12 million followers on Saturday. \n Threatening to jail a political opponent and fueling public distrust of a popular election \u2014 to explain his loss, should that happen \u2014 was a striking breach of faith in American democracy. He has repeatedly claimed, without offering evidence, that election fraud is a serious problem and encouraged his mostly white supporters to \"go and watch\" polling places in certain areas to make sure things are \"on the up and up.\" \n It was left to Pence and another Trump surrogate, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, to explain on national television what their own candidate meant. \n \"When he talks about a rigged election, he's not talking about the fact that it's going to be rigged at the polls,\" Giuliani said. \"\"What he's talking about is that 80 percent to 85 percent of the media is against him.\" \n Pence, at a campaign event last Tuesday, waved away a woman's call for a revolution if Clinton wins. By Sunday he was saying explicitly: \"We'll accept the will of the American people.\" \n The Indiana governor also distanced himself from Trump on a pair of other issues. \n Pence acknowledged that evidence points to Russia being behind the hacking of Democratic emails. \"I think there's more and more evidence that implicates Russia and there should be serious consequences,\" he said. \n He also refused to join Trump's call for Clinton to be drug tested before Wednesday's third and final presidential debate. \n He vice presidential nominee was asked whether he, like Trump, wants Clinton drug tested. \n \"All I know for sure is that Donald Trump is going to be ready for the debate on Wednesday night,\" Pence replied. \n Pence appeared on NBC's \"Meet the Press\" and \"Fox News Sunday.\" Giuliani was on CNN's \"State of the Union.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Jill Colvin contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pence says GOP ticket will 'absolutely' accept vote outcome"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> A bad cable delayed a rocket launch from Virginia on Sunday by a NASA shipper eager to make a strong comeback. \n Orbital ATK was poised to fly its Antares rocket with a load of supplies for the International Space Station, after being grounded for two years. But seven hours before the planned liftoff, NASA announced the flight was off until Monday night. \n The cable \u2014 part of ground support equipment at the Wallops Island launch complex \u2014 will be replaced. \n This will be the first launch of the unmanned Antares rocket since one exploded shortly after liftoff in October 2014 on a station supply run for NASA. Orbital ATK replaced the Russian-built engines and made other changes to the rocket. In addition, the launch pad had to be rebuilt. \n NASA is paying Orbital ATK as well as the SpaceX company to deliver cargo to the station. SpaceX is currently grounded, meanwhile, because of a launch pad explosion last month. \n If the Cygnus supply ship launches Monday, it likely would hang out in orbit for several days before arriving at the space station. That's because of a crew launch from Kazakhstan on Wednesday, which takes priority. Three astronauts will join the three already at the orbiting outpost. \n The Cygnus \u2014 named after the swan constellation \u2014 has the ability to loiter in orbit for a few weeks, even a month if necessary, before joining the space station. \n Monday's liftoff would be at 7:40 p.m. Weather permitting, the launch should be visible along much of the East Coast, including Washington, New York and Boston. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bad cable delays comeback rocket launch from Virginia"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The U.S. Navy says it is investigating the overnight possible missile attack from Yemen on a group of American warships in the Red Sea. Adm. John Richardson, the Navy's top officer, said Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016, that the destroyer USS Mason appeared \"to have come under attack.\" \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> The U.S. Navy on Sunday began investigating a possible overnight missile attack from Yemen on a group of American warships in the Red Sea amid uncertainty about what transpired. \n The Red Sea and the nearby strategic Bab el-Mandeb strait, a crucial chokepoint for international shipping and crude oil, has been the scene of what the U.S. describes as at least two missile attacks from rebel-held territory in Yemen. American forces have fired back once with Tomahawk missiles, destroying mobile radar positions in the first shots fired by the U.S. in anger in the stalemated conflict. \n In the latest incident, a group of American warships in the Red Sea on Saturday night \"had indications of a possible inbound missile threat and deployed appropriate defensive measures,\" said Capt. Paula Dunn, a spokeswoman for U.S. Navy Forces Central Command. She said in a statement that all ships and sailors were safe, without elaborating. \n An American defense official told The Associated Press on Sunday that one of the ships saw on radar what sailors believed to be missiles being fired on it out of Yemen at night. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss details of the incident not yet made public. \n Yemen's Shiite rebels, known as Houthis, and their allies did not immediately comment on the incident Saturday. Previously, the Houthi-controlled SABA news agency ran dispatches denying rebels ever fired on American warships. \n Adm. John Richardson, the Navy's top officer, said earlier Saturday the destroyer USS Mason appeared \"to have come under attack.\" The Mason, an Arleigh Burke class of guided missile destroyer whose home port is Norfolk, Virginia, has been targeted twice before by missile fire out of Yemen, according to the U.S. Navy. \n Also known to be in the Red Sea near the Mason are the USS Nitze and the USS Ponce. \n Previously, an Emirati-leased Swift boat came under rocket fire near the same area as the Mason and sustained serious damage. The United Arab Emirates described the vessel as carrying humanitarian aid and having a crew of civilians, while the Houthis called the boat a warship. \n Yemen has been at war since September 2014, when the Houthis swept into the capital, Sanaa. A Saudi-led coalition of Sunni Arab nations launched a campaign against the Houthis in March 2015. \n Yemen's war is largely overshadowed by the conflict against the Islamic State group elsewhere in the Middle East, though rights groups have mounted increased criticism of the Saudi-led airstrikes in recent months for killing civilians. The U.N. and rights groups estimate the conflict has killed at least 9,000 people and displaced nearly 3 million more. \n The U.S. had been providing logistical and intelligence support to the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen, but had begun to withdraw its support in recent weeks over the civilian casualties from its air campaign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Navy investigates possible missile fire from Yemen"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n US Secretary of State John Kerry, left, waves as he is greeted by British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson ahead of a meeting on the situation in Syria, at Lancaster House in London, Sunday Oct. 16, 2016. Renewing the international effort to solve the conflict in Syria, heightened by the plight of people in the city of Aleppo, have made little progress but more talks are planned. \n LONDON >> The United States and Britain say they're considering new economic sanctions on the Syrian and Russian governments because of their conduct in war-ravaged Aleppo. \n After a 10-nation meeting in London, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said crimes against humanity were occurring daily in Syria. \n Kerry and British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson are expressing hope about a diplomatic effort with Russia and several other countries that Kerry began on Saturday. \n But they said they're planning to increase pressure on Russia and Syria to halt airstrikes on Aleppo, Syria's largest city. \n Johnson and Kerry said sanctions could be applied against Syria and its supporters. \n Johnson also spoke of trying to advance prosecutions of \"war criminals.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S., U.K. say they're weighing new sanctions on Syria, Russia"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n As a wave crashes into the wall Maxwell Gendreau, 12, left, brother Cameron, 11, middle, and father Eric, right, all brace for a soaking from the spray as the storm moves in at Silverdale Waterfront Park in Silverdale, Wash., on Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016. \n SEATTLE >> Thousands of residents in the Pacific Northwest remained without power Sunday as the remnants of a potentially apocalyptic typhoon began to fizzle out. \n Emergency crews in Oregon and Washington worked through the night to restore power lines and remove dozens of downed trees to clear roads that the storm had damaged over the past two days. \n Meteorologists still expected rain and wind gusts as high as 30 mph throughout Sunday, but conditions were not expected to be as bad as predicted. \n The storm was originally forecast to be one of the worst in recent history. \n Officials with the National Weather Service said in a statement they plan to study why the storm was not as extreme as anticipated over the next few weeks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thousands await power as less severe Northwest storm fizzles"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A key aspect of Methodism social justice comes into play when looking at Clinton's life as a public servant, says Stephen Gunter of the Duke Divinity School. \n WASHINGTON >> \n Hillary Clinton generally avoided direct criticism of Wall Street as she examined the causes and responses to the financial meltdown during a series of paid speeches to Goldman Sachs, according to transcripts disclosed by WikiLeaks. \n Three transcripts released Saturday as part of the hack of her campaign chairman's emails did not contain any new bombshells showing she was unduly influenced by contributions from the banking industry, as her primary rival Bernie Sanders had suggested. Still, her soft-handed approach in the speeches was likely to act as a reminder to liberals in the party of their concerns that the Democratic presidential nominee is too close to Wall Street to be an effective check on its excesses if elected. \n In October 2013, the transcripts show, Clinton told bankers she had \"great relations\" and worked closely with Wall Street as New York's senator, and said \"the jury is still out\" on whether the Dodd-Frank financial reforms put in place after the financial crisis had been the right approach. She said more openness from the start could have prevented the uproar on Wall Street over those reforms. \n \"What happened, how did it happen, how do we prevent it from happening? You guys help us figure it out, and let's make sure that we do it right this time,\" she said. \n Working to relate her speech to her audience, Clinton in one speech likened her experience as secretary of state to business and finance, saying \"it's like anybody's balance sheet,\" with both opportunities and potential liabilities. In one exchange, a conference participant from Texas told Clinton that she had \"the honor to raise money for you\" during her 2008 presidential campaign. \n Clinton responded, \"You are the smartest people.\" \n In the hard-fought Democratic primary, Sanders repeatedly called on Clinton to release the transcripts of her speeches to Wall Street, some of which earned her hundreds of thousands of dollars apiece. In an ironic twist, the transcripts ended up becoming public because her campaign aides had distributed them among themselves in an effort to prepare for any attacks she might face. Those internal campaign emails were then leaked in the hack of campaign chairman John Podesta's emails. \n Clinton's campaign neither confirmed nor denied that the speech transcripts and leaked Podesta emails are authentic, but there have been no indications that they were doctored before being released. Clinton's team has accused Russia's government of hacking Podesta's emails, and the Obama administration has formally blamed Moscow for a series of breaches affecting U.S. political groups. \n \"There is no getting around it: Donald Trump is cheering on a Russian attempt to influence our election through a crime reminiscent of Watergate, but on a more massive scale,\" said Clinton spokesman Glen Caplin. \n The transcripts, all from 2013, include speeches and question-and-answer sessions with Clinton at a \"Builders and Innovators Summit,\" an \"Alternative Investment Management Summit\" and a gathering of CEOS \u2014 all hosted by Goldman Sachs. \n A look at some of what Clinton said, according to the transcripts: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n APOLOGY TOUR \n Clinton told the innovators summit she'd had to go on \"The Clinton Apology Tour\" after WikiLeaks in 2010 published diplomatic cables leaked by Chelsea Manning, formerly known as Bradley Manning. Clinton noted that the cables showed U.S. officials characterizing some foreign leaders as \"vain, egotistical, power hungry, corrupt. And we knew they were. This was not fiction.\" \n \"I had grown men cry,\" Clinton recalled. \"I mean, literally. 'I am a friend of America, and you say these things about me?'\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n SYRIA \n Clinton, a few months after departing the State Department in 2013, told a Goldman Sachs conference in South Carolina that she would have liked to see the U.S. intervene in Syria \"as covertly as is possible for Americans to intervene.\" \n She added, \"We used to be much better at this than we are now. Now, you know, everybody can't help themselves. They have to go out and tell their friendly reporters and somebody else: Look what we're doing and I want credit for it.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n FILIBUSTER \n Clinton appears to call for eliminating the filibuster rules in the Senate that make a 60-vote threshold necessary to pass most items rather than a 50-vote majority. Clinton says \"we need to change the rules in the Senate\" and say presidential nominees as well as \"policies\" deserve \"an up-or-down vote.\" \n Republicans are already incensed that Senate Democrats recently changed the rules to eliminate the filibuster for most nominations, an extraordinary step known as the nuclear option. \n \u2014\u2014 \n CHINA \n In the June 2013 speech, Clinton said Chinese President Xi Jinping, who had taken over as the country's leader the previous fall, was \"a more sophisticated, more effective public leader\" than his predecessor, Hu Jintao. Clinton said she had watched Xi \"work a room,\" adding, \"you can have him make small talk with you, which he has done with me.\" She said Xi's experience of visiting Iowa in the 1980s \"was a very important part of his own development.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Emails show Clinton treading lightly with Wall Street talks"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Aya Tal-mason described her research on cancer-fighting drugs. At tuition-free Florida Atlantic University High School, all students can simultaneously earn their high school diploma and bachelor's degree. \n BOCA RATON, Fla. >> Aya Tal-mason's excitement as she describes her research on cancer-fighting drugs rivals her schoolmate Paige Fries' audible enthusiasm about her recently published science-fiction novel. Fellow student Hannah Herbst recently visited President Barack Obama to explain the inexpensive generator she designed that uses plastic spoons and the hydropower of streams to charge cellphones, giving remote villagers a link to the outside world. \n Not bad for a bunch of public high school kids. \n The teens attend Florida Atlantic University High School, which education officials believe is the nation's only school where all students can simultaneously earn their high school diploma and bachelor's degree. The National Association of Secondary School Principals knows of no similar program. \n About eight of each year's graduating class of 130 accomplish the dual-degree feat and nearly 100 percent graduate college by 19, about the time most university students are learning their town's best pizza joints. More than half enter graduate or professional school. \n Perhaps the best part \u2014 tuition and textbooks are free. \n \"When I was in high school, a lot of my friends would ask me, 'Why would you want to accelerate? Don't you want to move away from home and do the 'College Experience?'\" said Mahalia Sanon, 18, a recent FAU High grad who's about to earn her pre-pharmacy bachelor's degree. The child of a single mother, Sanon will soon start pharmacy school \u2014 she scored in the 93rd percentile on her entrance exam. \"Now that they see I am about to graduate with no debt, they are envious.\" \n About 700 eighth graders apply annually to FAU High and 140 are accepted based on their grades, their score on a college entrance exam and recommendations. Some come from as far away as Miami, a 50-mile daily commute each way. The state funds the school's $3.8 million budget, while students pay an annual $500 university activity fee. \n FAU Assistant Dean Joel Herbst, who oversees the program for the 30,000-student university, said prospective students and parents are warned about the dedication needed to succeed at the 12-year-old school. Most students spend hours daily studying or doing research and still participate in sports or extracurricular activities. Despite the demands, only about three freshmen drop out annually, Herbst said. After that, attrition is mostly students who move. \n \"If your heart is not in this, you are not going to last,\" said Herbst, who is Hannah Herbst's father. \n But the 530 students aren't just the children of the well-off and well-educated. The student body is racially and economically diverse. About a third of the students are below or near the federal poverty line and receive free or discounted lunches. Many have parents who didn't finish college. \n Ninth graders are mostly sequestered in the FAU High building, a block of classrooms at the university's edge. One recent day, the freshmen were completing work top-level juniors and seniors do at typical high schools, like in-depth looks at ancient empires and genetic studies of fruit flies. But the most important courses, the students and administrators agree, are symposiums on managing time and acting like a mature college student. \n Starting in 10th grade, the teens study mostly at the university \u2014 taking classes alongside students who might be a decade older \u2014 and receive dual high school and college credits. They don't get special treatment. In fact, they are told not to stand out except for excellent course work. Some try to hide their age, others don't. \n \"I won't lie about it. I am in an academic fraternity and everyone knows I am 17. It didn't change any friendships and I think professors actually respect you a little more because they know how hard you have worked to get here,\" said Ashley Amian, a high school senior and college junior majoring in political science who plans to be a lawyer. \n Tal-mason, a 16-year-old pre-med major, began researching cancer drugs through organic chemistry, the course that weeds out many would-be doctors. Tal-mason, a high school senior and college junior, said she visited professor Stephane Roche's office daily, peppering him with questions until he told her, \"That's not in the class. That is so high level I don't want to confuse you anymore.\" \n The university's medical school reserves five seats in each incoming class for FAU High grads. \n One stereotype bothers students \u2014 people think they're nerds. The administration brings in speakers who emphasize that being an academic hermit will limit their futures professionally and personally, no matter how smart they are. \n The FAU High students participate in all university activities except intercollegiate athletics \u2014 some join the orchestra, others appear in plays. One got elected to student government. \n The high school's athletic program has the usual sports except football (don't want these prized brains getting concussed, Herbst said) and baseball and softball (not enough interest). The high school also has homecoming, prom, talent shows and video game nights. \n Fries, the novelist, is also a top-flight soccer player. The 15-year-old high school sophomore and college freshman hopes to play her sport and study film and writing at Duke University after getting her Florida Atlantic degree. \n \"I feel there is balance,\" she said. \n Anthony Carnevale, director of the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce, notes approvingly that the FAU High students get support from faculty, have peers and live with their parents. Whatever self-consciousness they feel is outweighed by being told they are special enough to do the work. \n \"Being selected out for positive reasons has positive effects,\" he said. \"If you tell a kid they are smart, they get smarter.\" \n Herbst said interested Chinese, Thai and Dutch educators have visited the school, but U.S. inquiries are scant even though the universities' costs would be minimal. He thinks such schools would benefit the nation's brightest teens. \n \"I am kind of dumbfounded that (colleges) throughout the country don't have a program similar to this. The seats in every college class are not full. The teacher is already teaching. What are one, two, three, four more kids in that class? These kids bring significant value to the university and the university brings a tremendous amount of value to our program and our kids,\" Herbst said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Finish high school with bachelor's degree? At 1 school, yes"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Federal regulators announced new rules Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2016, governing the quickly growing prepaid debit card industry, an effort more than two years in the making, which should bring basic account protections to its customers that are often the poor and financially disadvantaged. \n Federal regulators recently announced new rules governing the prepaid debit card industry. It's a big change more than two years in the making that's expected to bring some basic account protections to its customers, who are often financially disadvantaged. \n Here are some things you should know: \n WHAT ARE PREPAID CARDS: \n Prepaid accounts are among the fastest growing consumer financial products in the United States, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which led the change. \n Sold widely in grocery stores, convenience stores and online, consumers load money onto these cards and use them as they do a debit card, making everyday purchases or to get cash. Prepaid accounts may also be loaded with funds by a third party, such as an employer. \n Prepaid debit cards have become increasingly popular over the last 15 years and have effectively replaced a traditional checking account for millions of Americans. \n Roughly $65 billion was loaded onto prepaid cards in 2012, the most recent year for which data are available. That's more than double the amount loaded in 2009, only three years before. It is expected to continue to grow. \n The cards are largely used by lower income Americans, who are statistically more likely to be young, from a racial minority and earning less than $25,000 a year, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts. \n WHAT'S NEW: \n Under the new rules, prepaid debit card issuers will have to provide their users with basic account information like balances and transaction history free of charge. Protections for lost or stolen cards will also be extended to prepaid debit cards. Fees for the cards will have to be more clearly disclosed on the packaging. \n The new rules apply to traditional prepaid cards as well as other electronic accounts that can store funds. The rules cover payroll cards, student financial aid disbursement cards and tax refund cards, as well as cards used to distribute social security benefits and unemployment insurance. \n WHY THE CHANGE: \n The CFPB said that until now these products largely lacked consumer protection under federal law. That's become a big problem as the industry has grown. \n Early prepaid cards carried extremely high monthly fees, and sometimes they even charged fees to load money onto a card. The RushCard, which was backed by hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons, suffered a massive technical glitch a year ago that stopped more than a hundred thousand customers from accessing their funds, sometimes for weeks. \n The industry's missteps have allowed more traditional banks and financial services companies to come out with their own prepaid cards, including JPMorgan Chase and American Express. But it's also raised the need for more protection. \n WHAT ELSE: \n The industry did win one significant concession: prepaid debit card issuers can still provide overdraft services, which would legitimize a small, controversial part of the industry. Only 2 percent of all prepaid debit cards allow for their customers to overdraft, according to the National Consumer Law Center. That percentage will likely expand. \n The new rules go into effect October 1st, 2017. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Changes coming to prepaid card market"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Signs are placed on seats as people wait for a charity event hosted by the Republican Hindu Coalition, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016, in Edison, N.J. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during the event. \n WASHINGTON >> \n Donald Trump keeps peddling the notion the vote may be rigged. It's unclear whether he understands the potential damage of his words, or simply doesn't care. \n Trump's claim, made without evidence, undercuts the essence of American democracy, the idea that U.S. elections are free and fair, with the vanquished peacefully stepping aside for the victor. His repeated assertions are sowing suspicion among his most ardent supporters, raising the possibility that millions of people may not accept the results on Nov. 8 if Trump loses. \n The responsibilities for the New York billionaire in such a scenario are minimal. Trump holds no public office and has said he'll simply go back to his \"very good way of life\" if Democrat Hillary Clinton wins. \n Instead, Clinton and congressional Republicans, should they retain control, would be left trying to govern in a country divided not just by ideology, but also the legitimacy of the presidency. \n As Trump's campaign careens from crisis to crisis, he's broadened his unfounded allegations that Clinton, her backers and the media are conspiring to steal the election. He's accused Clinton of meeting with global financial powers to \"plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty\" and argued his opponent shouldn't have even been allowed to seek the White House. \n \"Hillary Clinton should have been prosecuted and should be in jail,\" Trump tweeted on Saturday. \"Instead she is running for president in what looks like a rigged election.\" \n Trump is referring to Clinton's use of a private email system while serving as secretary of state. Republicans, and some Democrats, have harshly criticized her decision to do so, but the FBI did not recommend anyone face criminal charges for her use of a private email address run on a personal server. \n Trump has offered only broad assertions about the potential for voter fraud and the complaints that the several women who have recently alleged he sexually accosted them are part of an effort to smear his campaign. \n \"It's one big ugly lie, it's one big fix,\" Trump told a rally in North Carolina on Friday, adding later: \"And the only thing I say is hopefully, hopefully, our patriotic movement will overcome this terrible deception.\" \n Trump's supporters appear to be taking his grievances seriously. Only about one-third of Republicans said they have a great deal or quite a bit of confidence that votes on Election Day will be counted fairly, according to poll from the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. \n During a campaign event Tuesday with Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, a voter said she was deeply concerned about voter fraud and pledged to be \"ready for a revolution\" if Clinton wins. \n Pence waved away the woman's rallying cry, saying, \"Don't say that.\" And on Sunday, in an interview with NBC's \"Meet The Press,\" he said the campaign will \"accept the will of the American people, you bet.\" \n There is no evidence voter fraud is a widespread problem in the United States. A study by a Loyola Law School professor found that out of 1 billion votes cast in all American elections between 2000 and 2014, there were only 31 known cases of impersonation fraud. \n Trump's motivations for stoking these sentiments seem clear. \n One of his last hopes of winning the election is to suppress turnout by making these final weeks so repulsive to voters that some just stay home. Trump advisers privately say they hope to turn off young people in particular. This group leans Democratic but doesn't have a long history of voting and is already skeptical of Clinton. \n Trump is also likely considering how he would spin a loss to Clinton, given that he's spent decades cultivating a brand based on success and winning. His years in public life offer few examples where he's owned up to his own failings and plenty where he's tried to pass the blame on to others, as he's now suggesting he would do if he's defeated. \n Clinton appears increasingly aware that if she wins, she'd arrive at the White House facing more than the usual political divides. \"Damage is being done that we're going to have to repair,\" she said during a recent campaign stop. \n But that task wouldn't be Clinton's alone. \n The majority of Trump's supporters are Republicans. If he loses, party leaders will have to reckon with how much credence they give to claims the election was rigged and how closely they can work with a president whom at least some GOP backers will likely view as illegitimate. \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's office wouldn't say Saturday whether he agreed with Trump's assertions the election is being rigged. A spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said Ryan is \"fully confident the states will carry out this election with integrity.\" \n Republicans have already experienced the paralyzing effect of Trump stirring up questions about a president's legitimacy. He spent years challenging President Barack Obama's citizenship, deepening some GOP voters' insistence that the party block the Democrat at every turn. \n Jim Manley, a former adviser to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., recalled the skepticism some Republicans had about Obama. \"I'm afraid a President Clinton is going to start off with far too many people raising similar questions,\" he said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n EDITOR'S NOTE \u2014 White House Correspondent Julie Pace has covered politics and the White House for The Associated Press since 2007. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Julie Pace on Twitter at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC \n An AP News Analysis \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Analysis: Trump 'rigged' vote claim may leave lasting damage"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Hong Kong theme park says the world's oldest panda in captivity has been euthanized because her health was deteriorating. ocean Park says a veterinarian euthanized 38-year-old Jia Jia on Sunday, Oct. 16, 2016 evening to prevent further suffering and for ethical reasons. \n HONG KONG >> The world's oldest-ever panda in captivity was euthanized Sunday at the Hong Kong theme park where she lived because her health had deteriorated. \n Ocean Park said in a statement that a veterinarian euthanized 38-year-old Jia Jia to prevent further suffering and for ethical reasons. \n Guinness World Records recognized Jia Jia as the oldest giant panda to live in captivity. The average lifespan for a panda in the wild is 18 to 20 years, while in captivity it's 30 years, according to Guinness. \n Born in the wild, Jia Jia was taken to live at a wildlife reserve's breeding center in central China's Sichuan province in 1980, when she was around 2 years old. \n She and another panda, An An, were given to Hong Kong as a gift from Beijing in 1999, on the second anniversary of the city's handover from Britain to China. \n Pandas, a beloved symbol of China, were long considered one of the world's most endangered animals, although last month a leading international group lowered its classification to \"vulnerable.\" \n The International Union for the Conservation of Nature cited conservation efforts that helped the wild panda population jump to 1,864 in 2014 from 1,596 in 2004. However, the Chinese government rejected the group's decision, saying the panda's status was no less serious because its natural habitats have been splintered by human and natural causes. \n Jia Jia, who celebrated her birthday in August, had shown signs of poor health in her old age, including high blood pressure and arthritis, which required regular medication. Over the past two weeks, her condition had worsened significantly, with her weight falling as she stopped eating. \n \"This is a day we knew would eventually come, but it is nevertheless a sad day for everyone at the park, especially for the park's keepers who took care of her over the years,\" Ocean Park's chairman, Leo Kung, said in the statement. \n Three other pandas still live at Ocean Park \u2014 30-year-old An An, and Ying Ying and Le Le, both 11. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jia Jia, world's oldest-ever panda in captivity, dies at 38"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this artist impression provided by the European Space Agency, ESA, the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter , TGO, right, and its entry, descent and landing demonstrator module, Schiaparelli, center, approaching Mars. \n BERLIN >> The European Space Agency dispatched an experimental probe Sunday on the final leg of its quest to land on Mars, part of a mission aimed at exploring the red planet's atmosphere and searching for signs of life. \n The Schiaparelli lander separated from its mother ship as scheduled, flight director Michel Denis announced to applause at control center in Darmstadt, Germany. That set it on the way to a controlled descent to the surface on Wednesday. \n Schiaparelli will take images of Mars and conduct scientific measurements on the surface, but its main purpose is to test technology for a future European Mars rover. \n Schiaparelli's mother ship, the Trace Gas Orbiter, will remain in orbit \u2014 analyzing methane and other gases in the Martian atmosphere to help determine whether there is or was life on Mars. Methane is created by biological or geological activity and breaks down within a relatively short period of time once it reaches the atmosphere. \n The two craft are part of the ExoMars mission , a joint venture between ESA and Russia's Roscosmos space agency, and were launched in March. \n Landing a spacecraft on Mars is notoriously difficult. ESA's last attempted Mars landing with the Beagle 2 rover failed at the end of 2003. \n Beagle 2 disappeared during the landing process and was declared lost after several months. It wasn't located until January 2015, when new photos from an orbiter showed that it had reached the surface but failed to deploy fully and start communicating. \n ESA says that Schiaparelli will enter the atmosphere on Wednesday at a speed of nearly 21,000 kph (13,000 mph) before being slowed by atmospheric drag and then deploying a parachute and thrusters. \n The 1,272-pound lander is expected to collect data during its descent and operate on the surface for a few days. The lander carries sensors designed to measure wind speed and direction, humidity, temperature and electric fields. \n In the next stage of the ExoMars program, ESA plans to send a rover to Mars in 2020, equipped with a drill and instruments dedicated to geochemistry and the search for life. \n The prospect of finding life on Mars, even microscopic organisms, has excited scientists for some time \u2014 but so far none has been discovered. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "European lander released to begin final descent to Mars"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "Coast Guard and Fire Department crews are searching for a missing boater last seen swimming to shore with his uncle after their boat capsized Saturday evening off the North Kohala coast. \n Charles Locklar, 26, and his uncle were sailing a 10-foot skiff in high winds off Lapakahi State Park on Hawaii island, according to a news release today from the U.S. Coast Guard's 14th District. \n The uncle made it to shore and called 911 when he couldn't find his nephew, the Coast Guard said. \n The Hawaii County Fire Department alerted the Coast Guard at 7:45 p.m. Saturday, and an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter crew from Coast Guard Air Station Barbers Point was dispatched to search the area. The Coast Guard Cutter Kittiwake was diverted from another search on Maui to help off the Big Island. \n Air and ground crews from the Fire Department are also searching. Current weather conditions are east winds of 21 mph gusting to 31 mph with waves at a foot. \n Mariners have been asked to keep a sharp lookout and report any sightings to the Coast Guard Sector Honolulu command center at 808-842-2600. \n Meanwhile, the Coast Guard and others rescuers are continuing to search for missing free diver Josh Goodwin who disappeared Friday off Hana, Maui. \n The Coast Guard's 87-foot patrol boat Galveston Island is working with a 45-foot response boat and a Navy helicopter in that Maui search, according to Coast Guard Petty Officer Amanda Levasseur. \n \"They are still searching,\" she said. \"There has been no talk of stopping.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard searching for missing boater off North Kohala coast"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police cover the bodies of people that were killed when a pickup truck landed on them after it flew off a ramp to the San Diego Coronado Bridge as paramedics prepare to put an injured man on a gurney, background, at Chicano Park in San Diego on Saturday, Oct. 15, 2016. Four people were killed and nine were injured on Saturday after an out-of-control pickup truck plunged off the San Diego-Coronado Bridge and plowed into crowd gathered at a festival below, authorities said. \n San Diego \u00bb A member of the U.S. Navy was arrested after the pickup truck he was driving plunged off a San Diego bridge, killing four people and injuring nine at a festival below, authorities said. \n Authorities identified the driver as Richard Anthony Sepolio, 25, who was stationed at the naval base on Coronado Island across the bay from San Diego. His rank or job description was not immediately available. \n Sepolio was alone in the truck Saturday afternoon when he lost control and it struck a guardrail and fell 60 feet onto a vendor's booth at Chicano Park, California Highway Patrol Officer Jake Sanchez said. He was taken to the hospital with major injuries and was later arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs causing deaths and injuries, the officer said. It wasn't immediately known when Sepolio would be arraigned. \n \"It's horrible. It's horrific. We had innocent people down here having a good time and now they're gone,\" Sanchez said. \n The California Highway Patrol identified the deceased as a 62-year-old man and 50-year-old woman from Chandler, Arizona, and a 59-year-old man and 49-year-old woman from Hacienda Heights, a suburb east of Los Angeles. Authorities did not immediately release their names. \n Eight people on the ground were injured. One suffered major trauma and seven others had minor to moderate injuries, said Lee Swanson, a spokesman for the city's Fire-Rescue Department. \n Witnesses said the GMC pickup truck with Texas license plates landed on a vendor's booth set up for La Raza Run, a motorcycle ride that ends with a celebration at the park and typically draws hundreds of participants. The crash steps away from a stage where a rockabilly band was playing. \n \"I saw a truck come right off the freeway. It was going so fast it flew over the stage and landed in front of the stage on a tent, a booth that was set up,\" Chase Dameron told The San Diego Union-Tribune. \n He said four people in the booth were crushed by the truck. \n \"It was like a movie. It was like in slow motion,\" Dameron said. \"Where it hit, there was dust and debris and instant chaos and panic. People running crazy.\" \n Another witness said the truck hit the front end, bounced and landed on its side. \n Photos from the scene show the truck's front end crumpled and its hood popped open. \n The park is located beneath the bridge in a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood in central San Diego. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Truck plunges off San Diego bridge, killing 4 in crowd below"}

{"date": "October 16, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Media reports say an intruder outside the mansion of Miranda Kerr has been shot by a security guard, and Kerr wasn't home at the time. A Los Angeles Sheriff's Department spokesman said that an intruder at a Malibu residence Friday, Oct. 14, was shot three times after he stabbed a security guard late-morning Friday. Sgt. Jeff Delrio said Saturday he could not immediately provide the home address or confirm that the property was Kerr's residence. \n LOS ANGELES >> Media reports say an intruder outside the mansion of supermodel Miranda Kerr has been shot by a security guard, and Kerr wasn't home at the time. \n A Los Angeles Sheriff's Department spokesman said that an intruder at a Malibu residence Friday was shot three times after he stabbed a security guard late-morning Friday. Sgt. Jeff Delrio said Saturday he could not immediately provide the home address or confirm that the property was Kerr's residence. \n He said the security guard was stabbed near one of his eyes and both men were taken to a hospital. He said they are expected to be OK. \n Kerr is the former wife of actor Orlando Bloom. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reports: Shooting, stabbing at model Miranda Kerr's home"}

