{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "More than 18,450 Maui Electric customers experienced a power outage at 4:03 p.m Thursday. \n Areas affected by the power outage included West Maui, Kahului, Haiku, Kihei, Wailea, Hana and Upcountry. \n Maui Electric spokesperson Shayna Decker said the outage occurred when a generating unit tripped offline at the Maalaea Power Plant. \n She said the cause of the shift offline is under investigation. \n Decker said power was restored to a majority of customers by 5:04 p.m. \n \"Currently, we are waiting for more generation to be available to restore remaining customers,\" she said at around 9 p.m. Thursday. \n Decker said when the Maalaea generating unit tripped, it caused the electrical frequency on the system to drop suddenly, prompting a \"load shed\" to various parts of the island to protect the entire electrical system. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "More than 18,000 customers on Maui lose power"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "THE NEWS-REVIEW VIA AP \n Community members participate in a candlelight vigil for the victims of a house fire at a Riddle home on Wednesday in Riddle, Ore. Several children died in a house fire that day in an Oregon timber town and their mother, her husband and a 13-year-old sibling were critically injured. Authorities say the woman and her 13-year-old son have died. The man remains in critical condition. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> Here's the latest on a house fire in rural Oregon that killed four children (all times local): \n 10:15 p.m. \n Authorities say a woman and her 13-year-old son who were critically injured in a rural Oregon house fire have died. \n Erin Patrick with the Multnomah County Medical Examiner's Office told The Associated Press that 38-year-old Tabitha Howell and 13-year-old Andrew Hall-Young both died at a Portland hospital Thursday afternoon. \n Patrick says both died from injuries sustained in the early Wednesday fire that also killed four children ages 4 to 13. \n James Howell remained at the hospital Thursday for treatment of critical burns. \n Fire officials say a portable space heater was to blame. \n \u2014 \n 2:35 p.m. \n An aunt of four children killed in a house fire in a rural Oregon town says they were \"kind, outgoing and full of joy.\" \n Heather Hendrick said Thursday that she last saw her nieces and nephews in January for a post-Christmas family dinner. \n The blaze early Wednesday in the tiny timber town of Riddle killed the children who ranged from 4 to 13. \n Critically burned were their mother, Tabitha Howell, her husband James Howell and a 13-year-old sibling. One of the deceased children was a foster child. \n Fire officials say a portable space heater was to blame. \n Heather Hendrick is married to Tabitha Howell's step-brother. \n She says Tabitha Howell served in the U.S. Navy and works at a day care center. She's also studying at the Revivalist School of Ministry operated by Garden Valley Church. \n \u2014 \n 11:50 a.m. \n The fire chief in a rural Oregon town says a house fire that killed four children and critically burned three other people was caused by a portable space heater. \n Riddle Fire Protection District Chief Rich Holloway said Thursday on the fire district's Facebook page that the fire was caused by combustible materials placed too close to the heater. \n The authenticity of the post was confirmed by City Manager Kathy Wilson. \n Holloway says a component of the family's fireplace that circulated heated air back into the house had malfunctioned several days before. \n The family bought the space heater to stay warm until they could get the fireplace repaired. \n Four children ages 4 to 13 died in the blaze. \n Thirty-nine-year-old James Keith Howell, 38-year-old Tabitha Annette Howell and 13-year-old Andrew Hall-Young are in critical condition at a Portland hospital. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon mother, son succumb to injuries from fire"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An investigation found hundreds of foreign fishermen confined to boats and some living in subpar conditions. It also found some instances when fishermen weren't paid as promised. Both bills aimed to find ways to get more information about what's happening on the boats and to catch potential problems. \n Another Hawaii bill that sought more oversight of the state's commercial fishing industry has died. \n The bill would have required boat operators to provide contracts between foreign fishermen and employers. \n State Rep. Kaniela Ing said Thursday the House bill is dead because it wasn't scheduled for a final committee hearing before a legislative deadline. \n \"The lobby was out full force to kill this bill, just as I expected,\" Ing said. \"It's difficult because there's very few advocacy organizations for these sorts of migrant workers, so their voice is not as loud as the moneyed lobby behind the longline guys.\" \n The Hawaii Longline Association opposed the bill saying it wasn't the job of the state office that issues fishing licenses to review contracts. They also said the industry is already highly regulated by the federal government. \n In the past decade the leaders of the Hawaii Longline Association contributed more than $19,000 to state politicians' campaigns, mostly for gubernatorial candidates, according to state records. \n \"I think we all share an interest to ensure that there's safety for the crews of these boats, but we just felt like the bill was more of a federal issue,\" said Rep. Scott Nishimoto, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which killed the bill. \"I read through the bill and I didn't really see how collecting contracts in different languages would do anything to ensure their safety.\" \n A related Senate bill to restrict fishing licenses to people legally allowed to enter the country and to make potential licensees apply in person died Wednesday. \n An Associated Press investigation found hundreds of foreign fishermen confined to boats and some living in subpar conditions. It also found some instances when fishermen weren't paid as promised. \n Both bills aimed to find ways to get more information about what's happening on the boats and to catch potential problems. \n Having copies of fishermen's contracts would help the state determine whether the men are getting what they're promised and whether a human trafficking investigation should be launched, Ing said. But contracts with foreign fishermen are often held by overseas companies, making them difficult to obtain. Boat captains often contract with an international broker to provide workers, and then the broker has a separate employment contract with the workers. \n The longline industry also created its own universal contract to be signed by crew members and boat owners and said many boat owners have returned the contract. The industry contract includes space to record payments made and a phone number fishermen can call if they're victims of human trafficking. But critics say it's ineffective to have the industry police itself. \n Ing says he's surprised at the strong opposition to his bill. \"I was only asking for record keeping,\" he said. \"I wasn't even asking for regulation.\" \n Ing said he would attempt to resurrect the bill by adding it as an amendment to another bill later in the session. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Second Hawaii bill seeking fishing industry oversight dies"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KONA BREWING CO. \n The lawsuit says consumers purchased Kona Brewing beer because they believed it came from Hawaii. The lawsuit says Craft Brew's advertising and labeling is deceptive. \n A class-action lawsuit says Kona Brewing Company leads customers to believe they are buying made-in-Hawaii beer. \n The lawsuit filed earlier this week in California is against Craft Brew Alliance, which advertises, markets, distributes and sells the Kona brand. \n Craft Brew Alliance spokeswoman Jenny McLean won't comment on pending litigation. She explains that all packaged Kona Brewing beer is produced in Oregon, Washington state, New Hampshire and Tennessee. A Kailua-Kona, Hawaii brewery produces draft beer that's sold in Kona Brewing pubs and elsewhere in the islands. \n The lawsuit says consumers purchased Kona Brewing beer because they believed it came from Hawaii. The lawsuit says Craft Brew's advertising and labeling is deceptive. \n According to its website, Kona Brewing ensures freshness and minimizes its carbon footprint by brewing beer close to distribution markets. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kona Brewing sued for misleading drinkers seeking Hawaii-made beer"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sweden's left-leaning government is reintroducing a military draft for both men and women because of what Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist calls a deteriorating security environment in Europe and around Sweden. \n COPENHAGEN, Denmark >> Sweden's left-leaning government instituted a military draft for both men and women Thursday because of what its defense minister called a deteriorating security environment in Europe and around Sweden. \n Sweden abolished compulsory military service for men in 2010 because there were enough volunteers to meet its military needs. It has never had a military draft for women. \n The government said \"the all-volunteer recruitment hasn't provided the Armed Forces with enough trained personnel. The re-activating of conscription is needed for military readiness.\" \n In September, non-NATO-member Sweden stationed permanent troops on the Baltic Sea island of Gotland. Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist described the move as sending a signal after Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea and its \"increasing pressure\" on the neighboring Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. \n There have also been reports of airspace violations by Russia's military aircraft in the Baltics and a military buildup in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, which sits across the Baltic Sea from Sweden. \n About 20,000 people now work for the Swedish armed forces, 84 percent of them men and 16 percent women, according to the forces' website. But the armed forces lack 1,000 active troops as well as 7,000 reservists, according to Sweden's coalition government of Social Democrats and Greens. \n Under the plan approved Thursday, at least 4,000 18-year-olds could be called up each year. Swedes will still be able to volunteer for military service. \n The Swedish government, which often has described itself as \"feminist,\" said \"modern conscription is gender neutral and will include both women and men.\" \n Hultqvist said he had been inspired by neighboring Norway, which in 2013 introduced a law applying military conscription to both sexes. That made Norway the first NATO member to draft both men and women, joining a tiny group of countries around the world, including Israel. \n Conscription was introduced in Sweden in 1901, but had gradually wound down and was formally canceled 109 years later. During the Cold War era, nearly 85 percent of Swedish men were drafted into the army due to the nearby threat of the Soviet Union. The average term of service was around 11 months. \n In 2015, Sweden's military expenditure dropped to 1.1 percent of its gross domestic product, down from 2.5 percent in 1991 as the Cold War came to an end, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. \n On Tuesday, Micael Byden, head of Sweden's armed forces, said an additional 6.5 billion kronor ($718 million), or a 15 percent budget boost, was needed to increase the country's military's capabilities in the coming years. This was to be added to the 45 billion kronor ($5 billion) the government had earmarked for 2017. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sweden institutes military draft for both men and women"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean Ri Jong Chol, second from right, is escorted by police as he prepares to get into a car at Sepang district police station in Sepang, Malaysia today. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Malaysian authorities on Friday deported the only North Korean detained in the killing of the half brother of North Korea's leader, and issued an arrest warrant for another whose whereabouts are unknown. \n Ri Jong Chol, who had been held since Feb. 17, was released because of a lack of evidence to charge him and was handed over to immigration officials for deportation because he didn't have valid travel documents, Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said. \n Immigration Director-General Mustafar Ali confirmed that Ri had flown out of the country, escorted by two North Korean Embassy officials, and that \"he is blacklisted from entering Malaysia.\" \n Police never said what they believed Ri's role was in the attack on Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur's airport. Malaysia is looking for seven other North Korean suspects, four of whom are believed to have left the country on Feb. 13, the day Kim died. Two other people remain in custody, both women \u2014 one Indonesian, one Vietnamese \u2014 accused of smearing Kim's face with VX, a banned nerve agent considered a weapon of mass destruction. \n Police have said three other North Korean suspects, including an official at the North Korean Embassy and an employee of Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, are believed to still be in the country. \n National police chief Khalid Abu Bakar said an arrest warrant was issued Friday for the Air Koryo employee, Kim Uk Il. Police say he arrived in Malaysia on Jan. 29, about two weeks before Kim, the estranged half brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, was killed. \n Malaysian authorities have not said why they want to arrest Kim Uk Il. \n Kim Yong Nam's death has unleashed a diplomatic battle between Malaysia and North Korea. On Thursday, Malaysia announced it is scrapping visa-free entry for North Koreans. \n Malaysia's Foreign Ministry ramped up the pressure on Friday, saying it was \"greatly concerned\" about the use of the nerve agent. \n \"Its use at a public place could have endangered the general public,\" the ministry said in a statement. \n Malaysia has not directly accused North Korea of being behind the killing, but the statement came hours after a North Korean envoy rejected a Malaysian autopsy finding that VX killed Kim, saying the man probably died of a heart attack because he suffered from heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. \n Ri Tong Il, a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, also said that if VX had been used, others besides Kim would have been killed or sickened. \n The women charged with murdering Kim at an airport terminal were caught on grainy surveillance video smearing what Malaysian authorities say was VX on his face and eyes, though both reportedly say they were duped into thinking they were playing a harmless prank. \n Kim died within 20 minutes, authorities say. No bystanders reported falling ill. \n Malaysia's finding that VX killed Kim boosted speculation that North Korea orchestrated the attack. Experts say the oily poison was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons including VX. \n North Korea is trying to retrieve Kim's body, but has not acknowledged that the victim is Kim Jong Un's half brother, as Malaysian government officials have confirmed. \n North Korea refers to the victim as Kim Chol, the name on the diplomatic passport he was carrying when he died. Malaysian police are doing the same; they are seeking next-of-kin who could provide a DNA sample and make a positive identification, steps they say are needed for authorities to give up the body. Kim is believed to have two sons and a daughter with two women living in Beijing and Macau. \n Khalid, the national police chief, brushed off the North Korean envoy's claim of a heart attack. \n \"We have our experts who are qualified to determine the cause of death of Kim Chol. Our investigations, supported by expert reports, confirmed that Kim Chol was murdered. North Korea can say what they like but the facts remain,\" Khalid told the AP. \n Malaysian police said the female suspects had been trained to go immediately to the bathroom and wash their hands after attacking Kim. The police said the four North Korean suspects who left the country the day of the killing put the VX liquid on the women's hands. \n Police can't confirm whether the two women may have been given antidotes before the attack. An antidote, atropine, can be injected after exposure and is carried by medics in war zones where weapons of mass destruction are suspected. \n North Korea has a long history of ordering killings of people it views as threats to its regime. Kim Jong Nam was not known to be seeking political power, but his position as eldest son of the family that has ruled North Korea since it was founded could have made him appear to be a danger. \n Kim Jong Nam reportedly fell out of favor with his father, the late Kim Jong Il, in 2001, when he was caught trying to enter Japan on a false passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "One N. Korean deported, another sought in nerve-agent killing"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.spoke on Capitol Hill in Washington on June 23, 2016. \n WASHINGTON >> Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill was one of many Democrats taking umbrage today at the revelation that Attorney General Jeff Sessions had twice met with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during last year's presidential campaign, during a furor over that country's alleged interference in the election, and misled his colleagues about it during his confirmation hearing. \n But she went too far when she said she'd had no similar contacts in the decade that she'd been, like Sessions, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. \n A few hours after issuing the statement, McCaskill backed off a bit by qualifying her assertion in another tweet: \"Again, As senior member of Armed Serv, never received call or request from Russian Amb for meeting. Never met one on one w/him.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Democrat forgets her own Russian meetings"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence spoke before administering the oath of office to Energy Secretary Rick Perry, left, today in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Vice President Mike Pence used a private email account to conduct public business as Indiana's governor, according to public records obtained by the Indianapolis Star. \n The newspaper reported today that emails provided through a public records request show that Pence communicated with advisers through his personal AOL account on homeland security matters and security at the governor's residence during his four years as governor. \n The vice president's spokesman, Marc Lotter, said Pence \"maintained a state email account and a personal email account\" like previous governors in the state. Lotter said at the end of his term Pence directed outside counsel to review all of his communications to ensure that state-related emails were transferred and properly archived by the state. \n As President Donald Trump's running mate, Pence frequently criticized rival Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server as President Barack Obama's secretary of state, accusing her of purposely keeping her emails out of public reach and shielding her from scrutiny. \n Lotter said \"the comparison is absurd\" because Clinton had set up a private server in her home at the start of her tenure at the State Department and, unlike Clinton, Pence did not handle any classified material as Indiana's governor. \n But the governor's account faced security issues. Pence's AOL account was subjected to a phishing scheme last spring, before he was chosen by Trump to join the ticket. Pence's contacts were sent an email falsely claiming that the governor and his wife were stranded in the Philippines and needed money. \n The governor moved to a different AOL account with additional security measures, Lotter said, but has since stopped using the new personal account since he was sworn-in as vice president. \n The newspaper reported that the office of Pence's successor, Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb, released more than 30 pages from Pence's AOL account, but declined to release an unspecified number of emails because they were considered confidential. \n Public officials are not barred from using personal email accounts under Indiana law, but the law is interpreted to mean that any official business conducted on private email must be retained to comply with public record laws. \n The state requires all records pertaining to state business to be retained and available for public information requests. Emails involving state email accounts are captured on the state's servers, but any emails that Pence may have sent from his AOL account to another private account would need to be retained. \n At the end of his term, Pence hired the Indianapolis law firm of Barnes & Thornburg to conduct a review of all of his communications and that review is still ongoing, Lotter said. Any correspondence between Pence's AOL account and any aides using a state email account would have been automatically archived, he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pence used a private email account to conduct state business"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "A 29-year-old visitor from South Carolina was in serious condition after being rescued today in 4 to 6 foot surf at China Walls in the Portlock area, according to Honolulu Emergency Medical Services. \n The male visitor, who was exhaused and had swallowed ocean water, was with another swimmer and the two were treading water about 200 yards off shore at 12:40 p.m., when an Ocean Safety lifeguard swam out with his body board to assist them. \n The Honolulu Fire Department transported the visitor on a rescue watercraft to Maunalua Bay. He was treated by Honolulu Emergency Medical Services and transported to an emergency room. \n The second swimmer required no medical assistance, EMS said. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Visitor rescued in high surf off China Walls"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Middlebury College students turn their backs to Charles Murray, unseen, who they call a white nationalist, during his lecture in Middlebury, Vt. \n MIDDLEBURY, Vt. >> Hundreds of college students on Thursday protested a lecture by a writer some called a white nationalist, forcing the college to move his talk to an undisclosed campus location from which it was live-streamed to the original venue but couldn't be heard above protesters' chants, feet stamping and occasional smoke alarms. \n Speaker Charles Murray wrote \"The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life\" and \"Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010.\" The Southern Poverty Law Center considers him a white nationalist who uses \"racist pseudoscience and misleading statistics to argue that social inequality is caused by the genetic inferiority of the black and Latino communities, women and the poor.\" \n Murray hasn't responded to an email seeking comment. \n Middlebury College students turned their backs on Murray just as he started to speak Thursday and chanted \"Who is the enemy? White supremacy!\" \"Racist, sexist, anti-gay, Charles Murray, go away!\" and \"Your message is hatred. We cannot tolerate it.\" \n They continued their chants until the college announced that Murray would speak from another location on campus. Students continued their protests, drowning out the talk. \n More than 450 alumni also signed a letter calling the decision to have Murray on campus \"unacceptable.\" \n \"Both students and other community members came out to show that we are not accepting these kind of racist, misogynistic, eugenist opinions being expressed at our college,\" said student Elizabeth Dunn, a protest organizer. \"We don't think that they deserve a platform because they are literally hate speech.\" \n The student group American Enterprise Institute Club invited Murray, believing it's important to bring speakers from all intellectual and ideological backgrounds to campus, said Alexander Khan, its vice president. \n \"Our goal really was to get a conversation started, whether you believe in what Dr. Murray has to say or whether you vehemently disagree with him,\" he said. \n The Political Science Department co-sponsored the lecture. \n Middlebury College said the student group had a right to invite Murray and a sponsorship doesn't mean a department endorses a speaker's point of view. Middlebury President Laurie Patten, who said she attended in response to requests from a student and community members, called Murray's work deeply controversial. She said her attendance was not an endorsement of Murray's research and writings, adding she \"profoundly disagrees with many of Mr. Murray's views.\" \n The college said it was disappointed that the event was so heavily disrupted. \n \"We do respect the right of people to protest, to make their views heard, but ultimately not to disrupt an event to the point where it can no longer continue as designed,\" college spokesman Bill Burger said. \n Murray's talk was recorded so students can hear it later. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "College students protest speaker branded white nationalist"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "A 49-year-old woman was in critical condition and two children in serious condition, after the car she was driving struck an embankment off the H-2 Freeway near the Leleihua Golf Course overpass. \n The three were taken to Queens Medical Center, after the accident at 3:09 p.m. Wednesday. \n Honolulu police said the woman was out of Schofield Barracks. \n The SUV traveling south on the H-2 veered to the right, before it struck the embankment, then rolled several times. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman in critical condition after vehicle strikes embankment off H-2"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican Rep. Cory Maloy votes on the House floor, at the Utah State Capitol, in Salt Lake City. Utah's House of Representatives has approved changes to the state's stand-your-ground self-defense law making it clear that people don't need to try to run away before using force, including deadly force, against someone. \n SALT LAKE CITY >> Utah's House of Representatives has approved changes to the state's stand-your-ground self-defense law making it clear that people don't need to try to run away before using force, including deadly force, against someone. \n Republican Rep. Cory Maloy's proposal says a person doesn't need to back away before using force even if they have a safe way to escape. If someone is prosecuted for using force, Maloy's bill won't allow a court to hear evidence about whether the person tried to flee first. \n At least 22 states have stand-your-ground laws. They've have been scrutinized after high-profile shooting deaths like that of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida. \n Democrats voting against Utah's bill say they worry about any extra leeway for someone to use force against a perceived threat, citing the racial biases that minorities can face in communities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utah bill: Stand your ground OK even if safe escape possible"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Federal law enforcement agents enter the headquarters of Caterpillar, Inc., in Peoria, Ill., on Thursday, March 2, 2017, after a search warrant was executed at three Caterpillar facilities in central Illinois. \n CHICAGO >> Federal law enforcement officials raided three central Illinois facilities of manufacturer Caterpillar on Thursday as part of an investigation the company said may be related to business with its Swiss subsidiary CSARL. \n Officials from three federal agencies, some wearing jackets that said \"police, federal agent\", searched the Peoria, Illinois, headquarters of Caterpillar, one of the world's largest makers of construction and other heavy equipment. Facilities in East Peoria and Morton, Illinois, also were raided under a federal warrant, U.S. Attorney's office spokeswoman Sharon Paul said. \n \"We believe the execution of this search warrant is regarding, among other things, export filings that relate to the CSARL matter,\" Caterpillar said in a statement later on Thursday, referring to its Swiss subsidiary. \n Caterpillar spokeswoman Corrie Heck Scott said in an email that the company was cooperating with law enforcement. \n Paul said the agencies involved included the Internal Revenue Service's criminal investigation unit, the U.S. Department of Commerce Office of Export Enforcement and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s office of inspector general. She declined to comment further on the details of the investigation. \n The exact reason for the raid was unclear, but Caterpillar told the Securities and Exchange Commission in a filing last month that the IRS had notified the company it owed $2 billion more in taxes for the years 2010 to 2012 because of profits from its Swiss unit. Caterpillar said it would \"vigorously contest\" the tax bill. \n \"We believe that the relevant transactions complied with applicable tax laws and did not violate judicial doctrines,\" Caterpillar said. \n Two years ago the SEC notified Caterpillar that it was conducting an \"informal investigation\" relating to CSARL and asked the company to preserve relevant documents. \n A 2014 report by U.S. Senate Democratic staff said that Caterpillar had avoided paying $2.4 billion in U.S. taxes since 2000 by shifting profits to the affiliate in Switzerland. \n The report said Caterpillar paid PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP $55 million to develop the tax strategy. Under the strategy, Caterpillar transferred the rights to profits from its parts business to a wholly controlled Swiss affiliate called CSARL, even though no employees or business activities were moved to Switzerland, the report said. \n In exchange, CSARL paid a small royalty, and the income was taxed at a special rate of 4 to 6 percent that Caterpillar negotiated with the Swiss government, the report said. \n Before the arrangement, 85 percent of the profits from the parts business were taxed in the U.S., the report said. Afterward, only 15 percent of the profits were taxed in the U.S. The rest was taxed at the special rate in Switzerland, the report said. \n Last month, Caterpillar said in a filing with the SEC that it was \"vigorously contesting\" a notice from the IRS that it owed $2 billion more in U.S. taxes for the years 2010 to 2012 from profits earned by the Swiss unit CSARL. \n \"We believe that the relevant transactions complied with applicable tax laws and did not violate judicial doctrines,\" Caterpillar said. \n Shares of Caterpillar, which have risen 35 percent over the past year, went into steep decline just before noon as word of the raid on company headquarters and other facilities began to spread, falling almost 5 percent before recovering slightly to close at $94.36. \n In January, Caterpillar announced it plans to move its global headquarters and about 300 top jobs to the Chicago area after decades in Peoria. Caterpillar also scrapped plans to build a new headquarters in downtown Peoria, which is located about 175 miles southwest of Chicago. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Caterpillar offices raided in probe related to Swiss unit"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Baltimore Police Department Commissioner Kevin Davis, center, shakes hands with U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein after a news conference in Baltimore, Wednesday, March 1, 2017, to announce that seven Baltimore police officers who worked on a firearms crime task force are facing charges of stealing money, property and narcotics from people over two years. \n BALTIMORE >> They were just seven officers on a police force of more than 3,000, but the Baltimore detectives charged in a federal indictment with theft, fraud and conspiracy had an outsized crime-fighting role in a city plagued by violence. \n The U.S. Justice Department document calls into question each and every case touched by these men, with potentially catastrophic consequences for the city's already fragile criminal justice system. \n \"It's a nightmare,\" said Natalie Finegar, Baltimore's deputy public defender. \"There's going to be hundreds and we'll sort through every story.\" \n They were members of the Gun Trace Task Force, a unit dedicated to getting illegal guns off the streets of Baltimore, and were involved in hundreds of cases in the past two years. Federal prosecutors say they used their position to terrorize the community. \n The indictment describes them threatening the innocent, detaining people on false pretenses, stealing their money, faking police reports, lying to investigators and defrauding the department. \n The fallout had begun even before Finegar arrived at her office Thursday morning. Less than 24 hours after their surrender, a man waiting for her in the lobby said he'd been wrongfully arrested by one of the officers. \n The indictment announced by U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein on Wednesday says the accused officers roamed the streets robbing residents, filing phony reports to cover up their crimes and flagrantly disregarding reform efforts by turning off their body cameras. \n Prosecutors said in court Thursday that witnesses are \"terrified\" that the officers or their colleagues will retaliate against them, and that some of the officers had been \"tipped off\" to the federal probe investigation by other police officers and an assistant state's attorney. \n Assistant U.S. Attorney Leo Wise also said one witness the detectives dealt with testified that she didn't even realize they were police: \"She said she thought they were 'thugs who were going to rape and kill\" her,\" Wise said. \n Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby was not informed of the probe until the indictment was announced on Wednesday, Rosenstein said. Shortly thereafter, her office issued a statement saying the charges would have \"pervasive implications on active investigations and pending cases.\" \n Mosby told reporters Thursday that she hadn't heard about a member of her staff communicating with the officers. A spokeswoman for Mosby did not return multiple calls for more detailed comment. \n The officers charged with racketeering are detectives Momodu Gondo, Evodio Hendrix, Daniel Hersl, Wayne Jenkins, Jemell Rayam, Marcus Taylor and Maurice Ward. Gondo also is charged with participating in a drug conspiracy. \n U.S. Magistrate Judge Stephanie Gallagher ordered six of the officers to remain jailed pending trial due to the \"egregious breach of public trust.\" The seventh will have his detention hearing Friday. \n Rosenstein on Wednesday said his office \"quietly\" dropped five federal cases in which one or more of the officers were involved in arresting or charging the suspects, and indicated that there could be more. \n Defense attorneys are reviewing their cases to see what to do about any involving the officers. \n \"First, to make sure anyone with an open case \u2014 if they're incarcerated or if they're on the street and their lives have been on hold \u2014 there could be false allegations,\" Finegar said. \n \"Then, there are cases we've just recently handled while the investigation was ongoing, and there's substantial, credible evidence that these officers shouldn't have been allowed to testify and represent the police department,\" she said. \n \"In some cases, individuals took plea bargains because they thought they'd never be believed over a police officer. Or they've gone to trial and the attorney hasn't had the benefit to cross examine the officers about their credibility. It's so pervasive,\" Finegar said. \n Police Commissioner Kevin Davis said Wednesday that the officers represent only a tiny fraction of a force full of good and honest officers. But because the Gun Trace Task Force was responsible for removing guns from the streets, their fingerprints are everywhere. \n And as word of their charges spread in the department, officers weren't surprised, Davis said. \n Some of the officers have already cost taxpayers in settlements over abuse allegations. \n The Baltimore Sun reported in 2014 that the city settled three cases involving Hersl, including a complaint brought by a man who accused him of breaking his nose and jaw and a woman who said he broke her arm. \n Attorney Brian Bishop said Ward and Jenkins robbed hundreds of dollars and a Rolex watch from one of his clients, then took his car for a joy ride. A prosecutor suggested their credibility was in question after the officers' case against the client was dropped in November, Bishop said. \n Defense lawyer Ivan Bates said he's represented eight or nine clients arrested by these officers in the past two years. In one, he said they turned off their body cameras and threatened his client; in another, he said they illegally searched a home without a warrant. \n The state's attorney's office should never have allowed these officers to testify, Bates said. \n \"They knew these officers are dirty,\" he said. \"It's not as if these officers haven't been doing this for years, and the state's attorney's office should be ashamed to call the officers as witnesses.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jailing of Baltimore officers shakes criminal justice system"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rev. Ruth Santana-Grace, center, stands with other religious leaders as the Jewish Federation holds a 'Stand Against Hate' rally at Independence Hall, to protest the recent vandalism of Jewish cemeteries as well as hate crimes, Thursday, March 2, 2017, in Philadelphia. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Hundreds have turned out for a \"Stand Against Hate\" rally in Philadelphia in response to the recent vandalism of a Jewish cemetery and hate crimes around the country. \n A Jewish federation says it organized Thursday's rally to \"restore a sense of security and peace to our community.\" \n Over 100 headstones were recently discovered damaged at Mount Carmel Cemetery. Police haven't made an arrest or determined a motive. Jewish community centers and schools in at least a dozen states were also targets of bomb threats this past week, the fifth wave since January. \n At the rally, Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf called the cemetery vandalism \"the desecration of the values we all hold dear\" and the bomb scares \"threats against each and every one of us and our common humanity.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hundreds rally against hate after cemetery damage, threats"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The exterior of Brentwood High School in Brentwood, N.Y. where police were investigating the discovery of the remains of multiple Brentwood High School students in previous weeks. Federal agents said Thursday March 2, 2017, that they have caught the members of a violent El Salvadoran street gang who killed three teenagers last year, including two girls who were inseparable best friends at the high school. \n CENTRAL ISLIP, N.Y. >> Federal prosecutors said Thursday that they have captured the members of a violent street gang who killed three Long Island high school students last year, including two girls \u2014 inseparable best friends \u2014 who were attacked with a machete and baseball bats as they walked through their suburban neighborhood. \n Thirteen alleged members of local cliques of the MS-13 street gang were charged with a slew of violent crimes and seven murders over a five year period, prosecutors and police announced. \n Among the dead: Brentwood High School students Nisa Mickens, 15, Kayla Cuevas, 16, who were ambushed by a carload of other teens on Sept. 13, and their former schoolmate Jose Pena-Hernandez, 18, whose corpse was found on the grounds of an abandoned state psychiatric hospital following his disappearance in June. \n The killings came amid a national conversation about illegal immigration, and prosecutors revealed in a news conference that 10 of the 13 indicted suspects were citizens of El Salvador or Honduras who were in the U.S. illegally, including most of the people directly implicated in the murders. \n Last December, Donald Trump referenced the killings in Brentwood during a profile for his Time magazine \"Person of the Year\" award after being elected president. \n Two other killings of Brentwood youths, ages 15 and 19, whose bodies were discovered last year in secluded spots in the hamlet, remain unsolved. \n Gang violence has been a problem in Brentwood and some surrounding Long Island communities for more than a decade, but Suffolk County police and the FBI began pouring resources into a crackdown after the killings of the high school girls sparked outrage. \n \"While violence and brutality are trademarks of the MS-13 gang, the murders of these three teens are particularly disturbing,\" U.S. Attorney Robert Capers said in announcing the indictment Thursday. \n Cuevas was targeted last summer by a group of four gang members, including two juveniles, because she had been feuding with MS-13 members at school and on social media. The posse, which had been roving in a car looking for gang enemies, attacked when they came across her walking with Nisa in the street. \n \"(Nisa) Mickens was simply at the wrong place at the wrong time, hanging out with her childhood friend,\" Capers said. \n Robert Mickens, Nisa's father, said he felt blessed that police had made arrests. \n \"I've got some type of closure even though my daughter is not back. It's closure to my family,\" he said. \n Pena-Hernandez was an alleged MS-13 gang member who was lured to the grounds of an abandoned state psychiatric hospital by fellow gang members he thought were his friends, Capers said. Those friends turned on him and repeatedly stabbed him to death, he said. \n His death had gone largely publicly unmarked until police began discovering corpses in the weeks after Cuevas and Nisa died. \n Some people complained that police, school officials and others were not doing enough to stem the violence. Since then, police have arrested more than 125 suspected MS-13 gang members in Brentwood and elsewhere. \n The gang, also called Mara Salvatrucha, is believed to have been founded as a neighborhood street gang in Los Angeles in the mid-1980s by immigrants fleeing a civil war in El Salvador. It grew after some members were deported to El Salvador, helping to turn that country into one of the most violent places in the world. It is now a major international criminal enterprise with tens of thousands of members in several Central American countries and many U.S. states. \n One of Trump's priorities is a crackdown on immigrants who are in the country illegally and have committed crimes. He promised as much in his December interview with Time magazine, when he referenced a Newsday story about the killings. \n \"They come from Central America. They're tougher than any people you've ever met,\" he said. \"They're killing and raping everybody out there. They're illegal. And they are finished.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "MS-13 gang members indicted in slayings of 3 New York teens"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., meets with reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington before President Donald Trump's speech to the nation. \n WASHINGTON >> Where's the Republicans' embryonic health care bill? \n A maverick GOP senator and top Democrats staged made-for-TV scavenger hunts across the Capitol on Thursday for a draft of the measure, momentarily overshadowing months of labor by Republicans out to reshape the nation's health care system. Their goal: embarrass Republican leaders who have vowed to make the overhaul a transparent exercise and are struggling to line up support for it. \n \"It's the secret office for the secret bill,\" Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., proclaimed to reporters after being denied entry to the ground floor room where he said the measure was being shown to some lawmakers. An aide to Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., later said Paul was standing outside her office, not a hideaway for clandestine legislation. \n With Republican leaders hoping to unveil the legislation next week, part of the measure is being shown privately to GOP lawmakers without distributing copies. Party leaders often closely hold major bills while striking final compromises, but this was an unusually stealthy move aimed at preventing leaks of the measure, which would replace much of former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul with Republican proposals. \n House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden, R-Ore., who is letting panel Republicans see his portion of the measure, issued a statement that flashed his pique. He said assertions his committee \"is doing anything other than the regular process of keeping its members up to speed on latest developments in its jurisdictions are false.\" \n Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, whose House Ways and Means Committee is writing another part of the bill, noted he and Walden had briefed senators on Wednesday including Paul. \n \"Clearly every senator in that room knows exactly the direction we're going,\" Brady told reporters. \n Still, the secrecy surrounding the House draft presented a golden publicity opportunity to Paul, who like some other conservatives says the GOP plan doesn't go far enough in dismantling Obama's law. \n \"This is being presented as if this were a national secret, as if this were a plot to invade another country,\" Paul told the camera crews and reporters his office had alerted to his quest. \n In an interview this week with NBC's \"Today\" show, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said Republican leaders were \"not hatching some bill in a backroom and plopping it on the American people's front door.\" \n Also launching pursuit Thursday were No. 2 House Democratic leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland and other Democrats, who rummaged through the Capitol and a nearby House office building. Parts of their expeditions were streamed on social media. \n At one point, Reps. Frank Pallone, D-N.J., and Jan Schakowsky, D-Ill., were turned away from the offices of Walden and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif. At one point Rep. Joe Crowley, D-N.Y., claimed to have checked the men's room. \n \"They're just ducking us, they don't want us to see the bill,\" said Pallone. \n Thursday's histrionics came as Ryan and other GOP leaders try delivering on one of their and President Donald Trump's top political priorities, despite lingering disputes among Republicans. \n At a closed-door conference, Ryan told Republicans that leaders would draft the overhaul legislation this weekend. Lawmakers have said the goal is for the two House committees to stage votes next week in hopes of pushing the legislation through the House and to the Senate before an early April recess. \n One conservative foe of the bill, Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., said leaders pushed rank-and-file lawmakers hard Thursday to back the bill. He said leaders showed clips of Trump's congressional address on Tuesday, when he embraced key principles of the GOP plan. \n This was \"very unconvincing,\" said Massie. \n One of the most contentious remaining disputes is a new tax sought by Ryan to be imposed on part of the value of expensive employer-provided health care plans. Many Republicans are reluctant to vote for a tax increase \u2014 a reliable way to invite challengers in primary elections. \n Obama's law expanded Medicaid to more lower-income people, a move that 31 states accepted \u2014 along with billions in added federal payments to cover it. The GOP plan would provide money for those states and for the 19 states \u2014 mostly run by Republicans \u2014 that didn't expand Medicaid. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP, Democrat foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke while aboard the nuclear aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford, today, at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport, Va. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump painted an overly bleak picture of the condition of the armed forces today as he made his case for military expansion. \n A look at some of his statements from the Gerald R. Ford, a $12.9 billion aircraft carrier being built in Newport News, Virginia: \n The Navy's top officer, Adm. John Richardson, has said repeatedly that the Navy is the world's finest. He also has said the Navy must adapt to a world of changing security threats. Richardson's main focus has been on sharpening and changing the way sailors think about the nature of war, rather than relying on bigger budgets. \n \"We will not be able to 'buy' our way out of the challenges that we face,\" he wrote in a January 2016 plan for maintaining U.S. naval superiority. \n The proposed expansion pales in comparison with skyrocketing increases in earlier times. Military spending consumed 43 percent of the economy in 1944, during World War II, and 15 percent in 1952, during the Korean War. It was 3.3 percent in 2015, says the World Bank. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: U.S. military not as threadbare as Trump says"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE \n A Jaguar photographed by a motion-detection cameras in the Dos Cabezas Mountains in southern Arizona. Wildlife officials say they have evidence of a rare jaguar sighting in the United States. \n PHOENIX >> Wildlife officials say they have evidence of a rare jaguar sighting in the United States, giving conservationists hope that the endangered cat is re-establishing itself here. \n The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service released a photo Thursday from a trail camera that was taken in November and recently retrieved. \n It shows the spotted cat wandering through the Dos Cabezas Mountains in Arizona about 60 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border. Fish and Wildlife spokesman Jeff Humphrey says it's the farthest north of the border that a jaguar has been seen in decades. \n \"The significance is that we're getting a clearer understanding of where jaguars occur in the borderline area,\" Humphrey said. It's been decades since a jaguar was spotted in that mountain range, he said. \n Officials say they can't tell the jaguar's gender or age from the photo. The two other jaguars that have been recently spotted were both male, and Arizona Game and Fish officials have said a female jaguar hasn't been spotted in decades. \n But conservationists think the latest sighting is evidence that the jaguar is returning to the U.S. after decades away. They say a possible border wall could stop that. \n \"What it means is that this majestic animal is trying to return to its homelands in the United States. There is habitat in the United States for this animal, for this beautiful cat,\" said Bryan Bird, the southwest program director for Defenders of Wildlife. \n Bird said he hopes the government will consider the fate of jaguars if a border wall is built, as President Donald Trump has promised. \n He said it's likely that the three jaguars spotted in the U.S. have come from Mexico through rugged areas where it would be difficult to build a wall anyway. \n Bird also said he hopes the latest discovery will persuade the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to amend its proposed jaguar recovery plan, which the Defenders of Wildlife says does not do enough. \n The proposed plan is focused on efforts to sustain habitat, eliminate poaching and improving social acceptance of the animal rather than recommending reintroduction. \n The plan was published on Dec. 20 and is up for public comment until March 20. \n The first jaguar to be recently seen, dubbed by wildlife conservations as \"El Jefe\" \u2014 Spanish for \"the boss\" \u2014popped up in the Whetstone Mountains in southeastern Arizona in 2011 when he was about 3 years old. He was seen again in the Santa Rita Mountains south of Tucson around September 2015. \n A trail camera photo taken on Dec. 1 in a mountain range near Fort Huachuca, the Army installation about 75 miles southeast of Tucson, captured a second jaguar that was seen on camera again in January. \n Around seven jaguars have been documented in southern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico since 1996. \n Arizona, New Mexico and other parts of the southwestern U.S. were home to jaguars before habitat loss and predator control programs aimed at protecting livestock eliminated them over the last 150 years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Agency reports rare jaguar sighting in mountains of Arizona"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amazon's cloud-computing service Amazon Web Services experienced problems in its eastern U.S. region, Tuesday, Feb. 28, 2017, causing widespread problems for thousands of websites and apps. \n NEW YORK >> Amazon says an incorrectly typed command during a routine debugging of its billing system caused the five-hour outage of some Amazon Web Services servers on Tuesday. \n In a summary posted online, the Seattle company says a command meant to remove a small number of servers for one of its S3 subsystems was entered incorrectly and a larger set of servers was removed. A full restart was required, which took longer than expected due to how fast Amazon Web Services has grown over the past few years. \n Amazon says it is making changes to its system to make sure incorrect commands won't trigger an outage of its web services in the future. \n Amazon is the world's largest provider of cloud services, which entails hosting companies' computing functions on remote servers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Typo caused Amazon's big cloud-computing outage"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump gestured as he spoke to Navy and shipyard personnel aboard the nuclear aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport News, Va. today. The ship which is still under construction and is due to be delivered to the Navy later this year. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump talked with Capt. Richard \"Rick\" McCormack during a tour of the nuclear aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford, today, at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport News, Va. Trump traveled to Virginia to meet with sailors and shipbuilders on the aircraft carrier, which is scheduled to be commissioned this year after cost overruns and delays. \n NEWPORT NEWS, Va. >> President Donald Trump pledged to boost defense spending as he basked in the nation's military might aboard a next-generation Naval aircraft carrier today.  \n Wearing an olive green military jacket and blue ball cap, Trump vowed to mount \"one of the largest\" defense spending increases in history. \n \"Hopefully it's power we don't have to use, but if we do, they're in big, big trouble,\" Trump said. \n Trump spoke from the Gerald R. Ford, a $12.9 billion warship that is expected to be commissioned this year after cost overruns and delays. He touted his spending plans, saying he would provide \"the finest equipment in the world\" and give the military the \"tools you need to prevent war.\" \n The president also toured the carrier and met with sailors and military leaders. He saluted the sailors as he arrived on the carrier. \n Before his remarks, Trump was asked about the revelation that Attorney General Jeff Sessions twice talked with Moscow's U.S. envoy during the campaign, contact that seems to contradict Sessions' sworn statements to Congress during his confirmation hearings. \n While there were mounting calls for Sessions to resign or recuse himself, Trump stood by Sessions today, saying he had \"total\" confidence in his attorney general. Asked if Sessions should recuse himself, Trump said: \"I don't think so.\" \n Trump also said he \"wasn't aware\" that Sessions had spoken to Russia and said that he \"probably did\" speak truthfully to the Senate. \n During his trip to Newport News, Trump was joined aboard Air Force One by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. \n A draft budget plan released earlier this week by the White House would add $54 billion to the Pentagon's projected budget, a 10 percent increase. The U.S. currently spends more than half trillion dollars on defense, more than the next seven countries combined. \n \"To keep America safe, we must provide the men and women of the United States military with the tools they need to prevent war,\" Trump said in his address to Congress on Tuesday night. \n Trump, in his 2016 campaign, repeatedly pledged to rebuild what he called the nation's \"depleted\" military and told supporters at Regent University in Virginia Beach in October that the region's naval installations would be \"right at the center of the action with the building of new ships.\" \n He often argued that the U.S. military is too small to accomplish its missions and pledged to put the Navy on track to increase its active-duty fleet to 350 ships, compared to the current Navy plan of growing from 272 ships to 308 sometime after 2020. \n The PCU Gerald R. Ford CVN 78, located at Newport News Shipbuilding, will be the first of the Navy's next generation of aircraft carriers and is expected to accommodate some 2,600 sailors. \n Trump's speech to a joint session of Congress, his first as president, included his past calls for repealing the \"defense sequester,\" or across-the-board budget cuts instituted by Congress. He will need the repeal to achieve the kinds of increased defense spending that he is seeking. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump, aboard Navy carrier, vows to boost defense spending"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Finance Committee member Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, questions Treasury Secretary-designate Steven Mnuchin on Capitol Hill in Washington, during his confirmation hearing before the committee. \n WASHINGTON >> A senior Senate Democrat is asking the Treasury Department to evaluate whether President Donald Trump and his family's business associates and possible investors from Russia and other countries have violated U.S. laws against financing terrorism, money laundering and other illicit activities. \n Trump's refusal to jettison or disclose investments that create potential conflicts of interest raises concern over his extensive international holdings, Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio said in a letter Thursday to the new Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin. Brown is the senior Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee. \n Brown asked Mnuchin whether he has requested or received from Trump and his family a complete list of their investors and business partners. \n The Treasury Department has responsibility to enforce U.S. laws and sanctions against terrorist financing, bank secrecy and money laundering. \n A Treasury spokesman didn't immediately return a request for comment Thursday. \n \"Given the potential conflicts with (U.S.) laws posed by the vast holdings and business activities of the president and his family, have they provided you \u2014 or have you requested from them and received \u2014 a comprehensive list of their investors, business partners, politically exposed persons and related actors?\" Brown asked Mnuchin in the letter. \"It is in the interest of the Trump family and the American people that Treasury independently assess any risks associated with these investors.\" \n If he hasn't already done so, Brown asked Mnuchin to request from Trump a full list, so that the Treasury, other regulators and U.S. intelligence officials can assess the foreign partners and investors. \n Brown cited a 2008 statement by son Donald Trump Jr. that Trump businesses \"see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.\" He asked whether ownership or investment deals with Russians might allow \"opportunities for economic leverage over the president or any of his family members or associates.\" \n Trump visited construction sites and met with city officials during visits to Russia, and he presided at a Miss Universe pageant. But he didn't strike any real estate deals, though he discussed several deals in three visits dating to 1987. \n Russia as well as several Russian leaders and business executives have come under international and U.S. sanctions in recent years. \n Trump has been shadowed by questions about potential ties to Russia since winning the election in November. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled in the campaign in an effort to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. Federal investigators have been looking into possible contacts between Trump advisers and Russia. \n Brown said the concerns aren't limited to Russia, noting the family-owned Trump Organization's array of investments and business ties around the world. \n Through it, Trump has interests in some 500 companies in about 20 countries, forming a complex and opaque empire scattered around the globe. His holdings create a tangle of potential conflicts of interest without precedent in modern U.S. history. \n Trump has his name on hotels, residential towers and resorts stretching from South Korea and the Philippines in Asia to Uruguay in South America and Turkey in the Middle East. Indonesia, Panama and India are among the other locations where he has struck deals. \n Many of the Trump Organization companies have no business operations and are just shells set up to hold stakes in other companies, possibly to provide legal and tax protection. Trump owns little overseas. He has preferred to strike licensing deals that entail little more than renting out his name for hefty fees. \n Ethics experts note the possibility that Trump might be tempted to shape regulations, taxes and foreign policy to enrich himself or his business partners. Foreign governments could seek to influence him by rewarding or punishing his business interests in their countries. \n The experts have called for Trump to sell off his assets and place his investments in a blind trust, an entity that his family would not control. That's what previous presidents have done. Trump hasn't been willing to go that far. He has said he will not be involved in day-to-day company operations and will leave that responsibility to his adult sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr. Trump hasn't addressed the ethical minefield of whether he would retain a financial interest in his Trump Organization. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senator asks Treasury to examine Trump foreign associates"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions spoke at the Justice Department in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions spoke, Tuesday, at the National Association of Attorneys General annual winter meeting, in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions paused while speaking at the National Association of Attorneys General annual winter meeting, Feb. 28, in Washington. Sessions had two conversations with the Russian ambassador to the United States during the presidential campaign. \n WASHINGTON >> Under growing pressure from Democrats and Republicans alike, Attorney General Jeff Sessions agreed today to recuse himself from an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. His action followed revelations he twice met with the Russian ambassador and didn't say so when pressed by Congress. \n Sessions rejected any suggestion that he tried to mislead anyone about his contacts with the Russian, saying, \"That is not my intent. That is not correct.\" \n The attorney general said he made his decision after his staff recommended that he recuse himself from any investigation related to the Trump campaign, since he had been involved in that campaign. \n Sessions added that his announcement \"should not be interpreted as confirmation of the existence of any investigation.\" \n The White House has stood behind Sessions, though officials said they first learned about his contacts with the ambassador from a reporter Wednesday night. President Donald Trump said he had \"total\" confidence in him and didn't think he needed to step aside from the investigation. \n The Justice Department has maintained there was nothing improper about Sessions' contacts or his answers to Congress, while the continuing allegations of Russian interference in American politics spurred Democratic calls for Sessions not only to recuse himself but to resign. \n Sessions has faced increasing demands that he resolve the seeming contradiction between his two conversations in the summer and fall with Moscow's U.S. envoy, Sergey Kislyak, and his sworn statements to Congress in January, when he said he had not had communications with Russians during the campaign. \n Calling for Sessions to resign, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi accused him of \"lying under oath.\" Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said a special prosecutor should be appointed to examine whether the federal investigation into the Kremlin's meddling in the U.S. election \u2014 and into possible contacts between Trump associates and Russians \u2014 had been compromised by Sessions. Democrats also sought a criminal perjury investigation. \n \"If there was nothing wrong, why don't you just tell the truth?\" Schumer said. Sessions' testimony \"was definitely extremely misleading to say the least.\" \n And more than a half dozen Republican lawmakers, including some who consider themselves personally close to Sessions, urged him to recuse himself from the Justice Department probe. They include Sen. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, who said that though he found it impossible to believe that Sessions could have colluded with Russia, \"If there is an investigation, he probably shouldn't be the person leading it.\" \n The news comes on the heels of what had been the high point of Trump's young presidency: a well-received address to Congress Tuesday night that energized Republicans and appeared to wipe away some lawmakers' concerns about the administration's tumultuous start. \n Trump has been trailed for months by questions about potential ties to Russia. He's vigorously denied being aware of any contacts his associates had with Russia during the campaign and has also insisted he has no financial ties to Russia. \n The Justice Department acknowledged two separate Sessions interactions with Kislyak, both after cybersecurity firms had concluded that Russian intelligence agencies were behind cyber-hacking of the Democratic National Committee. \n The first occurred after a Heritage Foundation event during the Republican National Convention in July, when the department says a group of envoys \u2014 including the Russian ambassador \u2014 approached Sessions. The second was a September conversation, which the department likened to the more than 25 conversations Sessions had with foreign ambassadors last year as a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. \n While there is nothing necessarily nefarious or even unusual about a member of Congress meeting with a foreign ambassador, typically members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee meet with foreign ambassadors, not Armed Services Committee lawmakers, whose responsibility is oversight of the military and the Pentagon. Congressional contact with Russian officials was limited after the invasion of Crimea and due to Moscow's close relationship with Syria, a pariah for much of the West. \n But Sessions, an early supporter of Trump's candidacy and a policy adviser during the campaign, did not disclose those discussions at his Senate confirmation hearing in January when asked what he would do if \"anyone affiliated\" with the campaign had been in contact with officials of the Russian government. \n Sessions replied that he had not had communications with the Russians, and answered \"no\" in a separate written questionnaire when asked about contacts regarding the election. \n White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders called the disclosure of the talks with Kislyak \"the latest attack against the Trump administration by partisan Democrats.\" \n Dmitry Peskov, the spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin, said it was normal for Russian diplomats to meet with U.S. lawmakers. A spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, told AP that meetings with American political figures were part of the embassy's \"everyday business.\" \n Revelations of the contacts, first reported by The Washington Post, came amid a disclosure by three administration officials that White House lawyers have instructed aides to Trump to preserve materials that could be connected to Russian meddling in the American political process. \n The officials who confirmed that staffers were instructed to comply with preservation-of-materials directions did so on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly disclose the memo from White House counsel Don McGahn. \n At the confirmation hearing in January, Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., asked Sessions about allegations of contact between Russia and Trump aides during the 2016 election. \n Sessions said, \"I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I didn't have, did not have communications with the Russians, and I'm unable to comment on it.\" \n AP Writers Richard Lardner, Mary Clare Jalonick, Andrew Taylor and Stephen Ohlemacher contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sessions steps aside from Russia-contact investigation"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Energy Secretary Rick Perry, left, and Housing and Urban Development Secretary-designate Ben Carson applauded on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, before President Donald Trump's address to a joint session of Congress. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Housing and Urban Development Secretary-designate Ben Carson testified on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Two of President Donald Trump's former rivals for the GOP White House nomination won Senate confirmation today to join his administration. \n Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson was confirmed as secretary of the Department of House and Urban Development on a vote of 58-41. A few hours later, the Senate backed former Texas Gov. Rick Perry to be energy secretary, 62-37. \n Carson and Perry are the 17th and 18th of Trump's 22 Cabinet and Cabinet-level nominations to win Senate approval. \n Carson has never held public office and has no housing policy experience. Republicans have praised the life story of a man who grew up in inner-city Detroit with a single mother who had a third-grade education. \n Perry, who once pledged to eliminate the department, has repeatedly promised be an advocate for the agency and to protect the nation's nuclear stockpile. Perry also pledged to rely on federal scientists, including those who work on climate change. \n Perry, who served 14 years at Texas governor, has said he will seek to develop American energy in all forms, from oil, gas and nuclear power to renewable sources such as wind and solar power. \n Democrats say they accept Perry's disavowal of his 2011 pledge to abolish the department, but they worry he may not stand up to GOP proposals to slash the department's budget. \n Carson, 65, will lead an agency with some 8,300 employees and a budget of about $47 billion. The department provides billions of dollars in housing assistance to low-income people through vouchers and public housing. It also enforces fair housing laws and offers mortgage insurance to poorer Americans through the Federal Housing Administration, part of HUD. \n Trump lauded Carson last week, calling him a \"totally brilliant neurosurgeon\" who has saved many lives. \n \"Ben is going to work with me very, very closely. And HUD has a meaning far beyond housing. If properly done, it's a meaning that's as big as anything there is, and Ben will be able to find that true meaning and the true meaning of HUD as its Secretary,\" Trump said. \n Carson has not shared specific plans publicly for the department under his leadership. \n At his confirmation hearing, he told lawmakers that he envisioned forging a more \"holistic approach\" to helping people and developing \"the whole person.\" He didn't offer many details. \n Perry, 66, told a Senate committee that he regrets his infamous statement about abolishing the department and insisted it performs critical functions, particularly in protecting and modernizing the nation's nuclear stockpile. \n During Perry's tenure as governor, Texas maintained its traditional role as a top driller for oil and natural gas, while also emerging as the leading producer of wind power in the United States and a top provider of solar power. \n Under questioning from Democrats, Carson said HUD's rental assistance is \"essential\" to millions of Americans and that the department has a lot of good programs. But he added, \"We don't want it to be way of life. \u2026 We want it to be a Band-Aid and a springboard to move forward.\" \n He also said he'd like to see more partnerships with the private sector and religious groups. \n The soft-spoken Carson, the only black major-party candidate in the White House race, grew up poor. He went on to attend Yale University and the University of Michigan Medical School before becoming the first African-American named as the head of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore. \n In 1987, Carson became famous for pioneering surgery to separate twins joined at the back of the head. In 2013, he entered the national political spotlight during the National Prayer Breakfast when he railed against the modern welfare state, with President Barack Obama sitting just feet away. \n GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who leads the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said Perry was a strong leader with a record of getting results. \n Democrats and environmental groups have derided Perry's nomination, calling him a steep drop-off from the two renowned physicists who preceded him as energy chief, Steven Chu and Ernest Moniz. \n Perry earned a bachelor's degree in animal science from Texas A&M University, where he was also a member of the Corps of Cadets and a Yell Leader. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate confirms Carson, Perry for housing, energy posts"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rachel Dolezal, a leader of the Human Rights Education Institute, stood in front of a mural she painted at the institute's offices in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho in July 2009. Court documents show Dolezal legally changed her name to Nkechi Amare Diallo on Oct. 2016. \n SPOKANE, Wash. >> Former Spokane, Washington, NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal, who resigned amid criticism that she was passing herself off as black, has changed her name to Nkechi Amare Diallo. \n Court documents show a judge granted her request on Oct. 7, 2016. Her new name has origins in Africa. \n The former Dolezal has acknowledged that she is \"Caucasian biologically\" but says she identifies as black. \n Her race became a national topic of conversation in 2015 after a local news reporter questioned her on camera about her background. \n She told Britain's The Guardian newspaper last week that that she can't find a job and the only work she has been offered is in reality TV and porn. \n Her memoir is set to be released later this month. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name"}

{"date": "March 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Thursday, Dec. 1, 2016, file photo, West Papuan protesters scuffle with the police during a rally calling for the remote region's independence, in Jakarta, Indonesia. Seven Pacific island nations have called for a U.N. investigation into allegations of human rights abuses in Indonesia's West Papua and Papua provinces, where a separatist movement has simmered for decades. \n JAKARTA, Indonesia >> Seven Pacific island nations have called for a U.N. investigation into allegations of human rights abuses in Indonesia's West Papua and Papua provinces, where a separatist movement has simmered for decades. \n A statement to a session of the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva, read on behalf of the seven states by Vanuatu's Justice Minister Ronald Warsal, accused Indonesia of serious human rights violations of indigenous Papuans including extrajudicial executions of activists and beatings and fatal shootings of peaceful protesters. \n The statement Wednesday called on the council to request a comprehensive report from the high commissioner for human rights and Indonesia's cooperation in providing unfettered access to the two provinces, which independence supporters refer to collectively as West Papua. \n In a right of reply, the Indonesian delegation accused Vanuatu of \"blatantly using human rights issues to justify its dubious support for the separatist movement in Papua\" and said the government's record of protecting human rights \"speaks for itself.\" Pacific island leaders angered Indonesia last year when they used their speeches to the U.N. General Assembly to criticize Indonesia's rule in West Papua. Jakarta accused them of interfering in Indonesia's sovereignty and supporting groups that carry out armed attacks. \n Warsal, who spoke on behalf of Vanuatu, Tonga, Palau, Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, Nauru and the Solomon Islands, said they also wanted to highlight the Indonesian policy of encouraging the migration of Javanese and other ethnic groups, which has led to the dramatic outnumbering of indigenous Papuans in their own land. \n The Indonesian government \"has not been able to curtail or halt these various and widespread violations,\" he said. \"Neither has that government been able to deliver justice for the victims.\" \n Indonesia maintains a tight grip on West Papua and restricts journalists from reporting there. However, the independence movement appears to be increasingly well organized, with different groups now united under an umbrella organization. \n The Dutch colonizers of the Indonesian archipelago held onto West Papua when Indonesia became independent after World War II. It became part of Indonesia following a U.N.-supervised referendum in 1969 that involved only a tiny proportion of the population and was criticized as a sham. Independence supporters want a second referendum. \n The indigenous people of the two Papua provinces, which make up the western half of the island of New Guinea, are ethnically Melanesian and culturally distinct from the rest of Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation. \n West Papua is home to the world's largest gold mine by reserves, one of the world's biggest copper mines and vast areas of virgin forest. The government insists it is an indivisible part of the Indonesian state and is unlikely to make any concessions to separatists out of fear that could re-energize other dormant independence movements. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pacific island nations call for U.N. report on Papua abuses"}

