{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "COURTESY GOOGLE MAPS \n Moanalua Freeway \n A man who died Saturday after being struck on the freeway in Red Hill was identified today as 43-year-old Efren Agustin of Honolulu. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified Agustin and said he died of multiple blunt force injuries. The manner of his death was pending an investigation. \n Police said at about 7:30 p.m. Saturday, a 23-year-old Honolulu man was driving a 2015 Scion east-bound from the H-1 Freeway extension onto Moanalua Freeway when for \"unknown reasons\" Agustin ran across the freeway and directly into the path of the driver. He was taken to a hospital in critical condition where he died. \n He was Oahu's 58th traffic fatality in 2016 compared to 48 at the same time in 2015. \n Police said Moanalua Freeway in the town-bound direction was closed for about three hours while officers investigated. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pedestrian killed in Moanalua Freeway crash identified"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "A 78-year-old man found floating unresponsive in waters off Ala Moana Beach Park Saturday has been identified as Qiong Chen of Beijing. \n Chen was found near the shoreline at about 3:53 p.m. Saturday. Police said he was brought to shore where CPR was performed, and paramedics took him to a nearby hospital where he died. \n An autopsy has been ordered. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man found in waters off Ala Moana identified"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII POLICE DEPARTMENT \n The suspect is described as a local male in his late 30's with short hair, wearing flower-type shorts, a dark blue shirt with a white triangle-type emblem in the front. \n Big Island police were searching for a barefoot man who robbed an American Savings Bank in Kealakekua at about 3 p.m. today. \n The suspect was described as a local male in his late 30s with short hair, wearing flower-type shorts, a dark blue shirt with a white triangle-type emblem in the front. He was barefoot and left on foot, police said. \n Anyone with information was urged to call the Hawaii Police Department at 935-3311. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Barefoot bank robber sought on Big Isle"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2014 \n An incoming north swell will bring advisory-level surf conditions with waves expected to be between 6 and 10 feet with moderate impacts. \n The National Weather Service issued a high surf advisory for east-facing shores of Oahu, Kauai, Molokai, Maui and the Big Island effective from 6 p.m. tonight until 6 p.m. tomorrow. \n Officials reported that an incoming north swell will bring advisory-level surf conditions with waves expected to be between 6 and 10 feet with moderate impacts. \n Weather officials also said to expect strong breaking waves and strong longshore and rip currents, making swimming difficult and dangerous. \n The public is advised to take precautionary preparations and heed all advice given by ocean safety officials. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf advisory issued for east-facing shores"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n California prison official says cult killer Charles Manson is alive following reports that he was hospitalized. \n CORCORAN, Calif. >> A California prison official says cult leader Charles Manson is alive following reports that he was hospitalized. \n TMZ reported Tuesday that Manson was taken to a hospital in Bakersfield, about 60 miles south of the California prison where he has been incarcerated. \n California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation spokeswoman Terry Thornton declined to say whether the leader of the notorious Manson family has been hospitalized. \n Thornton said Manson, 82, is still assigned to the prison in Corcoran, but she declined to say whether he's there, citing safety and security protocols. \n Privacy laws prohibit her from discussing an inmate's medical situation, Thornton said. \n Manson was convicted of orchestrating the 1969 murders of pregnant actress Sharon Tate and six others. \n Sarah Ardalani of the Los Angeles County district attorney's office said in an email that the agency had no information on Manson. The office prosecuted Manson and has objected to his release. He was most recently up for parole in 2012 \u2014 his 12th bid for freedom. \n The California State Prison, Corcoran, has medical facilities to treat inmates requiring urgent or emergency care as well as in-patient hospital stays. \n \"In general, inmates are sent to outside hospitals if they need surgical services, emergency care, or diagnostic services of an acute nature,\" said Joyce Hayhoe, a spokeswoman for the federal receiver who controls prison medical care. \"These services are not provided in state prison facilities.\" \n In November, the state inspector general, which monitors the corrections system, characterized care at Corcoran as \"inadequate.\" \n Manson was convicted of leading a cult in which disaffected young people living in a commune followed his orders and were ultimately turned into killers. \n Manson and three female followers, Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwinkle and Leslie Van Houten, were convicted of murder and sentenced to death for killings at two gruesome scenes in the summer of 1969. Another defendant, Charles \"Tex\" Watson, was convicted later. \n All were spared execution when a U.S. Supreme Court ruling temporarily banned the death penalty in 1972. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Manson alive amid reports he was hospitalized."}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "PAYSON, Ariz. >> Searchers in Arizona found the bodies of four members of a family Tuesday in the wreckage of a small plane that crashed on a flight from Scottsdale to Telluride, Colorado, officials said. \n Debris from the single-engine Cessna 210 was spotted north of Payson on the rugged Mogollon Rim, Gila County Sheriff Adam Shepherd said. \n The plane had been reported missing Monday night. The cause of the crash wasn't immediately known, authorities said. \n The sheriff's office verified the plane's tail number matched Federal Aviation Administration records identifying the owner as Eric Falbe of Scottsdale. \n Falbe, 44, was a lawyer who specialized in real estate mediation. \n His law partner confirmed that Falbe was aboard the downed plane along with his wife, Carrie, and his two daughters from a previous marriage. \n The girls \u2014 14-year-old Victoria and 12-year-old Skylar \u2014 attended Cicero Preparatory Academy in Scottsdale. \n \"Our sincerest condolences go out to the Falbe family for their tragic loss,\" school officials said in a statement. \"Grief counselors will be available when school returns Monday.\" \n The sheriff's office was notified about the missing plane by Scottsdale police. \n According to the police report, a man told authorities his 31-year-old daughter, son-in-law and two girls didn't check in after planning to fly to Telluride. \n The four were on a yearly trip they always take around the Christmas holidays, according to relatives. \n Police started a search for the family's cellphone signal, and one was detected near Payson. A state police helicopter, the Civil Air Patrol and sheriff's searchers on the ground worked together to find the plane. \n Rescuers had to hike nearly an hour to the site, Shepherd said. \n \"The terrain up there is just really super rugged,\" he said. \"It's pretty rough, steep, straight up and down.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "4 dead following plane crash in rugged Arizona mountains"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michelle Obama speaks after the screening for the movie 'Hidden Figures,' in the South Court Auditorium in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington. When Obama helps recognize the school counselor of the year on Friday, Jan. 6, aides say it will also mark her final public event as first lady. \n WASHINGTON >> When Michelle Obama helps recognize the school counselor of the year later this week, it will also mark her final White House event as first lady, aides said Tuesday. \n Mrs. Obama has presided over a White House ceremony each January since 2015 honoring school counselors, who she says are often the \"deciding factor\" in whether a student attends college. She joked last year that Friday's ceremony might be one of the last White House events \"before they kick us out in January of 2017.\" \n President Barack Obama's term ends at noon on Jan. 20, exactly two weeks after Friday's ceremony. \n School counselors from across the country are meeting at the White House at the end of the week to be recognized and to help honor Terri Tchorzynski, the 2017 School Counselor of the Year. She is a counselor at the Calhoun Area Career Center in Battle Creek, Michigan, according to the website of the American School Counselor Association. \n Before Mrs. Obama's remarks at Friday's event, guests will attend a panel discussion featuring Education Secretary John B. King Jr., former Education Secretary Arne Duncan and actress Connie Britton, who played a high school guidance counselor on the network television series \"Friday Night Lights,\" among other participants, the White House said. \n Mrs. Obama established the recognition ceremony for school counselors to highlight the work they do with young people and the conditions under which they operate. \n The average counselor is responsible for more than 470 students, said Eric Waldo, executive director of Reach Higher, Mrs. Obama's initiative to encourage students to continue their education after high school. Recognition for school counselors is part of that initiative. \n Mrs. Obama also modeled the school counselor ceremony after the annual Teacher of the Year event that's been held at the White House for decades. She hopes future presidents will continue to recognize the contributions of school counselors. \n \"Much like Teacher of the Year has become a 50-year tradition for the White House, regardless of party, we certainly think counselors are deserving of the same accolades,\" said Tina Tchen, the first lady's chief of staff. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "First lady to laud school counselors in final public remarks"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Curtis Ayers, who is accused of killing Kansas City, Kan., police Detective Brad Lancaster on May 9, 2016, pleaded guilty to capital murder. He also pleaded guilty to nine other charges related to Lancaster's death. Ayers agreed to serve life without parole on the murder count. \n KANSAS CITY, Kan. >> A man pleaded guilty Tuesday to capital murder in the shooting death last year of a Kansas police detective, avoiding a possible death sentence while agreeing to spend the rest of his life in prison. \n A prosecutor said after Curtis Ayers' court hearing that his taking the death penalty off the table came with the blessing of slain Kansas City, Kansas, Detective Brad Lancaster's family, given the lack of executions in the state under its 1994 capital punishment law. Kansas, with 10 inmates on death row, hasn't executed anyone in more than half a century. \n When sentenced March 14, Ayers faces additional possible prison terms for nine related felonies to which he also pleaded guilty, including burglary, robbery, battery, kidnapping, assault and weapons counts. \n Ayers, 28, acknowledged in court outgoing Wyandotte County District Attorney Jerome Gorman's account of Lancaster's death, which occurred after the detective drove up to Ayers in his unmarked police car on May 9 while responding to a report of a suspicious person near a casino. \n While Lancaster was still in his car, Ayers pulled a gun from his waistband and opened fire, wounding the detective seven times. Lancaster died later at a hospital. \n Ayers sped away in Lancaster's car, shot at another officer and carjacked a Kansas woman's vehicle with her two young children still inside, later leaving them unharmed. The mother suffered a broken arm after Ayers pulled her from her vehicle. \n Ayers eventually stole a third vehicle before being shot by Kansas City, Missouri, police and arrested, authorities have said. \n Charges related to the third carjacking and other crimes he's accused of committing that day remain unresolved. \n Lancaster's widow, Jamie Lancaster, attended Tuesday's hearing. She wiped away tears as the prosecutor recounted how her husband \u2014 a 39-year-old father of two young daughters \u2014 was killed. She did not speak to reporters afterward. \n Gorman, who lost in last August's primary and soon will leave office, told reporters that Lancaster's family signed off on Ayers' pleas, partly to \"put this to bed\" knowing that Ayers no longer would pose a public threat under a life sentence. \n But Gorman added that the state's failure to execute anyone since reinstating capital punishment 23 years ago also factored into his discussions with the family. \n The Kansas Supreme Court has overturned death sentences seven times in 20 years, with five of those decisions later reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court. In November, voters retained four of the state high court's justices who had been targeted for ouster, partly because the court had thrown out other death sentences. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man pleads guilty to killing Kansas police detective"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "A sewage spill involving the same Ko Olina force main line that broke in November was reported to city officials this morning. \n The leak has been contained and a repair crew is on the way, city Environmental Services Director Lori Kahikina told reporters about 11 a.m. The spill was reported to city officials around 8 a.m. but it's unclear when it began, she said. \n The spill is not affecting the nearby Ko Olina Golf Course and is not threatening any waterways, Kahikina said. The immediate area was cordoned off. \n The amount of untreated effluent spilled is also unknown, but is greater than 1,000 gallons, she said. \n The November incident resulted in approximately 200,000 gallons being spilled onto about 1.5 acres of vacant land and did not affect the golf course or nearby waterways. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Ko Olina pipeline causes another sewage spill"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A bouquet of flowers stands below a rope of crime tape around a small, ice-covered lake Tuesday, Jan. 3, in Aurora, Colo. \n AURORA, Colo. >> Divers looking for a 6-year-old boy who apparently wandered away from his suburban Denver home on New Year's Eve found the body of a child in a frozen pond Tuesday. \n The body has not been identified yet, but authorities notified David Puckett's family because they suspect it is that of the boy, Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz said. \n Bloodhounds looking for David didn't get good results, but a dog that can track scents in the air pointed authorities to the pond in a park Monday just a few minutes' walk from the boy's home, Metz said. \n The area had been searched extensively but not the water because there was no sign of a break in the ice, the chief said. \n After the body was recovered, two holes were left in the frozen pond, which was surrounded by police tape. A bouquet of flowers was left along the perimeter. \n Police tape surrounded the pond, and a bouquet of flowers was left along the perimeter. There were two holes in the ice after the body was recovered. \n Police have said they don't suspect foul play in the disappearance of David, who has wandered off before. Investigators would try to re-create how a child could have ended up in the pond, Metz said. \n The FBI and other law enforcement agencies helped search for the boy missing for three nights, going door to door within 2\u00bd miles of his home in Aurora, handing out fliers and using a helicopter with an infrared system. \n Temperatures dropped into the teens overnight, and David was wearing only a light jacket when he vanished Saturday. \n Authorities issued an Amber Alert and offered a $10,000 reward. Though police didn't suspect foul play, they contacted registered sex offenders who live nearby as a precaution. \n His mother and authorities appealed for help finding the boy as quickly as possible, partly because of the cold weather. \n \"The public can help by physically searching their homes, automobiles, and any structures on their property where a child may be able to hide,\" police said in a statement. \n The FBI told the Denver Post that the agency assigned 50 agents to the case, including one who is highly specialized in searching for missing children. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Divers looking for Colorado boy, 6, find body in frozen pond"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Omarosa Manigault arrives at Trump Tower, in New York. A memorable contestant in the first season of \"The Apprentice,\" Manigault is expected to join President-elect Donald Trump's White House staff, according to two people familiar with the decision. Her job is expected to focus on public engagement. \n WASHINGTON >> Omarosa Manigault is getting hired. \n A memorable contestant in the first season of \"The Apprentice,\" Manigault is expected to join President-elect Donald Trump's White House staff, according to two people familiar with the decision. Her job is expected to focus on public engagement. \n Manigault was one of Trump's most prominent African-American supporters during the campaign and has been working with his transition team. Her effusive praise of Trump has at times drawn criticism. \n \"Every critic, every detractor, will have to bow down to President Trump,\" she said in an interview for a PBS \"Frontline\" documentary about the presidential campaign. \"It is the ultimate revenge to become the most powerful man in the universe.\" \n Manigault, who prefers to use only her first name, made it through nine weeks of \"The Apprentice\" before Trump directed his infamous tagline, \"You're fired,\" at her. She was portrayed as a cut-throat contestant during the season. She returned to Trump's \"Apprentice\" franchise several times and has appeared on other reality TV shows. \n Manigault said she has stayed close to Trump over the years and served as his campaign's director of African-American outreach. \n Last month, she shepherded NFL legends Ray Lewis and Jim Brown into a Trump Tower meeting with the president-elect. Afterward, Lewis posted a photo of himself and Manigault on his Facebook page, writing, \"Was great meeting Omarosa and the team \u2026 very impressive and passionate.\" \n This will be Manigault's second season at the White House. She worked in the office of Vice President Al Gore during the Clinton administration. \n The Trump transition team did not respond to inquiries about Manigault's role. The two people familiar with the decision insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the hiring process publicly. \n Manigault previewed her hiring during the Fox News New Year's Eve coverage, according to news reports, saying her title would be \"huge.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reality TV's Omarosa hired for Trump's White House outreach"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "A fire believed to be caused by an unattended candle destroyed a home in Hanapepe early today. \n At approximately 5 a.m., firefighters responded to the fire that occurred at the single-story structure located at Awawa Road. Fire crews arrived to a blaze that fully engulfed the three-bedroom home, according to a news release by the Kauai Fire Department. \n A resident inside the home awoke to the crackling sounds from the fire and was able to escape. No injuries were reported. \n Firefighters extinguished the fire at approximately 6:30 a.m. The fire department said the home is considered \"a total loss.\" Investigators believe an unattended candle in one of the bedrooms caused the blaze. \n Damage to the structure and its contents is estimated at $100,000. \n The American Red Cross is assisting the displaced resident. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Unattended candle to blame for Hanapepe house fire"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "TAMPA, Fla. >> Police in Florida say a dog named Scarface attacked a family who tried to put a sweater on it. \n Tampa police say the pit bull mix bit a 52-year-old woman who was trying to dress it Friday and her husband was attacked while trying to pull the dog off her. Police say the couple's 22-year-old son was attacked while trying to stop the dog by stabbing it in the neck and head. \n The three people escaped the house and left the dog in the backyard. They ended up in the hospital. \n Police say animal control officers shot it with a tranquilizer gun, but it managed to get back into the house where two children were. Police used a bean bag gun and stun gun on Scarface before catching it. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dog named Scarface attacks family for dressing it in sweater"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, greet supporters after voting in Chappaqua, N.Y. \n WASHINGTON >> Falling in line with tradition, Bill and Hillary Clinton plan to attend Donald Trump's inauguration. It's a decision that will put Hillary Clinton on the inaugural platform as her bitter rival from the 2016 campaign assumes the office she long sought. \n The Clintons announced their decision to attend the Jan. 20 inauguration shortly after former President George W. Bush's office said Tuesday he would attend along with former first lady Laura Bush. \n The Bushes are \"pleased to be able to witness the peaceful transfer of power \u2014 a hallmark of American democracy \u2014 and swearing-in of President Trump and Vice President Pence,\" Bush's office said in a statement. \n It is traditional for former presidents and their spouses to attend the inauguration. \n But the decision to attend was fraught for the Clintons, given Hillary Clinton's bitter campaign against Trump. The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee has largely avoided public appearances since Trump defeated her in November. \n Bush, too, has had a difficult relationship with Trump. His brother Jeb ran against Trump in the GOP primaries. George and Laura Bush let it be known they voted for \"none of the above\" for president rather than cast a ballot for Trump, but the ex-president did call to congratulate Trump after his victory. \n Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, earlier said they plan to attend Trump's inaugural. \n Former President George H.W. Bush, 92, and his wife, Barbara, do not plan to attend the inauguration due to the former president's age and health, his office said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill and Hillary Clinton to attend Trump inauguration"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "WENDY OSHER / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Steven Capobianco entered a Maui court room in June during his trial for the murder of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. \n WAILUKU >> A jury in the murder trial of Steven Capobianco today found the killing of his pregnant ex-girlfriend was \"heinous.\" \n Capobianco was found guilty last week of second-degree murder and second degree arson in the 2014 death of Carly \"Charli\" Scott. \n The jury started deliberations this morning on whether the state proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the murder was \"especially heinous, atrocious and cruel.\" \n The finding means Capobianco qualifies for a sentence of life in prison without parole. The judge set March 24 as the date for Capobianco to be sentenced. \n The second phase of deliberations was for an allegation that Capobianco killed Scott in an \"especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel manner.\" Capobianco faces life in prison for second-degree murder. \n \"Killing Charli Scott was not enough for this man,\" Deputy Maui Prosecuting Attorney Robert Rivera told jurors today, calling him a man without a conscience. Rivera held up Scott's black skirt showing multiple stab wounds in the abdomen area, saying that the stabs show that Capobianco made her suffer. \n Capobianco not only murdered Scott, but he made her suffer \"unnecessary torture,\" Rivera said. \n All murders are arguably heinous, atrocious and cruel, said defense attorney Jon Apo, who suggested that Scott's death was quick with less suffering. Unnecessary torture, Apo said, would have been one stab wound to make her suffer a long death. \n The prosecution has a sympathetic jury, Apo said, noting one of the jurors is pregnant. The judge sustained Rivera's objection to mentioning the pregnant juror. \n The jury sat through about six months of testimony before beginning deliberations in the verdict phase on Dec. 1. \n Capobianco didn't testify during the first phase. He told the judge last week he also wouldn't testify during the second phase, The Maui News reported. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff and Wire", "title": "Jury finds murder of pregnant Maui woman was 'heinous'"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "DALLAS >> A criminal investigation is underway into an accidental poisoning involving a professional-grade pesticide that left four children dead and an Amarillo woman in critical condition, police said today. \n Authorities are looking into why the family had the pesticide pellets, called Weevil-cide, which is only supposed to be sold to people with professional licenses or certification and is marketed for use in rodent control in commercial transport of commodities and animal feed. \n The father told first responders through a Spanish language interpreter that he had spread the pellets under the family's mobile home after obtaining the product from a friend, Amarillo Fire Capt. Larry Davis said. Davis said the product is not available for sale to the general public. \n Davis said the father does not have that certification as far as he knows. He did not know whether the friend who gave him the product had a certification. \n Amarillo police spokesman Officer Jeb Hilton says the department's special crimes unit is investigating because of the child deaths. Once completed, the investigation will be turned over to the district attorney to determine whether charges will be filed. Hilton said other federal and state environmental regulation agencies may also investigate. \n Fire officials said the children who died were three boys, ages 7, 9 and 11, and a 17-year-old girl. Officials have said all four children lived at the home in Amarillo, which is about 350 miles northwest of Dallas. \n The children's mother, Martha Balderas, 45, was in critical condition today at University Medical Center in Lubbock, according to a hospital spokesman. Five other family members, including the father and four other children, were being treated at BSA Health System in Amarillo and were in stable condition, hospital and fire officials said. \n Crews who responded to a 5 a.m. call to the home on Monday originally thought it was related to carbon monoxide poisoning. Authorities later determined that phosphine gas was likely released when the father took a garden hose at some point Sunday and tried to rinse away some of the pellets because family members had complained of the smell. \n The water started the chemical reaction that released the phosphine gas. A visitor arrived early Monday, found everyone sick and called 911. \n Phosphine gas can cause respiratory failure and in severe cases can cause a pulmonary edema, which fills the lungs full of fluid. \n About 10 first responders from the police, fire and medical response departments were also taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure, Davis said. Two were kept overnight for observation because of headache and nausea but were in good condition today, he said. \n Chip Orton, emergency management coordinator for the city of Amarillo and Potter and Randall counties, says his staff was working with a number of state and federal agencies to decontaminate the home. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has hired a private contractor to help. \n Orton said phosphine gas typically casts off in about eight to 12 hours after it's been in contact with water, but emergency workers close to the home were wearing protective breathing equipment and hazmat suits as a precaution. \n He said he does not know when the home will be safe for the family to return. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Accidental pesticide poisoning kills 4 kids in Texas"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER/ 2015 \n \"We are very pleased to reach an agreement that will provide clarity to our teachers while allowing them to continue a longstanding practice,\" Wilbert Holck, director of the Hawaii State Teachers Association said. \n Public school teachers may resume traveling free as chaperones on educational field trips without running afoul of the Ethics Code, under an agreement announced today between the teachers' union and the State Ethics Commission. \n \"We are very pleased to reach an agreement that will provide clarity to our teachers while allowing them to continue a longstanding practice,\" Wilbert Holck, director of the Hawaii State Teachers Association, said today. \"Our teachers always want to set a good example for their students. This agreement makes sure that our teachers are not only doing the best they can for their students, but are doing their jobs with the utmost integrity.\" \n The deal struck by the union and the commission allows teachers to plan trips with private companies and serve as chaperones as long as they abide by Board of Education policies, including a requirement that the travel has clear educational benefit for students. \n In 2015 the Ethics Commission issued advice to teachers against organizing and promoting student trips with travel agencies and then traveling free as chaperones. The commission said the practice put teachers in a conflict of interest and violated the gifts law. \n The teachers union filed suit over the issue and in June a judge invalidated the commission's advice. Circuit Court Judge Rhonda Nishimura said the advice was not issued promptly and that in any case such advice was subject to rule-making and public input because it applied to a broad group, rather than an individual teacher. \n Tour companies typically allow one chaperone to travel free for every eight to 10 travelers on a tour. This practice may now continue as long as teachers inform students and their families in advance that the teacher's travel will be covered by the tour company. Teachers may accept no personal \"perks,\" such as tablet computers, and must give such items to the Department of Education for use in classrooms. \n \"Hawaii's teachers work hard and exemplify integrity for their students every day,\" Daniel Gluck, who became executive director of the Ethics Commission in August, said in a statement. \"This agreement ensures that teachers can continue to provide invaluable travel opportunities for Hawaii's students while demonstrating the highest ethical standards for their schools and the community.\" \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Agreement clears free travel for teachers, clarifies policy"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Avocado, a sea lion who was released from the Pacific Marine Mammal Center in Laguna Beach, Calif., but later readmitted. \n LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. >> The Pacific Marine Mammal Center in Laguna Beach has been seeing some familiar faces in recent weeks as sea lions that have been rehabilitated and released return to the center for new ailments. \n In addition to the familiar faces, the center has rescued seven very young pups as of Sunday. Officials say these are the first pups of the season. They were picked up from Orange County beaches after recent winter storms. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Laguna Beach center rescues released sea lions again"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man wearing a gas mask protests against Monsanto as a nearby ukulele player strummed a song at a Waikiki Beach rally in Honolulu. \n Hawaii residents concerned about pesticide use by major agriculture companies on the islands are planning a push to strengthen regulation over chemicals they fear harm their health. \n The divisive issue has drawn thousands to the Legislature in recent years following incidents where schoolchildren and agriculture workers fell ill and some suspected their sickness was connected to pesticides sprayed by seed testing companies. \n Several major agriculture companies test genetically engineered crops on the islands, taking advantage of Hawaii's year-round warm weather to develop new types of corn and soybeans and testing more generations of crops than they could in other states. \n A recent study found there wasn't enough evidence to show the pesticides used by Syngenta, Dow AgroSciences, DuPont Pioneer and BASF Plant Science on Kauai caused adverse health or environmental effects on the community. But the study encouraged the state to boost its environmental monitoring and data collection. \n A court decision declaring it's up to the state \u2014 not counties \u2014 to regulate agriculture and a change in committee leadership in the House have added momentum to the effort to enhance state regulation. \n \"With really focused public pressure, we could really see something get through. The time is right,\" said Ashley Lukens, director of the Hawaii Center for Food Safety. \n Advocates are pushing bills to require companies to fully disclose when and where they're spraying pesticides and to mandate buffer zones around schools and hospitals. Another proposal calls for the state and counties to stop using sprays containing glyphosate, an herbicide originally brought to market by Monsanto. \n \"I'm hopeful that we're not going to wait for a bad event and see some terrible sickness in our state,\" said state Sen. Josh Green, an emergency room doctor who plans to introduce the glyphosate ban bill. \n Hawaii recently initiated a study on Oahu and Kauai to sample surface water for pesticides before and during storms to evaluate if chemicals are moving offsite at unacceptable levels. \n The state also is planning to triple its fee to register pesticides to fund monitoring and to expand statewide the Kauai Good Neighbor Program \u2014 in which seed companies on Kauai voluntarily report their pesticide use monthly to the state. \n But critics say the new programs fall short because reporting is voluntary and because the companies don't disclose the location where the pesticide is sprayed. \n Requiring companies to report spray locations could be tricky because fields where seeds are tested are generally spread out to avoid cross-pollination, and because it's a competitive industry, said Scott Enright, chairman of the state Department of Agriculture. \n \"Even though they're doing similar work, Syngenta, Monsanto Dow and Pioneer are all competitors, and they're trying to keep the millions of dollars that they've put in to research the genetics lines that they're developing as confidential business information,\" Enright said. \n Rep. Chris Lee, who plans to introduce buffer zone and disclosure bills, called the new state initiatives \"woefully inadequate.\" \n \"There's still zero transparency for the long-term cumulative impacts on various communities around the islands for what's being sprayed and any impact it may be having over the long term,\" Lee said. \"And that's something that we have a clear obligation above anything else to dive into, because it is health and safety and people have a right to know.\" \n Earlier this month, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sought $5 million in fines from Syngenta, saying the company violated pesticide rules on Kauai by letting workers without protective gear enter fields recently sprayed with a restricted insecticide. Syngenta said it takes responsibility but believes the agency is overstepping. \n The case will go before an EPA administrative law judge. \n The seed industry takes the issue of pesticides very seriously, said Bennette Misalucha, executive director of the Hawaii Crop Improvement Association, which counts Dow AgroSciences, DuPont Pioneer, Monsanto and Syngenta among its members. It abides by state and federal regulations and rigorously trains employees, she said. \n She added the industry objects to a \"cookie cutter\" approach to buffer zones because it could hurt small farmers, potentially removing chunks of land from production. \n \"You're basically limiting somebody's use of their private property, without just cause if you don't have the science to back up what you're asking for,\" Enright said. \n Although some states have tried to ban glyphosate, none have succeeded, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. \n In 2015, the cancer research arm of the World Health Organization labeled glyphosate a \"probable carcinogen.\" \n But the EPA said glyphosate has low toxicity to humans, and a joint meeting of a WHO group that assesses pesticide residues and the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization concluded glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic risk to humans from exposure through the diet. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii residents renew push for stricter pesticide rules"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. was re-elected as House speaker. \n Paul Ryan was formally re-elected House speaker Tuesday as he intensifies his efforts to move past his differences with Donald Trump after a divisive campaign. \n But Ryan's victory was marred by controversy over a last-minute effort by Republicans to weaken the independent congressional ethics office, a reminder of the splits within the new Republican majority. Trump blasted Republicans for prioritizing the ethics change, leaving the caucus to reverse itself moments before formally opening the 115th Congress. \n Ryan won resounding re-election with 239 votes \u2014 clearing the 218 needed \u2014 with only one Republican voting for someone else. But his relationship with the incoming president will face a test as he carves out his own agenda for Republicans in Congress. \n \"This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. This is the kind of thing that most of us only dream about. I know \u2014 because I used to dream about it. The people have given us unified government,\" Ryan will tell House members later Tuesday, according to speech excerpts released by his office. \n But the speaker faces competing pressures from different parts of his own caucus. Some members warn they'll be monitoring his loyalty to Trump. Other senior members want Ryan to stick to the conservative line on spending and other matters and not roll over for Trump, a stance that could bring a quick end to the uneasy peace between the speaker and the new president. \n The two men see eye to eye on repealing Obamacare as the first order of business, but don't agree yet on the details of how to replace it. Other early flashpoints are likely to be Trump's insistence on a $1 trillion infrastructure plan and a wall along the Mexican border \u2014 both of which could balloon the deficit, anathema to a spending hawk like Ryan. \n \"This speaker is not a potted plant, and he has strong opinions on matters of policy,\" said Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a Ryan ally and co-leader of a group of House moderates. He said Ryan will work with the Trump administration, \"but I just don't see the speaker rolling over on every policy.\" \n The Wisconsin Republican has emerged unscathed so far from his unprecedented decision last fall to distance himself from the then-Republican presidential nominee. Trump isn't retaliating yet, but it's uncertain whether their tentative truce can last. \n Even with full Republican control of Congress and the presidency, some conservatives warn that Ryan, 46, will be on a short leash. Trump has strong support within the House GOP conference, and the speaker must tread lightly because it was the president-elect's Republican uprising that succeeded, not his own. \n And while Trump may not be perfectly meshed with the policy thinking of the most conservative House Republicans, many of them are kindred spirits in his anti-establishment, change-Washington bent. \n QuickTake on House Speaker Paul Ryan \n Ryan \"miscalculated the mood of the conference by not backing Trump and miscalculated again when he assumed a Trump loss would vindicate the first mistake,\" said a leading House conservative, in a view held by other pro-Trump conservatives who are wary of the speaker. \n Ryan and his allies may be counting on letting Trump lead initially in hopes of wearing him down and taking control of the legislative agenda, the same lawmaker said, adding that that would be a mistake. If Ryan does this, he says, Trump conservatives will abandon him. \n \"Trump leads, Ryan agrees, is the only way to survive,\" the lawmaker said. \n After Trump grabbed the party's presidential nomination, Ryan openly criticized some of his controversial remarks, including his claim that a federal judge with Hispanic heritage couldn't be fair. But some House colleagues thought Ryan went too far by saying he would no longer defend or campaign for the party's nominee after a video surfaced in early October that showed Trump bragging about groping women. \n Trump openly complained about Ryan's disloyalty and called him \"weak and ineffective.\" He tweeted that it was difficult to do well with \"zero support\" from the speaker. \n Remarkably, the two were never seen in public together throughout the entire campaign, making a joint appearance only after Trump's unexpected victory. \n Long Memory \n Few dispute that Trump, 70, has a long memory. But multiple lawmakers insist they see no retaliatory push being organized by Trump forces or anyone else to block Ryan's re-election as speaker. \n Paul Brace, a political scientist at Rice University in Houston, said that as long as Trump remains relatively popular in his party and the GOP is riding high, Ryan has little choice but to remain fairly passive in dealings with him. \n Trump missteps that undermine his standing could create an opportunity for Ryan to flex muscle, Brace said, but even that could harm Republican popularity and diminish prospects for Ryan to achieve his agenda. \n Adam Brandon, president of FreedomWorks, a Washington-based conservative group, predicted \"a pretty harmonious\" first six months of the congressional session. But he said government spending and long-term deficit issues may ultimately put the squeeze on Ryan's cooperation with Trump. \n Obamacare Repeal \n For now, Trump's and Ryan's public statements have concentrated on policies on which they agree, such as the broad outlines \u2014 if not the tricky details \u2014 of a swift repeal of the Affordable Care Act, regulatory overhauls and a tax plan. They've largely ignored potential areas of disagreement, such as spending to improve infrastructure. \n Yet, amid the niceties come snarky asides from the president-elect. \"He's like a fine wine. Every day I appreciate his genius more and more,\" said Trump of Ryan at a post-election event in the speaker's home state of Wisconsin. \n But Trump quickly added, \"Now, if he goes against me, I am not going to say that.\" \n Ryan's office declined to comment about that barb, and the speaker has been lavishing praise on Trump and playing up their new teamwork. \n \"I'm impressed with how Donald Trump handles himself. I'm impressed with how magnanimous he is. I'm impressed with just his demeanor, his temperament. What I'm really impressed with is the Cabinet he's putting together,\" Ryan gushed on Fox News Dec. 9. \n U.S.-Mexico Wall \n Head-butting could come over some Trump proposals, especially those that could cost a lot of money. Those include Trump's promised wall along the U.S. Mexico border, a $1 trillion infrastructure plan, changes in trade policies and boosting military spending \u2014 while slashing corporate and personal taxes. \n During the campaign, Ryan poked fun at Trump's big-dollar infrastructure spending proposal, saying it wasn't part of the House Republican \"Better Way\" agenda. Since Trump's election Ryan has been sounding a different tune, saying they'll figure it out. \n At the same time, Ryan is promoting his own aims of reining in spending on entitlement programs to keep them solvent, including Medicare. Trump didn't embrace massive changes to Medicare or Social Security during the campaign, saying he wanted to protect them. \n Ryan might take comfort in Trump's selection of Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, a Ryan ally and fellow Wisconsinite, as White House chief of staff, and former House member Mike Pence as vice president. Still, it was Pence who already shut the door on action any time soon on Ryan's Medicare overhaul. \n No Conversation Yet \n Ryan has explained, \"I wouldn't say we disagree on entitlements. We actually haven't had a conversation about comprehensive entitlement reform.\" \n Dent, the co-leader of House moderates, said, \"To be fair, the Trump team has not yet presented a lot of detailed policy ideas.\" \n Representative David Brat, a Virginia Republican and member of the ultra-conservative House Freedom Caucus, says he's optimistic that Trump and Ryan will be able to work together. \n \"We're going to get more than low-hanging fruit\" through Congress, Brat predicted. He said he believes Trump will draw on House Republicans' agenda for many of his proposals. \n But Marjorie Hershey, an Indiana University political scientist, said that for Ryan and fellow House Republicans, \"Trying to predict Trump is like shooting at a moving target.\" \n \"The one thing we can say for sure about Trump is that he's basically stated that the stands he took during the campaign have no necessary relationship to the agenda he will send to Congress,\" she said. \n Just as uncertain is the future of Donald Trump's necessary relationship with Paul Ryan. \n To contact the reporter on this story: Billy House in Washington at bhouse5@bloomberg.net. To contact the editors responsible for this story: Kevin Whitelaw at kwhitelaw@bloomberg.net, Laurie Asseo \n \u00a92017 Bloomberg L.P. \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg", "title": "Ryan re-elected speaker as he tries to forge peace with Trump"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carnations left at the scene around photo of victims as people protest an attack at a popular nightclub in Istanbul, Tuesday, Jan. 3, 2017. An assailant believed to be armed with a long-barrelled weapon, opened fire at the nightclub in Istanbul's Ortakoy district during New Year's celebrations, killing dozens of people and wounding many others. \n ISTANBUL >> An eerie video emerged Tuesday of a man believed to be the attacker who killed 39 people in a mass shooting at a nightclub, showing him taking a selfie as he silently toured Istanbul's most famous square. \n The camera never leaves the man's unsmiling face as he walked through Taksim Square during the 44-second clip that was broadcast on state-run Anadolu television and other Turkish media. \n It wasn't immediately clear if the video was made before or after the New Year's massacre at the Reina nightclub, or how it was obtained. The gunman, who hasn't been publicly identified, is still at large. \n On Monday, the Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attack, which also wounded nearly 70 people. The extremists said a \"soldier of the caliphate\" had carried out the mass shooting to avenge Turkish military operations against IS in northern Syria. \n Funerals began Tuesday in Jordan, Lebanon, Israel and Turkey for the dead, most of them tourists. Mourners wept for the lives that were cut short in the early hours of 2017 at the popular and glamorous club. \n Thousands attended the funeral of Layan Nasser, an 18-year-old Arab Israeli dental assistant who was buried the Israeli city of Tira. \n \"She had dreams to work, to progress, to study, to raise a family, but unfortunately the terror put an end to her dreams,\" said Tira Mayor Mamoun Abd El Hai. \n Hundreds of people attended funerals for two of three Lebanese victims. One of them, 26-year-old fitness instructor Elias Wardini, was recently engaged to be married. His family and friends set off fireworks as his white coffin arrived at a church in Beirut. \n At least 14 people have been detained in connection with the attack, including two foreigners stopped Tuesday at the international terminal of Istanbul's Ataturk Airport after police checked their cellphones and luggage, according to Anadolu. \n The Hurriyet newspaper said a woman identified by Turkish media as the wife of the suspect has told police she didn't know her husband was a member of the Islamic State group. \n The woman was detained in the central town of Konya as part of the investigation. Neither she nor her husband has been identified. Hurriyet reported in its online edition that the woman said she learned about the attack on TV and told police she didn't know her husband harbored \"sympathies\" toward IS. \n Media reports said the gunman flew to Istanbul from Kyrgyzstan with his wife and children on Nov. 20. From there, they drove to the Turkish capital, Ankara, before arriving two days later in Konya. \n The family rented a studio there, paying three months of rent in advance. The gunman told the real estate agent he was looking for work, according to the report. \n Hurriyet said the gunman returned to Istanbul Dec. 29. \n Several media outlets, citing unidentified security sources, reported Monday that the man was believed to be from Central Asia and may have been part of the cell that attacked Ataturk Airport in June, killing 45 people. \n On Tuesday, Haber Turk newspaper said the man is thought to be a member of China's Muslim Uighur minority. Turkish media showed photos of a Kyrgyz passport, but police said it did not belong to the gunman. \n The assailant, armed with a long-barreled weapon, killed a policeman and a civilian early Sunday outside the Reina nightclub before opening fire on the estimated 600 revelers inside. The club is frequented by local celebrities, including singers, actors and athletes. \n Turkey has been rocked by violence in the past year, carried out by IS as well as by Kurdish militants. The government survived a failed coup in the summer and is fighting Kurdish insurgents. \n Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu told parliament that authorities thwarted 339 possible attacks in 2016, including 313 by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, and 22 by the Islamic State group. Lawmakers were to decide later whether to extend the state of emergency that was declared after the coup attempt. \n Turkey, a NATO member, launched an offensive to northern Syria in August in hopes of clearing a strategic border area of IS militants and stemming the gains of Kurdish fighters. Turkish jets regularly bomb IS targets in the Syrian town of al-Bab in support of Syrian opposition forces try to re-capture it from the extremists. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Video shows man believed to be nightclub attacker in Turkey"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Megyn Kelly poses for a portrait in New York. Kelly, the Fox News star whose 12-year stint has been marked by upheavals at her network and personal attacks on the campaign trail, is headed to NBC News. She is expected to take on a multi-faceted role at NBC. \n NEW YORK >> Megyn Kelly, the Fox News star who's had a contentious relationship with President-elect Donald Trump, said Tuesday that she's leaving the network for NBC News, where she will host a daytime talk show and a weekend newsmagazine, as well as contribute to breaking news coverage. \n NBC News made the announcement Tuesday, ending months of speculation over whether she would re-up with Fox, where she has flourished while suffering bruised feelings in recent months, or start a new chapter in her career. Her contract with Fox expires this summer. Her last show on Fox will be Friday night. \n Kelly's departure deprives Fox News of its second-most-watched host, behind only Bill O'Reilly, and a hole at 9 p.m. in its prime-time lineup. \n \"While I will greatly miss my colleagues at Fox, I am delighted to be joining the NBC News family and taking on a new challenge,\" Kelly said in a message on Twitter on Tuesday. \n Rupert Murdoch, executive chairman of Fox, said that \"we thank Megyn Kelly for her 12 years of contributions to Fox News. We hope she enjoys tremendous success in her career and wish her and her family all the best.\" \n Kelly became one of Fox's hottest properties and a flashpoint in the presidential campaign after Trump objected to her questioning in the first Republican presidential debate a year and a half ago. He tweeted angry messages about her and boycotted another Fox debate after the network refused to replace her as one of the debate moderators. \n She also became a central figure in the downfall of former Fox News chief Roger Ailes, telling in-house investigators of inappropriate conduct by Ailes that supported women who had made similar accusations. \n Details about Kelly's new jobs at NBC will be revealed in upcoming months, said Andrew Lack, chairman of the NBC Universal News Group. \n \"Megyn is an exceptional journalist and news anchor, who has had an extraordinary career\" Lack said. \"She's demonstrated tremendous skill and poise, and we're lucky to have her.\" \n Kelly wasn't immediately available for comment about what made her choose to leave Fox. But she said in an interview with The Associated Press in November that the factors she was weighing \"mostly involve a 7-, 5- and 3-year-old,\" her children. Her Fox show airs live at 9 p.m., giving her no time at home with her children in the evenings. \n As a star in demand, Kelly was no doubt able to seek a schedule that would give her more time at home in the evening. \n A former lawyer who was raised in upstate New York, Kelly turned to television and got a job in Fox's Washington office. She was noticed by Ailes, and given a daytime show. Her poise and sharpness, and willingness to ask tough questions of all political sides, made her a star and led Ailes to give her a coveted prime-time slot on cable news' most-watched network. \n Her contentious relationship with Trump began when she asked the Republican businessman about statements he had made about women, infuriating him. He tweeted his disdain for her and although they made peace when Kelly interviewed Trump for a prime-time special last May, the relationship never became warm. Trump made Kelly's prime-time colleague, Sean Hannity, his preferred stopping place for interviews during the campaign and didn't come on her Fox News Channel show. \n \"I really had to choose \u2014 am I going to be an honest journalist \u2026 or am I going to suck up to Trump?\" she told the AP. \"I chose the former, and it's worked out fine for me.\" \n It put Kelly in an awkward position with Fox News Channel viewers who favored Trump, however. At one point during a Hannity interview with Trump, a live audience at a Trump rally booed the mention of her name. \n Kelly's immediate silence after Gretchen Carlson's lawsuit last summer alleging unwanted advances from Ailes, at a time other Fox News personalities were supporting their boss, was telling. She told investigators that Ailes had made sexually suggestive comments to her and tried to kiss her, then made an angry reference to her contract when she rebuffed him. Ailes has denied any untoward advances involving Kelly. \n Her move was a big boost for broadcast network news divisions, which had struggled somewhat during the presidential campaign given the non-stop coverage provided by the cable news outlets. \n NBC News had recently been experimenting with a new Sunday night newsmagazine, \"Dateline NBC: On Assignment,\" hosted by Lester Holt in a traditional format with a mix of news and feature stories, a template Kelly is expected to use. Weekday \"Dateline\" editions focus on criminal justice stories. \n The move was a blow to Fox and its parent company, 21st Century Fox, whose leaders James and Lachlan Murdoch had made re-signing Kelly a priority and were believed in the industry to be offering her more money to stay. In her tweet on Tuesday, Kelly said she was deeply grateful to Fox News, its leaders and Fox's viewers, \"who have taught me so much about what really matters.\" \n Kelly gave a signal of her future direction with last May's interview special on the Fox broadcasting network. It wasn't a critical or commercial success, however. \n Fox News does make in-house talent development a priority, however, and recently installed Tucker Carlson as a 7 p.m. host following the abrupt departure of Greta Van Susteren last summer. With Kelly taking a break over the holidays, Fox used Sandra Smith, Shannon Bream, Martha MacCallum and Trish Regan as substitutes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Megyn Kelly leaving Fox News, will host 2 shows on NBC"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., listened to testimony on Capitol Hill, in May 2015, in Washington. House Republicans, on Monday, voted to eviscerate the Office of Congressional Ethics. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. spoke during a Nov. 15 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINTON >> House Republicans abruptly reversed themselves Tuesday under pressure from President-elect Donald Trump and dropped plans to gut an independent congressional ethics board. \n The dizzying about-face came as lawmakers convened for the first day of the 115th Congress, an occasion normally reserved for pomp and ceremony under the Capitol Dome. Instead, House Republicans found themselves under attack not only from Democrats but from their new president, over their secretive move Monday to neuter the independent Office of Congressional Ethics and place it under lawmakers' control. \n GOP leaders scrambled to contain the damage, and within hours of Trump registering his criticism on Twitter, they called an emergency meeting of House Republicans where lawmakers voted without opposition to undo the change. \n The episode, coming even before the new Congress had convened and lawmakers were sworn in, was a powerful illustration of the sway Trump may hold over his party in a Washington that will be fully under Republican control for the first time in a decade. Lawmakers who've felt unfairly targeted by the ethics office had defied their own House GOP leaders with their initial vote to gut the body, but once Trump weighed in they backpedaled immediately. \n \"With all that Congress has to work on, do they really have to make the weakening of the Independent Ethics Watchdog, as unfair as it may be, their number one act and priority,\" Trump had asked over Twitter Tuesday morning, in an objection that appeared focused more on timing than on substance. Trump, who will take office later this month, said the focus should be on tax reform and health care, and included the hash-tag #DTS, for \"Drain the Swamp,\" his oft-repeated campaign promise to bring change to Washington. \n Democrats and even many Republicans were quick to point out that the lawmakers' plans for their ethics watchdog flew in the face of that notion. The measure was part of a rules package that faced a vote in the full House later Tuesday and looked like it could fail after Trump registered his objections. \n \"We were elected on a promise to drain the swamp and starting the session by relaxing ethics rules is a very bad start,\" said GOP Rep. Tom McClintock of California. \n Said GOP Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma: \"People didn't want this story on opening day.\" \n The Office of Congressional Ethics was created in 2008 after several bribery and corruption cases in the House, but lawmakers of both parties have groused about the way it operates. \n Lawmakers were especially incensed by an investigation of members of Congress from both parties who went on a 2013 trip to Azerbaijan paid for by that country's government. Lawmakers said after the investigation was made public in 2015 that they had no idea the trip was paid for by Azerbaijan's government, and the House Ethics Committee ultimately cleared the lawmakers. \n Once the ethics controversy was dispensed with on Tuesday, lawmakers in both chambers of Congress returned to the ceremonial business. As set out in the Constitution, both chambers gaveled in at noon, and as storm clouds threatened outside, the halls of the Capitol filled with lawmakers' children, friends and spouses on hand to witness the procedures. The day had a festive feel of the first day back at school, as new arrivals roamed the halls with old hands, exchanging greetings and taking in the day. \n In the Senate, seven new members joined those who won re-election in taking the oath of office administered by Vice President Joe Biden. The Senate will be controlled 52-48 by the GOP and includes two new Republicans and five new Democrats. They include Illinois' Tammy Duckworth, a double-amputee Iraq war vet, who walked to the dais and stood for the oath. \n Biden remains president of the Senate until Trump becomes president Jan. 20; then Vice President-elect Mike Pence will take over. \n In the House, lawmakers filled the House chamber to elect their speaker, with Paul Ryan piling up the votes needed to retain the post, as expected. The House will number 241 Republicans and 194 Democrats; among the members are 52 freshmen. \n Swearings-in of House members were to follow the speaker election. \n The first week of the new Congress will be a preview of the hectic pace planned by Republicans for the start of Trump's term. The GOP is eager to turn to the business of dismantling Obama's health care law, and that effort is to begin with a procedural vote later in the week in the Senate. Obama plans a rare trip to Capitol Hill on Wednesday to meet with congressional Democrats and discuss strategy for saving the health care law. Pence will meet with Republicans. \n Votes also are expected on resolutions to denounce the United Nations for condemning the construction of Israeli settlements. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Backtracking after Trump tweet, GOP won't gut ethics office"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "COURTESY USGS \n A major earthquake struck near Fiji. No tsunami threat was issued for Hawaii \n A magnitude 7.2 earthquake struck near Fiji today, but Hawaii is not under threat of a tsunami. \n U.S. Geological Survey officials reported that the earthquake struck at around 11:53 a.m. Hawaii time. The epicenter was located about 141 miles southwest of Nadi, Fiji at a depth of 9 miles. \n Though no tsunami threat was issued for Hawaii, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center issued a tsunami threat message for other parts of the Pacific close to the earthquake. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Major earthquake strikes near Fiji; no tsunami threat to Hawaii"}

{"date": "January 3, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NPS \n New lava cascade at Kamokuna in Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park. \n A new lava viewing area near the ocean at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park was opened today, two days after a park ranges closed the previous viewing area when a lava delta collapsed into the ocean. \n Five visitors had been standing on the lava delta on Saturday 15 minutes before it crumbled into the water. Park rangers chased those visitors, who had ducked under a rope closing off a dangerous section, and got them back to a safe area just before the collapse. \n The new viewing area at the Kamokuna ocean entry is \"approximately 900 feet east of a cascade of lava pouring into the ocean, and about 60 feet inland of the coastal cliffs. Rangers, in conjunction with United States Geological Survey Hawaiian Volcano Observatory scientists, thoroughly assessed the area, and established the new viewing site with white rope lines and numerous signs that clearly mark hazardous closed areas,\" park officials said in a news release. \"Visitors are strongly urged to stay out of closed areas and heed all posted warning signs and park rangers.\" \n \"Visitors who do not heed warnings not only endanger themselves but the lives of others, including our park rangers, who work tirelessly to ensure a safe visitor experience,\" said Park Superintendent Cindy Orlando. \n Observatory scientists said most of a 26-acre lava delta is gone, including an older coastal cliff area where the former lava viewing site was located. \n \"The collapse on New Year's Eve started in the afternoon and lasted several hours, creating blasts of volcanic rock and a series of damaging waves, in addition to a thick, dark plume of debris and gas,\" officials said. \n The new viewing area is closer to the east entrance. \"From the east, or Kalapana/County of Hawaii side, visitors must hike about 4.2 miles one way along the gravel emergency access road. This entrance is open daily from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. From the park, or west side, visitors can hike out from the Coastal Ranger Station at the end of Chain of Craters Road, about five miles one-way,\" the news release said. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "New lava viewing area opens after two-day closure"}

