{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / MAY 2012 \n Human rights activist Jiang Tianyong spoke to journalists outside a hospital after his failed attempt to see blind Chinese activist Chen Guangcheng in 2012. \n BEIJING >> The wife of one of China's most prominent human rights campaigners said Thursday that he had disappeared during a trip to visit relatives of a detained rights lawyer.  \n Jiang Tianyong, a legal activist, has not been heard from since Monday, when he was due to board a train to return to Beijing, according to his wife, Jin Bianling. \n Jiang's defense work involved some of China's most politically sensitive figures in recent years, including the dissident lawyer Gao Zhisheng and blind activist Chen Guangcheng. \n Jiang was disbarred in 2009 but has continued his activism, recently helping to publicize the plight of nearly two dozen lawyers arrested as part of a sweeping 2015 government crackdown. Jiang met with relatives of one of the jailed lawyers in Changsha in central China shortly before going missing. \n He could not be reached on Thursday by his mobile phone, which was turned off. \n Jiang told the Associated Press in June that he feared he could be detained at any moment and rarely spent more than a few nights in one place. \n Speaking by telephone from California, Jin said her husband's family sought to file a missing person report in his city of registered residence, Zhengzhou, in central China but police turned them away and told to seek information in Beijing instead. \n The Ministry of Public Security in Beijing did not immediately respond to a fax requesting comment about Jiang's whereabouts. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese rights activist who lobbied for lawyers is missing"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Railroad travelers and commuters made their way through Union Station in downtown Los Angeles on Wednesday. \n CHICAGO >> As Americans prepared to gather Thursday for Thanksgiving turkey, football and togetherness, many planned to avoid talk of the rancorous election between Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton.  \n Sitting on their suitcases at a departure lounge at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, Sharyn Ioffe and her brother Saul Ioffe said there's a good chance politics will intervene this Thanksgiving when they arrive home in New York. \n \"I'm pretty anxious about it,\" said Sharyn Ioffe, 27, who supported Clinton, while others in her family sided with Trump. \"I'm still very emotional about the election. I know you have to try and understand the other side. But I'm not there yet.\" \n She said her strategy would be simple: change the subject. \n \"I won't bring it up. But if someone else does, I'll say I don't want to discuss it,\" she said. \n Americans took to the roads, air and railways Wednesday for what is expected to be the busiest Thanksgiving travel period in almost a decade. Almost 49 million people are expected to travel 50 miles or more between Wednesday and Sunday, the most since 2007, because of lower gas prices and an improving economy, according to AAA. \n The weather appeared to be cooperating for the most part, with no significant issues in the majority of the country, the National Weather Service said. \n The National Weather Service issued winter weather advisories for parts of northern Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan as well as western and central Montana and central Idaho, New York and Pennsylvania for Wednesday night. A winter storm warning was in effect for parts of northwest Washington state, with heavy snow expected through Thanksgiving Day. \n Lines of cars, taxi cabs and buses dropping travelers off and picking others up at O'Hare terminals grew longer by early evening. Crowds grew steadily inside, too, as travelers pulled suitcases into departure terminals decked out with giants wreathes. A light, cold rain fell outside, but most flights as of evening were listed on big boards as \"on time.\" \n Elizabeth Thompson said she couldn't wait to leave the big city behind and decompress over the Thanksgiving holiday at her grandmother's house in rural south-central Indiana. But first she had to get there. \n On Wednesday, Thompson, 23, missed her Amtrak train from Chicago to Galesburg, Illinois, where she'd planned to catch a ride with a family member the rest of the way to Edinburgh, Indiana. \n \"It's just where we go to unplug and escape,\" said Thompson, who was deciding whether to wait several hours for the next train or hop on a bus and get going. \n And a big part of the plan is banning election talk. \n \"My mother specifically said, 'We're not going to talk about it,'\" for her grandmother's sake, Thompson said. Although nobody in her family supported President-elect Trump, \"my grandmother is sick of hearing about it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "During Thanksgiving feast, some Americans hold the politics"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man stood near the gate in the snow at Kanda Myojin shrine in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> Tokyo residents woke up Thursday to the first November snowfall in more than 50 years. And the Japan Meteorological Agency said it was the first time fallen snow on the ground was observed in November since such records started to be taken in 1875.  \n An unusually cold air mass brought wet snow to Japan's capital. Above-freezing temperatures kept the snow from sticking in most places, though it did accumulate on sidewalks and cars in Tokyo's far western suburbs. \n Meteorologists forecast up to 2 centimeters (1 inch) would fall, and more in the mountains northwest of Tokyo. \n The snow caused minor train delays during the morning commute. \n The last time it snowed in central Tokyo in November was 1962. \n Prior to Thursday, the earliest time that snow had accumulated on the ground in the winter season was on Dec. 6, 1987, according to the agency. \n The agency monitors various esoteric weather indicators, Japanese-style, such as announcing when cherry blossoms have started to bloom by observing a certain tree. The benchmark \"sakura\" tree for Tokyo grows in Yasukuni Shrine, which has drawn controversy because it honors all Japanese soldiers who died in war, including war criminals. \n The first snowfall is \"hatsuyuki,\" which literally translated to \"first snow.\" Snow on the ground is called \"sekisetsu,\" and declared when more than half a designated area in Tokyo, called Kitanomaru, turns white, the agency said. \n Japanese culture is especially sensitive to the changing seasons. Haiku, for instance, must include words that denote spring, summer, fall or winter. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Snow falls in November in Tokyo for first time in 54 years"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ROB SHIKINA / RSHIKINA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Honolulu police responded to a shooting in McCully. \n Police were searching this morning for a gunman who fatally shot a 24-year-old man in an illegal game room in McCully on Wednesday night, the second fatal game room shooting in two months. \n Honolulu police acting homicide Lt. Ryan Kaio said police were sent to a report of possible gunshots on Poha Lane near South Beretania Street at about 9:05 p.m. Arriving officers were directed to an illegal game room on the second floor of a building. Inside, officers found the victim dead with multiple gunshot wounds. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said the man had apparent gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen. \n Kaio said the suspect fled the scene and was still at large at about 1 a.m. \n According to police dispatch reports shortly after the shooting, the suspect was described as having cornrows, is about 5 feet 11 inches tall, 190 pounds, with a stoplight tattoo on his left arm. He was armed with a semi-automatic handgun. \n Police opened a second-degree murder investigation. Kaio said police were investigating the connection between the two men and what led to the shooting. \n A family member at the scene said both men were employees of the game room. \n On Sept. 24, a 30-year-old man allegedly shot two people inside Cuties Cafe, an illegal game room that has since closed, on North King Street in downtown. A 44-year-old woman died and a 25-year-old man was injured in the game room robbery. Alabanza Tuimalealiifano was charged in connection with the shooting two days later. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspect in fatal McCully shooting still at large"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION VIA AP \n In this photo taken taken from video, Daniel McConnell described the scene of a car crash during a television interview Thursday. \n BRISBANE, Australia >> A bystander dressed only in underpants helped police arrest an unlicensed driver who allegedly crashed a car into an Australian takeout restaurant on Thursday then fled. \n Daniel McConnell said he was lying in bed at home in the Brisbane suburb of Hendra at 2 a.m. when a car slammed into the front of a neighboring fish-and-chips shop, which had closed for the night. \n \"I've come outside and I've seen all of this commotion over here and I was in me jocks,\" McConnell told Australian Broadcast Corp., referring to his briefs. \n McConnell said he saw the driver run away and gave chase. \n \"All I had was me undies on and he started to take off up the street and I said: 'What are you doing, mate?' and I started following him. He's like: 'Don't be a hero,'\" McConnell said. \n McConnell said he returned home to grab his keys then gave chase again in his car, still nearly naked. \n Police arrived and McConnell flashed his headlights to grab their attention. \n Queensland state Police acknowledged that McConnell had directed them to the street where the 35-year-old driver was arrested. \n The driver will appear in court in January charged with unlicensed driving, a police statement said. More charges are possible. \n ", "author": "By Associated Press", "title": "Man in underpants aids police"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "An 18-year-old Oahu woman survived a 150-foot fall with only cuts and bruises while hiking near Wailua Falls, the Kauai Fire Department said today. \n The woman, an exchange student, was hiking on an unestablished trail when she fell at about 12:25 p.m. Tuesday, the fire department said in a news release. \n Rescue workers initially couldn't locate the woman in the forest reserve. The man who called for help after seeing the woman fall, hiked with rescuers down the trail to the woman on the Lihue side of the river. \n Firefighters picked her up in a helicopter and flew her to a nearby landing zone, and paramedics took her to Wilcox Hospital for treatment of minor scrapes and abrasions. \n Police closed part of Maalo Road between mile-marker 3 and the end of the road for about an hour for the rescue. \n Police, firefighters, and personnel from the state Department of Land and Natural Resources responded to the incident. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hiker survives 150-foot fall near Kauai waterfall"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This composite satellite image taken this afternoon shows high clouds over most of the state and rain clouds north and east of the state being blown over the islands. \n Thanksgiving may be a good day to stay indoors with cloudy, windy and wet weather expected Thursday. \n Conditions should be similar to today. \n A wind advisory for the state is extended until 6 p.m. Thursday because of east winds of 20 to 30 mph, with gusts near 50 mph. \n \"Winds will weaken somewhat late tonight, but strengthen again Thursday morning,\" forecasters said. \n \"Tradewinds will be strong and gusty into the holiday weekend.\" \n The strong winds are blowing rain clouds over the islands. Most of the showers are over windward and mauka areas, but some rain is making it to leeward sections. \n The forecast for Honolulu and south shores of Oahu calls for a 50 percent chance of rain through Friday. \n Forecasters expect another bout of above-average tradewind showers Saturday night into Sunday. \n High clouds moving over the state from the west should also make for cloudy to partly sunny conditions Thursday. \n Expect cool and windy conditions at night with lows dipping into the high 60s. \n A high surf advisory is also in effect for east shores until 6 p.m. Friday. Surf of 7 to 11 feet, generated by the strong east winds, are creating strong, breaking waves, shore break and strong currents, making swimming difficult and dangerous. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Windy, wet, cloudy weather expected on Thanksgiving"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "U.S. NAVY \n Soldiers assigned to 2nd Battalion, 3rd Infantry Regiment, carry supplies from a U.S. Marine Corps CH-53E Super Stallion at Antique Air Field in the Philippines on April 12, during Balikatan 2016. \n MANILA >> The Philippine armed forces chief said that five military exercises with the United States, including at least two major naval drills, will be scrapped next year at the direction of President Rodrigo Duterte. \n Gen. Ricardo Visaya told reporters Wednesday that U.S. officials respected the Philippines' proposal to reduce the number of drills to 258, or five less than this year's exercises. \n On Tuesday, the two allies held a meeting of their Mutual Defense Board and Security Engagement Board co-chaired by Visaya and Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., head of the U.S. Pacific Command. \n Visaya said the scrapped drills include an Amphibious Landing Exercise and Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training, both major naval exercises that include territorial defense training. \n He said next year's exercises will focus on humanitarian assistance, disaster relief and counterterrorism. \n Duterte has said he wants to chart a foreign policy less oriented toward Washington, and wants to expand security ties with China and Russia. \n Armed forces spokesman Brig. Gen. Restituto Padilla said the 258 exercises include small drills involving only a few soldiers, but that 13 are considered major drills. \n Padilla said the large-scale \"Balikatan\" or \"shoulder-to-shoulder\" exercises will be retained but will focus on humanitarian and disaster response. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine-U.S. military exercises to be reduced next year"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 27-year-old Aiea man for allegedly impersonating a law enforcement officer in Kaimuki. \n At about 3:14 a.m. Tuesday, police said the suspect identified himself as a police officer to a 22-year-old woman and displayed a firearm. \n During a traffic stop near Puu O Kaimuki Mini Park, police observed the firearm inside the suspect's vehicle within reach of a 30-year-old Kalihi woman. \n Police arrested the 30-year-old woman on suspicion of place to keep a pistol. The 27-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of impersonating a law enforcement officer in the first-degree and first-degree terroristic threatening. \n Police are continuing their investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police: Man impersonating officer flashes gun in Kaimuki"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "A water main break forced five businesses to close in Waianae today. \n The rupture involving a 12-inch water main occurred at about 6:45 a.m. at 86-090 Farrington Highway fronting Waianae Mall. \n A westbound lane has been closed as crew members cleared debris and prepare to conduct repairs, said Kalei Schoenstein, spokeswoman of the Honolulu Board of Water Supply. A water wagon was sent to the area to assist business that remained open. \n Leeward Community College's Waianae Education Center canceled classes today due to the break. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waianae water main break forces business closures, cancels classes"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER ARCHIVE \n Rep. Clift Tsuji \n HILO \u00bb Members of the Hawaii Democratic Party are set to begin selecting nominees to replace state Rep. Clift Tsuji, who died last week. \n Party officials from Tsuji's district, which covers parts of the Big Island, are scheduled to interview and nominate candidates Dec. 3, a day before his funeral in Hilo. Micah Alameda, party chairman for House District 2, said the date for interviewing applicants was selected before services were announced. \n \"Out of respect it would have been great to hold this process after his funeral services,\" Alameda said, adding that the Thanksgiving holiday presented scheduling challenges. \n Tsuji died on Nov. 15 at the age of 75. \n \"We're all sorry for the loss,\" said Hawaii County party chairman Phil Barnes. \"All the experience, all the years he's put in working for Hilo folks.\" \n To fill Tsuji's seat, the Democratic Party will submit a list of three prospective appointees, and then Gov. David Ige will make an appointment within 60 days. \n The person selected for the job will complete Tsuji's two-year term. \n Alameda said three people have requested nomination applications since the party announced the vacancy to members in an email Friday. Those potential applicants include Dennis Onishi, Christopher Todd and Moana Kelii. \n Onishi is a Hawaii County councilman whose term ends Dec. 5. Kelii ran unsuccessfully for the seat Onishi currently holds for County Council District 3 in the general election. Todd is a distribution manager at Hawaii Paper Products and coaches football and track and field at Hilo High School. \n Applicants must be party members and residents of the district. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Search process to begin for Rep. Tsuji's replacement"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by J. Rogers, Northwestern University, shows a soft, skin\u2010mounted microfluidic device for capture, collection and analysis of sweat. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Breaking a sweat? Researchers are creating a skin patch that can test those droplets while people exercise and beam results to their smartphones, possibly a new way to track health and fitness. \n The experimental gadget goes well beyond activity monitors like the Fitbit. A little larger than a quarter, it's almost like a tiny lab stuck to the skin \u2014 and a study published today found it worked on sweaty bicyclists, sticking even during a long-distance race in Arizona. \n If you think of perspiration as just a drippy nuisance, think again. \n \"Sweat has biochemical components within it that tell us a lot about physiological health,\" said John A. Rogers, who directs Northwestern University's Center for Bio-Integrated Electronics and led the new research. \n Today's wearable technology helps people track their calories, activity and heart rate. A wearable biosensor would be \"radically different,\" Rogers said. \n For simple fitness purposes, it could give an early warning that it's time to replenish electrolytes before someone starts to feel dehydrated. But eventually with additional research, Rogers envisions more sophisticated use of such devices, such as real-time monitoring of how the body adjusts during military training, or even to screen people for diseases such as diabetes or cystic fibrosis. \n Rogers, who did much of the research while at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, has long worked to develop electronic devices that can stretch and twist with the body. The skin-like sweat patch adds a capability called microfluidics, capturing and analyzing tiny amounts of body fluid. \n How it works: Stick the patch on the skin and start moving. Tiny channels collect perspiration and route it to different compartments where it interacts with chemicals that change color to reflect sweat loss, the perspiration's acidity level, and concentrations of chloride, glucose and lactate. \n Together, those measurements can indicate such things as hydration levels or electrolyte loss. Hold a smartphone over the patch, and an app takes a picture of the colors and interprets what they mean. \n In two studies reported today, Rogers' team stuck patches to the arms and backs of 21 healthy volunteers. Nine rode exercise bikes in a gym to compare the sweat patches' performance with the decidedly lower-tech method of sweat-testing used today \u2014 taping on absorbent pads and carting the resulting wet samples to a laboratory. For a more real-world test, the other 12 bicyclists wore the patches while competing in a long-distance outdoor race in Tucson. \n The patches stayed in place and worked even in the challenging outdoor race, and the patches' biochemical test results agreed with the indoor bikers' conventional sweat tests, the researchers reported in the journal Science Translational Medicine. \n \"It seems really practical,\" said Stanford University chemical engineering professor Zhenan Bao, who also researches novel biomedical materials but wasn't involved with the sweat patch. By simply looking at a color change, \"such a patch allows people to now have an opportunity to understand their health and how it changes depending on activities.\" \n It's a growing field: Other research groups around the country, including some of Bao's colleagues, are pursuing wearable biosensors. \n Rogers' sweat patches are designed for one-time use over a few hours. While today's studies used an early version that analyzed sweat just once during the exercise, he's now testing a design capable of multiple measurements over time. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Skin patch aims to test sweat to track health and fitness"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Travelers stood in line to board a train at the 30th Street Station ahead of the Thanksgiving Day holiday, in Philadelphia on Tuesday. Almost 49 million people are expected to travel 50 miles or more for the holiday, the most since 2007, according to AAA. \n CHICAGO \u00bb Americans took to the roads, air and railways today for what is expected to be the busiest Thanksgiving travel period in almost a decade. \n Almost 49 million people are expected to travel 50 miles or more between today and Sunday, the most since 2007, because of lower gas prices and an improving economy, according to AAA. \n It will be the first time many have gathered with family and friends since the rancorous election between Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton, and many say they hope they can leave politics behind \u2014 even for just a day. \n \"We'll avoid it,\" said 47-year-old boilermaker Kevin Baumann, who stopped in central Montana Tuesday on his way home to Spokane, Washington, after working on a coal plant in Iowa. \"We've got bigger things to talk about during the holidays.\" \n James Arnold, 18, a freshman at Eastern University in Philadelphia, expects that the election will be a big topic of conversation during Thanksgiving dinner at his family's home in Silver Spring, Maryland. \n \"My family loves to talk about things together and the election is something huge,\" he said Tuesday while waiting for a train. \n \"Every holiday they sit down and talk about things like that,\" he added. \"It's going to be interesting.\" \n The weather appeared to be cooperating for the most part, with no significant issues as of this morning, National Weather Service meteorologist Amy Seeley said. There was light rain in Chicago, a major airline hub, but delays were only averaging 15 minutes, according to the Chicago Department of Aviation. \n \"It looks pretty quiet across the country today; I'll take it,\" Seeley said. \n For those who didn't want to drive, Amtrak was adding some extra trains today and Sunday between Chicago and Milwaukee, its biggest Midwest corridor, spokesman Marc Magliari said. Some Midwest trains have been sold out for several days, he said. \n AP reporters Rebecca Santana in Kenner, Louisiana; Matthew Brown in Billings, Montana, and Maryclaire Dale in Philadelphia contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thanksgiving travel expected to be heaviest since 2007"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters are battling a brush fire in Olowalu today. \n Maui Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto of the Maui Fire Department said the fire near Ehehene Street started at about 8 a.m. Two fire helicopters also responded to conduct water drops. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control and do not anticipate the need to shut down Honoapiilani Highway. \n It's unknown at this time whether the brush fire is threatening structures. \n Additional details are pending. \n The National Weather Service has issued a wind advisory for all islands due to strong tradewinds as strong high pressure builds north of Hawaii. \n Winds of up to 20 to 30 mph are forecasted. Wind gusts of up to 50 mph primarily over mountain ridgelines and downwind of steep terrain. \n The wind advisory is in effect until 6 p.m. today. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters bring Maui brush fire under control"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "A boil water advisory has been canceled for Honokohau residents by the Maui Department of Water Supply after water samples determined there were no traces of coliform bateria contamination. \n The advisory, which had been issued Tuesday, was in response to possible E. coli contamination. \n Officials say the water quality meets federal and state standards. \n A potable water tanker was provided on Honokohau Valley Road for area residents. \n Bacterial contamination can occur when there's a water line rupture or when runoff enters a water source during a heavy rainfall. \n Coliform bacteria can cause diarrhea, cramps, nausea and headaches. It also may pose a health risk for infants, young children and individuals with a low immune system. \n The Department of Water Supply is advising Honokohau residents on Maui to boil water before consumption. An earlier version of this story incorrectly referred to Honokohau on Hawaii island. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Honokohau water declared safe to drink after contamination scare"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "Police briefly closed the southbound lanes of Piikoi Street this morning after a utility pole was downed in a traffic incident. \n The southbound lanes of Piikoi Street between Kapiolani Boulevard and Kona Street were closed around 8 a.m. and reopened around 8:49 a.m. \n No serious injuries were immediately reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Downed utility pole briefly closes southbound lanes of Piikoi Street"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "A 77-year-old man was transported to a trauma center in serious condition after he was struck by a vehicle in Moiliili early today. \n Emergency Medical Services reported paramedics responded to the accident at the intersection of Date and Coolidge streets at about 6:20 a.m. \n Paramedics treated the pedestrian, who suffered injuries to the left side of his head. Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said the 77-year-old man was alert when first responders arrived. \n There is no information on the driver at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pedestrian seriously injured in Moiliili accident"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kimberly Onorato, left, and Rory Clark. The pair were each charged with a felony count of impairing morals of a minor and misdemeanor breach of peace after police say they engaged in sexual activity in a parked car on Nov. 15 while a 6-year-old boy watched in the back seat. \n ORANGE, Conn. \u00bb A Connecticut couple is facing charges after police say they engaged in sexual activity in a parked car with a 6-year-old boy in the back seat. \n Police in Orange say two McDonald's employees were leaving the restaurant on Nov. 15 when they spotted two people engaged in sexual activity in the front seats of a car. They say the child was in the back seat, awake and alert. \n Police say they arrived to find 28-year-old Kimberly Onorato partially undressed. Police say Onorato and 27-year-old Rory Clark stated they had only been cuddling. \n Clark and Onorato are both charged with impairing morals of a minor and breach of peace. Online court records don't list lawyers for the pair. \n The child was turned over to a relative. Police also contacted child welfare authorities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Couple had sex in McDonald's lot in front of boy, 6"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "Culprits allegedly stole multiple cluster mailbox units between Hawaiian Beaches and Four Corners Kapoho in Hilo, according to a news release from the police department. \n Police are investigating the theft that occurred sometime between Monday and Tuesday. \n Anyone with information is asked to call police at 935-3311 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Thieves take mailboxes in Hilo"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley spoke in Orlando, Fla. on Nov. 15. President-elect Donald Trump said he intends to nominate Haley to be the next U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. \n PALM BEACH, Fla. \u00bb Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald Trump selected two Republican women who disparaged him during the presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead the federal Department of Education. \n Gov. Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as \"a proven dealmaker.\" DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades working to change America's system of public education. \n DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority selection after a string of announcements of white men. \n Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said \"an announcement is forthcoming\" on his role, which would make him the first black choice \u2014 presumably as secretary of Housing and Urban Development \u2014 but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it over the Thanksgiving holiday. \n \"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our inner cities great for everyone,\" Carson wrote on his Facebook page. \n Today's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the \"alt-right,\" a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election. \n He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team. \n Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much of this year's campaign. \n \"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!\" Trump wrote in March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to \"reject the siren call of the angriest voices.\" \n DeVos told The Associated Press in July, \"A lot of the things he has said are very off-putting and concerning.\" \n On Wednesday, Trump said of his UN selection: \"Gov. Haley has a proven track record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our country.\" \n She said she loved her South Carolina post but \"when the president believes you have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed.\" \n While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and right. \n The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said in a statement that for years DeVos \"has lobbied for failed schemes, like vouchers \u2014 which take away funding and local control from our public schools \u2014 to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense.\" \n And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted, \"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the creation of the Dept of Education.\" \n At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor, who has spent millions of dollars \u2014 along with her husband \u2014 to promote candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign. \n Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. \n DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a \"Q&A\" statement that said directly about Common Core: \"I am not a supporter \u2014 period.\" \n \"I do support high standards,\" she said. But along the way Common Core \"got turned into a federal boondoggle.\" \n Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world \u2014 including many in his own party \u2014 by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest. \n Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts. \n Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, formerly an outspoken Trump critic. \n After secretary of state, the UN ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international stage. \n As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades, especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a former president of the company. \n The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general election, spending spent $210,000 to support \"pro-school choice\" candidates in Oklahoma alone. \n \"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class education and school choice to all families,\" Trump said. \n DeVos said in her own statement, \"The status quo in education is not acceptable.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump taps S.C. Gov. Haley, charter school backer DeVos"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "HEINZ ZAK/COURTESY OF BLACK DIAMOND EQUIPMENT VIA AP \n In this November 2016 photo courtesy of Heinz Zak and Black Diamond Equipment, Adam Ondra celebrates after finishing the most difficult pitches of his climb on the Dawn Wall of El Capitan in Yosemite National Park, Calif. Ondra, from the Czech Republic, scaled what's considered one of the world's most challenging rock walls found in Yosemite National Park, and he did it in record time. A spokesman for Black Diamond Equipment confirmed Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016, that 23-year-old Adam Ondra completed a half-mile free-climb up the Dawn Wall on the famous El Capitan. \n Fresno, Calif. \u00bb Gripping tiny slices of sheer rock and hoisting himself up 3,000 feet with only his strength, Adam Ondra quietly inched his way up one of the world's most challenging rock walls and into the record books, a spokesman for the climber said. \n Ondra, a 23-year-old from the Czech Republic, took eight days to finish the free-climb up the Dawn Wall of the famed El Capitan in California's Yosemite National Park. \n He completed the second-ever free assent of the wall Monday, said John Dicuollo, a spokesman for Black Diamond Equipment, which sponsors Ondra. \n Nearly two years ago, U.S. climbers Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson were first to chart and conquer the route, a feat that took the pair 19 days. \n \"It's like being a proud parent, in a way,\" Jorgeson said Tuesday, honored that Ondra was drawn to the challenge. \"That's the point: To raise the bar so someone else can do the same thing and stand on our shoulders.\" \n Unlike climbers who need more elaborate equipment, free-climbers use their strength and ability to grasp tiny cracks and lips on the granite rock with their fingertips and toes. They use ropes and harnesses only for safety to catch a fall. \n Throughout the climb, Ondra took to social media to post about the cold, soaking rain and the pain from the granite wearing down the skin on his fingers. He also celebrated victories. \n \"Hard to find the words to describe how I feel,\" he wrote on Instagram as he neared the top. \"We made it up to the Wino Tower and no more hard pitches guard my way to the top. I could not have asked for a better day.\" \n Ondra, pictured in jeans and a T-shirt pumping his arms after completing a difficult stretch of the climb, was not available for comment. Dicuollo said Ondra's cellphone was off as he celebrated by resting. \n Ondra completed the climb in his first visit to Yosemite Valley. He arrived in mid-October, spending several days practicing some of the wall's most harrowing sections, before launching the formal climb on Nov. 14. \n To rest, Ondra and his team pitched tents suspended on the wall's sheer face towering hundreds of feet above Yosemite Valley. The park \u2014 famous for its grand views, giant sequoias and pristine meadows \u2014 is known for attracting daredevil adventurers from around the globe. \n Ondra had already distinguished himself as the first to hold two world championships in climbing, his sponsors said. Earlier this year, he also completed his university degree in business management. \n He closely monitored Caldwell and Jorgeson's accomplishment in early 2015, drawing on inspiration from their climb to attempt his own, his sponsor said. \n Yosemite climber and historian Ken Yager said there is no doubt that Ondra is the strongest climber alive today. Yager, however, credits Caldwell for taking years to chart the path up the Dawn Wall, the most difficult of several routes that climbers can take up El Capitan. \n \"Hopefully, Adam, with his skills, will come back and pioneer his own route,\" Yager said. \"He can push it to his own level. He's got the skills to. It's whether he has the desire, too.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Czech free-climber scales Yosemite rock wall in record time"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this June 22 photo, Labor Secretary Thomas Perez speaks at a news conference at the Treasury Department in Washington. \n Las Vegas \u00bb Businesses around the country cheered a court decision blocking the Obama administration's sweeping new overtime rules, but many had already raised salaries or ordered managers to stick to a strict 40-hour workweek to avoid costs they expected to incur starting next week. \n An injunction issued Tuesday by the federal court in the Eastern District of Texas prevents the Department of Labor from mandating overtime pay for salaried employees who make less than about $47,500 a year \u2014 a dramatic jump from the old threshold of $23,660. \n More than 4 million workers would have been newly eligible for time-and-a-half pay under the rule, which now faces far more uncertainty from Donald Trump's incoming administration. \n The ruling giving businesses a reprieve \"is a little late for a lot of people's taste,\" said Tom Gimbel of Chicago-based LaSalle Network, a staffing firm that advised companies on how to prepare for the new rule. \"A lot of companies had already rolled it out.\" \n Wal-Mart, for example, raised entry-level managers' starting salaries by $3,500 in September to stay above the threshold. But there were also raises among clerical workers for Opportunity Village in Las Vegas, a nonprofit that teaches vocational skills to people with disabilities and raises its money through private donations and running a thrift store. \n Opportunity president Bob Brown said he couldn't bear to backtrack on the decision. \n \"It's put us in a difficult situation \u2014 you're spending money you wouldn't have been spending,\" he said. \n In Colorado, some restaurant owners operating on thin margins shifted salaried managers to hourly pay so they could better track their hours and cap them at 40. \n \"That was demoralizing for managers who felt they were being demoted,\" said Sonia Riggs, CEO of the Colorado Restaurant Association. \n The Department of Labor last May ordered the changes to give overtime to many more American workers, saying they would \"go a long way toward realizing President Obama's commitment to ensuring every worker is compensated fairly for their hard work.\" \n Inflation had weakened the U.S. overtime law passed decades ago. Overtime provisions applied to 62 percent of U.S. full-time salaried workers in 1975 but just 7 percent today. \n That means some low-level retail and restaurant managers are making $25,000 a year but aren't eligible for overtime, even when they're working 60 hours a week. \n The court agreed with the rule's opponents that the labor department overstepped the authority it has from Congress and that the rule could cause irreparable harm if it took effect Dec. 1 as scheduled. The department is now considering its legal options, but Trump will be in charge of the department after taking office on Jan. 20. \n Trump told the news website Circa in August that he hoped small businesses would get an exception from the overtime rule, although the issue was not a prominent presidential campaign theme. \n The rule's supporters are now grappling with implications for workers who were expecting more overtime pay just as the holiday shopping rush gets underway. \n \"This is about the worst news they could get heading into Thanksgiving and the holiday season,\" said Vicki Shabo, vice president of the National Partnership for Women & Families, a Washington, D.C.-based group that promotes workplace fairness. \n Workers who want to make a good impression on their employers, feel compelled to cover for absent co-workers or are passionate about their jobs often put in far more than 40 hours a week and end up making a sub-minimum wage. Advocacy groups say employees who work for free are giving up time they could be spending with their families or advancing their education to get better paying jobs. \n But businesses said the rules would have created an overly restrictive environment that would have penalized younger and slower workers. \n \"We were going to have to send them home at times,\" said Jose Villa, president of the Los Angeles-based ad agency Sensis. \"Say, 'You're done for the day, you have to go,' even though we're working on some important stuff that's going to be very educational for them.\" \n With the overtime pay order suspended, Trump's administration could choose to make its own rule changes through a lengthy administrative process. \n The Republican-controlled Congress could change the country's labor laws, although House Speaker Paul Ryan had decried the overtime plan \"an absolute disaster\" that Obama rushed through to boost his political legacy. \n If the labor department lawyers appeal Tuesday's ruling, they could end up facing a Supreme Court that includes some Trump appointees. \n The injunction takes political pressure off the Trump at a good time, said labor law professor Ruben Garcia of the University Nevada Las Vegas' Boyd School of Law. \n With no new overtime changes kicking in next week, Trump can accept the status quo and does not risk angering workers by revoking the new overtime benefits shortly after employees start receiving them, Garcia said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. businesses cheer overtime ruling; many already upped pay"}

{"date": "November 23, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A couple walks on paintings criticizing South Korean President Park Geun-hye on a street in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday, Nov. 23, 2016. Park's office on Wednesday confirmed revelations by an opposition lawmaker that it purchased about 360 erectile dysfunction Viagra pills and the generic version of the drug in December. \n Seoul, South Korea \u00bb Little blue pills in South Korea's presidential Blue House? \n President Park Geun-hye's office on Wednesday confirmed revelations by an opposition lawmaker that it purchased about 360 erectile dysfunction Viagra pills and the generic version of the drug in December. \n While the report has created a frenzy on the internet, Park's office said the pills were bought to potentially treat altitude sickness for presidential aides and employees on Park's May trips to Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya, whose capitals are 1 to 2 kilometers (0.6 to 1.2 miles) above sea level. \n The pills weren't used, said Jung Youn-kuk, a Blue House spokesman. South Korean doctors sometimes prescribe Viagra-style drugs to climbers because they are believed to be effective in preventing altitude sickness. \n The presidential office also purchased a variety of injection drugs used for fatigue and anti-aging treatment, according to the office of lawmaker Kim Sanghee. Park's spokesman explained that the presidential office purchases drugs for the president's entire staff including security officers. \n The Viagra revelation is the latest twist in a massive political scandal building around Park. \n Park is bracing for an impeachment push by opposition parties and some members of her own Saenuri Party amid allegations that she let a secretive confidante manipulate government affairs and amass an illicit fortune, a scandal critics say undermines the country's democracy. \n On Sunday, prosecutors said they believe Park was involved in the criminal activities of her longtime friend, Choi Soon-sil, and two presidential aides who allegedly bullied companies into giving tens of millions of dollars to foundations and businesses Choi controlled, and that she also enabled Choi to interfere in state affairs. \n Prosecutors have indicted Choi and the two former presidential aides. Park's office has denied the accusations and refused multiple attempts by prosecutors to interrogate her in person, although saying she will oblige to an independent probe by a special prosecutor. \n The Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office said investigators were sent to the Blue House on Wednesday to secure documents and other evidence from offices used by the senior presidential secretary for civil affairs. It refused to confirm whether prosecutors conducted the search themselves or relied on Blue House employees to bring the materials to them. \n Woo Byung-woo, Park's former civil affairs secretary, has been accused of failing to prevent Choi from influencing state affairs and has been embroiled in separate corruption allegations surrounding his family. \n Choi Jai-kyeong, Park's current secretary for civil affairs, and Justice Minister Kim Hyun-woong have offered to resign as the fallout from the scandal continues to grow. Park has yet to decide whether to accept their resignations, the Blue House said Wednesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Blue pills in Blue House: South Korea leader explains Viagra"}

