{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer called on a reporter during the daily news briefing at the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House says President Donald Trump told Chinese President Xi Jinping in a phone call tonight that the U.S. would honor Washington's \"one China\" policy, which has been at the center of friction between the global powers since Trump's election. \n Trump \"agreed, at the request of President Xi,\" to honor the policy, the White House says. \n Before taking office, Trump questioned Washington's \"one China policy,\" which shifted diplomatic recognition from self-governing Taiwan to China in 1979. He said it was open to negotiation. \n China has bristled at the \"one China\" comments by Trump, who wants to pressure Beijing to narrow its huge trade surplus with America. \n The two leaders also invited each other to visit their respective countries. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump tells Xi he'll honor 'One China' policy"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington Gov. Jay Inslee talked with reporters following a federal appeals court's refusal to reinstate President Donald Trump's travel ban today in Olympia, Wash. \n SEATTLE >> A federal appeals court has handed a resounding victory to Washington state and Minnesota in their challenge of President Donald Trump's travel ban, finding unanimously that a lower court ruling suspending the ban's enforcement should stay in place while the case continues. \n Legal scholars who reviewed it say there's little chance the Justice Department could succeed in any immediate appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, though that won't necessarily stop the administration from trying. \n Here's a look at the legal issues in the court's ruling and what comes next. \n WHAT DOES THE RULING MEAN? \n For now, it means refugees and people from seven majority-Muslim nations identified in the president's surprise Jan. 27 executive order can continue entering the country. Travelers from those countries won't be detained, or put back on planes heading overseas, and there won't likely be more protests jamming the nation's airports as there were after Trump issued the surprise order. \n But the executive order isn't dead, either \u2014 it just isn't being enforced while the courts debate its legality. The federal government has 14 days to ask the 9th Circuit to reconsider Thursday's decision. It could also file an emergency appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court, which would go to Justice Anthony Kennedy for referral to the rest of the court. \n Rory Little, a former Supreme Court clerk who teaches at the University of California Hastings College of the Law, doesn't think that's such a good idea. In addition to seeking to overturn a reasoned decision, he said, Trump would be facing Chief Justice John Roberts, who just wrote an annual report in which he raved about his District Court judges. The president repeatedly insulted the Seattle judge who ruled against him, in addition to the appeals judges who followed suit. \n \"I think Kennedy and Roberts are seething about the president insulting their judges,\" Little said. \"If they go to the U.S. Supreme Court, they risk getting a serious adverse ruling.\" \n WHAT DID THE COURT CONSIDER? \n There have been, in effect, two items before the court: the government's appeal of the lower judge's ruling, and its motion to put that ruling on hold pending the appeal. On Thursday, the panel denied the motion for stay and set a briefing schedule for fuller arguments on the merits of the appeal. \n That prompted some confusion among those watching the case, many of whom expected it to be returned to the Seattle courthouse. Washington's lawyer, state Solicitor General Noah Purcell, wrote to the Seattle court's clerk late Thursday to note the state wouldn't be making an expected court filing because of the new appellate briefing schedule. \n Barring an immediate appeal to the Supreme Court, the government's opening brief is due March 3, with the states' filing due March 24. \n In denying the motion for stay, the court said it was considering whether the administration was likely to win its appeal, whether suspending the travel ban had harmed the government, and whether the public interest favored granting the stay or rejecting it. \n The judges agreed that the lower court's ruling was appealable \u2014 the only question on which the states lost. They rejected the DOJ's argument that the states lacked standing to sue, noting that some faculty members at state universities were unable to travel, for example. \n But most forcibly, they rejected the DOJ's notion that the president has nearly unlimited authority over immigration decisions. \n \"There is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability, which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy,\" the opinion said. \n A PROBLEMATIC EXECUTIVE ORDER? \n Based on what they know so far, Trump's executive order poses some serious constitutional concerns, the panel said. For example, the government hasn't shown that it complies with due process, by giving those affected notice or a hearing before restricting their ability to travel. \n While the government insisted that most or all those affected don't have such rights, the court disagreed. The protections of the Fifth Amendment's due process clause aren't limited to U.S. citizens, the judges said. \n Furthermore, while the White House Counsel Donald McGahn issued guidance days after the executive order saying it didn't apply to legal permanent residents of the U.S., some of whom had been caught up in the travel ban, that guidance was of little use, the court wrote. \n \"The Government has offered no authority establishing that the White House counsel is empowered to issue an amended order superseding the Executive Order signed by the President,\" the opinion said. \"The White House counsel is not the President, and he is not known to be in the chain of command for any of the Executive Departments.\" \n A LIBERAL COURT? \n Many conservatives denounced the ruling. The response of Republican Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas was emblematic: He called it misguided and wrote off the court it came from as \"the most notoriously left-wing court in America.\" \n While the 9th Circuit certainly has a lefty reputation, based in part on the long tenure of the many liberal judges that Democratic President Jimmy Carter appointed, legal scholars say the label is less deserved than it used to be. Two of the judges on the panel that made the ruling are Democratic appointees, while one, that Judge Richard Clifton, was appointed by President George W. Bush. \n Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond Law School, said Clifton's decision to join the opinion should allay any concerns that it was motivated by politics instead of the law. That should make the government think twice before going to the Supreme Court, he said. \n During oral arguments Tuesday, Clifton \"was asking the best questions that might lean toward the government, but even he wasn't persuaded on the law or the facts, so that makes it really tough for the government,\" Tobias said. \"I don't think they're going to be well-received at the Supreme Court for all kinds of reasons, but mainly because this is a reasonable decision. The precedents are there, they've weighed the issues, and even Clifton signed it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at what comes next in Trump travel ban case"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Donald Trump, right, stood on the 14th fairway during a pro-am round of the AT&T National golf tournament at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Md. on June 27, 2012, and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left, played golf in Yamanakako village, west of Tokyo, on July 23, 2016. \n TOKYO >> If they stick to schedule, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and U.S. President Donald Trump will spend more time on the fairways than at the White House. \n After facing off on some divisive issues in Washington on Friday, they jet to Florida, where they will turn to something they have in common on Saturday: a love of golf. \n Trump, who operates 18 golf courses around the world and even has his own golf channel, is said to be one of the best golfers in U.S. presidential history. Can Abe even get close? \n HOW GOOD IS ABE?  \n His score is a \"state secret,\" Abe once told Japanese reporters staking him out when he played, and that has become the official line. But last August, a fellow player reported that Abe had done well, finishing with a 91. His handicap remains a secret. \n Trump shoots in the 70s and had a handicap of 2.8 last year, according to Golf Digest magazine. Though he goes after the ball hard, Golf Digest described his approach as \"quite under control.\" Trump has denied cheating allegations by retired boxer Oscar De La Hoya, who once questioned Trump's integrity on the course. \n Tiger Woods played golf with Trump in Florida right before Christmas, and said he was impressed with how hard Trump hit the ball for a 70-year-old. \"People don't realize he's that old and he can rip it and hit it as far as he does. Keeps himself in pretty good shape and pretty good health and has an inordinate amount of energy,\" Woods said. \n Jim Herman, the Houston Open winner, has known Trump for nearly 10 years. He was an assistant pro at Trump's club in New Jersey and Trump encouraged him to try for the PGA Tour. \n \"He's a true competitor. He wants to win and has a great putting stroke,\" Herman said. \"He drives the ball really well, hits some good irons but he can putt the golf ball. If there's a putt to be made for the match, he usually made it.\" \n THE CLUB  \n Abe rushed to New York to meet Trump days after the November election and gave him a pricey Honma driver. Trump reciprocated with a golf shirt and other golf goods. Japanese media will be watching closely to see if they use those gifts at Trump's golf course in West Palm Beach. \n The gold-colored driver is the best in the BERES S-05 series made by Honma Golf Co., a Japanese company known for its craftsmanship. Abe said he spent his own money on the driver, which Japanese media reported cost 500,000 yen ($4,500). \n Tokyo-based Honma has been acquired by a Chinese company, though the clubs are still assembled at a factory in Yamagata in northern Japan. Abe's gift to former U.S. President Barack Obama, who once said his handicap was an \"honest 13,\" was a Yamada putter. \n GOLF DIPLOMACY  \n Abe isn't the first Japanese prime minister to be invited to golf by an American leader. His grandfather and role model, then-Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, played with then-President Dwight Eisenhower in 1957, ahead of talks on a revision to the 1951 U.S.-Japan security pact. \n Archival photos show them smiling at the Burning Tree course in Maryland. Eisenhower won, shooting 74 to Kishi's 99. The two sides finally agreed to a revision in 1960 that made the treaty more equal for Japan. \n But a planned second round of golf in Japan never happened, as Eisenhower canceled a visit to Tokyo in June 1960 because of intensifying Japanese protests against the security pact. The demonstrations led to Kishi's resignation the following month. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Birdies, pars and diplomacy: Trump and Abe to play golf"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Whales were stranded at Farewell Spit near Nelson, New Zealand on Friday. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> It was the sound of soft sighs and cries in the half-light that first struck Cheree Morrison, and then as the dawn broke she began to see the extent of the carnage \u2014 more than 400 whales had swum aground along a remote New Zealand beach. \n About three-quarters of the pilot whales were already dead when Morrison and two colleagues found them Friday on Farewell Spit at the tip of the South Island. \n Within hours, hundreds of farmers, tourists and teenagers were racing to keep the surviving 100 or so whales alive in one of the worst whale strandings in the nation's history. \n Morrison, a magazine writer and editor, stumbled upon the whales after taking a pre-dawn trip with a photographer and a guide to capture the red glow of the sunrise. \n \"You could hear the sounds of splashing, of blowholes being cleared, of sighing,\" she said. \"The young ones were the worst. Crying is the only way to describe it.\" \n The adult and baby whale carcasses were strewn three or four deep in places for hundreds of yards, often rolled over on the sand with their tail fins still aloft. \n Morrison's group alerted authorities, and volunteers soon began arriving in wetsuits and carrying buckets. Dressed in her jeans and sandshoes, Morrison waded into the water and did what she could to try to maneuver the surviving whales upright so they could breathe more easily. \n \"I walked away crying my eyes out,\" she said. \"We knew there were limited things we could do.\" \n When high tide came, volunteers did manage to refloat several dozen of the surviving whales, while others remained beached. \n The volunteers then formed a human chain in the water to try to stop the creatures from swimming back and stranding themselves again. It will likely take a day or so to determine how successful their efforts have been. \n Farewell Spit, a sliver of sand that arches like a hook into the Tasman Sea, seems to confuse whales and has been the site of previous mass strandings. \n Department of Conservation community ranger Kath Inwood said about 300 volunteers had joined conservation workers on the beach. \n She said the volunteers were continuing to keep the stranded survivors damp and cool by placing blankets over them and dousing them with buckets of water. \n The high tide allowed volunteers their one shot of the day to help some of the whales. The volunteers will have to wait until the next daylight high tide on Saturday to try to refloat more of the whales, including any that strand themselves again. \n There are different theories as to why whales strand themselves, from them chasing prey too far inshore to them trying to protect a sick member of the group. \n Inwood said whale strandings occur most years at Farewell Spit, but the scale of this event came as a shock. \n Sometimes described as a whale trap, the spit's long coastline and gently sloping beaches seem to make it difficult for whales to navigate away from once they get close. \n Authorities were asking for fit volunteers to travel to the beach and help with the rescue efforts. Getting there from the nearest provincial airport in Nelson involves a three-hour drive followed by a 15-minute hike. \n Conservation workers said many of the surviving whales were likely to be in bad shape given the number of deaths, and that their conditions would likely deteriorate the longer they remained stranded. \n Volunteer rescue group Project Jonah said a total of 416 whales had stranded and 75 percent were dead when they were discovered. The Department of Conservation put the number of dead whales at about 250 to 300. \n New Zealand has one of the highest rates of whale strandings in the world, and Friday's event is the nation's third-biggest recorded stranding. \n The largest was in 1918, when about 1,000 pilot whales came ashore on the Chatham Islands. In 1985 about 450 whales stranded in Auckland. \n \"It was just heartbreaking,\" Morrison said. \"Utterly heartbreaking.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Zealanders race to save whales after 400 stranded"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Muslim Association of Hawaii mosque in Manoa. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin spoke at a news conference on Feb. 3 \n Hawaii's attorney general wants to add a new plaintiff to the state's lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump's travel ban on people from seven mostly Muslim countries: Ismail Elshikh, the imam of the Muslim Association of Hawaii, whose mother-in-law is a Syrian national living in Syria. \n State Attorney General Doug Chin is asking a judge to partially lift a stay in the case to allow the state to file an amended complaint that details the effect the travel ban would have on Elshikh's family and others in Hawaii. \n Elshikh, his wife and their five children are U.S. citizens, according to court documents the state filed Wednesday. The executive order will prevent his mother-in-law from visiting the family in Hawaii: \"The family is devastated,\" said the state's proposed amended complaint. The travel ban has created additional obstacles to completing the mother-in-law's visa application process, said Hawaii attorney general spokesman Josh Wisch. \n The executive order \"conveys to them a message that their own country would discriminate against individuals who share their ethnicity, including members of their own family, and who hold the same religious beliefs,\" the document said. \n Chin filed Hawaii's lawsuit last week, noting that the ban will also have a \"chilling effect\" on the state's tourism industry. \n Hawaii has hired a Washington, D.C. law firm to help. The attorney general's office didn't immediately have the costs available, but Chin said the firm is working at a reduced rate. \n Earlier this week, U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson suspended the case while a nationwide injunction on the travel ban remains in place. Three judges\u2014 including one from Honolulu\u2014 on the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Thursday against immediately reinstating Trump's travel ban, which temporarily suspended the nation's refugee program and immigration from seven mostly Muslim countries that have raised terrorism concerns. \n Watson is giving the federal government until Monday to respond to Hawaii's request. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii man with Syrian family wants to join travel ban suit"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This screen image from the capcana.com website shows an article about the recent visit by Eric Trump to the Dominican Republic. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump Organization is returning to a long-dormant licensing deal involving a beachfront luxury resort in the Dominican Republic, testing the limits of Donald Trump's pledge to halt new international Trump-branded projects during his presidency. \n The branding deal \u2014 signed in 2007 between Trump and the wealthy Hazoury family with stakes in airports, education and media \u2014 stalled out amid the 2008 financial crisis and a later dispute over Trump's fees. The resort has not used the Trump name in publicity materials or discussed working with Trump in years. \n But the Trump family's re-engagement surfaced unexpectedly last week, when Eric Trump, an executive vice president, was photographed touring the property with brothers Ricardo and Fernando Hazoury. He had accused them of \"textbook fraud\" in a 2012 lawsuit over allegedly hidden property sales. \n In a press release, the Hazoury brothers now call their relationship with the president's son \"incredibly strong.\" \n The Trump Organization's general counsel, Alan Garten, describes efforts to restart the development branding deal as very preliminary. The renewed pursuit of the project shows that the company believes it has latitude to carry on significant new activity overseas, despite the president's pledge to avoid new foreign development deals. \n \"No new foreign deals will be made whatsoever during the duration of President Trump's presidency,\" Trump lawyer Sheri Dillon of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLC said last month at a news conference. Under the self-imposed rules she described, new domestic deals will be allowed, but they will go through what she described as a vigorous vetting process. \n Garten said the deal in the Dominican Republic was never dead even though nothing new has been built or announced in a decade. Garten noted that Trump listed the deal on his 2015 government financial disclosure but said it was not listed on last year's filings because of what he described as a lack of reportable assets associated with the venture. \n The effort to grandfather such branding deals demonstrates the flimsiness of Trump's pledge, said Richard Painter, who served as the ethics lawyer for the White House during the George W. Bush administration. \n \"They can take the tiniest little past involvement in something and then extend it into an enormous new deal,\" Painter said. \"There's no way to distinguish between new business and old business.\" \n The deal with the Hazourys contemplated multiple stages of Trump-themed projects at Cap Cana, a master-planned resort town minutes from the busy Punta Cana International Airport. The project is twice the size of Manhattan, and Trump's part began with the sale of 68 multimillion-dollar home sites known as \"The Trump Farallons.\" Trump-branded hotel, condominium and golf course projects were supposed to follow. At a lavish party in Cap Cana in 2007, Trump \"congratulated fortunate buyers on their investment,\" according to a press release by Cap Cana. \n Trump's deal never progressed beyond the initial sale of Trump-branded vacant lots. Though he described himself as a Cap Cana project developer in public statements, Trump invested no money, and the project stalled during the 2008 financial crisis. Further damaging the deal's prospects, the developer wasn't paying Trump the licensing fees on empty lots that had already sold. \n After hiring an outside auditor, Trump sued in 2012, alleging that the Hazourys had hid many of the land sales and kept the proceeds. In an affidavit, Eric Trump called the sales reports the Cap Cana developers had provided to the Trump Organization \"an outright lie.\" \n Before the case could go to trial, the Trump Organization and Cap Cana reached a confidential settlement in 2013. \n During the following three years, neither the Trumps nor the Hazourys announced further cooperation, and Trump's name largely disappeared from marketing materials. The exclusive real estate brokerage for the project dropped Trump's name from \"The Farallons.\" \n Garten said that, despite Cap Cana's failure to deliver on its side of the contract and Trump's demand that the project stop using his name during the litigation, Trump never canceled the underlying deal. The ultimate settlement of Trump's suit against Cap Cana was amicable, he said, and further talks occurred well before last November's U.S. election. \n The only contract for the current venture was the one from 2007, which required the Hazourys to complete construction of all components by 2011. Other parts of the overall Cap Cana project have come to fruition \u2014 including an Eden Roc hotel, two golf courses and an expansive marina \u2014 but the properties sold in the Trump Farallons have been gradually overtaken by the jungle. \n \"We may not be able to work it out,\" Garten said. Recent developments involving Cap Cana \u2014 including a previously unreported settlement between developers and holders of defaulted bonds \u2014 persuaded the Trump Organization to revisit its licensing deal. Garten said the company also believed that re-engaging on the project might be good for people who own the still-undeveloped Trump Farallon lots. \n \"We feel that we owe an obligation to the buyers to do what we can,\" he said. \n Representatives of Cap Cana did not respond to requests for comment. \n William Ganz III, a Baltimore real estate agent who purchased one of the sites and built around 70 percent of a lavish villa before the Trump Farallons' distress, said Eric Trump's visit had caught him and other property owners by surprise since they were unaware of an ongoing relationship. \n Ganz, who is looking for investors to help him finish the villa he started, said the Cap Cana developers' renewed interest in Trump-branded development was only logical given Trump's victory in the presidential campaign. \n \"Obviously it would make sense to restart that conversation now that Trump's in the limelight,\" he said. \"It would be foolish not to try to make things start to happen.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dominican deal tests Trump pledge of no new foreign projects"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke during a meeting with Senators on his Supreme Court Justice nominee Neil Gorsuch on Thursday in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n \"We have a situation where the security of our country is at stake and it's a very, very serious situation so we look forward \u2026 to seeing them in court,\" Trump said. \"We're going to win the case.\" \n Trump, in a brief, impromptu appearance in the West Wing, did not specify what his administration's next legal steps would be and said he had not yet conferred with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who was sworn into office earlier today. \n The president said he did not believe the decision undercut his presidency. \n In a unanimous decision, the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals declined Thursday to block a lower-court ruling that suspended the executive order preventing travelers from seven Muslim-majority nations from entering the U.S. \n The Justice Department said it was \"reviewing the decision and considering its options.\" It could appeal the judge's restraining order to the U.S. Supreme Court or it could attempt to make the case for the travel ban in the district court. \n White House counselor Kellyanne Conway suggested the next step would be to argue the merits of the executive order. \n \"The statute provides a president \u2026 with great latitude and authority to protect the citizens and to protect the nation's national security,\" Conway said. \"This was not argued on the merits. Now that we'll have an opportunity to argue on the merits we look forward to doing that. We look forward to prevailing.\" \n The ruling represented a setback for Trump's administration and the second legal defeat for the new president in the past week. Trump's decision to sign the executive order late last month has sparked protests at airports around the world as authorities barred scores of travelers from entering the country amid confusion over how to implement the details. \n The appellate decision brushed aside arguments by the Justice Department that the president has the constitutional power to restrict entry to the United States and that the courts cannot second-guess his determination that such a step was needed to prevent terrorism. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer tweeted Thursday that Trump \"ought to see the writing on the wall\" and abandon the proposal. The New York Democrat called on the president to \"roll up his sleeves\" and come up with \"a real, bipartisan plan to keep us safe.\" \n House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California promised, \"Democrats will continue to press for President Trump's dangerous and unconstitutional ban to be withdrawn.\" And Trump's former presidential rival Hillary Clinton offered a terse response on Twitter, noting the unanimous vote: \"3-0\" \n U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle issued the temporary restraining order halting the ban last week after Washington state and Minnesota sued, leading to the federal government's appeal. \n The Trump administration has said the seven nations \u2014 Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen \u2014 have raised terrorism concerns. The states have argued that the executive order unconstitutionally blocked entry based on religion and the travel ban harmed individuals, businesses and universities. \n In a hallway conversation with reporters, Trump expressed confidence that he will prevail in court if the case is argued on the merits. \n He and his aides frequently refer to a ruling by a federal judge in Boston who declined last week to extend a temporary injunction against Trump's travel ban. In the separate federal ruling in Seattle that night, a different federal judge put the ban on hold nationwide; it is that judge's decision that the White House has challenged. \n \"It's a decision that we'll win, in my opinion, very easily and, by the way, we won that decision in Boston,\" Trump said. \n The president, in his third week in office, has criticized the judiciary's handling of the case. Last weekend, he labeled Robart a \"so-called judge\" and referred to the ruling as \"ridiculous.\" Earlier this week he accused the appellate court considering his executive order of being \"so political.\" \n Trump's Supreme Court nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch, has referred to the president's comments as \"demoralizing and disheartening,\" according to a Democratic senator who asked him about Trump's response. \n Trump has yet to nominate a candidate to be solicitor general, the lawyer who argues before the Supreme Court on behalf of the United States. Trump told reporters he'll be making that decision over the next week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump calls ruling on travel ban a 'political decision'"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Catherine H. Remigio, from left, Keith Hiraoka and Todd W. Eddins. \n Gov. David Ige announced three appointments to Oahu's Circuit Court today, one of whom is his former campaign manager Keith Hiraoka, who resigned last month when he found out that he had been one of the candidates selected by the Judicial Selection Commission. \n Hiraoka, 58, an attorney at Roeca Luria Hiraoka, will fill the vacancy left by former Circuit Judge Karen Ahn, who retired last year. \n \"I was honored to have been one of those selected by the Judicial Selection Commission, and I am humbled that Gov. Ige appointed me to the First Circuit Court,\" said Hiraoka, in a statement released by the governor's office. \"I will provide as much information as possible to, and spend as much time as is necessary with the Senate and the Hawaii State Bar Association during the confirmation process in the hope that the public will have confidence in the process and in the integrity of the Judiciary,\" \n Ige also appointed Family Court Judge Catherine H. Remigio, 51, to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of former Circuit Judge Steven S. Alm. \n Prominent Honolulu defense attorney Todd W. Eddins, 52, has been appointed to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of former Circuit Judge Richard K. Perkins. Eddins has represented clients in many high-profile cases, including the successful defense in October of then-Big Island Mayor Billy Kenoi, who was accused of theft and other charges related to his county-issued purchasing card. \n The appointments are subject to Senate confirmation. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Ige appoints ex-campaign manager, prominent attorney to court"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos was locked in a van that was stopped in the street by protesters outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility on Wednesday in Phoenix. \n PHOENIX >> An immigrant mother in Phoenix granted leniency during the Obama administration was deported to Mexico Thursday in what activists said was an early example of how President Donald Trump plans to carry through on his vow to crack down on illegal immigration. \n The case of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos became a rallying cry for immigrant groups who believe Trump's approach to immigration will unfairly tear apart countless families. \n Her arrest prompted a raucous demonstration in downtown Phoenix late Wednesday as protesters blocked enforcement vans from leaving a U.S. immigration office. Seven people were arrested. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer referred questions on the matter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said in a statement on Twitter on Thursday that the agency \"will remove illegal aliens convicted of felony offenses as ordered by an immigration judge.\" \n Garcia de Rayos was deported around 10 a.m. from a Nogales border crossing and ICE worked with Mexican consular officials to repatriate her, agency spokeswoman Yasmeen Pitts O'Keefe said in a statement. She said her case underwent a thorough review that determined the 35-year-old mother of two children with U.S. citizenship had no \"legal basis to remain in the U.S.\" \n \"ICE will continue to focus on identifying and removing individuals with felony convictions who have final orders of removal issued by the nation's immigration courts,\" Pitts O'Keefe said. \n Advocates denounced the deportation as heartless. \n \"ICE has done what President Trump wanted to do, which is deport and separate our families,\" said Marisa Franco, director of the Phoenix-based advocacy group Mijente. \"We are going to stand strong with the family.\" \n Garcia de Rayos was among workers arrested years ago in one of then-Sheriff Joe Arpaio's first investigations into Phoenix-area businesses suspected of hiring immigrants who had used fraudulent IDs to get jobs. \n She was accused of using a Social Security number belonging to another person to get a job at the Waterworld amusement park in the Phoenix suburb of Glendale. \n Garcia de Rayos was not arrested in a raid of the park, but was taken into custody six months later when investigators found discrepancies in her employment documents. She was denied bail in January 2009 under an Arizona law that prohibited it for immigrants who are in the country illegally and charged with felonies. \n Garcia de Rayos pleaded guilty in March 2009 to a reduced charge of criminal impersonation and was sentenced to two years of probation. She was placed into deportation proceedings but given leniency under Obama administration guidelines that targeted immigrants who had committed dangerous crimes. \n On Wednesday, she showed up with her lawyer for a routine check-in with ICE officials and was detained instead of being allowed to leave after checking in. \n Immigration activists who anticipated she could be arrested rallied in front of ICE offices, and advocacy groups who took Arpaio to court over his immigration enforcement say they now face the same struggle with Trump over deportations. \n Garcia de Rayos' lawyer, Ray Ybarra Maldonado, said Arizona's identity theft laws are the reason his client was put on the radar of immigration authorities. He said the Arpaio raids terrorized the community. \n Arizona's ID theft laws were amended in 2007 and 2008 as part of a package of laws aimed at confronting businesses that hired people in the country illegally. The laws led to the arrest of 700 workers, mostly immigrants. \n Maldonado said his client's deportation could push immigrants deeper into the shadows and to avoid checking in with authorities like Garcia de Rayos always did. \n \"My advice is, let's look for a sanctuary, a church that might want to take you in if you want to do that. It's not fun walking someone to the slaughter. It's not fun walking in and then walking out without them,\" he said. \n Ahead of Garcia de Rayos' deportation, dozens of immigration activists Wednesday night blocked the gates of ICE's Phoenix office. \n Police took positions around the building and confronted some of the demonstrators, many of them chanting \"Justice!\" in English and Spanish. \n Seven protesters were arrested, said Phoenix police spokesman Sgt. Jonathan Howard. \n The deportation of Garcia de Rayos came days after the Trump administration broadened regulations under which some people will be deported. \n She came to the U.S. from the Mexican state of Guanajuato when she was 14 and has two children who are U.S. citizens, said the Puente Arizona immigrant advocacy group based in Phoenix. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Phoenix immigrant deported to Mexico amid protests"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People held signs during a rally to advocating to make Bridgeport a sanctuary city outside City Hall in Bridgeport, Conn., on Monday. \n SANTA ANA, Calif. >> A report released today estimates more than 2.5 million immigrants in the country illegally live in the metropolitan areas of New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, which have pledged to fight President Trump's plans to expand deportations. \n The study by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center provides a glimpse of where immigrants in the country illegally reside and regions that could be most affected by Trump's crackdown on illegal immigration. \n It also underscores the challenges Trump could face in rounding up large numbers of deportees because many areas that are home to large numbers of immigrants lacking legal papers oppose his plans. \n Any actions by the new administration could also be widely felt among immigrant communities in regions such as Phoenix, Houston, Dallas and Denver. In these areas, 37 percent of immigrants lack legal status, compared to 26 percent nationwide, the report said. \n In Santa Ana, California, acting city manager Gerardo Mouet said fears of the Trump administration's plans extend far beyond the statistics, especially in Mexican immigrant communities where extended families are often close-knit and frequently made up of relatives who are legally in the country and others who are not. \n \"They're worried about uncle this, and cousin that,\" said Mouet, whose predominantly Latino city recently adopted a sanctuary law to try to dispel residents' fears and encourage cooperation with police. \"If you understand Mexican immigrant families, of course that is the reality.\" \n In Phoenix, immigrants are already starting to see tougher enforcement. A woman in the country illegally who was not targeted for deportation under the Obama administration was taken into custody Wednesday and sent back to Mexico, prompting protests at a local Immigration and Customs Enforcement office and seven arrests made by police. \n The Pew report estimates there are 11.1 million immigrants in the country illegally \u2014 or 3.5 percent of the overall U.S. population. \n In some areas, a larger share of immigrants lack legal papers than others, according to the report by the Washington-based center, which was based on 2014 Census Bureau data. \n For example, about 17 percent of immigrants in the San Francisco area lack legal status compared with 35 percent in the region surrounding Las Vegas. \n Cities and counties across the U.S. are immersed in a fierce debate over what role, if any, they should play in immigration enforcement as Trump seeks help from local law enforcement to boost deportations and threatens to cut off funding from so-called sanctuary jurisdictions that refuse to assist. \n Many large cities including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago have pledged to resist and not cooperate with requests for assistance from federal deportation agents. \n That could pose a challenge to the new administration's efforts to increase deportations, said Louis DeSipio, a professor of political science and Chicano/Latino studies at University of California, Irvine. \n \"If Trump wants numbers, rather than to solve a political problem, he needs to go to these places, because that is where the numbers are,\" he said. \n About 61 percent of immigrants in the country illegally live in 20 metropolitan areas, the report said. \n The Pew report looked at large metropolitan areas. Many of the local sanctuary policies cover specific cities within those regions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nearly 1 in 5 immigrants in U.S. illegally in NYC, L.A. areas"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "Vowing to bring stability to a panel wracked with dissension, Colette Machado of Molokai today was elected chairwoman of the Office of Hawaiian Affairs Board of Trustees. \n Machado, a veteran trustee and former chairwoman, edged out Carmen Hulu Lindsey of Maui for the leadership position following a couple of rounds of paper-ballot voting. Machado's election comes after board member Rowena Akana was forced out as chairwoman on Feb 2. \n The election appears to settle the question of whether CEO Kamana'opono Crabbe will continue as top staffer at the state agency tasked with bettering the lives of Native Hawaiians. Machado has been a supporter of Crabbe who had been under fire from Akana. \n However, Crabbe's leadership continues to be under siege. A lawsuit filed this morning by Campbell Estate heiress Abigail Kawananakoa seeks to invalidate Crabbe's three-year, $150,000-a-year contract. \n The suit, filed in 1st Circuit Court, argues that the full board failed to give its authorization to changes in the contract before it was executed in November. \n The suit takes up where a complaint filed last week by Akana left off, asserting virtually the same arguments. Akana withdrew the complaint earlier in the week. \n After today's board meeting, Machado said she's confident the new suit will be dismissed. Board counsel Robert Klein was authorized to make changes to the contract, as long as they weren't substantial, which they were not, she said. \n As for Crabbe, Machado said, the board needs to look at areas where it can increase Crabbe's \"capacity\" and improve him as a CEO. \n \"I think everyone's been battered,\" Machado said. \"So it's a matter of re-establishing. What that would look like, I'm not certain. But we're going to have figure out how to resolve it.\" \n Machado also said she supports a proposed audit to identify areas of potential waste, abuse and fraud in procurement. \n Kauai's Dan Ahuna was elected vice chairman. \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "OHA board elects Machado chairwoman; new lawsuit seeks Crabbe's ouster"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos was locked in a van that was stopped by protesters outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility, Wednesday, in Phoenix. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester locked himself to the van carrying Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, which was stopped by protesters outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility, Wednesday, in Phoenix. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos was locked in a van that was stopped in the street by protesters outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility, Wednesday, in Phoenix. Apparently fearing her deportation, activists blocked the gates surrounding the office near central Phoenix in what the Arizona Republic says was an effort to block several vans and a bus inside from leaving. \n SANTA ANA, Calif. >> A report released today estimates more than 2.5 million immigrants in the country illegally live in the metropolitan areas of New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, which have pledged to fight President Trump's plans to expand deportations. \n The study by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center provides a glimpse of where immigrants in the country illegally reside and regions that could be most affected by Trump's crackdown on illegal immigration. \n It also underscores the challenges Trump could face in rounding up large numbers of deportees because many areas that are home to large numbers of immigrants lacking legal papers oppose his plans. \n Any actions by the new administration could be even more widely felt among immigrant communities in regions such as Phoenix, Houston, Dallas and Denver. In these areas, 37 percent of immigrants lack legal status, compared to 26 percent nationwide, the report said. \n In Santa Ana, California, acting city manager Gerardo Mouet said fears of the Trump administration's plans extend far beyond the statistics, especially in Mexican immigrant communities where extended families are often close-knit and frequently made up of relatives who are legally in the country and others who are not. \n \"They're worried about uncle this, and cousin that,\" said Mouet, whose predominantly Latino city recently adopted a sanctuary law to try to dispel residents' fears and encourage cooperation with police. \"If you understand Mexican immigrant families, of course that is the reality.\" \n In Phoenix, immigrants are already starting to see tougher enforcement. A woman in the country illegally who was not targeted for deportation under the Obama administration was taken into custody Wednesday and sent back to Mexico, prompting protests at a local Immigration and Customs Enforcement office and seven arrests made by police. \n The Pew report estimates there are 11.1 million immigrants in the country illegally \u2014 or 3.5 percent of the overall U.S. population. \n In some areas, a larger share of immigrants lack legal papers than others, according to the report by the Washington-based center, which was based on 2014 Census Bureau data. \n For example, about 17 percent of immigrants in the San Francisco area lack legal status compared with 35 percent in the region surrounding Las Vegas. \n Cities and counties are immersed in a fierce debate over what role, if any, they should play in immigration enforcement as Trump seeks help from local law enforcement to boost deportations and threatens to cut off funding from so-called sanctuary jurisdictions that refuse to assist. \n Many large cities including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago have pledged to fight back and not cooperate with requests for assistance from federal deportation agents. \n The Pew report looked at large metropolitan areas. Many of the local sanctuary policies cover specific cities within those regions. \n About 61 percent of immigrants in the country illegally live in 20 metropolitan areas, the report said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nearly 1 in 5 immigrants in U.S. illegally in NYC, L.A."}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., joined at right by the committee's ranking member, Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., spoke on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, during the committee's hearing where Gen. John Nicholson, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan testified. Donald Trump went after McCain in a series of twwets for suggesting that last week's U.S. raid in Yemen wasn't a success. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today lashed out at Republican Sen. John McCain, accusing the veteran of emboldening the enemy for disputing the administration's insistence that the deadly U.S. military mission in Yemen was a success. \n Trump took to Twitter to assail the chairman of the Armed Services Committee after the Arizona lawmaker initially called last month's raid a \"failure.\" McCain softened his stand in a statement Tuesday in which he said that while many objectives of the raid were met, \"I would not describe any operation that results in the loss of American life as a success.\" \n \"Sen. McCain should not be talking about the success or failure of a mission to the media,\" Trump said over several tweets. \"Only emboldens the enemy! He's been losing so \u2026 long he doesn't know how to win anymore.\" \n The raid was supposed to be an intelligence gathering mission but turned into a lengthy battle with al-Qaida fighters in which a Navy SEAL, Ryan Owens, was killed, a $75 million aircraft was lost and there were multiple casualties, including women and children. \n \"Our hero \u2026 Ryan died on a winning mission (according to General Mattis), not a 'failure.' Time for the U.S. to get smart and start winning again!\" Trump tweeted. Retired Gen. Jim Mattis is Trump's secretary of defense. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer has called the raid \"absolutely a success.\" \n McCain, who spent 5\u00bd years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, has not been shy about criticizing Trump, especially over his accommodating attitude toward Russian President Vladimir Putin and his controversial immigration order suspending all immigration for citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries, including Yemen, for 90 days. \n But today, McCain was not eager to respond to Trump's latest missives. \n \"I have my responsibilities on the Armed Services Committee and we just had a hearing where the general in charge of Afghanistan says we're not winning. We're in a stalemate. That's where I'm focusing my efforts,\" he said. \"I just have to do my job.\" \n McCain, 80, cruised to a sixth Senate term in November, defeating a Democratic challenger who hounded the senator for standing by Trump even after the billionaire businessman insulted him as a \"loser\" and appeared to question whether he is a war hero. \n Trump, who received draft deferments during the Vietnam era, also said there was nothing heroic about McCain's military record after he was shot down during the war. \n McCain dropped his support for Trump in early October after a 2005 recording surfaced in which Trump boasted about groping women. The move led to an outcry from conservative voters firmly behind Trump. McCain has sought to limit his public criticism of Trump to policy differences but often struggles to hide his exasperation when encountering reporters in the corridors of the Capitol. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump lashes out at McCain for comments on deadly Yemen raid"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Adele Dunlap, center, held a maraca on her 114th birthday, on Dec. 12, as she looked towards Kim Bocko, an activities assistant at the Country Arch Care Center in Pittstown, N.J. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 19 file photo, 113-year-old Adele Dunlap, left, talks with Susan Dempster, right, the activities director at the Country Arch Care Center in Pittstown, N.J. Dunlap, a 114-year-old New Jersey woman who was believed to be the oldest person in the U.S., died Sunday at a medical center near Flemington, N.J. \n FLEMINGTON, N.J. >> A New Jersey woman who was the oldest American has died at age 114. \n Adele Dunlap died Sunday at a hospital near Flemington, according to the Martin Funeral Home. \n She became the country's oldest person in July 2016 following the death of 113-year-old Goldie Michelson, of Worcester, Massachusetts. \n A group that tracks long-living people says the oldest known person living in the U.S. now is 113-year-old Delphine Gibson, of Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania. \n Dunlap didn't have an explanation for her longevity, and neither did her children. Asked once how it felt to be the oldest American, Dunlap said, \"I don't feel any different.\" \n Dunlap was born Dec. 12, 1902, in Newark, though family and caregivers said she often gave a younger age when asked how old she was. The year she was born, Theodore Roosevelt was president, Cuba gained independence from Spain, the second Boer War ended, and the U.S. bought the rights to the Panama Canal from France. \n Dunlap taught school before marrying and settling down to raise the couple's three children. Her husband worked for an insurance company and died in 1963. \n \"It's hard to say,\" her son, Earl Dunlap, said when his mother became the oldest American. \"She never went out jogging or anything like that. She's not really thin, but she never weighed more than 140 pounds. She smoked, and when my father had his first heart attack, they both stopped. I think she ate anything she wanted.\" \n Earl Dunlap said his mother wasn't a drinker but did occasionally enjoy a martini with her husband. Officials at the Country Arch Care Center in Pittstown, where Dunlap first arrived at age 99 \u00bd, described her as a passive participant in daily activities and said she didn't socialize much. But they said she looked forward to Girl Scouts' coming to sing Christmas carols. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oldest American, Adele Dunlap, dies at age 114"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A sidewalk plow cleared snow during a snowstorm, today, in Framingham, Mass. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Todd Fike, crossed the street during a snowstorm, today, in Framingham, Mass. \n BOSTON >> The biggest storm to hit the Northeast this winter dumped a foot or more of snow along the New York-to-Boston corridor today, turning roads treacherous, grounding flights and giving millions of people weather whiplash a day after temperatures soared into the 50s and 60s. \n Scores of accidents were reported as drivers confronted windblown snow and slick highways, with southbound Interstate 95 at the Rhode Island-Connecticut line closed in the afternoon because several tractor-trailers got stuck on an incline. \n More than 3,500 flights were canceled across the region and all planes bound for New York's Kennedy Airport were ordered held on the ground for hours while crews cleared the runways. \n Schools closed in cities big and small, including New York City, Philadelphia and Boston, and government offices told non-essential workers to stay home. \n A doorman in New York City died after falling down a set of stairs and crashing through a plate-glass window while shoveling snow, police said. He suffered cuts on his neck and face. \n \"It's pretty nuts here,\" Felecia White said as she and friends hunkered down in a restaurant in Newport, Rhode Island, waiting for the weather to improve enough for them to venture back out. \"Even with four-wheel drive, you can't do anything. You can't see across the street.\" \n The National Weather Service said up to 11 inches fell in New York's Hudson Valley by noon, while areas around New York City and Long Island received 6 to 9 inches. West Hartford, Connecticut, had more than 13 inches, and Ludlow, Massachusetts, 16\u00bd. \n A blizzard warning was posted for a swath of the New England coast, with forecasters saying Boston and Providence, Rhode Island, could get up to a foot and a half by evening. \n Farther north, Manchester, New Hampshire, had received at least 11 inches by midafternoon and Berwick, Maine, about a foot. \n A group of women wearing their pajamas on a New York City sidewalk because it was \"Pajama Day\" at ABC's \"The Chew\" show were undeterred by the snow. Elaine Higgins, a retired educator from Blackwood, New Jersey, was among those waiting in the freezing cold to get into ABC's studios. \n \"It's fun. And it's an experience. Yesterday was 65 degrees, and today, a snowstorm,\" she said. \"What's life without adventure?\" \n The storm came midway through a largely snow-free winter in the Northeast and a day after much of the region enjoyed a brief taste of spring, with record-breaking highs in some places. Temperatures then crashed more than 30 degrees as the storm rolled in. \n \"We were waiting for a good one all year,\" said Morgan Crum, a manager at Katz Ace Hardware in Glastonbury, Connecticut, where more than 50 people stopped in to buy shovels, ice melt, gas cans and other storm provisions. \"We live in New England. This is what we expect.\" \n The Philadelphia area was largely spared after being told to expect up to 8 inches in the morning. Some suburbs received 5 inches, but by the afternoon, there was almost no trace of snow downtown, and the sun came out. \n Wearing a T-shirt, Alicia Jones tossed salt on the sidewalk outside the Philadelphia restaurant where she works as a server. She said her daughter had the day off from school, and Jones had been looking forward to playing in the snow. \n \"By the time we woke up, it was all over,\" she said. \n Rhode Islanders reported seeing and hearing \"thundersnow,\" with the rumble of thunder accompanying the near white-out conditions. \n \"It's pretty rare. I've been plowing snow for 20 years now. Every snowstorm, I'm out. I've only seen it three times in my life,\" said Jared Nunes, a state lawmaker from Coventry who runs a construction company that does plowing in the winter. \n Associated Press writers Chris Carola in Albany, New York; Shawn Marsh in Manasquan, New Jersey; Kiley Armstrong and Verena Dobnik in New York City; Bob Lentz in Philadelphia; Dave Collins in Hartford, Connecticut; Mark Pratt and Bob Salsberg in Boston; Michelle Smith and Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Northeast hit by its biggest snowstorm of the winter"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 2012 file photo, 9th U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Richard Clifton hears the United States vs. Rizzolo case in the Thomas & Mack Moot Courtroom in Las Vegas. Clifton is one of three judges on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals deciding whether to reinstate President Donald Trump's travel ban. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 2014 file photo, Circuit Judge Michelle T. Friedland, right, gestured while questioning Barry Bonds' attorney, Dennis Riordan, before an 11-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco. Friedland is one of three judges on the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals deciding whether to reinstate President Donald Trump's travel ban. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 2015 file photo, Judge William Canby is photographed in his office in Phoenix, Ariz. Canby is one of three judges on the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals deciding whether to reinstate President Donald Trump's travel ban. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> A federal appeals court refused today to reinstate President Donald Trump's ban on travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations, dealing another legal setback to the new administration's immigration policy. \n In a unanimous decision, the panel of three judges from the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals declined to block a lower-court ruling that suspended the ban and allowed previously barred travelers to enter the U.S. An appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court is possible. \n The court rejected the administration's claim that it did not have the authority to review the president's executive order. \n \"There is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability, which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy,\" the court said. \n SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE! \n The judges noted that the states had raised serious allegations about religious discrimination. \n U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle issued a temporary restraining order halting the ban last week after Washington state and Minnesota sued. The ban temporarily suspended the nation's refugee program and immigration from countries that have raised terrorism concerns. \n Justice Department lawyers appealed to the 9th Circuit, arguing that the president has the constitutional power to restrict entry to the United States and that the courts cannot second-guess his determination that such a step was needed to prevent terrorism. \n The states said Trump's travel ban harmed individuals, businesses and universities. Citing Trump's campaign promise to stop Muslims from entering the U.S., they said the ban unconstitutionally blocked entry to people based on religion. \n Both sides faced tough questioning during an hour of arguments Tuesday conducted by phone \u2014 an unusual step \u2014 and broadcast live on cable networks, newspaper websites and social media. It attracted a huge audience. \n The judges hammered away at the administration's claim that the ban was motivated by terrorism fears, but they also challenged the states' argument that it targeted Muslims. \n \"I have trouble understanding why we're supposed to infer religious animus when, in fact, the vast majority of Muslims would not be affected,\" Judge Richard Clifton, a George W. Bush nominee, asked an attorney representing Washington state and Minnesota. \n Only 15 percent of the world's Muslims are affected by the executive order, the judge said, citing his own calculations. \n \"Has the government pointed to any evidence connecting these countries to terrorism?\" Judge Michelle T. Friedland, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, asked the Justice Department attorney. \n The lower-court judge temporarily halted the ban after determining that the states were likely to win the case and had shown that the ban would restrict travel by their residents, damage their public universities and reduce their tax base. Robart put the executive order on hold while the lawsuit works its way through the courts. \n After that ruling, the State Department quickly said people from the seven countries \u2014 Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen \u2014 with valid visas could travel to the U.S. The decision led to tearful reunions at airports round the country. \n The Supreme Court has a vacancy, and there's no chance Trump's nominee, Neil Gorsuch, will be confirmed in time to take part in any consideration of the ban. \n The ban was set to expire in 90 days, meaning it could run its course before the court would take up the issue. The administration also could change the order, including changing its scope or duration. \n \u2014 \n A look at the three judges who decided the case: \n RICHARD CLIFTON \n Clifton, nominated to the 9th Circuit by George W. Bush in 2001, is the second judge from Hawaii to serve on the 9th Circuit. He grew up in the Midwest, but moved to Hawaii to clerk for another 9th Circuit judge after graduating from Yale Law School in 1975. He is still based there. \n Clifton, 66, was a lawyer for the Hawaii Republican Party, but has described himself as not having a pronounced political philosophy. He handled business and commercial litigation for a prominent Hawaii law firm and had never served as a judge before joining the 9th Circuit. He received nearly unanimous support for his nomination in the U.S. Senate. At his confirmation hearing, California Rep. Christopher Cox described Clifton as a lifelong Chicago Cubs fan, Cub Scout den leader, and dedicated husband and father who had some important credentials for being an appeals court judge: He refereed youth soccer. Since joining the court, Clifton has ruled in favor of a Los Angeles ordinance that required hotel operators to open their guest registries at the demand of police and called for a harsher prison sentence for a terrorist who plotted to blow up Los Angeles International Airport. \n Of the three judges who heard arguments over the travel ban, Clifton had the toughest questions for the attorney representing the two states \u2014 Washington and Minnesota \u2014 challenging it. He asked what evidence the attorney had that the president's travel ban was motivated by religious prejudice. At one point, Clifton pressed him, \"Do I have to believe everything you allege and say, 'Well, that must be right.\" But Clifton also grilled the administration's attorney, asking him whether he denied statements by Trump about banning Muslims. The attorney said he didn't. \n WILLIAM CANBY \n Canby rarely hears cases anymore. Now 85, he told The Associated Press two years ago that he felt sharp and healthy, but didn't want to risk a job hazard that federal judges with lifetime appointments face: age-related mental decline. So it was unusual for the judge to hear oral arguments over the Trump travel ban. \n Canby \u2014 a former U.S. Air Force lieutenant and Peace Corps worker in Africa who was appointed to the 9th Circuit by President Jimmy Carter in 1980 \u2014 is known to have a polite and respectful courtroom demeanor. He encourages attorneys to have interests outside the law and told a reporter in 2005 he was running two to three miles before starting his day. He has written extensively about Native American law. Among his more high-profile decisions was a 1988 ruling declaring the U.S. Army's ban on gay soldiers unconstitutional and a 2000 decision that said the PGA Tour is covered by federal disability law and must provide a cart to golfer Casey Martin. \n During oral arguments, he challenged the administration's justification for the ban. Later, Canby appeared to come to the rescue of the attorney challenging the ban when another judge was grilling him about what evidence he had that the travel ban was motivated by anti-Muslim sentiment. Canby asked the attorney who had the legal burden of showing the likelihood of succeeding on their arguments in the case. The attorney responded that that burden was on the administration. \n MICHELLE FRIEDLAND \n At 44, Friedland is one of the two youngest federal appeals judges in the country. President Barack Obama appointed her in 2014, and during her confirmation hearing she received support from both parties. \n Friedland was born in California and attended school in New Jersey, where her father worked as the president of a clothing company and her mother was a writing instructor and freelancer, according to Friedland's 2000 wedding announcement in The New York Times. \n She graduated with honors from Stanford University, studied at Oxford University on a Fulbright Scholarship and then got her law degree at Stanford University. She later clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. \n In private practice, she represented major clients, including Berkshire Hathaway, Boeing and the University of California. She was recognized along with a handful of other members of her firm by the California Bar Association for pro-bono work defending the constitutionality of California's ban on sexual orientation \"conversion therapy.\" She also represented same-sex couples challenging California's gay-marriage ban. \n With less than three years on the appeals court, a full picture of Friedland's judicial philosophy has yet to emerge, some legal scholars say. \n Of the three judges at Tuesday's hearing, she appeared to be the most sympathetic to Washington state's case, repeatedly questioning the Justice Department's lawyer over the basis for the travel ban: \"Have you offered any evidence to support this need you're describing for the executive order, or are you really arguing that we can't even ask about whether there's evidence because this decision is non-reviewable?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Appeals Court refuses to reinstate Trump's travel ban"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n China's former vice minister of health Dr. Huang Jiefu talked during a press conference on 'Organ Trafficking and Transplant Tourism', at the Chinese embassy in Rome on Wednesday. China is stepping up its efforts to convince the international medical community that it has stopped using executed prisoners as organ donors. \n ROME >> The World Health Organization says China has taken steps to end its once-widespread practice of harvesting organs from executed prisoners but that it's impossible to know what is happening across the entire country. \n At a Vatican conference on organ trafficking this week, a former top Chinese official said the country had stopped its unethical program, but critics remain unconvinced. \n In an interview today, WHO's Jose Ramon Nunez Pena said he personally visited about 20 hospitals in China last year and believes the country has reformed. But he acknowledged that it was still possible \"there may still be hidden things going on.\" China has more than 1 million medical centers, although only 169 are authorized to do transplants. \n Nunez Pena said he had seen data including organ transplant registries and was convinced the country was now shifting away from illegally harvesting organs. \n \"What is clear to me is that they're changing,\" he said. \"But in a country as huge as China, we can't know everything.\" \n Earlier this week, critics questioned China's claims of reform and suggested that WHO should be allowed to conduct surprise investigations and interview donor relatives. The U.N. health agency has no authority to enter countries without their permission. \n China's Dr. Haibo Wang responded that China shouldn't be singled out for such treatment while other countries were not. The head of the Chinese delegation, Dr. Huang Jiefu, told the conference there had been an increase in both living and deceased voluntary organ donors following China's crackdown on the illicit organ trade. \n \"It sounds a little hard to believe that China could have so quickly made this change to its organ donation program,\" said Vivek Jha, executive director of the George Institute for Global Health in India. \n He said China should provide the international transplant community with data to prove that its organs are no longer being illegally procured. \n \"It could be the case that China has changed,\" he said. \"The problem is we just have not seen the information to prove it.\" \n Nunez Pena said tracking illegal organ activities was inherently difficult and that countries with past problems like India and Costa Rica appeared to have improved practices, but that officials couldn't be absolutely certain that was the case. He said WHO officials were now focusing on other countries like Egypt and Sri Lanka as worrisome centers of organ harvesting. \n Campbell Fraser, an organ trafficking researcher at Griffith University in Australia, agreed the trends over the past few years have shown a drop in the number of foreigners going to China for transplants and an increase of organ seekers heading to the Middle East. \n At a press conference at the Chinese Embassy in Italy following the two-day Vatican organ conference, Fraser said migrants \u2014 including Syrians, Somalis and Eritreans \u2014 sometimes resort to selling off a kidney to pay traffickers to get them or their families to Europe. \n \"Egypt is where the biggest problem is at the moment,\" he said, adding that it has the best medical facilities in the region and can perform the live donor surgeries. \n He estimated as many as 10 such illicit transplants could be happening per week, though he had no statistics and said he based his research largely on anecdotal information from recipients, law enforcement, doctors and even some organ \"brokers.\" \n Fraser said he has access to transplant patient \"chat boards\" because he himself had a kidney transplant in his native Australia in 2003. \n Nunez Pena said it was likely that organ trafficking would find its way to conflict-plagued regions. \n \"We're hearing about a lot of problems in Egypt, Pakistan and the Philippines,\" he said, predicting that authorities were poised to break up an organ smuggling ring in Egypt in the next few weeks. \"Wherever you have vulnerable people, you will see these kinds of problems.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.N.: China moves to stop taking organs from prisoners"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n A composite satellite image taken at 8:30 a.m. today showed an area of moisture northwest of the islands. \n Gusty Kona winds and heavy rains are in store for the Hawaiian islands this weekend as a strong cold front approaches the islands. \n Forecasters from the National Weather Service say that current southwest winds over Kauai and Oahu will increase Friday, and over Maui Saturday. \n \"These 'Kona' winds will become especially gusty over windward areas, potentially resulting in power outages and flying tree branches, as winds accelerate down the mountains,\" weather officials said in a special weather statement today. \n Accompanying the cold front will be a band of heavy showers with brief thunderstorms, forecasters said. Kauai should expect to see the shower band Friday afternoon, with Oahu getting it Friday night or Saturday morning. It's expected to stall near Maui County or Hawaii island Saturday night. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Gusty Kona winds, showers in store for weekend"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "COURTESY U.S. NAVY \n U.S. Navy divers swam along Ehime Maru during recovery operations in 2001 off Honolulu International Airport's Reef Runway. \n Families of nine people killed when a U.S. Navy submarine rammed into a Japanese fishing school ship off Hawaii 16 years ago are remembering their loved ones. \n The families are expected to attend a ceremony today on a Honolulu hill overlooking the ocean where the vessels collided. \n Those killed were on board the Ehime Maru, a training vessel for fisheries students. The submarine's rudder sliced into the ship's hull. \n A Navy investigation found the USS Greenville's captain rushed through mandatory safety procedures while demonstrating an emergency surfacing drill. \n This year's ceremony carries special significance under Buddhist custom because it marks the start of the 17th year since the deaths \u2014 a special time for healing and remembrance. \n Buddhist tradition counts the moment of death as the first year of passing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "9 killed in Ehime Maru tragedy off Hawaii remembered"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a robbery in Waikiki early today. \n Just before 12:50 a.m., police said a male suspect confronted two visitors \u2014 a 42-year-old man and 38-year-old woman \u2014 on Kalakaua Avenue while brandishing a dangerous instrument. \n The suspect demanded property and fled after the victims handed over their possessions. Police said no injuries were reported. \n No arrest has been made at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for man suspected of robbing Waikiki visitors"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A section of the Dakota Access Pipeline under construction near the town of St. Anthony in Morton County, N.D., as seen on Sept. 29. The Army notified Congress, Tuesday, that it will allow the $3.8 billion Dakota Access pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota, completing the four-state project to move North Dakota oil to Illinois. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People marched outside developer Energy Transfer Partners headquarters, protesting the Army Corps of Engineers approval of the final section of the Dakota Access oil pipeline on Tuesday. The Army said Tuesday that it will allow the $3.8 billion Dakota Access oil pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota, clearing the way for completion of the disputed four-state project. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Construction of the Dakota Access pipeline under a North Dakota reservoir has begun and the full pipeline should be operational within three months, the developer of the long-delayed project said today, even as an American Indian tribe filed a legal challenge to block the work and protect its water supply. \n The Army granted Energy Transfer Partners formal permission Wednesday to lay pipe under Lake Oahe, clearing the way for completion of the 1,200-mile, $3.8 billion pipeline. ETP spokeswoman Vicki Granado confirmed early today that construction resumed \"immediately after receiving the easement.\" \n Workers had already drilled entry and exit holes for the crossing, and oil had been put in the pipeline leading up to the lake in anticipation of finishing the project. \n \"The estimate is 60 days to complete the drill and another 23 days to fill the line to Patoka,\" Granado said, referring to the shipping point in Illinois that is the pipeline's destination. \n Work was stalled for months due to opposition by the Standing Rock Sioux and Cheyenne River Sioux, as well as a prolonged court battle between the developer and the Army Corps of Engineers that oversees the federal land where the last segment of the pipeline is now being laid. President Donald Trump last month instructed the Corps to advance pipeline construction. \n The Cheyenne River Sioux today asked a federal judge to stop the Lake Oahe work while a lawsuit filed earlier by the two tribes against the pipeline proceeds. Attorney Nicole Ducheneaux said in court documents that the pipeline \"will desecrate the waters upon which Cheyenne River Sioux tribal members rely.\" \n ETP didn't immediately respond in court to the filing. U.S. District Judge James Boasberg didn't immediately rule. Standing Rock Sioux attorney Jan Hasselman has said that tribe will also try to block the lake crossing in court. \n An encampment near the construction site has drawn thousands of protesters since April in support of the Standing Rock Sioux, leading on occasions to clashes with law enforcement and hundreds of arrests. \n Granado said she was not aware of any incidents involving pipeline opponents in the area. The Morton County Sheriff's Office also said it had not responded to any incidents. \n Tribal Chairman Dave Archambault said in a statement late Wednesday that the tribe is prepared to keep up the battle \"in the courts.\" \n \"We will continue to fight against an administration that seeks to dismiss not only our treaty rights and status as sovereign nations, but the safe drinking water of millions of Americans,\" the chairman said. \n The tribe fears a leak in the pipeline could contaminate drinking water at its reservation that is just downstream from the proposed Missouri River crossing. ETP says the pipeline will be safe. \n In a statement Wednesday, North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum urged \"cooperation and restraint\" from all parties and requested federal law enforcement assistance to keep the peace during construction that would transport North Dakota oil across four states to a shipping point in Illinois. \n Protesters rallied in several cities across the country Wednesday. Demonstrators in Chicago targeted a bank. Others went to an Army Corps of Engineers office in New York City but were asked to leave when they started filming without a permit. Several people were arrested for blocking public access to a federal building in San Francisco. \n Joye Braun and Payu Harris, two pipeline opponents who have been at the North Dakota encampment that's been the focus of the pipeline battle since April, said in an interview at a nearby casino that there's frustration but also resolve in the wake of the Army's decision. \n \"The goal is still prayerful, nonviolent direct action,\" Braun said. \n The tribe maintains the decision violates its treaty rights, and its attorneys have vowed to keep fighting in court. \n The Corps has notified protesters still at the encampment that the government-owned land will be closed Feb. 22. But according to Harris, a new camp is being established on private land. \n \"This is not over. We are here to stay. And there's more of us coming,\" he said. \n An assessment conducted last year determined the river crossing would not have a significant effect on the environment. However, the Army in December decided further study was warranted to address tribal concerns. \n The Corps launched an environmental impact study on Jan. 18, but Trump signed an executive action six days later telling the Corps to allow the company to proceed with construction. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tribe files legal challenge to stall Dakota Access pipeline"}

{"date": "February 9, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judges of the Constitutional Court sit during a hearing on whether to confirm the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye, at the Court in Seoul, South Korea, Thursday, Feb. 9, 2017. Prosecutors say South Korea's impeached president has canceled plans to undergo questioning to protest leaks to the media about her investigation. \n SEOUL >> South Korea's impeached president has scrapped plans to let officials question her Thursday because of anger over leaks to the media, prosecutors said. \n The sudden rejection of what would have been the first prosecutorial questioning of a sitting president is the latest in a series of standoffs between President Park Geun-hye and prosecutors digging into her alleged involvement in the biggest political scandal in South Korea in decades. \n The scandal saw millions take to the streets in protest and led to Park's December impeachment. The Constitutional Court is holding a trial to determine whether to formally end Park's rule or reinstate her presidential powers. \n Prosecutors said both sides agreed not to disclose the exact time and place of the questioning until it was over. But the SBS TV network reported Tuesday that Park would be questioned by a group of prosecutors on Thursday at the presidential Blue House. SBS didn't say how it obtained the information. \n Prosecution spokesman Lee Kyu-chul said Thursday that Park's lawyers told his team they were pulling out of the questioning after accusing prosecutors of leaking information about it. \n Lee said his office did not leak the information. He said prosecutors still want to question Park but added that nothing has been determined about when to interview her. \n Park faces allegations that she let her longtime confidante Choi Soon-sil pull government stings from the shadows and extort an enormous amount money from companies in collaboration with presidential officials. Choi and several of Park's former presidential aides have already been investigated over the scandal. \n By South Korean law, a president has immunity from prosecution while in office, except in cases of grave crimes such as treason. \n Park's officials have also blocked prosecutors from searching the Blue House. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Impeached S. Korea leader cancels questioning over scandal"}

