{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo released by the U.S. Navy Visual News Service, the USNS Bowditch, a T-AGS 60 Class Oceanographic Survey Ship, sails in open water. \n BEIJING >> China said today its military seized a U.S. Navy unmanned underwater glider in the South China Sea but it would give the drone back. But President-elect Donald Trump tweeted later that the Chinese government should be told \"we don't want the drone they stole back\" and \"let them keep it!\" \n This comes after United States officials had confirmed that they \"secured an understanding\" for the return of the device. Trump's evening tweet may extend one of the most serious incidents between the American and the Chinese militaries in years. \n The Chinese navy on Thursday seized the drone, which the Pentagon said was being operated by civilian contractors to conduct oceanic research. The U.S. lodged a formal diplomatic complaint and demanded the drone back. \n Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun issued a statement late Saturday saying that a Chinese navy lifeboat discovered an unknown device in the South China Sea on Thursday. \n \"In order to prevent this device from posing a danger to the safe navigation of passing ships and personnel, the Chinese lifeboat adopted a professional and responsible attitude in investigating and verifying the device,\" Yang said. \n The statement said that after verifying that the device was an American unmanned submerged device, \"China decided to transfer it to the U.S. through appropriate means.\" \n The U.S. said that \"through direct engagement with Chinese authorities, we have secured an understanding that the Chinese will return\" the unmanned underwater vehicle, according to a statement from Peter Cook, spokesman for U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter. \n But Trump, after holding a rally to thank supporters for his election, took to Twitter to criticize the deal. \"We should tell China that we don't want the drone they stole back.- let them keep it!\" the president-elect tweeted Saturday evening. \n He earlier in the day had blasted the seizure. \n Misspelling \"unprecedented,\" he tweeted: \"China steals United States Navy research drone in international waters \u2013 rips it out of water and takes it to China in unpresidented act.\" He later reissued the tweet, correcting the spelling. \n The U.S. said China's \"unlawful seizure\" came in international waters. Yet China pointedly accused the U.S. of long sending ships \"in China's presence\" to conduct \"military surveying.\" \n \"China is resolutely opposed to this and requests the U.S. stop such activities,\" it said. \"China will continue to maintain vigilance against the relevant U.S. activities and will take necessary measures to deal with them.\" \n Earlier Saturday, China's foreign ministry said the country's military was in contact with its American counterparts on \"appropriately handling\" the incident, though it offered no details on what discussions were underway. \n The drone was seized while collecting unclassified scientific data about 92 kilometers (57 miles) northwest of Subic Bay near the Philippines in the South China Sea, which China claims virtually in its entirety, Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said Friday. \n \"It is ours. It's clearly marked as ours. We would like it back, and we would like this not to happen again,\" Davis told reporters. He said the drone costs about $150,000 and is largely commercial, off-the-shelf technology. \n The USNS Bowditch, which is not a combat ship, was stopped in international waters Thursday afternoon and recovering two of the gliders when the Chinese ship approached, Davis said. The two vessels were within about 450 meters (500 yards) of each other. He said the USNS Bowditch carries some small arms, but that no shots were fired. \n According to the Pentagon, as the Chinese ship left with the drone, which is about 3 meters (10 feet) long, its only radio response to the U.S. vessel was, \"We are returning to normal operations.\" \n Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the seizure of the glider occurred inside the exclusive economic zone of the Philippines, not China, and appeared to be a violation of international law. \n China delineates its South China Sea claims with a roughly drawn sea border known as the \"nine-dash line\" that runs along the west coast of the Philippines. However, it hasn't explicitly said whether it considers those waters as sovereign territory, and says it doesn't disrupt the passage of other nations' shipping through the area. The U.S. doesn't take a position on sovereignty claims, but insists on freedom of navigation, including the right of its naval vessels to conduct training and other operations in the sea. \n Davis said that the incident could be the first time in recent history that China has taken a U.S. naval vessel. Some observers have called it the most significant dispute between the sides' militaries since the April 2001 midair collision between a U.S. Navy surveillance aircraft and a Chinese fighter jet about 110 kilometers (70 miles) from China's Hainan island that led to the death of a Chinese pilot. \n The drone seizure seemed likely to fray the already tense relations between U.S. and China. Beijing was angered by Trump's decision to talk by phone with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen on Dec. 2, and by his later comments that he did not feel \"bound by a one-China policy\" regarding the status of Taiwan, unless the U.S. could gain trade or other benefits from China. China considers the self-governing island its own territory to be recovered by force if it deems necessary. \n There also have been increased tensions over Beijing's ongoing military buildup in the South China Sea, mainly the development and militarization of man-made shoals and islands aimed at extending China's reach in the strategically vital area, through which about $5 trillion in global trade passes annually. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China says it seized U.S. Navy drone to ensure safety of ships"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte spoke in Singapore on Friday. \n MANILA, Philippines >> The U.S. says it will work with the Philippine president to address any concerns after he threatened to terminate a pact that allows U.S. troops to visit the Philippines. \n President Rodrigo Duterte was enraged after a U.S. government aid agency deferred a vote on a renewal of a major development assistance package for the Philippines over concerns about extrajudicial killings in Duterte's war on illegal drugs. \n Although no decision on the aid package has been taken, Duterte on Saturday launched an expletives-laden tirade, telling the U.S. to \"prepare to leave the Philippines, prepare for the eventual repeal or the abrogation of the Visiting Forces Agreement.\" \n The U.S. Embassy in Manila says in a statement Washington will work closely with the Duterte administration to address any concerns it may have. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. says it will work with Duterte after latest outburst"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump responds to cheering supporters, in front of a backdrop of Christmas trees, at a rally in Orlando, Fla., on Friday, Dec. 16, 2016. \n PALM BEACH, Fla. >> President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday was wrapping up his postelection victory tour, showing few signs of turning the page from his blustery campaign to focus on uniting a divided nation a month before his inauguration. \n At each stop, the Republican has gloatingly recapped his Election Night triumph, reignited some old political feuds while starting some new ones, and done little to quiet the hate-filled chants of \"Lock her up!\" directed at Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. \n Trump planned the tour's finale at the same football stadium in Mobile, Alabama, that hosted the biggest rally of his campaign. Also Saturday, he announced the nomination of South Carolina Rep. Mick Mulvaney to be his budget director, choosing a tea partyer and fiscal conservative with no experience assembling a government spending plan. \n The raucous rallies, a hallmark of his campaign, are meant to salute supporters who lifted him to the presidency. But these appearances also have been his primary form of communication since the Nov. 8 election. \n Trump has eschewed the traditional news conference held by a president-elect within days of winning. He's done few interviews, announced his Cabinet picks via news release and continues to rely on Twitter to broadcast his thoughts and make public pronouncements. \n That continued Saturday morning when Trump turned to social media to weigh in on China's seizure of a U.S. Navy research drone from international waters, misspelling \"unprecedented\" when he wrote \"China steals United States Navy research drone in international waters \u2013 rips it out of water and takes it to China in unpresidented act.\" \n He later corrected the tweet. China said Saturday it intended to return the drone to the U.S. \n Within days of beating Clinton, Trump suggested to aides that he resume his campaign-style barnstorming. Though he agreed to hold off until he assembled part of his Cabinet, Trump has repeatedly spoken of his fondness for being on the road. Aides are considering more rallies after he takes office, to help press his agenda with the public. \n In Pennsylvania, he launched into a 20-minute recap of his Election Night win. The crowd cheered as the president-elect slowly ticked off his victories state by state. He mixed in rambling criticisms of pundits and politicians from both parties. \n Trump also thanked African-Americans who didn't vote, saying \"They didn't come out to vote for Hillary. They didn't come out. And that was a big \u2014 so thank you to the African-American community.\" Such rhetoric raised new questions about his ability to unify the country. \n In Ohio, he took veiled swipes at fellow Republicans, including the state's governor John Kasich and independent presidential candidate Evan McMullin, whom he solely refers to as \"that guy.\" McMullin competed chiefly in Utah. \n In Florida, Trump remembered his general election foe by joking, \"We had fun fighting Hillary, didn't we?\" He said his supporters were \"vicious, violent, screaming, 'Where's the wall? We want the wall!' \n But Trump has also sounded some notes of unity on the tour. In North Carolina, he said, \"We will heal our divisions and unify our country. When Americans are unified there is nothing we cannot do \u2014 nothing!\" \n After the Alabama rally, Trump planned to return to Mar-a-Lago, his Palm Beach estate. Aides said the president-elect probably would spend Christmas week there and could remain at the coastal resort until New Year's. \n The president-elect's choice to head the Office of Management and Budget \u2014 a job requiring Senate confirmation \u2014 is a founder of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus. In a statement, Trump called him a \"very high-energy leader with deep convictions for how to responsibly manage our nation's finances and save our country from drowning in red ink.\" \n Mulvaney is one of the more hard-charging members among House conservatives. Lawmakers in the House Freedom Caucus helped push former House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio., from power and have caused heartburn for current Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. \n Mulvaney has taken a hard line on budget matters, routinely voting against increasing the government's borrowing cap and pressing for major cuts to benefit programs as the path to balancing the budget. \n Actually balancing the federal budget requires deeper spending cuts than the GOP-controlled Congress can probably deliver on, especially if Trump prevails on revenue-losing tax cuts and a big infrastructure package next year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "On victory lap, few signs Trump focusing on unified nation"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Authorities clean up the remains of a tanker truck the slid off Interstate 95 in Baltimore, Md., on Saturday morning, Dec. 17, 2016, following an overnight ice storm. \n A winter storm of snow, freezing rain and bone-chilling temperatures socked the nation's mid-section and East Coast on Saturday, causing hundreds of accidents on icy roads and putting a crimp on Christmas shopping. \n At least six deaths were blamed on the slick roads and authorities were investigating a few other traffic fatalities as possibly weather-related. Perhaps the biggest accident happened in Baltimore, when a tanker carrying gasoline skidded off a highway and exploded, authorities said. \n Two people died in the 55-vehicle pileup on Interstate 95, Baltimore City Fire Chief Roman Clark said. Hospital officials said nearly two dozen people were treated for injuries including broken bones and head trauma. \n Clark said it was too early to determine the cause of the crash. \n \"We have nothing but sheets of ice throughout the city, sidewalks,\" he said. \n It was unclear whether the pileup started before the tanker crash or was caused by it. The northbound lanes of I-95 were closed while crews cleaned up the mess. \n Winter weather advisories were posted from Denver to Bangor, Maine. Airports reported hundreds of flight delays or cancellations, interstates and toll roads reduced speed limits and authorities urged drivers to use extreme caution. \n The nasty weather put a damper on holiday plans for Luke Perez, who was hoping to make it home to Los Angeles on Saturday for a family party. Perez's flight out of D.C., where he is in graduate school, was canceled, so he said he's going to try again Sunday or Monday. \n \"My family has a Christmas party \u2026 and I was hoping to make it to that tonight, but that's not going to happen anymore,\" the 23-year-old said. \n There were dozens of crashes in Indiana \u2014 two of them involving fatalities \u2014 due to freezing rain and ice, officials said. It was not immediately clear how many people were killed. The roads were so slick that authorities had to move motorists stranded on an overpass with a ladder. \n In Ohio, a Columbus woman died Saturday when her car skidded off a slick road, authorities said. In another accident in Baltimore, six people were taken to the hospital after a crash on I-695 involving 15 to 20 vehicles, Baltimore County tweeted. In Nebraska, Douglas County Sheriff's deputies said one person was killed Friday night when his car slid off an icy road north of Omaha, hit a tree and burst into flames. \n Temperatures plummeted and people braced for the cold. Temperatures in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were expected to drop to minus-20 degrees overnight. People were advised to stay indoors for the weekend. The low temperature was expected to reach 4 degrees in Chicago on Sunday. \n In Virginia, a Fairfax County firetruck slid off an icy road while responding to a crash, local news media reported. No one was injured. \n Meanwhile, more than three dozen crashes and a fatality were reported in the northern part of the state, authorities said. Police said a man was found dead on the side of I-495, about a mile from a 23-vehicle crash. It appears the man was involved in the crash and had walked away from disabled vehicle. It wasn't immediately clear how the man died. \n In Colorado, up to a foot of snow fell in places, snarling traffic. Even weather-hardened locals apparently had trouble driving. \n \"I worked for the fire department for 45 years, and we used to call this highway hockey because people keep bumping into each other,\" said Kevin Sweeney, of Brighton, a town about 20 miles northeast of Denver. \"I think it's that first big snow thing.\" \n In North Carolina, police and emergency workers reported more than 100 crashes overnight in Raleigh and Charlotte as the drizzle combined with temperatures below freezing to create dangerous icy patches. \n Charlotte police reported two people killed in separate fatal crashes early Saturday, although investigators were still trying to figure out if ice caused the wrecks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Winter storm slams parts of U.S., causing accidents, deaths"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Barack Obama talks with Sen. Brian Schatz, left, Honolulu mayor Kirk Caldwell, and Gov. David Ige after arriving from Washington D.C. aboard Air Force One on Friday, December 16, 2016 at Joint Base Pearl Harbor Hickam in Honolulu, Hawaii. \n President Obama is spending the first day of his holiday vacation in Hawaii at the golf course. \n His golfing partners today are Bobby Titcomb, Joe Paulsen, Michael Brush and Luke Rosa. \n They are golfing at the Kaneohe Klipper golf course. \n The First Family touched down in Hawaii just before 11 p.m. Friday at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam. \n The Obamas left their Kailua vacation rental at 9:56 a.m. and arrived shortly after at the Marine Corps Base Hawaii. \n According to White House travel pool reports, a small group of protesters held signs at the end of Kailuana Place calling for the closure of Guantanamo, clemency for Chelsea Manning, \"End Gaza Blockade\" and another sign reading \"8 Years Waiting, Stop and Talk.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Obama spends first day of Hawaii vacation golfing"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dr. Henry Heimlich holds his memoir prior to being interviewed at his home in Cincinnati. Heimlich, the surgeon who created the life-saving Heimlich maneuver for choking victims has died Saturday, Dec. 17, 2016, at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati. He was 96. \n CINCINNATI >> The surgeon who created the life-saving Heimlich maneuver for choking victims died early Saturday in Cincinnati. Dr. Henry Heimlich was 96. \n His son, Phil, said he died at Christ Hospital after suffering a heart attack earlier in the week. \n \"My father was a great man who saved many lives,\" said Heimlich, an attorney and former Hamilton County commissioner. \"He will be missed not only by his family but by all of humanity.\" \n Heimlich was director of surgery at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati in 1974 when he devised the treatment for choking victims that made his name a household word. \n Rescuers using the procedure abruptly squeeze a victim's abdomen, pushing in and above the navel with the fist to create a flow of air from the lungs. That flow of air then can push objects out of the windpipe and prevent suffocation. \n Much of Heimlich's 2014 autobiography focuses on the maneuver, which involves thrusts to the abdomen that apply upward pressure on the diaphragm to create an air flow that forces food or other objects out of the windpipe. \n The Cincinnati chest surgeon told The Associated Press in a February 2014 interview that thousands of deaths reported annually from choking prompted him in 1972 to seek a solution. During the next two years, he led a team of researchers at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati. He successfully tested the technique by putting a tube with a balloon at one end down an anesthetized dog's airway until it choked. He then used the maneuver to force the dog to expel the obstruction. \n The Wilmington, Delaware, native estimated the maneuver has saved the lives of thousands of choking victims in the United States alone. It earned him several awards and worldwide recognition. His name became a household word. \n The maneuver was adopted by public health authorities, airlines and restaurant associations, and Heimlich appeared on shows including the \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" and \"The Today Show.\" \n His views on how the maneuver should be used and on other innovations he created or proposed put him at odds with some in the health field. He said his memoir was an effort to preserve his technique. \n \"I know the maneuver saves lives, and I want it to be used and remembered,\" he told the AP. \"I felt I had to have it down in print so the public will have the correct information.\" \n The maneuver has continued to make headlines. Clint Eastwood was attending a golf event in Monterey, California, in 2014 when the then-83-year-old actor saw the tournament director choking on a piece of cheese and successfully performed the technique. \n \"The best thing about it is that it allows anyone to save a life,\" Heimlich told the AP. \n In 2016, Heimlich himself was the hero, saving a woman choking on food at his senior living center. \n Heimlich said the maneuver is very effective when used correctly, but he did not approve of American Red Cross guidelines calling for back blows followed by abdominal thrusts in choking cases that don't involve infants or unconscious victims. Red Cross officials said evidence shows using multiple methods can be more effective, but Heimlich said blows can drive obstructions deeper into a windpipe. The American Heart Association backs abdominal thrusts. \n Neither organization supports Heimlich's view that using the maneuver to remove water from the lungs could save drowning victims. They recommend CPR. \n Heimlich was proud of some of his other innovations, such as a chest drain valve credited by some with saving soldiers and civilians during the Vietnam War. But he drew sharp criticism for his theory that injecting patients with a curable form of malaria could trigger immunity in patients with the HIV virus that causes AIDS. Medical experts have said injecting patients with malaria would be dangerous and have criticized Heimlich for conducting studies involving malariotherapy on HIV patients in China. \n Heimlich mostly brushed off critics. \n \"I'll be the first to admit that a number of my ideas are controversial and in some ways unorthodox,\" Heimlich told the AP. \"But I have enough guts to know that when I am right, it will come about as the thing to do, even if others do the wrong thing for a time.\" \n One of his most vocal critics has been his son, Peter Heimlich. The younger Heimlich split with his father years ago over a personal rift. He initially circulated anonymous criticisms of his father before openly speaking out against him online and in media interviews. \n Peter Heimlich has called many of his father's theories dangerous and spent years challenging many of his claims and trying to discredit them. The elder Heimlich maintained that his relationship with his son was a family matter refused to comment on it to the media. \n The elder Heimlich attended Cornell University undergraduate and medical schools and interned at Boston City Hospital. During World War II, the U.S. Navy sent him to northwest China in 1942 to treat Chinese and American forces behind Japanese lines in the Gobi Desert. \n Beginning in the 1950s, he held staff surgeon positions at New York's Metropolitan Hospital and Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center. He later was an attending surgeon on the staffs at Jewish and Deaconess hospitals in Cincinnati and a researcher at his nonprofit Heimlich Institute. \n Heimlich's wife Jane, daughter of the late dance teacher Arthur Murray, died in November 2012. \n He is survived by two sons and two daughters. \n Phil Heimlich said a private family service and burial is planned soon. The family hopes to arrange a public memorial, he added, that will give his father's friends and admirers a chance to pay their respects. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Henry Heimlich, life-saving maneuver creator, dies at 96"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ORLANDO, Fla. >> More Walt Disney World restaurants will soon begin serving alcohol. \n Disney announced that starting Friday that four more Magic Kingdom restaurants will start serving beer and wine. Until now, only the Be Our Guest Restaurant sold alcohol in the Magic Kingdom. It began selling alcohol in 2012. \n Alcoholic beverages have been sold at the Epcot, Hollywood Studios and Animal Kingdom parks at Disney World. \n Disney officials said the change was made because of requests from customers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Disney World adding beer, wine to 4 restaurants"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "NEW ORLEANS >> It's D-Days \u2014 that is, digital days \u2014 at the National World War II Museum, with historians seeking to storm the internet and move thousands of first-person accounts of the fighting online. \n Executives at the National World War II Museum say creating a vast online collection of 9,000 existing oral and written histories will take longer than the war was fought: 10 years and $11 million dollars. There's more than 22,000 hours of audio and video to be handled, thousands of documents to be digitized and millions of words transcribed. \n Ultimately, all these firsthand accounts of Pearl Harbor, the D-Day invasion, Germany's surrender, Hiroshima, the homefront and more will be online. \n Founded in 2000, the museum is a top New Orleans attraction. The digital collection is open to the world. But only about 250 of its oral histories are online so far. Uploading more will take time, partly because the museum's six historians also are racing to interview the last veterans alive. \n \"It's a fine balance. We have a sense of urgency to collect as many stories as we can \u2026 But we also know it's extremely important moving forward to provide access\" online, said Stephen Watson, the museum's executive vice president and chief operating officer. \n Since May, the World War II Museum has collected 500 oral histories. But the war generation is fading fast. \n Even people with childhood memories of the war are now in their 70s, noted James Gilmore, archives specialist in oral history at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. He said the Holocaust Museum has about 10,000 oral histories available online. Those also are among more than 66,000 that can be viewed or listened to on site. \n \"Our oral histories have been invaluable resources in teaching about Holocaust history and fighting Holocaust denial. They'll become even more precious once the eyewitness generation is no longer here,\" Gilmore said. \n Putting oral histories online is not just a matter of uploading and linking to huge audio and video files. The World War II Museum's six historians also help laboriously describe their contents for online searching, in a process more extensive than the Holocaust Museum's has been so far. \n Take the four videos spanning two hours of interviews with Harold E. Ward , a Navy lookout on the cruiser San Francisco when Japanese warplanes struck Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. \n The videos are divided into 12 segments, each with detailed annotations describing what Ward talks about section by section \u2014 like the one with Ward recalling the attack. \n The San Francisco was being overhauled when the planes came in low and slow, leaving the fleet in flames. \"I just stood and watched,\" Ward said. As a lookout, he was wearing headphones. An ensign somewhere else asked him to describe the scene. \n \"He says, 'What's going on there?'\" Ward recounted. \"So I told him we were being attacked by the Japanese Air Force.\" The ensign's response: \"Don't you get wise with me, Ward. I asked you a question.\" \n \"So I began to describe what I was looking at,\" Ward continued. \"And there was a dead silence when I finished speaking.\" \n So far there are 4,000 staff-collected video oral histories, 3,000 video and audio recordings made by others, and nearly 2,000 \"written histories\" like journals and diaries that can be photographed, annotated and transcribed for online research, said Keith Huxen, the museum's senior director of history and research. \n He said the six historians travel widely, scheduling at least four interviews per trip. Afterward, the historians add catalog information, including a short description of contents and when and where interviews were made. They then begin annotating the video with keywords mostly likely to be searched, Huxen said. \n \"Ultimately, the public will be able to go online, access the histories, search them, watch the video with face and voice \u2026 with a verbatim transcription scrolling or at least accessible,\" he added. \n The museum has allocated about $4.4 million for the project so far \u2014 about two-thirds from donations and grants, and the rest from the museum's operating budget, Watson said. One records management company, Iron Mountain, gave $100,000 to digitize 100 interviews this year and expects to donate a similar amount next. \n \"The commitment to this will never end,\" because there will be a constant need to update computers and software and to move the collection \"to new forms of data storage that we don't even know about now,\" Watson noted. \n The idea of putting the collection online was borne of bleak days after Hurricane Katrina flooded much of New Orleans in 2005. The museum didn't flood, but was closed for months to repair damage from roof leaks and from looting in non-exhibit areas. Few visitors showed up when it did reopen, prompting executives to consider how they could still reach people even when a city was emptied out. \n \"We had to think about how to fulfill our mission without people being here,\" said Nick Mueller, museum president and CEO. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "WWII on www: thousands of oral histories going online"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis, right, flanked at right by Mons. Konrad Krajewski, celebrates his 80th birthday sharing a breakfast with homeless people before celebrating Mass with cardinals at the Vatican, Saturday Dec. 17, 2016. The Vatican said that the pope chatted early Saturday with each of the homeless guests, four Italians, two Romanians, a Moldovan, two Romanians and a Peruvian, and shared with them Argentinian cakes before heading to Mass. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis celebrated an active if low-key 80th birthday on Saturday, sharing breakfast with eight homeless people before celebrating Mass with cardinals as greetings poured in from around the world. \n The pontiff received more than 70,000 email messages wishing him a happy birthday, as well as telephone calls and telegrams from world leaders and religious figures. \n His predecessor, 89-year-old Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI, sent a \"very affectionate\" written greeting that the Vatican said was \"particularly appreciated,\" followed by a personal call in the afternoon and three small gifts that the bore \"very personal and significant meaning for both.\" The Vatican did not otherwise divulge the nature of the gifts. \n At breakfast, Francis chatted individually with each of the homeless guests\u2014 four Italians, two Romanians, a Moldovan and a Peruvian \u2014 at the Vatican hotel where he resides, and shared Argentinian cakes with them before heading to Mass. \n The guests offered the pope a bouquet of sunflowers. They were invited from among those staying around St. Peter's Square and at nearby showers for the homeless established by the pope's almsgiver. The pope also sent enough birthday cakes for 1,500 people to kitchens serving the poor and homeless in Rome. \n Speaking to the cardinals, Francis contemplated the aging process. \n \"For some days now, I have had in mind a word that seems ugly: Old age, a thought that frightens,\" he said. \n But then he recalled his own words during his first papal greeting in 2013, when he said: \"Old age is the thirst for knowledge.\" \n He added: \"I hope it will be the same for me.\" \n Saturday is a working day at the Vatican and Francis kept up his usual pace. He met with Malta's president and held an audience with members of the Nomadelfia community, a secular group whose lifestyle emulates early Christians, who sang \"Happy Birthday\" to the pontiff. \n The pope experienced the day \"with great joy. He was particularly happy by the presence of many children and youths at the audience with the Nomadelfia community,\" the Vatican said. \n Greetings arrived from all corners of the globe, both personal messages and succinct tweets with the hashtag #Pontifex80. \n U.S. President Barack Obama said Francis \"has inspired people around the world with his message of compassion, hope and peace,\" while Italian President Sergio Mattarella recalled that the pope has called on Europeans to show solidarity with the less fortunate, in particular \"migrants and all those who live at society's margins.\" \n Russian President Vladimir Putin sent Francis a telegram and followed it up with a phone call in which he \"remarked on the big contribution he has personally made to strengthen ties between Russia and the Vatican, which moved to a significantly new level in the recent years,\" the Kremlin said. \n The Kremlin said Putin and the pope \"exchanged opinions\" on the plight of Christians caught in armed conflicts around the world and the importance of an interfaith dialogue. \n Earlier this year, Francis met with Russian Patriarch Kirill in the first meeting of the head of the Roman Catholic Church and the leader of the world's largest Orthodox Christian flock. \n The patriarch's office said Saturday that Kirill had sent a congratulatory message to Francis and lauded him for improving ties between the Russian Church and the Vatican. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope eats with homeless on 80th birthday, gets 70,000 emails"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "A 24-year-old bicyclist was seriously injured today after he collided with a car near Ala Moana, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n The crash happened at Keeaumoku and King streets at 6:38 a.m. \n Paramedics transported the man to the hospital in serious condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist injured after being struck by car near Ala Moana"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Syrian man pulls their belongings after he was evacuated with his family from Aleppo, near Idlib, Syria, Friday, Dec. 16, 2016. Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu says 7,500 civilians have been evacuated from the Syrian city of Aleppo and that he has reached out to Tehran in a bid to keep the process on track. \n BEIRUT >> Rebel and government forces agreed Saturday to allow \"humanitarian cases\" to leave two besieged government-held Shiite villages in northwestern Syria, a step that would allow the resumption of civilian and rebel evacuations from eastern Aleppo which were suspended a day earlier, Hezbollah's media arm and a monitoring group said. \n The opposition's Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the evacuation of some 4,000 people, including wounded, from the villages of Foua and Kfarya was expected to start Saturday. It later reported that 29 buses were heading toward the two villages to start the evacuation process, adding that insurgents in the area rejected allowing 4,000 people to leave and saying they will only allow 400 people to be evacuated. \n The Syrian army said another 25 buses left later Saturday heading to the two villages. \n It was not immediately clear whether the alleged evacuation limits set by the insurgents in the two villages would undermine evacuation efforts in Aleppo. \n Hezbollah fighters have joined the Syrian war fighting along with President Bashar Assad's forces. Opposition activists blamed the Lebanese group for blocking the main road south of Aleppo and blocking evacuations from rebel-held eastern neighborhoods of the city. \n The Aleppo evacuation was suspended Friday after a report of shooting at a crossing point into the enclave by both sides of the conflict. Thousands were evacuated before the process was suspended. \n An amateur video posted online by opposition activists Friday showed scores of men, women and children running away from a crossing point for fear of being shot at. The video appeared genuine and corresponded to other reporting of the events by The Associated Press. \n The Syrian government has said that the village evacuations and the one in eastern Aleppo must be done simultaneously, but the rebels say there's no connection. \n Hezbollah's Military Media said the new deal also includes the rebel-held towns of Madaya and Zabadani near the border with Lebanon where tens of thousands of people are trapped under siege by government forces and the Lebanese group. \n A Syrian state TV correspondent, speaking from Aleppo, said Saturday that the main condition for the Aleppo evacuation to resume is for residents of Foua and Kfarya to be allowed to leave. \n In Moscow, The Russian foreign ministry said Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Saturday called his counterparts in Turkey and Iran to discuss the Syria crisis. The ministry's read-out said all three discussed the Aleppo evacuation and humanitarian efforts and stressed \"the importance of continuing to coordinate efforts of the international community to provide humanitarian aid to those in need.\" They agreed to meet soon. \n Separately, Russia's Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu spoke by telephone Saturday with his Iranian and Syrian counterparts, as well as the chief of the Turkish intelligence service, to discuss the crisis in Aleppo, including \"concrete steps to create conditions for a lasting cease-fire in Syria.\" \n The International Committee of the Red Cross said thousands of people including women, children, the sick and injured, remain trapped in eastern Aleppo waiting in freezing temperatures for the evacuation to resume. The ICRC said it is aware a new agreement could be reached soon and has called on all parties on the ground to \"do their utmost to end this limbo.\" \n \"We're ready to resume facilitating the evacuation according to our humanitarian mandate. But we now expect all the parties on the ground to provide us with solid guarantees in order to keep the operation going,\" said ICRC's head of delegation in Syria, Marianne Gasser, who is currently in Aleppo. \"They're the ones who have to protect the people and provide safe passage. We cannot abandon these people.\" \n The cease-fire and evacuation from east Aleppo earlier this week marked the end of the rebels' most important stronghold in the country's civil war, now in its sixth year. The suspension demonstrated the fragility of the cease-fire deal, in which civilians and fighters in the few remaining blocks of the rebel enclave were to be taken to opposition-held territory nearby. \n In announcing the suspension, Syrian state TV said Friday that rebels were trying to smuggle out captives who had been seized in the enclave after ferocious battles with troops supporting Assad. \n Reports differed on how many people remain in the Aleppo enclave, ranging from 15,000 to 40,000 civilians, along with an estimated 6,000 fighters. \n With the agreement of all parties, the Syrian Arab Red Crescent and the ICRC have already managed to evacuate around 10,000 people, many of whom are in a critical condition, the ICRC statement said. As tension between parties escalated yesterday, the evacuation was put on hold leaving thousands of people still in eastern Aleppo, it added. \n There also were conflicting reports on the number of evacuees who left on Thursday and early Friday from east Aleppo. Syrian state TV put it at more than 9,000 while Russia, a key Assad ally, said over 9,500 people, including more than 4,500 rebels, were taken out. \n In neighboring Turkey, several people crossed in from Syria but it was not immediately clear where they were coming. One woman said she was among the first batch of civilians who were able to leave east Aleppo. \n Suad Hamso said she left Aleppo during the first ceasefire but couldn't remember the exact day. Her daughters stayed put but managed to leave later, she said. She hopes to join one of her two children already living in Turkey. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deal reached that could restart Aleppo evacuation"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State-designate Rex Tillerson speaks in Washington. Propelled by populist energy, President-elect Donald Trump's candidacy broke long-standing conventions and his incoming Cabinet embodies a sharp turn from the outgoing Obama administration. \n WASHINGTON >> Propelled by populist energy, President-elect Donald Trump's candidacy broke long-standing conventions and his incoming Cabinet embodies a sharp turn from the outgoing Obama administration. \n Trump, a Republican who pledged major changes after eight years of a Democratic White House, has assembled nominees for a Cabinet that includes many business executives who have never served in government, and military leaders are in line to oversee defense and homeland security. In one case, Trump has named someone who once called for dismantling the agency he'd lead. \n A change of political parties at the White House almost always brings policy adjustments. But Trump's Cabinet expects to carry the outsider flair of his campaign, a role reversal compared with more conventional teams under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama that were heavy on former lawmakers, governors and veterans of past administrations. \n A look at the expected shift in the federal government: \n \u2014\u2014 \n STATE DEPARTMENT \n Trump's decision to nominate Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson as secretary of state means the department could be run by a lifelong oil executive with deep ties to Russia and no government experience. Outgoing Secretary of State John Kerry, a former senator who was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spent much of his tenure seeking agreements to fight climate change, restrain Iran's nuclear program and pressure foreign adversaries through financial penalties. But if Tillerson wins Senate confirmation, he would have a big say over whether the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate treaty and the Iran nuclear pact, along with the future of U.S. relations with Russia. \n \u2014\u2014 \n DEFENSE DEPARTMENT \n James Mattis retired from the Marine Corps as a four-star general in 2013 and had been a battlefield commander most of that time. Compare that with current Defense Secretary Ash Carter, who worked for years at the Pentagon and in academia but never served in uniform. To take the defense secretary job, Mattis needs Congress to pass a law allowing him to serve. Current law requires a Pentagon chief to be out of the military for at least seven years to uphold the commitment to civilian control of the military. The law was last waived for George Marshall in 1950. Trump has praised Mattis' effectiveness at \"thank you\" rallies around the country and has promised a massive buildup of the country's defense capabilities. \n \u2014\u2014 \n TREASURY DEPARTMENT \n Obama's Treasury Department was in crisis mode from the moment he took office, dealing with massive job losses and the meltdown of the housing market. Eight years later, Trump has nominated Steven Mnuchin to lead the department, turning to a former Goldman Sachs executive who invested in a bank that foreclosed on thousands of homeowners after the housing crisis. Democrats are expected to press Mnuchin on his role in IndyMac, which was rebranded OneWest, and the deal that left the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation responsible for taking as much as 80 percent of the losses on former IndyMac assets. Mnuchin has promised \"the most significant middle-income tax cut\" since President Ronald Reagan. \n \u2014\u2014 \n ENERGY DEPARTMENT \n Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry once famously struggled to name three federal departments he would eliminate if elected president, muttering \"oops\" during a 2011 presidential debate. In one of ironies of the Trump transition, Perry is now preparing to run one of those agencies, the Energy Department, after more than 14 years as governor. Perry presided over his state's vast oil and gas industries and leading wind energy sector. He is currently on the boards of two petroleum companies seeking approval for the Dakota Access Pipeline project. He would be a break from predecessors such as Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, and Ernest Moniz, a nuclear physicist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. \n \u2014\u2014 \n JUSTICE DEPARTMENT \n Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump's pick for attorney general, has supported tough immigration enforcement policies and said the Justice Department's civil rights division should not be used as \"a sword to assert inappropriate claims that have the effect of promoting political agendas.\" Before he entered the Senate, his nomination to become a federal judge was scuttled in 1986 amid accusations that he made racially charged remarks as a U.S. attorney. He would succeed Attorney General Loretta Lynch, who has dealt with a spate of police-involved shootings and pushed a lawsuit against North Carolina over a bathroom bill that officials said discriminated against transgender individuals. \n \u2014\u2014 \n LABOR DEPARTMENT \n Outgoing Labor Secretary Tom Perez was an outspoken advocate for raising the federal minimum wage and helped push a federal rule to make more workers eligible for overtime pay. Trump's choice to run the department is fast-food executive Andy Puzder, the CEO of CKE Restaurants Holdings, the parent company of Carl's Jr., Hardee's and other chains. Puzder has said that large increases in the minimum wage would lead to job losses, and he wrote in a May 2016 op-ed that the overtime rule would be \"another barrier to the middle class rather than a springboard\" for workers. Fast-food workers led the \"Fight for $15\" campaign during Obama's second term. \n \u2014\u2014 \n OTHER DEPARTMENTs \n Trump's choice for education secretary, Betsy DeVos, is an education activist and billionaire from Michigan who has championed vouchers and charter schools, which detractors say hurt public education. The pick at the Department of Health and Human Services is Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., an orthopedic surgeon who has been a leading critic of Obama's health care overhaul. Set to head the Department of Housing and Urban Development is one of Trump's presidential rivals, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, even though he lacks a background in housing issues. Trump pointed to Carson's \"brilliant mind\" and passion for \"strengthening communities and families.\" At the Environmental Protection Agency, Trump settled on Oklahoma's attorney general, Scott Pruitt. He has questioned the science of global warming and sued the EPA over plans to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants and regulations involving the Clean Water Act. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's Cabinet selections signal a bold shift after Obama"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton is blaming Russian interference for her defeat in the presidential race, casting her campaign as fodder in a long-running effort by Russian President Vladimir Putin to discredit the fundamental tenants of American government. \n WASHINGTON >> Americans' enduring confidence that their elections are unimpeachably fair is teetering. Welcome to what much of the world calls reality, especially Russia's neighbors. \n While the United States cites its popular votes and peaceful transitions of power as examples of its democratic vigor, elections results elsewhere can entail a hint or heavy dose of suspicion. Ballots are rigged regularly, level playing fields are rare and bigger powers often meddle in the sovereign political processes of smaller nations. \n Russia, accused by the CIA of helping Donald Trump in last month's presidential election, is no stranger to accusations of interference with other countries' elections. Nor is the United States. \n Whether the full extent of the accusations of Russian interference turns out to be true, they already are damaging the legitimacy of the U.S. democratic process. When many citizens distrust their government, the media and other institutions of American life, doubts about the freeness and fairness of the elections cause consternation. \n The outgoing Obama administration is reviewing the evidence of Russian hacking of emails from the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton's campaign chief John Podesta, and if such activity was designed to tilt the outcome toward Trump. Republican-led investigations are taking place in Congress. \n Trump has denounced the claims as partisanship. \"Can you imagine if the election results were the opposite and WE tried to play the Russia/CIA card. It would be called conspiracy theory!\" he tweeted this past week. \n The broader, systemic fear for the U.S. is that what was an anomaly in 2000 could start becoming the norm: elections that don't produce presidents recognized by one and all. \n Sixteen years ago, it was the disputed recount and incredibly close contest in Florida between Republican George W. Bush, the eventual winner, and Democrat Al Gore. Now, it is the question of whether Trump, who like Bush didn't receive the majority of votes nationwide, would have prevailed in a race that didn't include daily email revelations from the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. \n Trump may have contributed to the distrust. Before the Nov. 8 vote, he repeatedly suggested the election was \"rigged\" against him. A Pew Research Center survey shortly before Election Day showed 56 percent of Trump supporters having little to no trust in the fairness of the process. Only 11 percent of Clinton backers felt that way. \n While the numbers may appear an anomaly in America, elections are hardly beyond reproach in much of the world. \n Most of the world's governments include some form of voting on national leaders. But most nations don't qualify as \"free,\" according to the nongovernmental organization Freedom House. \n The State Department also chronicles the shortcomings of countries in its annual reports, detailing which governments and leaders restrict freedom of expression, the press and open dissent before and during elections. Africa, Asia and the Middle East score particularly poorly, and the world's most populous nation, China, remains a one-party state. Yet even some of Europe's established democracies are appearing increasingly flawed. \n Some fault may reside in foreign interference. In France, Germany and the Netherlands, officials are preoccupied with what they see as Russian moves to influence their elections through support for nationalist and populist parties, and efforts to delegitimize governments that haven't done Moscow's bidding. \n German officials charge Russia with engineering hacks of Germany's parliament. Elsewhere, the perceived meddling has come in the form of false news stories designed to sway voter sentiments. It was only 12 years ago that Ukraine's eventual president became disfigured after he mysteriously ingested a lethal poison while campaigning against a pro-Moscow candidate. \n Many countries in Central and Eastern Europe live with the memories of Soviet-manipulated votes ushering in communist dictatorships. \n For them, cyberattacks may only be the newest weapon. \n Russia denies that it interferes or plays favorites in foreign elections. \n The United States has a dodgy record itself. \n Its Cold War history includes cases when it ensured the victory of pro-capitalist and pro-democracy parties against communists, as in Italy after World War II. In other instances, Washington's response to unfavorable results was coup d'etat, as in Iran and Guatemala in the 1950s or Chile two decades later. \n These days, the U.S. stresses level playing fields in foreign elections, a message that less-than-free governments often conflate with interference. \n Washington says it remains strictly impartial as other nations make their democratic choices. \n Yet top U.S. officials still play favorites, meeting opposition figures in some countries but not others. In rare cases they even take sides, as when President Barack Obama publicly urged Britain's voters not to leave the European Union. He failed. \n These efforts, however, differ from what Russia is accused of doing because they are out in the open. They do not involve claims of ballot tampering, illegal funding for parties or cyberhacking. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Election questions leave U.S. distrustful, like other nations"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "USGS \n A Major earthquake struck near Papua New Guinea. No tsunami warnings were issued for Hawaii. \n A large earthquake struck off Papua New Guinea but did not create a tsunami that would threaten the Hawaiian islands, officials said early today. \n However Papua New Guinea is under a tsunami threat, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center on Oahu. \n The magnitude 7.9 earthquake hit at 12:51 a.m. Hawaii time, and was centered about 82 miles east of Kokopo, Papua New Guinea, at a depth of about 64 miles, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. \n While the Hawaiian islands were not threatened by a tsunami, the warning center said tsunami waves of 1 to 3 meters were possible along the coasts of Papua New Guinea. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Major earthquake strikes off Papua New Guinea; no tsunami threat to Hawaii"}

{"date": "December 17, 2016", "text": "COURTESY GO AKAMAI \n The H-1 freeway is closed in the westbound direction near the Middle Street merge due to an accident, according to Honolulu police. \n The H-1 freeway is closed in the westbound direction near the Middle Street merge due to an accident, according to Honolulu police. \n The closure was reported around 10:51 a.m. at the Moanalua Freeway split. \n Police are advising motorists to stay on Moanalua Freeway and expect delays. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "H-1 westbound closed at Moanalua freeway split due to accident"}

