{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ORLANDO SENTINEL / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Orlando Police Chief John Mina is shown in this July 8 image. Data released today shows 70 percent of the 50 people shot at by Orlando police officers since 2009 are black men. \n ORLANDO, Fla. \u00bb Seventy percent of the 50 people shot at by Orlando police officers since 2009 are black men, according to data released today by the Orlando Police Department. \n Of those officer-involved shootings, 12 of the 16 men killed by police were black men, the data shows. \n Orlando Police Chief John Mina said race does not play a role in an officer's decision to use a weapon. \n \"If you look at the merits of each individual case and the investigation, it is clear that race doesn't factor into the decision for an officer to use deadly force,\" Mina said. \n But Natalie Jackson, a civil rights attorney, said the numbers were concerning, especially when considering the Orlando population is about 28 percent black. \n The high number is based on a \"cultural fear of black men.\" \n \"This is what the Black Lives Matter movement is all about,\" she said. \n Orlando officers are only allowed to use force when there is a threat of great bodily harm to themselves or others, according to department policy. \n The data was released as part of Orlando police's involvement in the White House Police Data Initiative. The program recommends that departments use data to help the public better understand police. \n Orlando also has released calls for service and use of force reports. \n Mina said the data was released to show the department is transparent and can be accountable to the public. He said Orlando is one of only 15 departments nationwide to release such data. \n \"(It) demonstrates our commitment to this type of transparency and openness and will further enhance public trust,\" he said. \n There were 41 people shot by police since 2009 and 9 people who were shot at but not hit, the data shows. \n The information includes the names, ages and races of the officers and suspects. It also has the type of incident officers were responding to, the type of weapon used by the suspect and the officers' age and tenure. \n \"Unfortunately, it says the law enforcement profession is dangerous and we have to deal with violent offenders who have intentions of harming our officers,\" Mina said. \n Overall, the number of times police officers fire their weapons is low when compared to the number of interactions they have with the public, Mina said. \n \"The vast majority of incidents with police are peacefully resolved,\" he said. \n Of the 50 suspects in the 47 officer-involved shootings info about them includes: \n \u201448 were male \n \u2014The youngest was 16, the oldest was 57 \n \u201415 were white, although the department did not list the ethnicity of the suspect (such as Hispanic) \n \u201427 had guns, 15 were in vehicles (one of which the suspect had a gun), one had a baseball bat \n In the 88 instances of an officer firing a weapon, info about the officers includes: \n \u201486 were male \n \u201460 were white, 12 were Hispanic, 12 were black and 4 were another race \n \u2014The average age was about 34 \n \u2014The average tenure was about 7 years \n Police have come under scrutiny in recent years in shootings of unarmed men. \n There were four incidents listed where the unarmed person was shot by Orlando police because the suspect reached for something or got into a fight with police. \n \"It is difficult to comment on other situations throughout the nation but I believe this could be a result of our training,\" Mina said. \"We are able to train more than just the state requires to maintain our law enforcement certifications. I believe we receive some of the best training in the country.\" \n The four do not include the 2014 fatal shooting of Maria Godinez, who was hit by a stray bullet fired by Orlando Police Officer Eduardo Sanguino at Kody Roach. \n It also says a man, Karvas Gamble Jr., was armed when he was shot and killed by police, but his family disputes the fact that he had a gun. \n All but one officer was cleared of wrongdoing in the cases. Officer David Johnston was fired and charged by the state attorney's office after he fired at a vehicle from nearly 90 feet away. He was sentenced to 5 years' probation. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Orlando Sentinel (Orlando, Fla.) \n ", "author": "By David Harris and Charles Minshew Orlando Sentinel", "title": "Data: 70 percent of people shot at by Orlando police since 2009 were black"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama waves as he arrives at the Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport on Saturday in Hangzhou, China, to attend the G-20 summit. Obama is expected to meet with China's President Xi Jinping Saturday afternoon. \n HANGZHOU, China \u00bb Launching his final tour through Asia, President Barack Obama arrived in China on Saturday planning to spotlight U.S.-Chinese cooperation on climate change. The emerging partnership between the two biggest carbon emitters is a bright spot of Obama's uneven eight-year project to reshape U.S. relations in Asia. \n Obama, visiting this scenic Chinese city for the annual summit of Group of 20 industrialized and emerging economies, stepped off Air Force one onto a red carpet, where an honor guard dressed in white and carrying bayonets lined his path. A young girl presented Obama with flowers and he shook hands with officials before entering his motorcade. \n Ahead of his arrival, the president made clear he viewed the valedictory trip as a moment to burnish his legacy. \n His agenda includes remarks on global warming and a meeting with host Chinese President Xi Jinping. The leaders were expected to announce their nations had formally taking part in the Paris Agreement to cut emissions of gases that contribute to global warming. The announcement means the accord could take force by the end of the year, a faster than anticipated timeline. \n The White House has attributed the accelerated pace to the unlikely partnership between Washington and Beijing on the issue. Xi and Obama announced joint efforts to set new carbon emissions targets, hoping the cooperation between the competitive nations would spur other countries to follow suit. \n The meeting of the minds on climate change, however, hasn't smoothed the path for other areas of tension. The U.S. has expressed increased exasperation with China's growing assertiveness in key waterways in the region. Most recently, the U.S. has urged China to accept an international arbitration panel's ruling that sided with the Philippines in a dispute over claims in the South China Sea. \n Before leaving for Asia, Obama told CNN he planned to urge Xi to practice restraint. If China doesn't, he said, \"there will be consequences.\" \n China views the South China Sea as an integral part of its national territory. The U.S. doesn't take positions in the various disputes between China and its Asian neighbors, but is concerned about freedom of navigation and wants conflicts resolved peacefully and lawfully. \n Throughout his tenure, Obama has sought to check China's influence in Asia by shifting U.S. military resources and diplomatic attention from the Middle East. The results have been mixed. \n The Trans-Pacific Partnership, a massive trade deal the White House calls a cornerstone of the policy, is stuck in Congress. Obama planned to use the trip to make the case for approval of the deal before he leaves office. \n Climate represents a more certain piece of his legacy. The U.S. has pledged to cut its emissions by at least 26 percent over the next 15 years, compared to 2005 levels. China vowed that its growing emissions will top out by 2030. \n For the agreement to take effect, at least 55 countries must formally join. And the countries that join must account for at least 55 percent of the world's emissions. \n Entrance by the U.S. and China will bring the count to 40 percent of emissions. Fewer than half of the requisite 55 countries will have joined, but many have signaled they plan to do so this year. \n The state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Saturday that China's legislature had voted to formally enter the agreement. In the U.S., no Senate ratification is required because it is not considered a formal treaty. \n Republican leaders have complained that the agreement works around Congress, where GOP majorities would not have approved the deal or the legislation needed to meet its targets. GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump has vowed to cancel the agreement. \n Obama initially planned to use major new regulations on coal-fired power plants to make up the U.S. contribution to the deal, but courts have put those regulations indefinitely on hold. Still, the White House says it is confident the U.S. can meet its targets through investments in renewable energy and an ongoing shift from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas. \n The U.S. and China have also been discussing a global agreement on aviation emissions, though there's disagreement about what obligations developing countries should face in the first years. The matter is expected to be on the agenda for Obama's meeting with Xi, along with ongoing efforts to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, another greenhouse gas. \n While in China, Obama also plans to meet with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for the first time since a failed coup attempt against his government in July. Obama will meet for the first time with Theresa May, Britain's new prime minister. \n His next stop will be Laos, the first visit by a sitting president. Obama plans a major speech on his Asia policy and a meeting with the new Philippine leader while in Laos. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arriving in China, Obama promotes climate legacy"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "SAN DIEGO \u00bb A former University of San Diego student is suing the school, saying she was drugged, choked and raped in her dorm room and the school mishandled the investigation. \n The student, who requested that she be identified only by her nickname \"Niki,\" reported that she was attacked in February 2014. \n \"I thought the people at the school would be willing to help me,\" said Niki, who was a student athlete. \"I thought that they'd be there for me and do what they could to make me feel somewhat safe, and they treated me like I was the one who had done something wrong.\" \n USD spokeswoman Pamela Gray Payton said that the private Catholic university does not comment on open investigations or pending litigation. She said, however, that the university disputes the description of events by Niki's attorney. \n \"One of our most cherished values at USD is our commitment to the dignity of each human being,\" Payton said. \"Sexual violence in any form is antithetical to our mission, and we take very seriously our obligations under Title IX.\" \n The year Niki reported the attack, USD reported six rapes on campus. By comparison, the much larger San Diego State University reported 12 rapes on campus in 2014. \n Niki was hanging out with her new roommates and their friends in her dorm on Feb. 8, 2014, according to court papers. One of the friends offered to make her a mimosa, Niki recalled. \n \"When he gave it to me, after drinking a little bit of it, I started to feel very dizzy, very weak,\" she said in a telephone interview. \"It was getting hard to move.\" \n Niki said that her roommates went to bed shortly after, and that's when the man choked and raped her. \n She said that as soon as she was able to move again, she fled her dorm room and called a friend for help. In a nearby campus parking garage, she met with an officer from the university's Department of Public Safety. \n Niki said she told the officer she was drugged and raped and that she wanted him to call the police. He arranged for an ambulance to take Niki to the hospital. \n The officer who wrote the report went to Niki's dorm. From there, according to Niki's lawyer, Carla DiMare, the university botched the investigation. \n At Niki's dorm, the officer let himself in and found a naked man asleep in Niki's bed, according to his report. He asked the man what Niki had had to drink that night, and the man answered Four Loko, a malt beverage. \n The officer noticed a nearly full can of Four Loko and asked the man if that was Niki's drink, according to the report. The man said no, she had actually had wine and whiskey, the report said. \n Two more public safety officers arrived at the dorm. One asked the man if he had sex with Niki. He said, \"Yes,\" the report says. \n That officer then gave the man a ride home. \n There is no mention in the report of the officers asking follow-up questions or collecting evidence, such as to test the drinks for drugs, or of trying to keep the man from contaminating the crime scene. \n Asked about the apparent omission, Payton said, \"The Department of Public Safety responded immediately and in a manner consistent with its protocols.\" \n According to court filings by USD, the public safety officers were only aware that Niki might have been drugged when she left in the ambulance. Only later did the hospital inform the university that she said she'd been sexually assaulted, the filings say. \n A San Diego police officer came to the hospital to see Niki around 5:19 a.m., according to a police report. Niki's mother said the call to police was made by the hospital. Court filings from the university assert that the SDPD \"was notified.\" \n DiMare said that the delayed call to police and the lack of evidence gathered by the university public safety officers hamstrung the investigation. \n The district attorney's office decided not to proceed with charges, according to an email written from the police detective to a university public safety officer. \n \"They definitely believe her that the assault occurred; however, they feel they don't have enough to prove the allegation beyond a reasonable doubt \u2026 As you know, (he) admitted to the sex acts, but denies it was forced. It is unfortunate there was not some justice for the victim,\" the May 1, 2014, email from Detective Tracey Barr says. \n The Police Department did not respond to a request for comment. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The San Diego Union-Tribune  \n ", "author": "By Kate Morrissey The San Diego Union-Tribune", "title": "University of San Diego botched dormitory rape case, lawsuit alleges"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "MONICA SANDSCHAFER VIA AP \n In this photo provided by Monica Sandschafer, Congressman Ruben Gallego is seen standing in line at a taco truck in Phoenix today. \n PHOENIX \u00bb A Hispanic Donald Trump supporter's assertion that without Trump there could one day be \"taco trucks on every corner\" in the U.S. stirred ridicule, not to mention hunger, across the internet today.  \n Hundreds of tweets with the hashtag \"taco trucks on every corner\" popped up on Twitter, most of them from people salivating for the tortilla-wrapped food. \n The social media onslaught was in reaction to a Thursday night interview on MSNBC with Latinos for Trump founder Marco Gutierrez, who said the Mexican culture is \"dominant\" and \"imposing\" before issuing his taco warning. \n The opportunity to poke fun at Gutierrez's remarks was too hard for many to pass up. Celebrities such as actors Patton Oswalt and Eva Longoria Baston jokingly referenced the hashtag in tweets. Various memes with statements such as \"Election day is now officially Taco Tuesday\" were also circulating. \n Some groups drove the taco-truck comment further with real trucks. \n A coalition of progressive Nevada advocacy groups offered free tacos Thursday while holding a press conference outside Republican Congressman Joe Heck's office in Las Vegas. \n The Arizona Democratic Party put the phrase up on the marquee of its building in mid-town Phoenix. Party officials also said there would be a taco truck on the property Saturday. \n With several predominantly Latino neighborhoods, Phoenix is a city used to seeing taco trucks on the corner. In the wake of Gutierrez's comments, Arizona Congressman Ruben Gallego decided to patronize one of them. \n The Democrat posted a photo to his personal Twitter account of him ordering three carne asada tacos from his favorite taco truck for lunch today. The picture was accompanied by the tweet \"about to assert my cultural dominance.\" It has garnered hundreds of likes. \n \"I was just trying to bring some levity to it,\" Gallego said. \"Good food is good food and it will unite people whether they are Democrats or Republicans.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump supporter's 'taco trucks' remark draws mockery"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "A woman who allegedly billed Medicaid for services for a client who was no longer living in her care facility pleaded guilty to felony theft and medical assistance fraud charges Thursday. \n Under terms of a plea agreement, Donnabeth Taasin will pay $3,859.64 restitution, $1,500.00 to the state crime victims compensation fund, and $1,000.00 in investigative costs and other fees. \n The Department of the Attorney General noted that Taasin has no prior record and cooperated with the investigation, and under the plea agreement, she may seek a deferral of her sentencing. Sentencing is scheduled for November 9, 2016. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Care facility operator pleads guilty to Medicaid fraud"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "Former Kauai Prosecuting Attorney Michael Soong has been appointed to replace retiring Kauai island District Judge Trudy Senda. \n Chief Justice Mark Recktenwald announced the appointment today. Senda is scheduled to retire in December. \n Soong served as Kauai County prosecutor from 1996 to 2004, and has been in private practice since then. \n Previously, Soong was a deputy corporation counsel for the County of Hawaii from 1986-1987; a deputy public defender from 1987-1989; a deputy prosecuting attorney for the County of Kauai from 1991-1996; and an associate attorney with the Law Office of Walton D.Y. Hong, emphasizing in real estate transactions and land use. He also practiced criminal law and personal injury litigation as a partner in the law firm of Soong & Feldhacker, A.A.L. since 2004, and as a solo practitioner since 2009. \n Soong, a graduate of the Southwestern University School of Law, was admitted to the Hawaii State Bar in 1986. \n If confirmed by the state Senate, Soong will serve a term of six years. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Former prosecutor named Kauai District Court judge"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A federal judge has ruled that the U.S. Army Corps Engineers can continue killing double-crested cormorants that prey on Columbia River salmon and steelhead in a move that shows just how complex the debate has become over how to best sustain imperiled fish species emblematic of the Pacific Northwest. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> A federal judge has ruled that the U.S. Army Corps Engineers can continue killing double-crested cormorants that prey on Columbia River salmon and steelhead in a move that shows just how complex the debate has become over how to best sustain imperiled fish species emblematic of the Pacific Northwest. \n Following the ruling made public Thursday, the Audubon Society of Portland on Friday called the decision \"deeply disappointing.\" \n Along with other groups, it contends that hydroelectric dams pose the greatest threat to the fish and says it is unnecessary to reduce the number of fish predators by shooting thousands of cormorants and spreading oil on thousands of nests to prevent cormorant eggs from hatching. \n \"It is time for the government to stop this slaughter and recognize that its cormorant killing program rests on a foundation of broken laws,\" said Bob Sallinger, conservation director of Portland's Audubon Society. \n The birds on East Sand Island at the mouth of the Columbia River between Oregon and Washington constitute North America's biggest double-crested cormorant nesting colony. \n Federal agencies blame them for eating millions of juvenile salmon as they migrate down the Columbia toward the ocean. Thirteen species of salmon and steelhead on the Columbia and Snake rivers have been listed as federally protected species over the past 25 years. \n U.S. District Court Judge Michael Simon chastised the federal agency for failing to consider alternatives before deciding to kill the birds and acknowledged it isn't clear exactly how many juvenile fish are saved each year because of the reduction of the cormorants. \n But he left the cormorant-killing plan in place after deciding it provides some benefit to fish listed as endangered or threatened. Cormorants are not a federally protected species. \n \"In considering effects on endangered and threatened species, the 'benefit of the doubt' must go to the endangered species,\" Simon wrote. \n The Corps and other federal agencies in two years will issue a revised study of how the operation of the federal power system on the Columbia River affects the environment, including its salmon and steelhead, said Diana Fredlund, a Corps spokeswoman. The revision will likely address some concerns about cormorants with other ways to reduce salmon deaths. \n Bird conservationists have said repeatedly that attempts to reduce the number of salmon killed as they pass through a complex system of hydroelectric dams and reservoirs on the Columbia and Snake rivers would help the fish more than shooting their predators. \n The U.S. Fish and Wildlife in 2015 authorized the Corps to kill about 11,000 cormorants \u2014 or 5,600 breeding pairs \u2014 and put oil in 26,000 nests on the island. In 2015 and 2016, the Corps culled 7,086 adults birds and applied oil on 6,181 nests, according to Corps documents. \n The Corps stopped in May because large numbers of birds left the colony. \n Sallinger believes the 16,000 cormorants left because of the killings, but Fredlund said no one knows the reason or reasons. \n \"It's likely that some other disturbance came in. It could have been other birds, eagles, any number of things,\" she said. \n The effort to protect salmon in the Columbia River has also included the relocation of Caspian tern birds and the killing of sea lions. \n Oregon, Washington and Idaho have had federal authorization since 2008 to catch and euthanize California sea lions seen preying on salmon. The sea lions hunt salmon as they go over the Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River between Washington and Oregon states. \n Efforts to keep the sea lions away using pyrotechnics and sea gates did not work. \n Authorities so far this year have trapped and put down 54 sea lions. \n Sea lions are targeted for capture and killing if they are seen eating salmon at the dam between January and May. \n They must also be seen there for at least five days by specially trained observers, said Rick Hargrave, a spokesman for the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. judge: Gov't can keep killing salmon-eating birds"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Visitors look at the Kilauea volcano summit crater at Hawaii National Park today. A hurricane watch has been dropped on Hawaii's Big Island, but the threat remains for Maui County and the island of Oahu as Hurricane Lester barrels through the Pacific. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A couple poses for a photo at Akaka Falls in Honomu today. Tourists in Hawaii who had been planning an escape to a sunny island paradise were instead hit with the threat of back-to-back hurricanes, but they're making the best of their vacations. \n HILO \u00bb Tourists in Hawaii who had been planning an escape to a sunny island paradise were instead hit with the threat of back-to-back hurricanes, but they're making the best of their vacations.  \n Julie Harrison said she was a little nervous the hurricanes would ruin her trip to the Big Island but she decided to come regardless. \n \"It's enough of an experience that I just wanted to come out anyway and make it out no matter what,\" said Harrison during a stop to see the bubbling crater at Kilauea volcano's summit. \n \"I've only been here since yesterday and already it's amazing, being able to see the volcanoes and beaches,\" said Harrison, who lives near Buffalo, New York. \n Two other relatives \u2014 one in her 60s and another in her 90s \u2014 who were going to come with her delayed their trip by about a week because of the storms. \n \"That discouraged them more than someone who was younger,\" said Harrison's sister-in-law, Heather Bilardo, who lives on the Big Island. \n Oahu, Maui, Lanai, Molokai and Kahoolawe were under a hurricane watch today as Hurricane Lester surged closer to the islands. Hurricane Madeline threatened the Big Island earlier in the week but was downgraded to a tropical storm and passed without causing major damage. \n Lester weakened to a Category 2 but was expected to remain a hurricane as it passes north of the islands Saturday and Sunday, said meteorologist Bob Burke of the National Weather Service. Large waves from 15 to 25 feet are expected to pound east-facing shores of major islands, he said. \n Oahu's 205 campsites remained open as Lester approached, Mayor Kirk Caldwell told reporters today. \n \"We want to allow people to continue to plan to camp, but we want to ask those campers to pay attention\u2026be ready,\" Caldwell said. \"It's going to be a wet weekend.\" \n Caldwell said that officials are not expecting a major impact from Hurricane Lester, but they're preparing for the worst just in case. \n Honolulu Emergency Management Department Director Mark Rigg warned visitors to stay off wet sand and ocean ledges. \n \"If you're not an experienced ocean person, I would advise staying out of the water completely,\" Rigg said. \n The popular snorkeling spot Hanauma Bay is staying open for now, and officials plan to assess Saturday morning whether to open emergency shelters, Caldwell said. \n The storm's center isn't expected to make landfall. But if the storm veers to the south it could have a much greater impact, said Ian Morrison, meteorologist from the National Weather Service. \n Tourism officials said they hadn't heard of mass cancelations of trips or other major impacts to the tourism industry. \n \"Those that are really dead set on coming to Hawaii no matter what are still coming, and then there are those who are looking to postpone their trip to a later date if it doesn't cost too much to change their airfare,\" said Mufi Hannemann, president and CEO of the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. \"Everybody's got their guard up and we're watching closely, but nothing to suggest that they need to cancel their trips or go home early because of a pending hurricane coming this way.\" \n Stephen Small, who was visiting the Big Island from Los Angeles, said hurricane threats didn't keep him from traveling because if disaster had struck he would've been glad to help out. \n \"On the other side of the coin, when you're just out trying to relax and have a good time, you kind of try to pray that the hurricane go another route and take another route and leave you alone for the time you're here,\" Small said. \n Harry Pomerleau, who manages 40 vacation rental properties in the lower Puna area of the Big Island, doubts the storms will affect tourism. \n \"The cleanup on these are fairly mild, so I don't see why they would stay away,\" Pomerleau said. \n In some cases, a mild storm can even have a positive effect. In the Kapoho area of Puna, where homes are built among tide pools, large swells from storms flush out the pools and leaves cleaner water behind, Pomerleau said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tourists salvage vacations during hurricane threats to Hawaii"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "Emergency repairs to Kamehameha Highway near Kaaawa will prompt temporary closure of the northbound lane near Kanenelu Beach through the holiday weekend. \n Traffic will be contraflowed and the state Department of Transportation alerted motorists Friday to allow extra travel time. \n The damage to the highway was caused by recent high surf pounding the embankment and shoulder of the road. Gov. DavidIge signed an emergency supplemental proclamation allowing the repairs. \n According to a DOT press release, the work is in the vicinity of repairs made earlier this year in Kaaawa. Boulders will be plaedin the weakened area of the highway and crews will add controlled low strength material (CLSM) to help prevent furthererosion. Crews will be working on repairs within the right of way, DOT said. \n The work is scheduled to begin today and continue through Monday, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. \n DOT said starting with Tuesday's morning commute, hours will be adjusted to start at 8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. No overnight workis planned. \n Those on Oahu's windward side or the North Shore should consider going through Honolulu and Wahiawa to reach theirdestination. \n HDOT updates can be found on Twitter @DOTHawaii or on Facebook by following the Hawaii Department of Transportation.Weekly lane closure information will be posted at the HDOT website at http://hidot.hawaii.gov/highways/roadwork/oahu \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Emergency road repairs to snarl holiday traffic in Kaaawa"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SWRI/MSSS VIA AP \n This Aug. 27 image provided by NASA shows Jupiter's north polar region, taken by the Juno spacecraft 120,000 miles away from the planet. Unlike the equatorial region's familiar structure of belts and zones, the poles are mottled with rotating storms of various sizes, similar to giant versions of hurricanes on Earth. Jupiter's poles have not been seen from this perspective since the Pioneer 11 spacecraft flew by the planet in 1974. \n NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SWRI/MSSS VIA AP \n This Aug. 27 image provided by NASA provides a new perspective on Jupiter's south pole, seen when the Juno spacecraft was about 58,700 miles away. Unlike the equatorial region's familiar structure of belts and zones, the poles are mottled by clockwise and counterclockwise rotating storms of various sizes, similar to giant versions of hurricanes on Earth. \n NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SWRI/MSSS VIA AP \n This Aug. 27 infrared image provided by NASA shows the southern aurora of Jupiter, captured by NASA's Juno spacecraft. The phenomenon can hardly be seen from Earth due to the position of the two planets. The image is a mosaic of three photographs made as the spacecraft was moving away from the gas giant. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb A NASA spacecraft has captured the best views of Jupiter yet, revealing turbulent storms in the north pole.  \n Jupiter's northern polar region is stormier than expected and appears bluer than the rest of the planet, said mission chief scientist Scott Bolton of the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio. \n \"This image is hardly recognizable as Jupiter,\" he said in a statement. \n NASA today released a batch of close-up pictures taken by the Juno spacecraft last week when it flew within 2,500 miles of Jupiter's dense cloud tops. \n During the rendezvous that took Juno from pole to pole, the solar-powered spacecraft turned on its camera and instruments to collect data. \n The first glimpse of Jupiter's poles came in 1974 when Pioneer 11 flew by on its way to Saturn. \n The detailed pictures taken by Juno look \"like nothing we have seen or imagined before,\" Bolton said. \n Juno also sent back unique views of Jupiter's bright southern lights considered the most powerful in the solar system. \n The flyby was the first of three dozen planned close passes during the 20-month mission. \n Unlike rocky Earth and Mars, Jupiter is a gas giant that likely formed first, shortly after the sun. Studying the largest planet in the solar system may hold clues to understanding how Earth and the rest of the planets formed. \n After a five-year journey, Juno slipped into orbit around Jupiter in July to map the massive planet's poles, atmosphere and interior. It's the first spacecraft to carry a titanium vault designed to shield its computer and electronics from intense radiation. \n Juno is only the second mission to orbit Jupiter. When it completes its job in 2018, it will deliberately crash into Jupiter's atmosphere and disintegrate. NASA planned the finale so that Juno won't accidentally smack into Jupiter's moons, particularly the icy moon Europa, a target of future exploration. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA spacecraft beams back close-up views of Jupiter's poles"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Singer Chris Brown's attorney Mark Geragos talks to the media during a news conference today in downtown Los Angeles. Geragos insisted that no guns or drugs were found in the singer's home when it was searched by police in response to a report he pointed a gun at a woman. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Police did not find guns or drugs during a search of singer Chris Brown's mansion before his arrest on allegations he threatened a model at gunpoint, his lawyer said today. \n Attorney Mark Geragos said he was present during the search and police did not find evidence to corroborate the accuser's story, including a specific piece of jewelry that she said triggered the incident. \n Baylee Curran told reporters that Brown pointed a gun at her face after he and another man became angry with her when she admired the man's diamond necklace. \n Brown was arrested Tuesday on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon. He was released on $250,000 bail. \n Geragos said the accuser's story was fabricated. \n \"This woman got irate when she was asked to leave because she was acting in an erratic manner,\" Geragos said. \n Capt. Andy Neiman said the Los Angeles Police Department is working with prosecutors to review the evidence and not commenting on the case. \n The Grammy-winning Brown has had legal trouble since his felony conviction in the 2009 assault of then-girlfriend, Rihanna. He completed probation in that case last year. \n Brown has also faced accusations that were proven to be false, Geragos said. He has also had stalkers and several break-ins, including one by a woman who moved into his house while he was away. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyer for Chris Brown: no guns, drugs found in house search"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "INVISION VIA AP \n Gabrielle Union, left, Nate Parker and Aja Naomi King present the award for Dr. Bobby Jones best gospel/inspirational award at the BET Awards at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on June 26. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb As a rape survivor, victim's advocate and an actress in \"The Birth of a Nation,\" Gabrielle Union has found herself in an impossible position. Union recently, along with the much of the world, learned that her film's director, writer, producer and star, Nate Parker, was accused and acquitted of rape 17 years ago. \n She collected her thoughts in a nuanced opinion piece for the Los Angeles Times today, writing that while she cannot take the allegations lightly, the film also addresses and raises important questions about this very matter. \n It's also the latest high-profile complication for a film that just a month ago was presumed to be one of the year's most vital \u2014 a powerful awards contender and a possible antidote for the #OscarsSoWhite Hollywood diversity crisis. \n Yet the film, which fetched a record acquisition price at the Sundance Film Festival in January, is now in the shadow of persistent controversy just weeks away from its Oct. 7 release. \n In the film, about Nat Turner's 1831 slave rebellion, Union's character is raped, though it's not depicted on screen. It's why the actress took the part, she writes. She wanted to give voice to women of history, especially black women, who have for so long been silenced on the matter. \n \"I knew I could walk out of our movie and speak to the audience about what it feels like to be a survivor,\" Union wrote. \n Union, who was raped at gunpoint in the backroom of a Payless shoe store 24 years ago, says she's been \"in a state of stomach-churning confusion\" since learning of Parker's 1999 rape case. \n The rape allegation came while Parker was a student and wrestler at Penn State University. Parker was acquitted, though his college roommate Jean Celestin (who co-wrote \"The Birth of a Nation) was initially found guilty of sexual assault. That conviction was later overturned when the accuser declined to testify for a trial. \n The case garnered a lot of attention at Penn State. Parker and Celestin allegedly harassed the accuser on campus. The incident spawned a civil lawsuit by the woman against the college, with a settlement of $17,500. \n The recently renewed focus on the case also brought to light the fact the accuser committed suicide in 2012, which Parker, now married with five daughters, learned about from media reports. He wrote on his Facebook page that he was \"filled with profound sorrow\" and regretted that he didn't \"show enough empathy.\" Parker also recently spoke to Ebony magazine about how he's taking steps to grow and educate himself. \n It remains unclear how all this might affect the release of the film, its public perception or even its awards chances. Distributor Fox Searchlight is proceeding with the October release and will still take the film, and Parker, to the Toronto International Film Festival this month. But things look very different from just a month ago when Parker was happily accepting a Sundance Vanguard Award and taking meetings in the White House. \n Union's op-ed \"is certainly bad news for Searchlight, in that it keeps the focus firmly on this issue going into Toronto,\" said David Poland, the editor in chief of MovieCityNews.com and a longtime industry observer. \"I can't say that the film won't do business. It might. But half of what it might have. And its awards prospects are on their death bed.\" \n Yet Poland says one positive is that Union hasn't quit on the film or its promotion. \"That's an implicit endorsement of Nate and the film, though with clear reservations,\" he said. \"That the rest of the cast will stick with the film at TIFF is also critical for Searchlight, which is holding on by its fingertips on this.\" \n Union, for her part, says that she has read the 700 pages of court transcript from the case and doesn't know for sure what happened that night. \n Instead of speculating on guilt or innocence, Union is using the platform to advocate for education and conversation on the topic of rape, consent and aggression, something she is also trying to do at home with her young son. \n \"I believe that the film is an opportunity to inform and educate so that these situations cease to occur,\" Union wrote. \"Sexual violence happens more often than anyone can imagine. And if the stories around this film do not prove and emphasize this, then I don't know what does. It is my hope that we can use this as an opportunity to look within.\" \n Representatives for Fox Searchlight and Parker did not immediately respond to requests for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Birth of a Nation' star, rape survivor faces complex issues"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "A man was found unresponsive in the water at Sandy Beach at about 11:45 today. \n Emergency Medical Services personnel said the 56-year-old was brought to shore by Ocean Safety crews and lifeguard performed CPR before the patient was transported in critical condition to an emergency room. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man critical after being pulled from water at Sandy Beach"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for a man who robbed a bank in Mililani Thursday afternoon. \n The incident occurred at 2:40 p.m. when the suspect passed the bank teller a note saying he was armed, demanded money and fled. \n The police did not release a description of the suspect nor the specific location of the bank. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police looking for suspect in Mililani bank robbery"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Obama heads to Air Force One as he leaves Hickam Air Force Base for China. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Obama waves at crowd before Air Force One closes doors. \n President Barack Obama left Hawaii this morning for China after two days in his home state to promote conservation and combat climate change. \n The presidential motocade arrived at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam at 10:34 a.m. and the president boarded Air Force One shortly afterward after shaking hands with service members waiting to see him off. \n Obama, dressed in a dress shirt with no tie and khaki pants, waved before entering the plane. \n Admiral Harry B. Harris, commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific walked him to Air Force One. \n The president's morning in Hawaii was uneventful. He exercised at Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe before returning to the rented Kailua home where he is staying and departing for the airport. \n Obama is flying to China after talking to Pacific island delegates ahead of the World Conservation Congress meeting in Honolulu and a trip to Midway Atoll for snorkeling and to showcase the island's natural and mostly-untouched beauty. \n \"I look forward to knowing that 20 years from now, 40 years from now, 100 years from now, this is a place where people can still come to and see what a place like this looks like when it's not overcrowded and destroyed by human populations,\" Obama said on Midway, his shirt partially unbuttoned in the punishing island sun. \n Squinting in the sunlight, Obama described Midway Atoll as \"hallowed ground,\" a nod to the place it occupies in Native Hawaiian tradition. Yet Obama had a policy argument to make, too: It was critically important to examine what damage climate change is inflicting on communities in the Pacific Ocean. \n \"There are countries that now are at risk, and they have to move as a consequence of climate change,\" Obama said. \n The president, who was born a short hop away in Honolulu, appeared particularly enthralled by a cluster of threatened green sea turtles \u2014 each the size of a tire \u2014 enjoying a bit of beach repose. \"Unbelievable,\" he called them, peering out through sunglasses. \n \"When I grew up, you'd see these turtles all the time,\" Obama said. \"But you'd never see them beaching like this, basking in the sun.\" \n In a prelude to his visit, Obama last week expanded four-fold the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument that surrounds Midway. Of the 7,000 species that live in the waters, 1 in 4 is found nowhere else in the world, the White House said. \n Yet for all the pristine splendor, there were poignant reminders that even this dot of far-flung land hasn't been immune to human contamination. Along the muddy pathways the president traveled, brightly colored bits of plastic lined the ground \u2014 all remnants of albatrosses that had ingested waste washed ashore and then died with the bottle cap-shaped pieces in their guts. \n The visit came as Obama uses his final months in office to try to lock in an aggressive legacy on climate change and environmental protection. After Midway, Obama planned to open his final trip to Asia on Saturday with a visit to China, a chance to showcase his unlikely partnership with President Xi Jinping on global warming. \n Obama will meet with the Chinese president during this weekend's summit of the Group of 20 industrialized and emerging-market nations. \n During the meetings, he will also promote his trade agenda that appears imperiled by anti-globalization sentiment at home and abroad that could undo years of negotiations. \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest said that Obama \"is going to spend a lot of time on this trip in Asia advocating for the ratification of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and underscoring how the United States and the U.S. economy benefit from deeper U.S. engagement.\" \n On the environment, Obama has one last item he may yet achieve on his wish list for China: sealing the deal with Xi Jinping for their nations to implement an international accord to combat climate change. \n Ratification by the two presidents when they meet after Obama's arrival Saturday in Hangzhou, China, would represent the high-water mark of the U.S. leader's largely frustrated pivot to Asia. If achieved, it also would all but lock in the Paris agreement to reduce carbon emissions. \n While Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has pledged to \"cancel\" and renegotiate the agreement if he wins election, ratification by China and the U.S. would almost guarantee it would go into effect first. The accord provides for it to be implemented when countries producing 55 percent of global emissions ratify it; China and the U.S., the biggest emitters, together account for 38 percent. \n \"The U.S. and China jointly ratifying the Paris agreement is the first big step toward making that agreement a reality,\" John Coequyt, the Sierra Club's global climate policy director, said in an interview. \"And having that space where we agree on a leadership level is really important because of all the difficult areas between the two countries. It's allowing us to solve other issues on things in our national interest.\" \n For Obama, ratification would be the culmination of a years-long diplomatic effort to win over China for a joint effort to fight climate change, and an opportunity to cement his legacy on the issue. \n \"Climate will be a centerpiece of our agenda\" at the G-20 meeting, Obama said Wednesday in Hawaii. \"Joint U.S.-Chinese leadership was part of the reason that we were able to get Paris done.\" \n A 2014 agreement between the U.S. and China to cut greenhouse-gas emissions was seen as a necessary precursor to the broader Paris climate deal. Xi's willingness to work with Obama on climate issues has helped Democrats parry Republican assertions that U.S. efforts to curb emissions would put American companies at a disadvantage while having little impact without similar restrictions on China. \n It's also a diplomatic and political accomplishment in a U.S.-China relationship that has been plagued by disagreements over cybersecurity and China's territorial claims in the South China Sea. China's increasing military assertiveness has undercut Obama's pledge to refocus U.S. military and foreign policy toward Asia, as has opposition by Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton to Obama's signature trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. \n Ratification of the climate accord by Obama and Xi would give Clinton and other Democrats a campaign season talking point. But Republicans say the president's pledge to cut U.S. greenhouse-gas emission by 26 to 28 percent over the next 15 years would hurt American business, and they contend ratification by the president would circumvent a vote by Congress on the Paris agreement. \n \"While some members of the U.S. Congress still seem to be debating whether climate change is real or not, many of you are already planning for new places for your people to live,\" Obama told a conference of Pacific island leaders during his stop in Honolulu. \"Crops are withering in the Marshall Islands. Kiribati bought land in another country because theirs may someday be submerged. High seas forced villagers from their homes in Fiji. And no nation, not even one as powerful as the United States, is immune from a changing climate.\" \n U.S. and Chinese officials have said they hope to ratify the agreement this year, although the White House wouldn't confirm plans for the two leaders to do so publicly upon Obama's arrival in China. Brian Deese, a senior adviser to the president who focuses on environmental issues, traveled to China in advance to meet with Chinese officials about the possibility of ratification. \n \"I anticipate that we will be able to once again demonstrate our two countries working together on this issue when the presidents meet in China,\" Deese told reporters in Washington on Monday. \n Deese and Chinese officials also discussed other environmental efforts that are expected to be major topics of discussion when Obama and Xi meet Saturday evening. \n The U.S. is hoping to recruit the Chinese to an international aviation agreement capping carbon emissions on international flights at 2020 levels. China has signaled some support for the effort, but also has lobbied that the deal should let nations opt out of initial, voluntary stages \u2014 a provision it and other developing countries, like India, would probably take advantage of. \n \"If China doesn't join, the U.S. feels uncomfortable and then Europe feels uncomfortable,\" said Jake Schmidt, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's international program. \"They might not fully resolve stuff in two days, but the U.S. is seeking a quiet confirmation that both countries want this, and that political injection of energy into the process signaling the Chinese are a yes would be helpful.\" \n White House officials also are hoping to secure an amendment to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty designed to phase out the production of chemicals that deplete the ozone layer. The U.S. and China are working together to grease the wheels for a potential agreement during an international meeting in early October that would phase out the production of hydrofluorocarbons, which are commonly used as refrigerants and can contribute to global warming. \n U.S. officials are also likely to press Chinese leaders to make progress on their previous commitment to phase out financing for coal projects. \n For Obama, the trip will be his last, best chance to make tangible progress on climate change, an issue that has become a cornerstone priority of his second term. \n \"It's not until the bosses meet that there's the last-minute scramble and it all has to come together,\" Schmidt said. \n \u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press and Bloomberg News contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff and News Services", "title": "Obama leaves Hawaii, flying to China for talks"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 12, 2012 photo, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton checks her mobile phone after her address to the Security Council at United Nations headquarters. \n WASHINGTON >> Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton relied on the judgments of her staff and others not to illegally send emails containing classified information to her private email server, and told FBI investigators she was unclear about a classification marking on official government documents. \n The revelation came Friday as the FBI, in a rare step, published scores of pages summarizing interviews with Clinton and her top aides from the FBI's recently closed criminal investigation into her use of a private email server in the basement her Chappaqua, New York, home. \n Clinton told the FBI she never sought or asked permission to use a private server or email address during her tenure as the nation's top diplomat, which violated federal records keeping policies. \n Clinton has repeatedly said her use of private email was allowed. But over 3 \u00bd hours in an interview in July, she told FBI investigators she \"did not explicitly request permission to use a private server or email address,\" the FBI wrote. They said no one at the State Department raised concerns during her tenure, and that Clinton said everyone with whom she exchanged emails knew she was using a private email address. \n The documents also include technical details about how the private server was set up. It is the first disclosure of details provided by Bryan Pagliano, the technology staffer who set up and maintained Clinton's IT infrastructure. Pagliano secured an immunity agreement from the Justice Department after previously refusing to testify before Congress, invoking his constitutional right against self-incrimination. \n Large portions of the FBI documents were censored. The FBI cited exemptions protecting national security and investigative techniques. Previous government reviews of the 55,000 pages of emails Clinton returned to the State Department found that about 110 contained classified information. \n Friday's release of documents involving the Democratic presidential nominee was a highly unusual step, but one that reflects extraordinary public interest in the investigation into Clinton's server. Republicans have used the email issue, as well as the family's charitable foundation, to argue that Clinton is not trustworthy and should not be elected. \n The FBI's investigation focused on whether Clinton sent or received classified information using the private server, which was not authorized for such messages. Clinton told the FBI she relied on others with knowledge about handling classified files not to send her emails inappropriately. \n \"She had no reason to doubt the judgment of the people working for her on the 'front lines,'\" the FBI wrote about one email. \n Clinton was also asked about a 2011 email that caught the attention of investigators in which she directed one of her advisers, Jake Sullivan, to transmit a set of talking points and turn it \"into nonpaper w/no identifying heading and send nonsecure.\" \n Clinton told the FBI that she believed she was asking Sullivan \"to remove the State Department letterhead and provide unclassified talking points\" and that she had no intention of removing classification markings. \n In her interview, Clinton said she was unfamiliar the meaning of the letter \"c\" next to a paragraph and speculated that it might be \"referencing paragraphs marked in alphabetical order.\" That particular email had been marked as \"confidential,\" the lowest level of classification. Clinton said she did not pay attention to the classified level \"and took all classified information seriously,\" according to the FBI notes. \n After a yearlong investigation, the FBI recommended against prosecution in July, and the Justice Department then closed the case. \n FBI Director James Comey said that while Clinton and her aides had been \"extremely careless,\" there was no evidence they intentionally mishandled classified information. \n Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan issued a statement saying the documents show Clinton's \"reckless and downright dangerous handling of classified information.\" \n \"They also cast further doubt on the Justice Department's decision to avoid prosecuting what is a clear violation of the law,\" Ryan said. \"This is exactly why I have called for her to be denied access to classified information.\" \n The FBI director said the government found no direct evidence that Clinton's private server was hacked but said foreign government hackers were so sophisticated \u2014 and the server would be such a high-value target \u2014 that it was unlikely they would leave evidence of a break-in. Clinton told the FBI she was unaware of specific details about the security, software or hardware used on her server and occasionally received odd-looking emails. But she told agents there were never so many suspicious emails to cause concerns. \n She also said she had no conversations about using a private email server to avoid her obligations under the Federal Records Act or the Freedom of Information Act. \n Clinton told investigators that she directed her aides in early 2009 to create a private email account and that it was \"a matter of convenience\" for it to be moved onto a system maintained by her husband's staff. \n She told investigators that \"everyone at State knew she had a private email address because it was displayed to anyone with whom she exchanged emails,\" according to a summary of the July 2 interview released Friday. \n Clinton said that when top staff received an email, the recipient would evaluate whether the information should be forwarded to her, but that no one at the State Department raised concerns about her using a private email account or server and said no one on her staff \"ever expressed a concern regarding the sensitivity of the content of these emails.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI publishes notes on Clinton's use of private email"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "MALACANANG PALACE PRESIDENTIAL COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS OFFICE PRESIDENTIAL PHOTOGRAPHERS DIVISION VIA AP \n In this photo released by Malacanang Palace Presidential Communications Operations Office Presidential Photographers Division, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, second from left, visits the site of Friday night's explosion that killed more than a dozen people and wounded several others at a night market in Davao city, his hometown, on Saturday in southern Philippines. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine police officers look at dead victims after an explosion at a night market that has left about 10 people dead and wounded several others in southern Davao city, Philippines late Friday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Philippine soldier keeps watch at a blast site at a night market that has left several people dead and wounded others in southern Davao city, Philippines late Friday. \n DAVAO, Philippines \u00bb Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte declared a nationwide \"state of lawlessness\" Saturday after suspected Abu Sayyaf extremists detonated a bomb that killed 14 people and wounded about 70 in his southern hometown. \n Duterte, who inspected the scene of Friday night's attack at a night market in downtown Davao city, said his declaration did not amount to an imposition of martial law. It would allow troops to be deployed in urban centers to back up the police in setting up checkpoints and increasing patrols, he said. \n An Abu Sayyaf spokesman, Abu Rami, claimed responsibility for the blast near the Jesuit-run Ateneo de Davao University and a five-star hotel, but Duterte said investigators were looking at other possible suspects, including drug syndicates, which he has targeted in a bloody crackdown. \n \"These are extraordinary times and I supposed that I'm authorized to allow the security forces of this country to do searches,\" Duterte told reporters at the scene of the attack, asking the public to cooperate and be vigilant. \n \"We're trying to cope up with a crisis now. There is a crisis in this country involving drugs, extrajudicial killings and there seems to be an environment of lawless violence,\" said Duterte, who served as mayor of Davao for years before elected to the presidency in June. \n The attack came as Philippine forces were on alert amid an ongoing military offensive against Abu Sayyaf extremists in southern Sulu province, which intensified last week after the militants beheaded a kidnapped villager. The militants threatened to launch an unspecified attack after the military said 30 of the gunmen were killed in the weeklong offensive. \n Rami, the Abu Sayyaf spokesman, is the son-in-low of Mohammad Said, an influential militant commander who used the nom de guerre Amah Maas and was killed in the ongoing Sulu offensive. Davao Vice Mayor Paulo Duterte, the president's son, also told reporters that militants linked to the Islamic State group had threatened the progressive city. \n Some commanders of the Abu Sayyaf, which is blacklisted by the United States and the Philippines as a terrorist organization for deadly bombings, ransom kidnappings and beheadings, have pledged allegiance to IS. The military, however, says there has been no evidence of a direct collaboration and militant action may have been aimed at bolstering their image after years of combat setbacks. \n Communications Secretary Martin Andanar said the bomb appeared to have been made from a mortar round and doctors reported many of the victims had shrapnel wounds. \n Despite the emergency, Duterte said he would proceed with trips to Brunei, Laos and Indonesia starting Sunday, but a Department of Foreign Affairs official later told The Associated Press that the Brunei leg of Duterte's first foreign visits has been postponed. At an Asian summit in the Laotian capital of Vientiane, Duterte said in jest that most of the leaders he would meet, including President Barack Obama and Russian leader Vladimir Putin, have had a taste of terrorist attacks. \n Armando Morales, a 50-year-old masseur, said the explosion threw him off his chair, adding the blast had an upward force and emitted smoke but no fireball which could have killed more people. He saw at least 10 people lying bloodied on the ground, mostly fellow masseurs and their customers. \n \"I helped tie their wounds to prevent blood loss,\" the still-dazed Morales said. \"They were pale like dead already.\" \n Police immediately set up more checkpoints in key roads leading to the city, a regional gateway about 980 kilometers (610 miles) south of Manila. The police force in the capital also went on full alert at midnight. \n U.S. National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said in a statement that local authorities in the Philippines continue to investigate the cause of the explosion, and the United States stands ready to provide assistance to the investigation. \n Obama will have an opportunity to offer his personal condolences to Duterte when the two leaders plan to meet on the sidelines of the summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations leaders in Laos next week, Price said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine leader declares 'state of lawlessness' after bomb kills 14"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Lester at 11 p.m. \n Update 2 a.m. \n Hurricane Lester continued its west-northwest track as it passed northeast of the Big Island early Saturday morning. \n Lester was 170 miles east-northeast of Hilo and 300 miles east of Honolulu at 2 a.m., still packing maximum sustained winds of 100 mph and moving west-northwest at 15 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 45 miles from the center of the storm, and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 150 miles. \n Forecasters expect Lester to continue weakening gradually over the next 48 hours but warn that large swells, strong winds and heavy rains are possible. Maui County and Oahu remain under hurricane watch. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester gradually weakened tonight and continued to track west-northwest at 15 mph with maximum sustained winds of 100 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 45 miles from the center, and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 150 miles. \n Forecasters at 11 p.m. tracked Lester about 205 miles east-northeast of Hilo and about 355 miles east of Honolulu. \n Maui County and Oahu remain under a hurricane watch. \n Update 8 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester continued to move toward the west-northwest at 14 mph, still packing maximum sustained winds of 105 mph. \n Forecasters expect the Category 2 hurricane to continue with this general motion through Saturday night and gradually turn toward the northwest on Sunday. \n Lester was located about 240 miles east-northeast of Hilo and about 410 miles east of Honolulu, with hurricane-force winds extending up to 40 miles and tropical storm-force winds extending up to 140 miles from the center. \n A hurricane watch remains in effect for Maui County and Oahu. \n Gradual weakening is forecast through the weekend, the National Weather Service said. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester maintained its intensity and its course late this afternoon, still packing maximum sustained winds of 105 mph and moving west-northwest at 14 mph. \n The Category 2 hurricane was 270 miles east-northeast of Hilo and 450 miles east of Honolulu at 5 p.m. today. The storm is continuing on a track that will take it north of the islands over Labor Day weekend, bringing high surf, and possible strong winds and heavy rain to some areas. \n Hurricane-force winds extend out 40 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend 140 miles. Gradual weakening is forecast over the next 48 hours. \n \"A hurricane watch remains in place for Oahu and Maui County, as the official forecast still brings the system close to portions of the main Hawaiian Islands,\" forecasters with the Central Pacific Hurricane Center said. Since the storm last night began taking a west-northwest track, \"probabilities for tropical storm and hurricane conditions have been dropping slowly,\" they said late this afternoon. \n Still, forecasters warn the public to monitor weather forecasts because the storm's path can change and because \"impacts from hurricanes can occur well away from the center.\" \n Besides the hurricane watch, a high surf warning is in effect for eastern shores of all islands through Sunday 6 a.m. \n The National Weather Service's statewide forecast for this weekend says conditions will be highly variable from one location to another. \"The potential for strong winds and heavy rains exists across the area where a hurricane watch is in effect. Breezy to locally windy conditions can also be expected over some locations outside of the watch area. Very high surf along east-facing shores may also cause some inundation problems along low-lying areas, especially at times of high tide,\" the forecast warns. \n Lester is the second major storm to threaten the islands this week. Madeline, which brushed just south of the Big Island Wednesday as a tropical storm, dissipated this afternoon well south of the state. \n Update 4:20 p.m. \n East-facing shores of all islands are under a high surf warning until 6 a.m. Sunday. \n The National Weather Service added Kauai and Oahu to the warning this afternoon. Surf is expected to be 10 to 15 feet by tonight and 15 to 20 feet by Saturday. \n Forecasters say surging water could inundate coastal properties and roadways. \n The Department of Land and Natural Resources temporarily closed the Makapuu Tidepools path at Kaiwi State Scenic shoreline due to anticipated storm-generated waves of up to 30 feet. On Tuesday and Wednesday, water safety personnel rescued two men in their mid-20's in severe distress after being swept out to sea below the tide pools. \n Update 2:55 p.m. \n Hawaii County officials say they will open two shelters \u2014 at Pahoa Community Center and Kawananakoa Gym in Keaukaha \u2014 at 5 p.m. because of expected high surf from Hurricane Lester. \n The National Weather Service forecasts surf up to 25 feet for Big Island eastern shores and a high surf advisory remains in effect until 6 p.m. It will be replaced with a high surf warning for eastern Big Island shores from 6 p.m. today until 6 p.m. Saturday. \n Lester is expected to pass north of the island overnight. \n Update 2:20 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester remains a Category 2 storm, with maximum sustained winds of 105 mph, and continues on a course that will take it north of the Hawaiian islands. \n At 2 p.m., according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center, Lester was 305 miles east of Hilo and 490 miles east of Honolulu, moving west-northwest at 15 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend out 45 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds, of 39 mph or more, extend 140 miles. \n Gradual weakening is expected over the next 48 hours but Lester is expected to remain a hurricane as it passes to the north of the islands this weekend. The National Weather Service said the storm is expected to pass about 125 miles northeast of the islands. \n Strong winds and heavy rains are still possible tonight and Saturday for Maui County and Oahu, which remain under a hurricane watch. \n Maui and Honolulu officials say they are ready to open shelters and institute other emergency measures and closures, but so far have no immediate plans to do so. Government and hurricane center officials urge the public to remain vigilant and to monitor weather reports. \n Update 12:50 p.m. \n Maui County officials said today that emergency shelters have been placed on standby and will be opened if necessary as Hurricane Lester passes north of the islands. \n Lester is not forecast to directly hit any Hawaiian island, but will pass north of the state, forecasters say. Maui County and Oahu remain under a hurricane watch. \n Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell also said city officials are ready to open six shelters if needed, but had no immediate plans to do so. (See 10:15 a.m. update below.) \n On Maui, officials warned the public that \"large and dangerous swells are anticipated throughout the weekend along all east-facing shores in Maui County, with intermittent high surf along north-facing shores. Beach-goers are asked to exercise caution and follow any posted warnings.\" \n \"Maui County is still under a hurricane watch, so we are asking everyone to continue to stay alert and informed,\" said Maui County Emergency Management Officer Anna Foust. \"We're not completely out of harm's way until Lester passes through the islands, so we will continue to monitor this system closely.\" \n Hana Bay has been closed today and Saturday, but Maui County parks, beach parks, pools and other facilities will remain open this weekend, weather permitting, officials said. \n Baldwin Beach Park may be closed Saturday because of erosion that has damaged the pavilion area. County crews will evaluate the situation in the morning and determine whether or not to close the park, officials said. \n Update 11 a.m. \n Hurricane watches remained in effect for Oahu and Maui County as Hurricane Lester continued on a course to pass north of the state over the Labor Day weekend. \n Maximum winds were 105 mph, unchanged from the last update at 8 a.m. The storm was moving west-northwest at 15 mph and was centered 345 miles east of Hilo and 530 miles east of Honolulu, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center. Hurricane-force winds extend out 45 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds, of 39 mph or more, extend 140 miles. \n The National Weather Service said the storm is expected to pass about 125 miles northeast of the islands this weekend. \n While its forecast path remains north of the islands as a weakening hurricane, Lester is still expected to bring high surf, rain, breezy conditions and muggy weather to the state starting tonight. \n In addition to the hurricane watch for Oahu and Maui County, a high surf warning is in effect for eastern shores of the Big Island, Maui and Molokai until 6 p.m., while the eastern shores of Kauai and Oahu are under a high surf advisory until 6 a.m. Saturday. \n Update 10:15 a.m. \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell this morning urged Oahu residents to remain on alert for high winds and high surf related to Hurricane Lester, but more details about weekend closures and warnings won't be known until Saturday morning. \n As Lester continued on a track that is unlikely to make landfall on Oahu, Caldwell urged residents to nevertheless remain on alert and stay off the roads unless necessary. \n \"We're not letting our guard down,\" Caldwell said at a news conference at the city's emergency operations center. \"We're going to continue to plan just in case.\" \n Lester's biggest impact on Oahu likely will be felt Saturday afternoon through Sunday morning. \n \"The real onslaught\" should be felt between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m. Sunday, he said. \n Caldwell said the city is not opening shelters and will not cancel Labor Day weekend camping permits, at least not yet. \n The city will open shelters and evacuate campsites on Oahu if it becomes necessary, he said. \n \"It's going to be a wet weekend. We'll get some rain,\" Caldwell said. \n Surf will also be elevated and dangerous this weekend, the mayor said. \n But Hanauma Bay will remain open unless conditions change significantly. \n Previous coverage: \n The National Weather Service dropped a hurricane watch for Hawaii County as Hurricane Lester continued on a path that should take it north of the main Hawaiian islands, but still bring it close enough to generate dangerous surf and rain. \n At 8 a.m., Lester was 395 miles east of Hilo and 580 miles east of Honolulu. It's sustained winds dropped to 105 mph, still a Category 2 storm, with hurricane-force winds extending 45 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds going out 140 miles from the center. \n The forecast track for Lester narrowed and the storm is taking a sharper turn north than in previous forecasts. The main Hawaiian islands are no longer in the forecast track for the storm. However, the track could still change and a hurricane watch continues for Maui County and Oahu. \n Forecasters said the unexpected strength of Lester contributed to its more northerly course. \n \"Stronger storms have a tendency to move to the right (north),\" said Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the Honolulu office of the National Weather Service. \n Forecasters no longer expect tropical storm-force winds of 39 mph or greater, but winds will still be gusty and will shift direction as the storm progresses up the island chain. \n Forecasters caution that the track of the storm could still change and a slight shift south could mean more significant effects for Maui County, Oahu and Kauai County. \n Deep tropical moisture around the hurricane will likely bring increasing showers tonight for Maui County, with the possibility of locally heavy downpours or thundershowers developing this weekend, forecasters said. Oahu could see similar weather Saturday. \n \"Although the forecast track currently keeps the strongest winds and heaviest rains offshore, the local weather will be highly dependent on the exact track that Lester takes as it passes by. Only a small error on the left side of the forecast track would bring a significantly higher threat of damaging winds and flooding rains to the islands.\" \n Forecasters expect a mix of rains that could be locally heavy, breezy winds, sunshine and humidity through Sunday. \n The most significant impact from Lester is expected to be high surf, forecasters said. The National Weather Service posted a high surf warning for east shores of Hawaii, Maui and Molokai starting at 6 p.m. A high surf advisory remains in effect until 6 p.m. today for east shores of most islands. \n Surf of 6 to 8 feet is expected to rise to 8 to 12 feet today as waves generated by Lester come ashore. \n Surf in the warning areas is expected to rise to 10 to 18 feet this afternoon and 15 to 25 feet tonight on east shores of Hawaii island. Surf is expected to reach 20 to 35 feet along east shores of Maui and Molokai. \n \"It's going to be life-threatening surf,\" Morrison said. \n Forecasters said beach-goers should expect strong, breaking waves, shore break and rip currents that could make swimming difficult and dangerous. \n \"Hurricane Lester is forecast to approach the state from the east today, and then pass to the northeast of all the main islands this weekend,\" the weather service said. \"Lester will pass by the Big island early Saturday morning, Maui County on Saturday, Oahu Saturday evening and Kauai Saturday night.\" \n For Oahu, winds will initially shift to the north tonight into Saturday, to the northwest and west as the storm passes Oahu Saturday night, and become southerly Kona winds on Sunday. \n The southerly winds will bring up tropical moisture from the south, bringing muggy weather and the threat of afternoon showers on Sunday. \n The cooling tradewinds should return early next week. \n Meanwhile, Madeline weakened to a tropical depression southwest of the main Hawaiian islands. \n At 5 a.m., Madeline was 445 miles southwest of Honolulu, with sustained winds of 35 mph, moving west at 16 mph. The storm, which brushed just south of the Big Island Wednesday as a tropical storm, is expected to become a remnant low tonight. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Star-Advertiser reporter Dan Nakaso contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hurricane Lester weakens slightly; on course to pass north of islands"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "Retired Lt. Gen. Allen Kenji Ono, the Army's first three-star Asian-American general, was buried with full military honors today at the National Cemetery of the Pacific at Punchbowl. Ono, 82, died Aug. 1. \n Throughout his 35 years in the Army, Ono always noted that he was the beneficiary of the sacrifices and and courage of the nisei, Japanese American, soldiers of World War II. \n In 1995, at Camp Shelby Army training camp reunion in southern Mississippi Ono pointed to the three stars on his shoulders and told the members of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team and the 100th Battalion, and their families that the nisei soldiers created the opportunities for others to follow. \n Ono, who earned his Army commission in 1955 through the University of Hawaii ROTC program, in a 2005 speech said: \"Every minute of my career, I was reminded of my obligation to bring honor to my parents, the Japanese American community and to the Japanese American soldiers of World War II who paved my way. \n \"In the 1980s I returned to Hawaii on leave after seven years away. My mother asked that I put on my green uniform, complete with ribbons and badges, to visit friends and relatives. We made numerous house visits. I was the object of curiosity and attention as my mother proudly showed me off as if to say that we can move from immigrant status to three star generals in one generation despite the color of our skin and shape of eyes.\" \n Ono in his listing in Who's Who in America wrote: \"I was completely and constantly aware that I am a Japanese American. It meant that I worked harder, moved quicker and, by habit, critiqued my actions repeatedly from every perspective. I had a focused and fierce drive to build a reputation of professional competence and high personal integrity with no blemish of shame on my family and heritage.\" \n His Army career included assignments at numerous mainland posts, Korea, Vietnam, Europe, and Panama, including commander of the Army Recruiting Command. His final Army position was as the deputy chief of staff for personnel, 1986-1990, responsible for human resources policy for the entire Army. \n When he retired from the Army in 1990, he returned to Hawaii and served as executive vice president and a member of the board of directors at American Savings Bank. \n The 25th Infantry Division public affairs office sent out a news release notifying residents that residents around Punchbowl may experience periodic increases in noise this morning between 9 a.m. and noon because of the military salute battery. \n Ono was honored with a 21-canon salute at the Punchbowl ceremony provided by the 25th Infantry Division artillery. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Army's first 3-star Asian-American general buried at Punchbowl"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A street is blocked from debris washed up from the tidal surge of Hurricane Hermine today, in Cedar Key, Fla. \n DEKLE BEACH, Fla. >> Hurricane Hermine barreled ashore in Florida's Big Bend early today as the first hurricane to hit the state in more than a decade, killing one person and raising a storm surge that destroyed beach-side buildings and bringing soaking rain and tens of thousands of power outages. \n In Florida's capital, toppled trees in Tallahassee also downed power lines and injured people in their homes. \n As of 8 a.m. EDT Friday, Hermine had weakened from its peak wind speed of 80 mph to a tropical storm as it moved into southern Georgia. After pushing through Georgia, Hermine was expected to move into the Carolinas and up the East Coast with the potential for drenching rain and deadly flooding. \n A homeless man in Marion County, south of Gainesville, was killed when he was hit by a tree as the storm moved through, Gov. Rick Scott said at a news conference. \n At Florida's Dekle Beach, just south of the state's Big Bend where the peninsula meets the Panhandle, storm surge damaged numerous homes and destroyed storage buildings and a 100-yard fishing pier. It's about 60 miles southeast of St. Marks, where Hermine made landfall at 1:30 a.m. \n Resident Nancy Geohagen walked around collecting photos and other items for her neighbors that had been thrown from storage. \n \"I know who this baseball bat belongs to,\" she said plucking it from a pile of debris. \n An unnamed spring storm that hit the beach in 1993 killed 10 people as most residents refused to evacuate. This time, only three residents stayed behind. All escaped injury. \n At nearby Keaton Beach, about two dozen people waited on a road just after sunrise Friday trying to get to their homes. Police had the road blocked because of flooding. Taylor County Commissioner Jody DeVane said several homes were damaged. \n Dustin Beach, 31, had rushed there early Friday from a hospital in Tallahassee where his wife had given birth Thursday night to a girl to see if his home still stood. \n \"When my wife got up this morning she said, 'Go home and check on the house. I need to know where we're going after we leave the hospital,'\" Beach said. \n Cindy Simpson was waiting near her car, hoping her beach home and boats had made it. \"It's a home on stilts so I put everything upstairs. We have two boats in the boat house and I hope they're still there,\" she said. \n High winds knocked trees onto several houses in Tallahassee, injuring residents inside, fire-rescue spokesman Mike Bellamy said. He said an unknown number were taken to area hospitals with injuries that weren't thought to be life-threatening. Bellamy said his agency responded to more than 300 calls overnight. Mayor Andrew Gillum estimated as many as 100,000 area residents were without electricity Friday morning. \n In Pasco County, north of Tampa, authorities said flooding forced 18 people from their homes in Green Key and Hudson Beach. Pasco County Fire Rescue and sheriff's deputies used high-water vehicles early Friday to rescue people from rising water. They were taken to a nearby shelter. The Sunshine Skyway Bridge that spans Tampa Bay remained closed Friday morning because of high winds. \n In Wakulla County, south of Tallahassee, at least seven homes were damaged by falling trees, said Scott Nelson, the county's emergency manager. \n At 8 a.m., Hermine had maximum sustained winds of 60 mph, the Hurricane Center said. It was centered about 35 miles northeast of Valdosta, Georgia, and was moving north-northeast near 14 mph. \n As Hermine moved north, Georgia Power estimated about 19,000 homes and businesses were without power statewide early Friday. Many of those were in Valdosta and surrounding Lowndes County, about 15 miles north of the Georgia-Florida line. Lowndes County spokeswoman Paige Dukes said crews were dealing with fallen trees and snapped power lines, but no injuries had been reported. Winds exceeding 55 mph had been recorded in the county, with 4 to 5 inches of rainfall, she said. \n The last hurricane to strike Florida was Wilma, a powerful Category 3 storm that arrived on Oct. 24, 2005. It swept across the Everglades and struck heavily populated south Florida, causing five deaths in the state and an estimated $23 billion in damage. \n Scott had declared an emergency in 51 counties. He said 6,000 National Guardsmen were poised to mobilize for the storm's aftermath. The governors of Georgia and North Carolina also declared states of emergency. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hermine is 1st hurricane to hit Florida coast in a decade"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Samsung will issue a global recall of the Galaxy Note 7 smartphone as soon as this weekend after its investigation on explosion claims found batteries were at fault, according to South Korea's Yonhap News. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> Samsung Electronics recalled all of its Galaxy Note 7 smartphones on Friday after finding batteries of some of the flagship gadgets exploded or caught fire. \n Samsung's Note 7s are being pulled from shelves in 10 countries, including South Korea and the United States, just two weeks after the product's launch. Customers who already bought Note 7s will be able to swap them for new smartphones in about two weeks, said Koh Dong-jin, president of Samsung's mobile business. \n He apologized for causing inconvenience and concern to customers. \n The recall, the first for the new smartphone, comes at a crucial moment in Samsung's mobile business. Apple is scheduled to announce its new iPhone next week and Samsung's mobile division was counting on momentum from the Note 7's strong reviews and higher-than-expected demand. \n Samsung said it had confirmed 35 instances of Note 7s catching fire or exploding. There have been no reports of injuries related to the problem. \n The company said it has not found a way to tell exactly which phones may endanger users out of the 2.5 million Note 7s already sold globally. It estimated that about 24 out of 1 million units may have a faulty battery. \n After complaints surfaced online, Samsung found that a battery cell made by one of its two battery suppliers caused the phone to catch fire. Koh refused to name the supplier. \n \"There was a tiny problem in the manufacturing process, so it was very difficult to figure out,\" Koh told reporters at a news conference. \"It will cost us so much it makes my heart ache. Nevertheless, the reason we made this decision is because what is most important is customer safety.\" \n Customers' reports of scorched phones prompted Samsung to conduct extra quality controlling tests and delay shipments of the Note 7s this week before the recall. \n South Korean high school teacher Park Soo-Jung said she had rushed to buy the new phone, pre-ordering and then activating it on Aug. 19, its official launch date. \n The 34-year-old living in the port city of Busan said that she was bruised when she rushed out of bed after her phone burst into flames, filling her bedroom with smoke stinking of chemicals. \n She's having second thoughts about buying another newly released device, especially after losing all her personal data stored in the destroyed Note 7, she said. \n \"If the exploded phone had burned near my head, I would not have been able to write this post,\" she said in a popular online forum Thursday, where she shared a photo of the scorched Note 7 and described dousing the flames. \n China is not affected by the sales suspension. The company said it used a battery made by another supplier for the Note 7s sold in China. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Samsung recalls Galaxy Note 7 after battery explosions"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Larry Wilmore speaks at the Viacom 2015 Winter Television Critics Association press tour in Pasadena, Calif. \n NEW YORK >> Larry Wilmore says the cancellation of his late night Comedy Central talk show was like being in a relationship, but \"you were the one who didn't know it was over.\" \n Wilmore told Stephen Colbert on CBS' \"Late Show\" Thursday that he's \"very disappointed\" in Comedy Central's decision last month to abruptly end the \"Nightly Show\" because he thought the program would last through the November presidential election. \n Wilmore adds that he's \"very proud for the work that we did\" and he's hopeful he \"can do something like that again sometime.\" \n Wilmore replaced Colbert on Comedy Central after \"The Colbert Report\" ended in 2014 ahead of his move to CBS last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Larry Wilmore hopeful for another chance after cancellation"}

{"date": "September 2, 2016", "text": "A Honolulu firefighter was in stable condition today after sustaining injuries in a 30-foot fall from a rescue basket at Diamond Head State Monument. \n Honolulu Fire Department personnel immediately attended to the firefighter at about 9:50 a.m., treating him for injuries while awaiting HPD's Air 1 helicopter. The firefighter was flown to a landing zone where he was treated and transported to a hospital. He is reported to be alert and in stable condition, according to an HPD news release. \n The accident occurred while firefighters were assisting a hiker who was experiencing a medical emergency at the top of the Diamond Head Crater trail. HFD personnel had hiked to the patient's location and loaded him into a helicopter rescue basket for extrication. \n While the basket was being lifted by the Air 1 helicopter, it \"contacted a utility pole causing the firefighter to become dislodged from the basket and fall approximately 30 feet to the ground,\" according to the release. The patient remained in the basket and was transported to a landing zone. \n Fire Chief Manuel P. Neves said in the release that HFD will conduct an investigation of the accident and provide more information when it becomes available.  \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Honolulu firefighter injured in 30-foot fall from rescue basket"}

