{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE \n Ivanka Trump and husband, Jared Kushner, senior adviser to the president, walked to a news conference with President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. \n SHANGHAI >> On April 6, Ivanka Trump's company won provisional approval from the Chinese government for three new trademarks, giving it monopoly rights to sell Ivanka brand jewelry, bags and spa services in the world's second-largest economy. That night, the first daughter and her husband, Jared Kushner, sat next to the president of China and his wife for a steak and Dover sole dinner at Mar-a-Lago. \n The scenario underscores how difficult it is for Trump, who has tried to distance herself from the brand that bears her name, to separate business from politics in her new position at the White House. \n As the first daughter crafts a political career from her West Wing office, her brand is flourishing, despite boycotts and several stores limiting her merchandise. U.S. imports, almost all of them from China, shot up an estimated 166 percent last year, while sales hit record levels in 2017. The brand, which Trump still owns, says distribution is growing. It has launched new activewear and affordable jewelry lines and is working to expand its global intellectual property footprint. In addition to winning the approvals from China, Ivanka Trump Marks LLC applied for at least nine new trademarks in the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Canada and the U.S. after the election. \n The commercial currents of the Trump White House are unprecedented in modern American politics, ethics lawyers say. They have created an unfamiliar landscape riven with ethical pitfalls, and forced consumers and retailers to wrestle with the unlikely passions now inspired by Ivanka Trump's mid-market collection of ruffled blouses, shifts and wedges. \n Using the prestige of government service to build a brand is not illegal. But criminal conflict of interest law prohibits federal officials, like Trump and her husband, from participating in government matters that could impact their own financial interest or that of their spouse. Some argue that the more her business broadens its scope, the more it threatens to encroach on the ability of two trusted advisers to deliver credible counsel to the president on core issues like trade, intellectual property, and the value of the Chinese currency. \n \"Put the business on hold and stop trying to get trademarks while you're in government,\" advised Richard Painter, who served as chief White House ethics lawyer under George W. Bush. \n To address ethical concerns, Trump has shifted the brand's assets to a family-run trust valued at more than $50 million and pledged to recuse herself from issues that present conflicts. \n \"Ivanka will not weigh in on business strategy, marketing issues, or the commercial terms of agreements,\" her attorney, Jamie Gorelick, said in a statement. \"She has retained authority to direct the trustees to terminate agreements that she determines create a conflict of interest or the appearance of one.\" \n In a recent interview with CBS News, Trump argued that her business would be doing even better if she hadn't moved to Washington and placed restrictions on her team to ensure that \"any growth is done with extreme caution.\" \n China, however, remains a nagging concern. \"Ivanka has so many China ties and conflicts, yet she and Jared appear deeply involved in China contacts and policy. I would never have allowed it,\" said Norman Eisen, who served as chief White House ethics lawyer under Barack Obama. \"For their own sake, and the country's, Ivanka and Jared should consider stepping away from China matters.\" \n Instead, the first daughter and her husband have emerged as prominent interlocutors with China, where they have both had significant business ties. Last year, Kushner pursued hundreds of millions of dollars in real estate investments from Anbang Insurance Group, a financial conglomerate with close ties to the Chinese state. After media reports about the deal, talks were called off. \n Publicly, Ivanka has taken a gracious, charming approach toward Beijing. During the Mar-a-Lago meetings, her daughter, 5-year-old Arabella stood in a gilded room and sang a traditional Chinese song, in Mandarin, for China's president, Xi Jinping. The video, which was lavishly praised by Chinese state media, played over 2.2 million times on China's popular news portal qq.com. \n The week of the summit, 3.4 tons of Ivanka Trump handbags, wallets and blouses arrived in the U.S. from Hong Kong and Shanghai. U.S. imports of her merchandise grew an estimated 40 percent in the first quarter of this year, according to Panjiva Inc., which maintains and analyzes global shipping records. \n Painter, the former Bush administration lawyer, recommended full recusal from issues related to trade with China. That is likely to be difficult because trade is so deeply embedded in the US-China relationship and has been linked with other matters, like North Korea. \n \"The danger is that with any discussion with the Chinese, one party or the other may try to bring up trade,\" he said. \"That's a slippery slope that may require her or Jared to step out of the room.\" \n Gorelick, Ivanka Trump's attorney, said that Ivanka and her husband would steer clear of specific areas that could impact her business, or be seen as conflicts of interest, but are under no legal obligation to step back from huge swaths of policy, like trade with China. \n Under the rules, Trump would recuse herself from conversations about duties on clothing imported from China, Gorelick said, but not broad foreign policy. \n \"In between, you have to assess it case-by-case,\" she said. \n Trademarks can be signs of corporate ambition, though many countries \u2014 such as China, where trademark squatting is rampant \u2014 also allow for defensive filings to prevent copycats from using a brand. \n Trademarks pose ethical, and possibly legal, implications for government employees because they are granted by foreign states and confer the monopoly right to sell branded product in a particular country \u2014 an entitlement that can be enormously valuable. Intellectual property lawyers say trademarks are also a crucial prerequisite for cutting licensing deals, which form the basis of both Ivanka and Donald Trump's global business strategy. \n Today, Ivanka Trump Marks LLC has 16 registered trademarks in China and 32 pending applications, along with a total of four marks granted preliminary approval since the inauguration, according to China's Trademark Office. Altogether, they cover a wide range of goods and services, including cosmetics, jewelry, leather handbags, luggage, clothes, shoes, retail, spa and beauty services. There is no sign the recent approvals were particularly swift. China's Trademark Office did not respond to a request for comment. \n Globally, the company has more than 180 pending and registered trademarks in countries including Canada, India, Japan, Israel, Mexico, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, as well as the U.S. and Europe, public records show. In December, the company applied for five trademarks, covering handbags and wallets in Puerto Rico, and lingerie and other clothes in the U.S. After the inauguration, the company filed four more applications, for branded clothing and shoes in the Philippines, and perfume and other items in Canada. \n Trump did not sign off on the new trademark applications, her brand said in a statement, adding that they are \"not necessarily an indication that the brand is planning to launch a category or a store in a specific territory.\" \n Whatever the future plans, right now sales are growing \u2014 helped, some argue, by the glow of Ivanka Trump's political rise. \n The G-III Apparel Group Ltd., which makes Ivanka Trump clothes, said net sales for the collection increased by $17.9 million during the year that ended Jan. 31. \n The brand itself claims revenues rose 21 percent last year, with early February seeing some of the \"best performance ever,\" according to a statement by Abigail Klem, president of the Ivanka Trump brand. Because it is privately held, the brand does not have to declare its earnings or where revenues come from. The actual corporate structure of Trump's retail business remains opaque. Kushner's financial disclosure form lists two dozen corporate entities that appear directly related to his wife's brand. Trump herself has yet to file a disclosure. \n Data from Lyst, a massive fashion e-commerce platform, indicates some of this growth coincided with specific political events. \n The number of Ivanka Trump items sold through Lyst was 46 percent higher the month her father was elected president than in November 2015. Sales spiked 771 percent in February over the same month last year, after White House counselor Kellyanne Conway exhorted Fox viewers to \"Go buy Ivanka's stuff.\" Conway was later reprimanded. The bounce appears somewhat sustained. March sales on Lyst were up 262 percent over the same period last year. \n \"You can't separate Ivanka from her role in life and from her business,\" said Allen Adamson, founder of BrandSimpleConsulting. \"Her celebrity status is now not only being fueled by her wealth and her family connection, but by her huge role in the White House. All that buzz is hardwired to her products.\" That, he added, is a competitive advantage other brands just can't match \u2014 though it does come with risk. \n Things could easily cut the other way for the first daughter. Ashley King, 28 of Calabasas, Calif., bought Ivanka Trump black flats and a cardigan several years ago. But King, who voted for Hillary Clinton, said she believes Trump's role in the White House represents a conflict of interest. \n \"This is bothering me more and more,\" she said. As for the Ivanka Trump items in her closet, she said, \"I will be donating them.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ivanka's company prospers as politics mixes with business"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eric Frein is led away by Pennsylvania State Police Troopers at the Pike County Courthouse in January 2015 after his preliminary hearing in Milford, Pa. Frein, who is charged in the fatal ambush of a state police barracks, told authorities on the night of his capture, \"I did this. No one else did,\" according to a videotaped interview played for jurors at his capital murder trial on April 11. \n MILFORD, Pa. >> Alex Douglass used to be 180 pounds of muscle and sinew, a CrossFit and running enthusiast who ran a 50-mile ultra-marathon when he wasn't working his day job as a state police trooper. \n All of that was ended by a sniper's bullet. \n Douglass survived the ambush that took his comrade's life on Sept. 12, 2014, but the devastating wounds caused by that single rifle shot still haven't healed. Today, Douglass got the chance to confront his alleged assailant, describing years of pain and rehabilitation for a jury weighing capital murder charges against the man he called a coward. \n \"I started back into CrossFit,\" explained Douglass, who has a replacement hip and walks with a brace on his foot. \"It's not like it used to be.\" \n Limping to the witness stand, Douglass testified against Eric Frein, the anti-government marksman and survivalist who prosecutors say targeted the Blooming Grove barracks in hopes of sparking a revolution against the government. Frein allegedly hid in the woods across the street and shot Douglass and Cpl. Bryon Dickson II during a late-night shift change. He was caught after a 48-day manhunt. \n Douglass was shot through both hips as he tried to rescue his mortally wounded comrade, the .308-caliber bullet leaving an exit wound the size of a silver dollar. He has undergone 18 surgeries to repair the damage but said he still has no feeling below one knee. \n He's also incontinent, the result of a perforated intestine and devastating injuries to his rectum. He described a severe burning sensation that feels like \"taking a serrated knife and sticking it in your rectum and twisting.\" \n He choked up, glancing at Frein and asking for a tissue. \n Frein, who could face a death sentence if convicted, looked back at him with a blank stare. \n Douglass' testimony was the most anticipated of a trial in which prosecutors have introduced hundreds of pieces of evidence tying Frein to the crime. The prosecution plans to rest its case Tuesday. \n Douglass told jurors how he had just gotten to work and was in the parking lot when he heard two loud bangs and a scream. He got off the phone with his girlfriend, drew his gun and began walking toward the front of the barracks, where Dickson \u2014 who'd just left the barracks after working his shift \u2014 was lying face up on the sidewalk. \n Douglass said he grabbed Dickson by the leg and was preparing to drag him into the barracks when \"it felt like I got hit in the back with a baseball bat.\" He opened the barracks door with his right hand, fell into the lobby and began crawling, trying to take himself out of the sniper's line of fire. \n \"At that point I knew that either some coward or cowards were shooting at us from across the street,\" he said. \n A colleague dragged him through an interior door, where troopers began packing his wound while waiting for an ambulance. \n \"It was probably the worst pain you could imagine,\" Douglass said. \"It felt like your whole body was on fire.\" \n The bullet shattered Douglass's hip and thigh bone and left him with other injuries. He said he dropped from a \"solid 180 pounds\" to 135 in the months after the shooting. He had his latest surgery two months ago with \"possibly more to go.\" \n Frein has said he didn't know Douglass or Dickson before the attack, telling police after his capture that he chose to ambush the Blooming Grove barracks because it's surrounded by woods and offered good cover. \n In a letter to his parents that was read to the jury today, Frein complained about the loss of liberty, spoke of a revolution and said, \"The time seems right for a spark to ignite a fire in the hearts of men.\" \n The author wrote: \"I tried my best to do this thing without getting identified, but if you are reading this then I was not successful.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ambushed trooper: 'Coward' shot me and killed comrade"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump holds up Green Bay Packers jersey given to him by House Speaker Paul Ryan at a rally in West Allis, Wis. in December. President Donald Trump heads to Ryan's congressional district in Wisconsin on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is planning to sign an executive order that seeks to make changes to a visa program that brings in high-skilled workers. \n Trump is heading Tuesday to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he plans to sign an order dubbed \"Buy American, Hire American,\" said administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity despite the president's frequent criticism of the use of anonymous sources. \n The officials said the order, which Trump will sign at the headquarters of tool manufacturer Snap-on Inc., would direct the departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Labor and State to propose new rules to prevent immigration fraud and abuse. Those departments would also be asked to offer changes so that H-1B visas are awarded to the \"most-skilled or highest-paid applicants.\" \n The White House said the program is currently undercutting American workers by bringing in cheaper labor and said some tech companies are using it to hire large numbers of workers and drive down wages. \n Administration officials said the order also seeks to strengthen requirements that American-made products be used in certain federal construction projects, as well as in various federal transportation grant-funded projects. The officials said the commerce secretary will review how to close loopholes in enforcing the existing rules and provide recommendations to the president. \n The order specifically asks the secretary to review waivers of these rules that exist in free-trade agreements. The administration said that if the waivers are not benefiting the United States they will be \"renegotiated or revoked.\" \n During his campaign, Trump said at some points he supported high-skilled visas, then came out against them. At one debate, he called for fully ending the program, saying: \"It's very bad for our workers and it's unfair for our workers. And we should end it.\" \n The officials said the changes could be administrative or legislative and could include higher fees for the visas, changing the wage scale for the program or other initiatives. \n About 85,000 H-1B visas are distributed annually by lottery. Many go to technology companies, which argue that the United States has a shortage of skilled technology workers. \n But critics say the program has been hijacked by staffing companies that use the visas to import foreigners \u2014 often from India \u2014 who will work for less than Americans. The staffing companies then sell their services to corporate clients who use them to outsource tech work. \n Employers from Walt Disney World to the University of California in San Francisco have laid off their tech employees and replaced them with H-1B visa holders. Adding to the indignity: The U.S. workers are sometimes asked to train their replacements to qualify for severance packages. \n On the planned order by Trump, Ronil Hira, a professor in public policy at Howard University and a critic of the H-1B program, said, \"It's better than nothing.\" But he added, \"It's not as aggressive as it needs to be.\" \n The tech industry has argued that the H-1B program is needed because it encourages students to stay in the U.S. after getting degrees in high-tech specialties \u2014 and they can't always find enough American workers with the skills they need. \n Congress is considering several bills to overhaul the visa program. One, introduced by Illinois Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin and Iowa Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley, would require companies seeking H-1B visas to first make a good-faith effort to hire Americans, a requirement many companies can dodge under the current system; give the Labor Department more power to investigate and sanction H-1B abuses; and give \"the best and brightest\" foreign students studying in the U.S. priority in getting H-1B visas. \n Trump's stop at the world headquarters of Snap-on Inc. would come as the president faces an approval rating of just 41 percent in Wisconsin, a state he barely won in November. The visit also would take him to the congressional district of House Speaker Paul Ryan, who won't be joining the president because he's on a bipartisan congressional trip visiting NATO countries. \n Trump has traveled to promote his agenda less than his recent predecessors. White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump wanted to visit \"a company that builds American-made tools with American workers.\" \n Trump carried Wisconsin in November by nearly 23,000 votes \u2014 less than 1 percentage point \u2014 making him the first Republican to win the state since 1984. He campaigned on the promise of returning manufacturing jobs that have been lost in Upper Midwest states. \n Founded in Wisconsin in 1920, Snap-on makes hand and power tools, diagnostics software, information and management systems, and shop equipment for use in a variety of industries, including agriculture, the military and aviation. Its headquarters are in Kenosha and it has eight manufacturing sites in North America, including one in Milwaukee. The company employs about 11,000 people worldwide. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump order would target high-skilled worker visa program"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An armor police vehicle drives through Fairmount park in Philadelphia today. Authorities in several states are on the lookout for a man police say shot a Cleveland retiree collecting aluminum cans and then posted video of the apparently random killing on Facebook. \n CLEVELAND >> The suspect in the random killing of a retiree posted on Facebook made his living mentoring teens in Cleveland, but his life appeared to be unraveling under the weight of gambling debts and trouble with his girlfriend. \n Rambling videos he shared showed his despair, saying he was out of options and wanted to kill as many innocent people as he could. \n While authorities have not found any evidence that he killed anyone else, the manhunt for Steve Stephens stretched into a third day on Tuesday and far beyond the neighborhood where police said he shot a 74-year-old man who was picking up aluminum cans on Sunday after spending Easter with some of his children. \n Stephens, 37, could be anywhere, authorities said, calling it a nationwide search. A $50,000 reward is being offered for information leading to his capture and prosecution. \n Stephens posted a video of himself killing Robert Godwin Sr., a former foundry worker who had 10 children, police said. In it, he said, \"I snapped, I just snapped.\" But police would not speculate on what was behind it. \n \"Only Steve knows that,\" Williams said. \n In the video, Stephens told Godwin a woman's name and said, \"She's the reason that this is about to happen to you.\" Godwin did not seem to recognize the name. \n The woman Stephens spoke of, Joy Lane, said in a text message to CBS that \"we had been in a relationship for several years. I am sorry that all of this has happened.\" \n She also said Stephens was \"a nice guy\" who was good to her and her children. \n Stephens filed for bankruptcy two years ago despite holding down a job as a counselor helping young people develop job skills and find employment. The behavioral health agency where he worked said an extensive background check before he was hired turned up nothing worrisome. \n In one video posted on Facebook, Stephens said that he gambled away everything and that he and his girlfriend had planned to marry but did not, without saying why. He blamed her for what was about to happen. \n Some friends said they knew about his gambling. But the videos showed a man they did not recognize. \n Alexis Lee, who saw Stephens last week, said his childhood friend always seemed respectful and got along with everybody. \n \"He never ever told me he had problems or issues. It was always good things,\" Lee said. \"He was always just so happy and cool, calm, collected, like, that's why it's so shocking.\" \n Other neighbors said he was quiet as a kid and intelligent, recalling how he went to college and got a master's degree. \n \"He was just a no problem person at all, compared to a lot of people,\" said Cynthia Coley, a former neighbor. \n In one video in which he blamed his girlfriend, Stephens said he woke up last week and \"couldn't take it anymore.\" \n Investigators said that Godwin was the only victim so far linked to Stephens, despite his claim on Facebook that he killed over a dozen people. \n This evening, Facebook announced that it was launching a review for reporting harmful content following the killing. The company said that Stephens posted a video of himself announcing his intent to commit murder, then two minutes later posted another video of himself shooting and killing Godwin. A few minutes after that, he went live and confessed. \n The company said it disabled Stephen's account within 23 minutes of receiving the first report about the video of the fatal shooting and two hours after receiving any report. \n \"In this case we did not receive a report about the first video, and we only received a report about the second video \u2014 containing the shooting \u2014 more than an hour and 45 minutes after it was posted,\" said Justin Osofsky, Facebook's vice president of global operations. \"We received reports about the third video, containing the man's live confession, only after it had ended.\" \n Officers searched dozens of places around Cleveland without finding Stephens or any other victims before expanding the manhunt. Detectives spoke with the suspect on Sunday by cellphone and tried to persuade him to surrender, police said. \n Law enforcement officials said his cellphone was last tracked Sunday afternoon in Erie, Pennsylvania, about 100 miles east of Cleveland. Police in Philadelphia said eight elementary schools and a high school were locked down today while they investigated reported sightings but found nothing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Videos show desperation of suspect in Facebook video killing"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters gathered outside the state Capitol building on Friday in Little Rock, Ark. \n VARNER, Ark. >> The U.S. Supreme Court spared the life of an Arkansas inmate minutes before his death warrant was set to expire today, scuttling efforts to resume the death penalty after nearly 12 years in the state with a plan to carry out four double executions before its supply of a lethal injection drug expires. \n The court's decision to maintain the stay for Don Davis capped a chaotic day of legal wrangling in state and federal courts to clear the primary obstacles Arkansas faced to carrying out its first executions since 2005. Gov. Asa Hutchinson, who had set the multiple executions, said the state would to continue to push for the other lethal injections to be carried out. Two inmates are set to be put to death on Thursday. \n \"While this has been an exhausting day for all involved, tomorrow we will continue to fight back on last minute appeals and efforts to block justice for the victims' families,\" Hutchinson said in a statement. \n The legal fighting had centered on a series of planned lethal injections that, if carried out, would mark the most inmates put to death by a state in such a short period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. The state scheduled the executions to take place before its supply of midazolam, a lethal injection drug, expires at the end of April. \n The state was rushing to win approval to execute Davis before his death warrant expired at midnight. Davis and Bruce Ward were set to be executed tonight and had been granted stays by the state Supreme Court. The state decided not to challenge the stay for Ward. \n The U.S. Supreme Court ruling came hours after the state had cleared two of the main obstacles to resuming executions. The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a federal judge's ruling blocking the executions over the use of midazolam, a sedative used in flawed executions in other states. The state Supreme Court also lifted a lower court ruling preventing the state from using another lethal injection drug that a supplier said was sold to be used for medical purposes, not executions. \n Davis was sentenced to death for the 1990 death of Jane Daniel in Rogers. The woman was killed in her home after Davis broke in and shot her with a .44-caliber revolver he found there. Davis came within six hours of execution in 2010 before he was spared by the state Supreme Court. \n \"It is heartbreaking that the family of Jane Daniel has once again seen justice delayed,\" Attorney General Leslie Rutledge said in a statement. \"Davis was convicted of his crimes in 1992, and my office took every action it could today to see that justice was carried out.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Supreme Court does not allow Arkansas execution"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korea deputy United Nations ambassador Kim In Ryong spoke during a news briefing today at U.N. headquarters. \n UNITED NATIONS >> North Korea's deputy U.N. ambassador accused the United States today of turning the Korean Peninsula into \"the world's biggest hotspot\" and creating \"a dangerous situation in which a thermonuclear war may break out at any moment.\" \n Kim In Ryong told a news conference that \"if the U.S. dares opt for a military action,\" North Korea \"is ready to react to any mode of war desired by the U.S.\" \n He said the Trump administration's deployment of the Carl Vinson nuclear carrier task group to waters off the Korean Peninsula again \"proves the U.S. reckless moves for invading the DPRK have reached a serious phase of its scenario.\" \n Kim stressed that U.S.-South Korean military exercises being staged now are the largest-ever \"aggressive war drill\" aimed at his country, formally the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. \n \"The prevailing grave situation proves once again that the DPRK was entirely just when it increased in every way its military capabilities for self-defense and pre-emptive attack with a nuclear force as a pivot,\" he said. \n Tensions have escalated over North Korean moves to accelerate its weapons development. The North conducted two nuclear tests and 24 ballistic missile tests last year, defying six Security Council sanctions resolutions banning any testing, and it has launched more missiles this year including a failed attempt this past weekend. \n The North's Foreign Ministry said the missile launches are as part of a normal process of building up the country's defenses and economy. Ministry official Kim Chang Min also said in the interview in Pyongyang that the U.N., the Security Council and big countries ignored South Korean missile launches and Japanese surveillance satellites. \n \"This is the limit of double standards,\" Kim of the Foreign Ministry said. \"How can we have any dialogue to get any result with anyone who has this kind of approach?\" \n U.S. Vice President Mike Pence traveled today to the Demilitarized Zone dividing the Koreas and warned Pyongyang that \"the era of strategic patience is over.\" \n After 25 years of trying to deal patiently with North Korea's nuclear and missile ambitions, Pence said, \"all options are on the table\" to deal with threat. \n Deputy U.N. Ambassador Kim said North Korea's policy is shaped by the Trump administration's push for \"high-intensity sanctions\" against the country, deploying tactical nuclear weapons in South Korea and launching military action aimed at \"beheading\" the North's leadership headed by Kim Jong Un. \n He said rolling back the hostile U.S. policy toward the DPRK \"is the precondition to solving all the problems in the Korean Peninsula.\" \n Kim called the news conference to \"categorically reject\" the U.S. decision to hold an open meeting of the Security Council on April 28 on North Korea's nuclear program which is scheduled to be chaired by U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. \n He called it \"another abuse of authority\" by the United States, which holds the Security Council presidency this month, and a violation of the DPRK's sovereignty. \n Kim ignored questions about the DPRK's relationship with China and reports that the government didn't respond to requests from Chinese officials for a meeting. \n Instead he reiterated two Chinese proposals that the U.S. rejected. \n One called for \"dual-track\" talks on denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula \u2014 the top priority of the United States \u2014 and replacing the armistice that ended the 1950-53 Korean War with a formal peace treaty, a key demand of Pyongyang. The other called for a freeze on U.S.-South Korean military exercises and a freeze on DPRK missile and nuclear tests. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea accuses U.S. of creating situation for nuclear war"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man walks past electoral posters displaying the presidential candidates, Benoit Hamon, left, Emmanuel Macron, center, and Marine Le Pen in Paris, France, today. \n PARIS >> The impossible is now possible, French far right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen said in celebration after Donald Trump won the U.S. presidency. But the Trump effect may not bring Le Pen the boost she had once expected. \n Further reading \n That's in part because Trump has not turned out to be the soul mate Le Pen was counting on. Trump bombed Syria and abandoned support for President Bashar Assad, whom Le Pen backs. He alienated Russia even as Le Pen consolidated her alliance with Vladimir Putin. And Trump's administration has been fraught with internal troubles. \n French voters have learned at least one thing from Trump's surprising victory and Britain's surprising vote to leave the European Union: They need to be ready for a surprise. \n With only six days left before Sunday's first-round vote, polls show the four leading French candidates are so close in popularity that there's no clear front-runner. The top two candidates advance to a May 7 runoff. \n Le Pen, campaigning against immigration and Europe's open borders, has a good chance of reaching the runoff but little chance of winning it \u2013 at least according to pollsters, who have suffered their own Trump effect after failing to predict his presidency. \n Populists elsewhere in Europe have had mixed success in elections since November. Dutch voters rejected firebrand Geert Wilders, favoring the status quo. Italians voted against the establishment, while Austrian voters rejected a far right presidential contender. \n In France, Trump's victory has given new focus to Le Pen's rivals. \n Independent centrist Emmanuel Macron is framing himself as a bulwark against the nationalism and protectionism of Trump's America and Putin's Russia. \"The world around us is changing. War, terrorist threat, the uncertainty on the other side of the ocean (a reference to Trump), the threat at our borders of several authoritarian regimes. Yes, we will have to be strong, uncompromising,\" Macron told a big campaign rally Monday. \n Other candidates are warning that Le Pen's dreams of leaving the EU and the euro would wipe out voters' savings and devastate the economy. French media pressured Le Pen last week for questioning whether the French state was really responsible for deporting tens of thousands of Jews to death in World War II during the Nazi occupation. \n Le Pen enjoyed a boost from the Trump phenomenon \u2013 the rise of anti-establishment sentiment, especially from working classes who lost out from the globalization that transformed the world over the past generation. Le Pen has courted that electorate for years and saw Trump's election as vindication of that strategy. \n Hours after Trump was elected, Le Pen said, \"What happened tonight is not the end of the world, it's the end of a (certain) world.\" She called his victory and the Brexit vote \"democratic choices that bury the ancient order and are as many stones to build the world of tomorrow.\" \n She also plays to security fears after a string of deadly Islamic extremist attacks on France. \n But the Trump presidency has shown that implementing populist promises isn't as easy as it seems. And Trump's own reversals have frustrated Le Pen. \n \"We have seen that Trump's latest positions are so contrary to what Marine Le Pen had hoped,\" said Thierry de Montbrial, president of the French Institute of International Relations. Nationalist candidates \"no longer recognize themselves\" in Trump anymore. \n Le Pen distanced herself from Trump after the U.S. missile strikes on Syria earlier this month, angry that he is trying to be \"the world's policeman.\" \n Trump's reversal on NATO \u2013 which he once called obsolete \u2013 also frustrates Le Pen. She wants to pull France out of its command structure and sees the alliance as an unnecessary threat to Russia now that the Soviet Union is defunct. \n \"If there is a Trump effect on the campaign, it is that in many minds, it's assumed that anything is possible,\" said Emmanuel Riviere, director of Kantar Public's polling in France. \"It's not unreasonable to have a victory of a candidate who is improbably excessive, and unexpected.\" \n Le Pen's electorate is not an exact mirror of Trump's, though they both attract support from \"white people whose social standing has fallen,\" Riviere said. \n She doesn't have a powerful party machine like that of Trump's Republicans, and has less support from older generations who supported Trump. But Le Pen enjoys more support from youth. \n Riviere said any lingering Trump effect on the French campaign could also favor other candidates, such as far-left Jean-Luc Melenchon, who rails against free trade. Or conservative Francois Fillon, who has adopted Trump-style criticism of the media and a justice system he said is conspiring against him. \n \"We are in a very unprecedented moment in French politics,\" Riviere said. \"This presidential term will be something we have never seen before.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump effect on French election: Anything is possible"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From left to right, France's presidential candidates Nathalie Arthaud, Marine Le Pen, Benoit Hamon, Jacques Cheminade and Philippe Poutou attend a television debate at French private TV channels BFM TV and CNews, in La Plaine-Saint-Denis, outside Paris, France, April 4. \n With just days to go before the first round of the election, nearly a third of French voters still haven't decided which candidate they'll pick \u2014 or even whether they'll go to the polls. \n Further reading \n Voter indecision \"is enormous,\" said Ga\u00ebl Sliman, head of polling group Odoxa. \n In what is turning into one of the most unpredictable elections in recent French history, undecided and no-show voters could upend a race in which the four top contenders are clustered within a few points of each other. With each polling at about 20 percent for the first round on April 23, the two candidates for the runoff may be determined by people who have yet to make up their minds. \n An Odoxa survey for France Info, released April 14, puts the undecided rate at 32 percent. The percentage of voters saying they're sure of their choice is the lowest since 2002, when the far-right National Front pulled off an upset in the first round of presidential voting, Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster at Kantar Sofres, said on his Twitter feed on April 12. \"Indecision remains high, as in 2002,\" he said. \n Adding to the uncertainty, only 66 percent of eligible voters are relatively certain they'll cast their ballots, according to an April 14 poll by Ipsos Sopria-Steria for Le Monde. That's well below the 79.5 percent turnout in the first round of the 2012 presidential election. \n An OpinionWay poll published today, showed the far-right National Front's Marine Le Pen tied with centrist Emmanuel Macron at 22 percent each, followed by center-right Republican Fran\u00e7ois Fillon at 21 percent and Communist-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon at 18 percent. The poll shows both Macron and Fillon beating Le Pen easily in the May 7 runoff. \n Melenchon's Support \n Support for Melenchon looks particularly soft. While he has surged in the polls after strong performances in recent debates, Odoxa's survey found that 34 percent of voters who listed him as their first choice said they might still change their minds. The comparable figure for Macron was 23 percent, while 20 percent of Fillon's probable voters and 13 percent of Le Pen's said they still could switch. \n Melenchon and Le Pen also could have trouble getting their voters to the polls. The Ipsos survey found that only 65 percent of far-left supporters and 68 percent of National Front supporters were likely to vote on April 23. By contrast, 75 percent of those backing Macron's independent On The Move! party, 74 percent of Republicans, and 72 percent of Socialists said they expected to vote. \n Many voters who supported President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande in 2012 \"are disappointed in the government's performance, and decided to stay at home,\" said Douglas Webber, a political science professor at the Insead business school in Fontainebleau. \n Voter Discontent \n In another sign of voter discontent, both of the country's establishment parties risk having their candidates eliminated in the first round. Socialist nominee Benoit Hamon has slid to fifth place with only 8 percent in the latest OpinionWay poll, while Republican Fillon is in third place after his support crumbled over allegations that he used public funds to hire his wife for fake jobs. \n The centrist Macron has picked up support from some Socialists and Republicans, but ordinary voters \"don't really know him,\" said Fran\u00e7oise Falcy, a retired phone worker shopping at an open-air market in the Paris suburb of Sartrouville. Falcy said she was considering Macron after being disillusioned by Fillon. \n The potential for last-minute switching appears greatest among Socialist voters. Odoxa's poll, conducted April 12 and 13, found that 43 percent of them still were undecided, compared with 29 percent of center-right voters, 26 percent of far-left supporters, and only 7 percent of National Front supporters. \n Advantage Macron \n The candidate who could benefit most may be Macron. \n He is \"the best catch-all politician of all who are running,\" Antonio Barroso, deputy director of research at Teneo Intelligence in London, wrote in an April 12 note to clients. \n Still, the pool of undecided voters is large enough to give each of the four leading candidates a shot at reaching the second round, Odoxa's Sliman said. \n For example, some 17 percent of likely voters told Odoxa they still hadn't made up their minds between Melenchon and Macron. If most of them went for Melenchon, that would vault him from fourth to first place. The third-place Fillon could pull off a similar upset if he could attract the 10 percent of voters who say they might vote either for him or Macron. \n The last big upset in French presidential voting was in 2002, when Le Pen's father, National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, beat the Socialist nominee in the first round. However, he lost the runoff in a landslide to then-President Jacques Chirac. \n This time, Webber said, \"the outcome is less predictable.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "These Voters Could Choose New French President \u2014 If They Decide"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this April 9 file photo, French hard-left presidential candidate, Jean-Luc Melenchon, speaks in Marseille, southern France. \n Sophia Chikirou was a secret emissary of France's Communist-backed presidential candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon to the U.S. last year, embedded in Bernie Sanders's campaign. \n Further reading \n The 37-year-old crisscrossed the country, going to Miami, Brooklyn and Pennsylvania between March and June. She bought a \"Join the Political Revolution Today\" t-shirt, campaigned door-to door, filmed her experience and wrote a diary on her Tumblr blogging account about her time as a volunteer for the U.S. Democratic Party candidate. \n Her mission: learning how to run a campaign on a shoe-string budget with an army of volunteers, using the Internet and other state-of-the-art technologies. \n Back in France, Chikirou, the Melenchon campaign's communications director, is putting it all to work for the candidate, who has seen the biggest surge in the polls in the last month. Her efforts have helped bring the admirer of Cuba's Fidel Castro and former Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez closer to the presidency than ever before. With less than a week to before the April 23 first round of the election, Melenchon stands as good a chance as his main rivals \u2014 centrist Emmanuel Macron, the far-right National Front's Marine Le Pen and the Republican candidate Francois Fillon \u2014 to make it to the runoff on May 7. \n \"Melenchon shares many points in common with Sanders and also with Podemos,\" Chikirou told Europe 1 radio in January, naming Spain's far-left populist party, which used similar tactics. \"Sanders relied on the people to campaign and that meant to mobilize through social media and that's mainly what we took from him.\" \n Melenchon Holograms \n On Tuesday, Chikirou will unleash Melenchon on multiple cities across France \u2014 using holograms. While the candidate gives a speech at a rally in Dijon, no less than six holograms will simultaneously deliver his speech in the cities of Clermont-Ferrand, Grenoble, Montpellier, Nancy, Nantes and on the far-off overseas Reunion island. Melenchon first used the technique in February, but in only one reproduction. The politician who draws giant crowds with his eloquence and multiple literary references, is the only candidate to use one. \n \"In each of our six holograms meetings there will be more supporters than in one rally of the other candidates,\" Alexis Corbiere, his campaign spokesman, boasted in an interview. \"We're drawing over 10 times more supporters in Melenchon's rallies and on his web accounts than any other candidate.\" \n At 65, Melenchon is the oldest of the main candidates in the race. During his rallies, dressed in his trademark black collar suit, Melenchon \u2014 an admirer of the French Revolution and Terror figure Robespierre \u2014 walks the stage without notes or a teleprompter. Over a couple of hours, he passionately lays out his case against what he sees as the injustices of capitalism, talks about how he would tax the rich, revise European treaties, including one that keeps France in the euro, leave NATO and eradicate poverty, if elected president. \n Sound and Fury \n This is Melenchon's second run for president. Chikirou was with him when he launched his first attempt in 2012, dramatically saying, \"I am the sound and the fury, the thunder and the crash.\" He was eliminated with 11 percent in the first round. Chikirou was a junior press officer then. \n The long, dark-haired Chikirou's skills and role have expanded since. Embedded in the Sanders's campaign, she took copious notes on his strategic use of the young and those who felt excluded to set his Internet campaign in motion, learning how to turn a mainstream voter into a \"revolutionary.\" \n \"She's a tough cookie,\" Jean-Marie Bockel, a centrist senator who counted her among his small left-wing party ranks a decade ago, said in an interview. \"She's smart, articulate and very opinionated. She wanted recognition and to spread her wings.\" \n Chikirou didn't respond to requests for an interview. \n Melenchon's 'Agora' \n Chikirou has long pushed Melenchon to bypass mainstream media to access voters directly through techniques like holograms. The campaign has created its own YouTube channel and has mobilized thousands of web volunteers to replicate his message across social media. \n Le Pen and Melenchon, the two populist candidates who threaten to eliminate the candidates of establishment parties, have by far the biggest social media presence. Melenchon's YouTube channel has 288,000 subscribers, his Facebook scores 887,000 likes and he has 1.1 million followers on Twitter. \n That compares with nationalist rival Le Pen's 1.4 million Twitter followers, 1.3 million likes on Facebook and 19,178 subscribers to her YouTube channel. \n \"The point was to have our own media, our own channel to roll out our themes,\" Chikirou told Europe 1 radio in January. \"The web is the agora \u2026 Melenchon speaks without having a journalist in front of him,\" she said, evoking the Greek idea of a gathering place for the candidate to directly address his voters. \n Personal Touch \n The spin guru has also sought to soften Melenchon's often in-your-face tone and style. \n Chikirou got the self-proclaimed revolutionary to talk to glossy magazines Closer and Gala about his quinoa diet. She convinced him to participate in a television show about his personal history, his grand-fatherhood and his dream for a better future driven by love and rather than money. \n Like her candidate, Chikirou is herself a former and disillusioned Socialist party member. Chikirou, who comes from France's Alpine region, jointed the party at 18 and quit after she was denied the chance to seek a Socialist seat in local elections in 2006. She tried other left-wing groups until she met Melenchon, a former Socialist who quit after he lost a bid to be the party's general secretary to Francois Hollande, who eventually became president. \n Chikirou likes to point out that in power, a President Melenchon is not going to be as radical as Candidate Melenchon. \n \"We are not sectarian,\" she told the weekly Journal du Dimanche in October. \"If we come to power tomorrow, it will not be the gulag!\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Here's How Bernie Sanders Is Playing a Role in France's Election"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "LOS ANGELES DAILY NEWS VIA AP \n North Park Elementary parent Marie Cabrera hugged two students before the start of school today. \n SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. >> A performer blew bubbles, a man handed out teddy bears and parents shared hugs and prayers today outside a California elementary school, as students returned to classes a week after a gunman opened fire in the special education classroom of his estranged wife, killing her and an 8-year-old boy. \n Students on buses rolling up to North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino saw a large banner that read: \"We love you.\" \n Dr. Dale Marsden, school district superintendent, said the reopening of the school was the first step toward healing after the deadly attack. \n \"We are all feeling the pain that comes with a tragedy like this,\" he said. \"Together, we will move forward.\" \n North Park had been closed since April 10, when police said Cedric Anderson killed Karen Smith and Jonathan Martinez then fatally shot himself. \n Police said Anderson had been targeting Smith, but the bullets hit Jonathan and 9-year-old Nolan Brandy, who was wounded and later released from a hospital. \n Anderson went to the school after failing to persuade his wife to take him back after they broke up just weeks into their marriage. \n Marsden said he was proud of the faculty for the way they are handling the tragedy. \n \"They put their arms of healing around each other; they put their arms of healing around the students when they came in today,\" he said. \"It's just a beautiful process.\" \n School officials said security has been tightened. Police stood guard outside the school where a memorial with flowers, candles and balloons remained on a sidewalk. Counselors were available for students and staff. \n \"We will not allow the actions of one individual to interrupt our commitment to our students,\" Marsden said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bubbles, teddy bears greet kids after school shooting"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Vice President Mike Pence waves with his wife Karen Pence and his two daughters Charlotte and Audrey, right, before they leave for Japan, this week at Osan Air Base in Pyeongtaek, South Korea. \n TOKYO >> U.S. Vice President Mike Pence arrived in Japan for talks Tuesday expected to focus largely on trade with America's anchor ally in the region. \n Concluding a visit to South Korea, Pence told business leaders in Seoul the administration is taking a fresh look at trade agreements as part of its \"America First\" policy. \n \"We're reviewing all of our trade agreements across the world to ensure that they benefit our economy as much as they benefit our trading partners,\" Pence told the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea. \n White House officials said the economic meetings in Tokyo, with Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso and other officials, are meant to forge a framework for future discussions after the U.S. withdrew from a Pacific Rim trade pact. \n They will serve as the kickoff to the U.S.-Japan economic dialogue that was announced by President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in February. \n While Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. is much smaller than China's, Trump has decried the imbalance, especially in auto exports. \n In Japan, they said Pence's two main goals are to spur increased U.S. access to Japanese markets and strengthen Japanese foreign investment. \n Both sides said they do not expect the talks in Tokyo this week to delve into sector-by-sector talks on trade. With no U.S. Trade Representative yet in office and other key negotiator positions still unfilled, such nitty-gritty discussions will have to come later. \n But the meetings could indicate how forcefully the U.S. will pressure Japan to further open its farm and automotive sectors. \n Pence's advisers said the vice president would make the case to Abe and Aso that the U.S. rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, under Trump did not signal a U.S. withdrawal from trade and economic development in the region. \n Before Pence's arrival, Aso told reporters the talks were meant to provide, \"not friction, but cooperation.\" \n In preliminary meetings Tuesday, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross sat down with Japan's trade minister, Hiroshige Seko. \n Ross has said he hopes to soon begin talks on a free trade agreement with Japan. \n The loss of U.S. participation in the TPP was a blow to Japan following strenuous negotiations, especially over opening access wider to its long-protected farm sector. \n Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters over the weekend that Japan might push ahead with a revised, 11-nation version of the TPP despite the U.S. rejection of the trade accord. \n As Indiana governor, Pence saw firsthand the impact of Japanese automakers Toyota, Honda and Subaru, whose factories employ thousands of people in his home state. \n During his visit to South Korea, at the outset of his 10-day trip to Asia, Pence's attention mostly was directed at the North Korean situation. \n While inspecting the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea, Pence warned Pyongyang that after years of testing the U.S. and South Korea with its nuclear ambitions, \"the era of strategic patience is over.\" \n Suga, the Japanese government spokesman, said Japan hopes to discuss policies on North Korea with Pence and to convey a growing sense of urgency over its missile tests and other actions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pence visits Japan, turning focus to trade with key ally"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket that will carry supplies to the International Space Station stands ready at complex 41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station today in Cape Canaveral, Fla. The launch is scheduled for Tuesday morning. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> Want the world's best, up-close view of a rocket launch without being right there at the pad? \n For the first time, cameras will provide live 360-degree video of a rocket heading toward space. \n NASA will provide the 360 stream Tuesday as an unmanned Atlas rocket blasts off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, with a capsule full of space station supplies. The stream will begin 10 minutes before the scheduled 11:11 a.m. (5:11 a.m. Hawaii time) liftoff and continue until the rocket is out of sight. \n The four fisheye-lens cameras are located at the periphery of the pad, about 300 feet from the rocket. A computer in a blast-proof box will stitch together the images for a full, in-the-round view. There will be about a minute lag time. \n It will be shown on NASA's YouTube channel. \n \"It's great, I mean, to be able to get in there and experience that 360-degree view,\" said Vern Thorp, a program manager for rocket maker United Launch Alliance. Combining that with virtual reality goggles, \"it really gives you a new perspective that we've never been able to do before,\" he said at a news conference today. \n United Launch Alliance has released 360-degree video of two previous launches, but later \u2014 not live. \n Orbital ATK, one of NASA's main delivery services for the International Space Station, opted to use an Atlas V for this supply run from Cape Canaveral versus its own smaller, Virginia-based Antares rocket in order to haul up more items. The supply ship is known as the Cygnus after the swan constellation, and in this case has been named the S.S. John Glenn. \n Glenn became the first American to orbit the world in 1962 \u2014 launching on an Atlas rocket \u2014 and the oldest person to fly in space in 1998 aboard the shuttle Discovery. He died at age 95 in December. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery earlier this month. \n \"It's an honor to launch the spacecraft which has been named in memory of John Glenn,\" Thorp told reporters. Given that Glenn flew on an Atlas rocket and Tuesday's rocket is an Atlas, \"I feel like we're bridging history.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA providing 1st live 360-degree view of rocket launch"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Bernie Sanders gained roars of approval from a friendly crowd on Monday, April 17, 2017, as he called for a radical transformation of the Democratic Party into a grassroots movement founded on the tenets of his unsuccessful Democratic presidential campaign: fighting against the billionaire class and rigged economic and political systems. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> Independent U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders gained roars of approval from a friendly crowd today as he called for a radical transformation of the Democratic Party into a grassroots movement founded on the tenets of his unsuccessful Democratic presidential campaign: fighting against the billionaire class and rigged economic and political systems. \n Sanders, of Vermont, and Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez, who faced some boos as he spoke, launched a cross-country tour together in Maine, where Sanders won the Democratic presidential caucuses. The tour will take them from Maine to eight other states, including Florida, Arizona, Montana and Nevada. \n Sanders, who ran as a Democrat against Hillary Clinton but returned to the Senate as an independent, said the Democratic Party must stop ignoring half the nation's states and take on corporate greed on behalf of the working class. Perez urged attendees to resist Republican President Donald Trump by winning seats in Congress, statehouses and school boards. \n \"That's what we will do: Fight like hell with you,\" Perez said. \n A crowd of roughly 1,200 filled the State Theatre, with the loudest cheers for Sanders and jeers at mentions of the \"1 percent\" and Trump's executive orders and proposed budget cuts. \n \"Our vision for the future of this country is a very different vision than yours,\" Sanders said, as he called for living wages, protecting Planned Parenthood and fighting income inequality. \n He also said he's introducing legislation to create a single-payer health care system. \n Some in the crowd also booed at the first mention of the Democratic National Committee. Perez's predecessor, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, resigned after Sanders' campaign pounced on leaked emails that they said showed party officials had favored Clinton during the primaries. \n Some attendees said it's time to unite and reform the Democratic Party, while others said they're skeptical of the political establishment and big money in politics. \n Sean Potter, a Sanders supporter and musician from Falmouth, said he was curious to hear from Sanders, whom he noted \"kind of got shafted by\" the Democratic Party. \n Sander's appearance comes as Democratic parties nationwide are trying to appeal to the working class in states including Maine, where a resurgent Republican Party in the last decade has gained ground in rural communities roiled by the closing of paper mills and sluggish economic growth. \n Sanders drew thousands to a rally at the civic center in Portland in July 2015, showing he was more than a fringe candidate. In the end, he earned nearly two-thirds of the ballots cast in Maine's Democratic presidential caucuses to beat Clinton. Clinton, though, won the party's presidential nomination. \n Sanders also did well in rural areas that supported Republican candidate Ted Cruz, a U.S. senator from Texas, in the primary and Trump in the November election. \n Troy Jackson, a logger from the northern Maine town of Allagash and the Maine Democratic Senate leader, said it's time that Democrats to work harder for those communities. \n \"Where I'm from, people live their lives far removed from the powerful elites that seem to hold their destinies in their hands,\" he said. \n Jackson also said he's \"heard from a lot of pundits that the average American feels powerless.\" \n \"We know it's rigged,\" he said. \n Elissa Moore drove two hours to the rally from Dover-Foxcroft, where she voted for Clinton but has remained a \"big fan\" of Sanders. She's increasingly become involved with politics since Trump's inauguration and worries that gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people will suffer under his administration. \n \"Republicans picked up on something, whether it was racism or small-town America not feeling respected or understood,\" said Moore, a mother and occupational therapist. \"Democrats have the reputation of being elitist. That offended people when they went to vote.\" \n Trump has denounced racism and has promised to \"make America great again.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bernie Sanders kicks off cross-country tour, wants change"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "LOUISVILLE, Ky. >> Another man accused of assaulting protesters at a Donald Trump campaign rally in Louisville last year has countersued the president, saying he was following Trump's urging to remove them. \n Matthew Heimbach is being sued over his alleged actions at the March 1, 2016, rally. In a counter claim filed today in federal court, Heimbach says he was relying \"on Trump's authority to order disruptive persons removed,\" according to WDRB-TV. \n In his court filing, Heimbach said he \"relied on Trump's authority to have disruptive persons removed and that Trump was legally within his rights to have other attendees assist in defending their constitutional rights against 'protesters.'\" \n Another defendant at the rally, Alvin Bamberger, filed a counter claim on Friday, saying that he acted on Trump's \"urging and inspiration.\" \n Three people who claim they were assaulted at the Trump rally filed a lawsuit last year against Trump, his campaign, Heimbach and Bamberger. They say they were shoved and punched by audience members at Trump's command. Video widely broadcast during the campaign showed Trump pointing at protesters and repeating the words \"get them out.\" \n Trump's attorneys responded in a court filing Friday that Trump is immune as president from such suits. They also say the protesters waived their right to sue by buying tickets to the event, and they deny that Trump was urging the crowd to take action by repeatedly saying, \"get them out of here.\" \n A federal judge declined Trump's preliminary request to dismiss the lawsuit, ruling on April 1 that there's ample evidence that could be seen as supporting allegations that the protesters' injuries were a \"direct and proximate result\" of Trump's actions. The judge also noted that the Supreme Court has ruled out constitutional protections for speech that incites violence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man countersues Trump, says he urged Ky. protesters' removal"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image from video provided by WSB-TV in Atlanta, a portion of Interstate 20 has buckled in DeKalb County, Ga., today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo shows a portion of Interstate 20 that buckled because of an underground gas leak in Decatur, Ga., today. \n DECATUR, Ga. >> Another major highway through Atlanta was partially shut down on Monday, this one after underground utility work caused the pavement to rise up, break apart and send a passing motorcyclist flying through the air. \n While the east-west highway could reopen as soon as Tuesday, the rupture proved to be another headache for Atlanta area motorists already struggling with the collapse of an overpass on a key north-south route. \n Witnesses said the motorcyclist was riding in the carpool lane when the pavement suddenly rose up in front of him. Others rushed to his aid. DeKalb County spokesman Andrew Cauthen said he was hospitalized with multiple fractures. \n The buckling was caused by a utility crew using machinery to bore a new natural gas pipeline under Interstate 20, authorities said. \n DeKalb County police spokeswoman Shiera Campbell said a pipeline being filled with concrete ruptured, and the concrete was forced upward. \n The pressure the pavement to rise and break apart, creating a mound as high as six feet (two meters) or more in the High Occupancy Vehicle lane. \n \"Work was being performed in the area on behalf of Atlanta Gas Light,\" company spokeswoman Melissa Clontz said. \"This incident was not caused by and did not involve the release of natural gas.\" \n County spokeswoman Sarah Page said all westbound lanes were closed until further notice several miles southeast of downtown Atlanta. Westbound traffic was being diverted at Interstate 285, the city's perimeter highway. \n Repair crews were inspecting the area with ground-penetrating radar, said Natalie Dale, a spokeswoman for the Georgia Department of Transportation. \n She said they are hoping to have a few of the adjacent lanes open Monday evening and the entire road open by noon on Tuesday. \n This latest infrastructure problem added hassles to commutes already complicated by the collapse last month of an overpass on Interstate 85, due to a fire that police say was intentionally set. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Atlanta: Concrete highway rupture sends motorcyclist flying"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters of the 'no' vote chant slogans as they protest in Istanbul, against the referendum outcome today. The placards read in Turkish: 'No we will win'. Turkey's main opposition party urged the country's electoral board today to cancel the results of a landmark referendum that granted sweeping new powers to Erdogan, citing what it called substantial voting irregularities. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, gestures while delivering a speech during a rally of supporters a day after the referendum, outside the Presidential Palace, in Ankara, Turkey, today. \n ISTANBUL >> Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has finally fulfilled his long-held ambition to expand his powers after Sunday's referendum handed him the reins of his country's governance. But success did not come without a cost. \n Read more \n His victory leaves the nation deeply divided and facing increasing tension with former allies abroad, while international monitors and opposition parties have reported numerous voting irregularities. \n An unofficial tally carried by the country's state-run news agency gave Erdogan's \"yes\" vote a narrow win, with 51.4 percent approving a series of constitutional changes converting Turkey's political system from a parliamentary to a presidential one. Critics argue the reforms will hand extensive power to a man with an increasingly autocratic bent, leaving few checks and balances in place. \n Opposition parties called foul, complaining of a series of irregularities. They were particularly outraged by an electoral board decision to accept ballots that did not bear official stamps, as required by Turkish law, and called for the vote to be annulled. International monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, who also listed numerous irregularities, said the move undermined safeguards against fraud. \n The referendum campaign was heavily weighted in favor of the \"yes\" campaign, with Erdogan drawing on the full powers of the state and government to dominate the airwaves and billboards. The \"no\" campaign complained of intimidation, detentions and beatings. \n In Istanbul, hundreds of \"no\" supporters demonstrated in the streets on Monday, chanting \"thief, murderer, Erdogan\" and banging pots and pans. \n \"We are protesting today because the results announced by the government are not the real ones. Because actually the 'no' we voted won. But the government is announcing it as 'yes' has won,\" Damla Atalay, a 35-year-old lawyer, said of the voting irregularities. \n Erdogan was unfazed by the criticism as he spoke to flag-waving supporters in the Turkish capital, Ankara. \n \"We have put up a fight against the powerful nations of the world,\" he said as he arrived at the airport from Istanbul. \"The crusader mentality attacked us abroad. \u2026 We did not succumb. As a nation, we stood strong.\" \n In a speech before a massive crowd at his sprawling presidential palace complex, Erdogan insisted Turkey's referendum was \"the most democratic election \u2026 ever seen in any Western country\" and admonished the OSCE monitors to \"know your place.\" \n The increasing polarization of Turkish society has long worried Turkey observers, who note the dangers of deepening societal divisions in a country with a history of political instability. \n The referendum was held with a state of emergency still in place, imposed after an attempted coup in July. About 100,000 people have been fired from their jobs in the crackdown that followed on supporters of a U.S.-based Islamic cleric and former Erdogan ally who the president blamed for the attempted putsch. Tens of thousands have been arrested or imprisoned, including lawmakers, judges, journalists and businessmen. \n On Monday, the country's Council of Ministers decided to extend the state of emergency, which grants greater powers of detention and arrest to security forces, for a further three months. It had been due to expire April 19. The decision was to be sent to parliament for approval. \n \"The way (Erdogan) has closed the door on the opposition, there is likely to be increased political unrest,\" said Howard Eissenstat, associate professor of Middle East history at St. Lawrence University in upstate New York. \"Forty-eight percent of the population is being told that their voices don't matter.\" \n There is also the risk of increased international isolation, with Erdogan appealing to patriotic sentiments by casting himself as a champion of a proud Turkish nation that will not be dictated to by foreign powers in general, and the European Union in particular. \n Turkey has been an EU candidate for decades, but its accession efforts have been all but moribund for several years. \n \"They have made us wait at the gates of the European Union for 54 years,\" Erdogan told his supporters at the presidential palace. \"We can conduct a vote of confidence on this as well. Would we? What did England do \u2014 they did Brexit, right?\" \n \"Either they will hold their promises to Turkey or they'll have to bear the consequences,\" he added. \n Erdogan has also vowed to consider reinstating the death penalty \u2014 a move that would all but end prospects of EU membership. But, he insisted, other nations' opinions on the issue are irrelevant to him. \n \"Our concern is not what George or Hans or Helga says. Our concern is what Hatice, Ayse, Fatma, Ahmet, Mehmet, Hasan, H\u00fcseyin says,\" he thundered as the crowd of supporters chanted for the return of capital punishment. \"What Allah says. That's why our parliament will make this decision.\" \n Both Germany and France expressed concern about possible election irregularities and called on Erdogan to engage in dialogue with the opposition. \n \"The narrow result of the vote shows how deeply split the Turkish society is,\" German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in a joint statement. \"This implies a big responsibility for the Turkish government and President Erdogan personally.\" \n The U.S. State Department \"encouraged voters and parties on both sides to focus on working together for Turkey's future,\" while calling on the government to protect rights and freedoms \"regardless of their vote on April 16.\" \n The words are unlikely to move Erdogan. \n Relations with Germany and the Netherlands have been particularly tense, with Erdogan outraged by decisions in both countries not to allow his government to campaign there to woo the expatriate vote for the referendum. \n The referendum approves 18 constitutional amendments to replace Turkey's parliamentary system with a presidential one. \n The president will be able to appoint ministers, senior government officials and to hold sway over who sits in Turkey's highest judicial body, as well as to issue decrees and declare states of emergency. They set a limit of two five-year terms for presidents. \n The new system takes effect at the next election, currently slated for 2019. Other changes are to be implemented sooner, including scrapping a requirement that the president not be a member of any political party. This would allow Erdogan to rejoin the governing AK Party he co-founded, or to lead it. \n \"Erdogan dominated the national media. He imposed a very restrictive environment for the 'no' camp,\" said Fadi Hakura, a Turkey specialist at the London-based Chatham House think tank. \"He secured a thin majority of 1 percent. This suggests that Erdogan will become more robust and more challenging to deal with.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Turkey's president Erdogan fulfils ambition, but at a cost"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, followed by his son Barron, walks on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington today to participate in the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. \n WASHINGTON >> Ignoring concerns raised by international monitoring groups, President Donald Trump called Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan today to congratulate him on the country's contested referendum greatly expanding presidential powers. \n The move comes despite protests from opposition parties and international monitoring groups \u2014 as well as Trump's own State Department \u2014 about voting irregularities during Sunday's referendum. And it aligns Trump with a leader who has taken on an increasingly authoritarian bent. \n Voters Sunday narrowly approved constitutional amendments that will replace Turkey's parliamentary system with a presidential one. Under the new system, the president will be able to appoint ministers and senior government officials, issue decrees and declare states of emergency. \n Opposition parties have complained of a series of irregularities, including an electoral board decision to accept ballots that did not bear official stamps, as required by Turkish law. International monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said the move undermined safeguards against fraud. \n Earlier today, U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner echoed the concerns raised by the OSCE, pointing to \"observed irregularities\" on voting day and \"an uneven playing field\" during the campaign. \n Erdogan, meanwhile, called the referendum \"the most democratic election \u2026 ever seen in any Western country\" and admonished the OSCE monitors to \"know your place.\" \n Critics argue the reforms in Turkey will hand extensive power to a man with an increasingly autocratic bent and leave few checks and balances in place. \n Underscoring the complicated relationship between the U.S. and Turkey, the White House readout of Trump's call also noted the pressing issues on which the U.S. has tried to work with Turkey, namely fighting the Islamic State group and quelling Syria's civil war. \n Earlier today, the White House had sidestepped questions on the referendum, with spokesman Sean Spicer saying the U.S. wanted to let an international commission review the results. \n \"They have a right to have elections and their people participated in that,\" Spicer said. \"Before we start getting into their government system, let this commission get through its work.\" \n Erdogan had a bumpy relationship with Trump's predecessor. President Barack Obama initially viewed Erdogan as a possible model for a new generation of Muslim leaders and traveled to Turkey early in his first year in office. The two men spoke frequently during the start of Obama's tenure. \n But as Erdogan took a turn toward authoritarianism, his relationship with Obama worsened. \n Last year, Obama said there were trends in Turkey that he was \"troubled with,\" including a fierce crackdown on the press. \n \"There is no doubt that President Erdogan has been repeatedly elected through a democratic process, but I think the approach that they've been taking towards the press is one that could lead Turkey down a path that would be very troubling,\" Obama said in an April 2016 news conference. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House: Trump congratulates Erdogan after disputed win"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a Monday photo, Democratic Congressional candidate Jon Ossoff greets supporters outside of the East Roswell Branch Library in Roswell, Ga., on the first day of early voting. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The post election dominoes of President Donald Trumps administration picks and a California Democratic appointment have created five openings in the U.S. House of Representatives, including in the 6th Congressional District in suburban Atlanta. Eighteen candidates, including the ones seen in this compilation of campaign advertisements, are running in a special election today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic congressional candidate Jon Ossoff is seen with supporters outside of the East Roswell Branch Library in Roswell, Ga., on Monday, the first day of early voting. \n ALPHARETTA, Ga. >> President Donald Trump today attacked his political enemies seeking an upset in Georgia's special congressional election, blasting the leading Democratic candidate as a \"super liberal\" who \"wants to protect criminals, allow illegal immigration and raise taxes!\" \n Trump did not expound on his unfounded accusations about 30-year-old Jon Ossoff, but the president's Twitter broadside a day before the special primary underscores how big a Democratic victory would be nationwide and in Atlanta's historically conservative northern suburbs. \n Ossoff, who has used anti-Trump sentiments nationally to collect at least $8.3 million in campaign contributions, countered today that Trump is \"misinformed,\" but added that he's \"glad the president is interested in the race.\" \n Republicans and Democrats alike see the contest as an important barometer of Trump's standing ahead of 2018 midterm elections, when Democrats will try to regain control of Congress. \n The Georgia district, represented previously by Trump's new health secretary, Tom Price, encompasses reliably Republican territory across parts of three metro Atlanta counties. But Trump underperformed here in November, barely edging Democrat Hillary Clinton and falling short of a majority. In 2012, by contrast, Republican nominee Mitt Romney garnered more than 60 percent of the vote. \n Even the leading Republican candidates concede that Ossoff will lead an 18-candidate \"jungle primary\" that places all candidates on the same ballot. The question is whether he can win an outright majority. \n GOP hopeful Karen Handel said today that she is confident enough Republicans will cast ballots to hold Ossoff short of a majority, thus setting up a June 20 runoff between the Democratic upstart and Tuesday's top Republican performer. \n \"Republican voters are not going to sit by and let this district go to a Democrat,\" Handel said. \n But the mere possibility has national observers watching closely, particularly because the district is dominated by the kind of suburban voters Democrats need to have any chance at a House majority. \n The scrutiny grew even more intense after last week's special congressional election in Kansas, where Republican Ron Estes won by just single-digits in a Wichita-based district that Trump had carried easily. \n Ossoff today continued walking a fine line between embracing the national energy and trying to make the contest a purely local one. \"This is not about me. This is about us,\" he told a few hundred supporters tonight. \"This is about this community. This is about the kind of community we want to live in. The kind of country we believe in.\" \n Ossoff did not mention his exchange with Trump \u2014 or call the president by name at all \u2014 during his remarks. \n Handel, a GOP establishment favorite who served previously as Georgia secretary of state, also has worked to localize the race. \n \"My closing argument is the same as my opening argument, that we need an experienced individual with a track record of delivering real results,\" she said while campaigning today in an upscale shopping district. \n That has made her an outlier among top Republican contenders. \n Wealthy technology executive Bob Gray has cozied up to Trump from the start, running ads that show him, literally, draining a swamp \u2014 a nod to one of Trump's campaign signatures. Gray pledges to be a \"willing partner\" for the new administration. \n Former state Sen. Judson Hill is touting his endorsement from Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, one of a gaggle of Republican presidential hopefuls that Trump vanquished. Hill's campaign is using Rubio on a recorded phone pitch to Republican households. \n Ossoff, meanwhile, has tried to capitalize on intense anti-Trump sentiments among liberals, while still coaxing disaffected independents and moderate Republicans who normally wouldn't consider voting Democratic. \n Responding to Trump's tweet, Ossoff said in his statement that he is \"focused on bringing fresh leadership, accountability and bipartisan problem solving to Washington.\" \n National Republicans have sought to blunt Ossoff's momentum by tying him to national Democrats, particularly House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. The California Democrat is an unpopular figure in this Georgia district that once sent former House Speaker Newt Gingrich to Capitol Hill. \n Still, that message hasn't come with the same financial muscle as Ossoff's non-stop television campaign. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a political action committee backed by House Speaker Paul Ryan, has plunked more than $2 million into Ossoff attacks, an impressive sum but only about a quarter of the Democrat's campaign haul. \n Ossoff's quest for an outright victory may depend on low Republican turnout. \n Almost 55,000 voters cast early ballots, according to the Georgia Secretary of State. Various campaigns say they expect somewhere between 100,000 and 125,000 total votes out of nearly 440,000 registered active voters. The lower the turnout, the greater the chance that Ossoff's enthusiastic core of support would clear the majority threshold. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump attacks lead Democrat in Georgia congressional race"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Cleveland Police shows Steve Stephens. Cleveland police said they are searching for Stephens, a homicide suspect, who recorded himself shooting another man and then posted the video on Facebook on Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A makeshift memorial sits along a fence today near where Robert Godwin Sr., was killed in Cleveland. Police said Steve Stephens killed Godwin on Sunday and posted the video on Facebook. \n CLEVELAND >> In a rambling video, Steve Stephens said, \"I snapped, I just snapped.\" But as the manhunt dragged on today for the man accused of posting Facebook footage of himself killing a retiree, police were unable to explain what set him off. \n \"Only Steve knows that,\" Cleveland police Chief Calvin Williams said as authorities posted a $50,000 reward for Stephens' capture in the shooting of Robert Godwin Sr., a 74-year-old former foundry worker. \n In the video, Stephens blamed a former girlfriend he had lived with, saying he woke up last week and \"couldn't take it anymore.\" But in a statement today, the woman shed little light on what might have gone wrong and said Stephens was good to her and her children. \n As for the shooting victim, Godwin appeared to have been selected at random, gunned down while picking up aluminum cans Sunday afternoon after spending Easter with some of his children. \n A manhunt that started in Cleveland's gritty east side expanded rapidly into a nationwide search for Stephens, a 37-year-old job counselor who worked with teens and young adults, police said. \n \"He could be nearby. He could be far away or anywhere in between,\" FBI agent Stephen Anthony said. \n Law enforcement officials said his cellphone signal was last detected on Sunday afternoon in Erie, Pennsylvania, about 100 miles east of Cleveland. \n Police reported getting dozens and dozens of tips, and nine schools in Philadelphia were locked down today while authorities investigated possible sightings of Stephens. But they said there was no sign he was actually there. \n Some of those who know Stephens described him as pleasant and kind, while some said he had a gambling problem. He filed for bankruptcy two years ago. \n In another video posted to Facebook, Stephens said that he gambled away everything and that he and his girlfriend had planned to marry but didn't, without saying why. \n \"He got along with everybody, so it's just unbelievable what happened,\" said Alexis Lee, a friend who saw Stephens last week. \n The police chief said: \"We are not going to pinpoint a specific thing and say this is what triggered this, because we don't know.\" \n Godwin's daughter said he was killed while collecting cans in a plastic shopping bag. \n \"Not because he needed the money, it was just something he did,\" said 52-year-old Debbie Godwin. \"That's all he was doing. He wasn't harming anyone.\" \n She said her father, who had 10 children, was a gentle man with nothing mean about him. \n Dozens of family, friends and community members gathered this evening in Cleveland for a vigil to remember Godwin. They hugged and comforted each other, while urging an end to the violence on their city streets. \n In the shooting video, Stephens told Godwin a woman's name and said, \"She's the reason that this is about to happen to you.\" The victim did not seem to recognize the woman's name. The gunman then pointed a weapon at Godwin, who shielded his face with the plastic bag. \n The woman Stephens spoke of, Joy Lane, said in a text to CBS that \"we had been in a relationship for several years. I am sorry that all of this has happened.\" She said Stephens was \"a nice guy\" who was generous to everyone. \n The video of the killing was on Facebook for about three hours before it was taken down. \n Investigators said that Godwin was the only victim so far linked to Stephens, despite his claim in a separate video on Facebook that he killed more than a dozen people. \n Detectives spoke with Stephens on Sunday by cellphone and tried to persuade him to surrender, police said. \n Stephens worked at Beech Brook, a social services agency in suburban Cleveland that deals with vulnerable young people. He helped them gain job skills and find employment, said Beech Brook spokeswoman Nancy Kortemeyer. \n An extensive background check before he was hired turned up nothing worrisome, she said. \n Stephens filed for bankruptcy in January 2015. His attorney at the time, Trent Binger, said today that he remembered Stephens discussing gambling problems. \n \"He was an easy client to deal with,\" Binger said. \"Always respectful to me \u2026 well-mannered.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man accused of Facebook video killing said he 'just snapped'"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A close-up view of the ice-walled canyon at the terminus of the Kaskawulsh Glacier, with recently collapsed ice blocks, as seen in 2016. This canyon now carries almost all meltwater from the toe of the glacier down the Kaskawulsh Valley and toward the Gulf of Alaska and the Pacific Ocean instead of the Bering Sea. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sections of the newly exposed, once underwater, bed of Kluane Lake exhibited small pinnacles, as seen in 2016. Wind has eroded sediments with a harder layer on top that forms a protective cap as the wind erodes softer and sandier sediment below. These pinnacles, just a few centimeters high, are small-scale versions of what are sometimes termed \"hoodoos.\" \n WASHINGTON >> Scientists have witnessed the first modern case of what they call \"river piracy\" and they blame global warming. Most of the water gushing from a large glacier in northwest Canada last year suddenly switched from one river to another. \n That changed the Slims River from a 10-foot deep, raging river to something so shallow that it barely was above a scientist's high top sneakers at midstream. The melt from the Yukon's Kaskawulsh glacier now flows mostly into the Alsek River and ends up in the Pacific Ocean instead of the Arctic's Bering Sea. \n It seemed to all happen in about one day \u2014 last May 26 \u2014 based on river gauge data, said Dan Shugar, a University of Washington Tacoma professor who studies how land changes. A 100-foot tall canyon formed at the end of the glacier, rerouting the melting water, Shugar and his colleagues wrote in a study published in today's journal Nature Geoscience . \n The term \"river piracy\" is usually used to describe events that take a long time to occur, such as tens of thousands of years, and had not been seen in modern times, especially not this quickly, said study co-author Jim Best of the University of Illinois. It's different from something like the Mississippi River changing course at its delta and it involves more than one river and occurs at the beginning of a waterway, not the end. \n The scientists had been to the edge of the Kaskawulsh glacier in 2013. Then the Slims River was \"swift, cold and deep\" and flowing fast enough that it could be dangerous to wade through, Shugar said. They returned last year to find the river shallow and as still as a lake, while the Alsek, was deeper and flowing faster. \n \"We were really surprised when we got there and there was basically no water in the river,\" Shugar said of the Slims. \"We could walk across it and we wouldn't get our shirts wet. It was like a snake-shaped lake rather than a river.\" \n What had been a river delta at the edge of the Slims River had changed into a place full of \"afternoon dust storms with this fine dust getting into your nose and your mouth,\" Best said. \n The lack of water in the Slims wasn't because of changes in rainfall, Shugar said. They know that because it's a river fed mostly by glacial melt, not rain, and the Alsek increased in amounts similar to what disappeared from the Slims. \n The Kaskawulsh glacier covers about 9,650 square miles, about the size of Vermont. The front of the glacier has retreated nearly 1.2 miles since 1899, Shugar said. \n The scientists calculate that there is only a 1 in 200 chance that the retreating glacier and river piracy is completely natural without man-made global warming. They used weather and ice observations and a computer simulation that models how likely the glacier retreat would be with current conditions and without heat-trapping greenhouse gases. \n Several outside scientists praised the study as significant and sensible. \n \"This is an interesting study and reconfirms that climate change has large, widespread and sometimes surprising impacts,\" Pennsylvania State University glacier expert Richard Alley, who wasn't part of the study, said in an email. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Canada glacier melt rerouted in rare case of 'river piracy'"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Investigators examined debris that fell on the Breton Bay Golf and Country Club after an Army UH-60 helicopter from Fort Belvoir, Va., crashed, today, in Leonardtown, Md. \n LEONARDTOWN, Md. >> The Latest on a military helicopter crash in southern Maryland (all times local): \n 5:20 p.m.  \n The U.S. Army says one crew member died and two were injured when a helicopter crashed in Maryland during a routine training flight. \n The U.S. Army Military District of Washington said in a statement this evening that the UH-60 Blackhawk that crashed is from the 12th Aviation Battalion, stationed at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. \n Three crew members were on board. The Army says one crew member is in serious condition and one is in critical condition. \n They are being treated at the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center at the University of Maryland Medical Center in Baltimore. \n None of the crew members was immediately identified. \n The helicopter went down on a golf course in Leonardtown, about 60 miles outside of Washington. The cause of the crash is under investigation. \n 3:15 p.m. \n A northern Virginia Army base says one of its helicopters with three crew members on board went down in southern Maryland, and one crew member was evacuated from the scene. \n Fort Belvoir said in a post on its Facebook page that the UH-60 helicopter made a \"hard landing\" around 1:50 p.m. today near Leonardtown, Maryland. \n There was no immediate word on the condition of the crew member who was medically evacuated or the other two who were aboard. \n Fort Belvoir referred further questions to the U.S. Army's Military District of Washington. The public affairs office said it was working on a statement. \n Fort Belvoir is located near the Potomac River south of Washington. \n 2:30 p.m. \n Authorities say a military helicopter has crashed in southern Maryland. \n Maryland State Police spokesman Sgt. Davaughn Parker said a Black Hawk helicopter crashed in Leonardtown on this afternoon. He says state police have sent two medevac helicopters to the scene to assist. \n Kevin Bowen, who works in the pro shop of the Breton Bay Golf and Country Club in Leonardtown, says he saw the helicopter \"flying kind of low\" and then \"saw it spinning\" before it went down between the third and fourth holes of the golf course. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Army says 1 dead, 2 injured in helicopter crash"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A photo at the Museum of the American Revolution depicts Native American people in a gallery dedicated to the Oneida Indian Nation who fought in support of the colonists. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Alongside a display of the Declaration of Independence at the Museum of the American Revolution, a separate tableau tells the story of Mumbet, an enslaved black woman in Massachusetts who, upon hearing the document read aloud, announced that its proclamation that \"all men are created equal\" should also include her. \n In response, her master hit her with a frying pan. Mumbet sued him, won her freedom in court, changed her name to Elizabeth Freeman and became a nurse. Her case set a precedent prohibiting slavery in the state. \n The story is a reminder that during the struggle for our nation's liberty, the 400,000 African Americans who lived in slavery in 1776 also longed to be free. \n Such stories are found throughout the museum, which opens Wednesday in Philadelphia \u2014 coinciding with the 242nd anniversary of the battle at Lexington and Concord, the \"shot heard 'round the world\" that began the Revolutionary War in 1775. The more inclusive, clear-eyed view of the country's turning points is an intentional departure from the whitewashed story America has often told itself and the world. \n Instead, the museum seeks to show visitors that the Revolution was a set of aspirational ideas founded on equality, individual rights and freedom that remain relevant today, said president Michael Quinn. \n \"These ideas rallied people from all walks of life, and they took those ideas to heart,\" Quinn said \"What unifies us as a people is our shared, common commitment to these ideas.\" \n At several points throughout the museum, visitors are forced to confront the contradictions of the high-minded ideals of the framers of the Constitution and the realities of their time, including slavery and the second-class status of women. Slavery, for example, would expand for nearly another century after the Revolutionary War ended, and despite arguing for their liberty at the start of America, women in the United States would fight for suffrage into the early 20th century. \n The message: The ideals of the American Revolution belong not only to the founding fathers long revered by our country, but also to the founding generation of Americans who first heard them, and the generations that have come since. \n \"For over two centuries, if you said the words 'founders of this country,' the image that would pop to most people's minds would be a white man,\" said Scott Stephenson, vice president of collections, exhibitions and programming. \"Increasingly, we at museums have realized we have got to tell a broader story.\" \n One exhibit features the story of the Oneida Indians, one of the first allies to support the nascent America, who fought and died alongside the colonist soldiers. Also on display is the active role of African-Americans, enslaved and free, in the war, fighting with both the Continental and British armies, showed that blacks were patriots also fighting for their own freedom. \n Historical interpretations conjured from diaries and letters of the lives of five men and women who took various routes to freedom during the war are presented in an interactive digital installation. In paintings, dioramas and exhibits, the stories of figures including poet Phillis Wheatley and William Lee, valet to Gen. George Washington, challenge the idea of who could claim the title of \"revolutionary.\" \n Visitors are asked to consider the question, \"Freedom for whom?\" said Adrienne Whaley, the museum's manager for school programs. \n \"The struggle to become free predates the Revolution, and it continues after the war is over,\" she said. \"The promise of America is defined by the ways in which we treat these people.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Founding generation, not just fathers, focus of new museum"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Then-Supreme Court Justice nominee Neil Gorsuch testified, March 22, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Justice Neil Gorsuch dived into the public side of his new job today, piping up early and often as he took his seat on the Supreme Court bench for the first time to hear arguments. \n The new justice waited just 11 minutes before asking questions in the first of three cases the court heard today, its first session since President Donald Trump's pick was sworn in one week earlier. \n The 49-year-old Gorsuch echoed his own confirmation hearing testimony with questions focused on the text of federal laws and rules at issue before the court. He employed a bit of humor, expressed a modicum of humility, showed a hint of irritation and even channeled Justice Antonin Scalia, the man he replaced, with a touch of sarcasm. \n \"Wouldn't it be a lot easier if we just followed the plain text of the statute?\" Gorsuch asked during the first argument, a highly technical case about which court federal employees go to with some discrimination claims. \n That question sounded a lot like the answer Gorsuch gave last month, when he was pressed to defend an opinion he wrote against a fired trucker. \"Senator, all I can tell you is my job is to apply the law you write,\" he said then. \n While some of the other justices slouched, rocked back in their chairs or leaned their chin or forehead on their hands, Gorsuch sat straight in his high-backed chair, to the far left of Chief Justice John Roberts. \n The justices sit by order of seniority, with the two longest-serving members of the court flanking the chief justice. The two newest justices sit on either end of the bench. The justices had removed one chair from the bench after Scalia died more than 14 months ago. Today's session was the first since then with the ninth chair restored, and nine justices present. \n Roberts issued the standard welcome for new justices, wishing Gorsuch \"a long and happy career in our common calling.\" Gorsuch thanked his new colleagues for their \"warm welcome.\" \n He shared a laugh with his seatmate, Justice Sonia Sotomayor, before arguments began. \n The first case was so dense that even the justices who can wax eloquent over a misplaced comma were beside themselves. \n \"Who wrote this statute? Somebody who takes pleasure out of pulling the wings off flies?\" Justice Samuel Alito said to laughter. \n Gorsuch drew a few laughs of his own in an exchange with lawyer Christopher Landau, who is representing a former federal worker. \n \"I think I am maybe emphatically agreeing with you and\u2026,\" Landau said. \n Gorsuch cut in: \"I hope so.\" \n But at another point, when Landau said his client wasn't asking the court to break new ground in its decision, Gorsuch launched a zinger reminiscent of Scalia. \n \"No, just to continue to make it up,\" he said. \n He also apologized to Landau for asking so many questions in a row. \"I'm sorry for taking up so much time,\" Gorsuch said. \n In the second case, he repeatedly tried to elicit an answer from lawyer Shay Dvoretzky. \n \"If you'd just answer my question, I'd be grateful,\" Gorsuch said, flashing frustration. \n The cases are expected to be decided before the end of June. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gorsuch dives into the fray at first Supreme Court arguments"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE \n Katt Williams was sentenced to three years of probation after pleading no contest and will have to attend anger management classes for stealing a celebrity photographer's camera. \n LOS ANGELES >> Comedian Katt Williams was sentenced to three years of probation after pleading no contest to stealing a celebrity photographer's camera. \n Los Angeles prosecutors said today that Williams will also need to attend anger management classes. \n In September 2014, a celebrity photographer accused Williams and former rap music mogul Marion \"Suge\" Knight of stealing her camera. The photographer said she suffered a concussion after an associate of the men attacked her. \n Williams' attorney has said in court the comedian briefly took the camera from an associate only to erase any images of Knight's son, who was with his father visiting a Beverly Hills studio. \n His attorney didn't immediately comment today. \n Charges against Knight are still pending. He's also charged in a separate murder case and has pleaded not guilty to all charges. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Comedian Katt Williams pleads no contest to taking camera"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eleven-month-old Victoria Cheng and her mother Guliana Cheng, both from San Francisco, prepared to participate in the White House Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, accompanied by the Eastern bunny, waved from the Truman Balcony of the White House in Washington, today, during the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michael McGee, 5, posed with an Easter bunny during the White House Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> Opening his first White House Easter Egg Roll, President Donald Trump extolled the strength of America as thousands of kids, and some adults, reveled in the time-honored tradition of rolling hard-boiled eggs across the manicured lawn in his backyard. \n \"This is the 139th Easter Egg Roll. Think of it, 139,\" Trump said today, welcoming families to the annual event, which was dampened by intermittent rain. \"And we will be stronger and bigger and better as a nation than ever before. We're right on track,\" he said, speaking of the nation's strength under fewer than 100 days of his leadership. \n Trump's wife, Melania, and their son, Barron, 11, and the Easter Bunny joined him on a balcony overlooking the expansive lawn before they went downstairs to join some of the 21,000 people who were expected to attend what is the biggest social event every year at the White House. \n Before joining the festivities with his family, Trump thanked his wife for \"working on this for a long time to make it perfect.\" \n There was, however, some speculation about whether the Trumps would be able to pull off a successful \"egg-stravaganza.\" Planning seemed to get off to a late start, with the Trumps taking longer than in previous years to announce today's date. \n Both Trump and the first lady have been slow to fill White House jobs, and at least one regular egg roll vendor took to Twitter, the president's favorite social medium, to remind the White House that a deadline for ordering the wooden eggs that are given out as souvenirs was approaching. \n But the egg rolling event, which dates to 1878, wouldn't be made to disappear. It was just made smaller, down from the 35,000 people who got tickets last year, but retaining such activities as a reading nook, an area to send messages to U.S. troops and an entertainment stage. \n \"As we renew this tradition, thank you for joining us,\" the first lady said. \n Moments later, Trump blew a whistle three times, each time sending groups of youngsters scurrying to deftly use a wooden spoon to maneuver their dyed egg several yards across the finish line. He, the first lady and Barron also joined kids at a table to color cards to send to U.S. service members. \n Trump's older sons, Don Jr. and Eric, and their wives, and daughter Tiffany also attended. \n Seven-year-old Johnny Wilmer of Arlington, Virginia, said his egg-rolling effort ended with a second-place finish. It was his first Easter egg roll, and he said while he and his father, Jack, waited for Trump to appear that the experience had been \"great.\" \n Over at the reading area, Mrs. Trump read \"Party Animals,\" a story about celebrating differences written by television personality Kathie Lee Gifford. \n Costumed characters roaming the grounds included Elmo from \"Sesame Street,\" Dr. Seuss' Cat in the Hat, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and some of the Racing Presidents, who are mascots for the Washington Nationals of Major League Baseball. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump welcomes 21,000 to his first Easter Egg Roll"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump shakes hands with Chinese President Xi Jinping as he arrives before dinner at Mar-a-Lago resort, in Palm Beach, Fla. \n WASHINGTON >> Once soft on Russia and hard on China, President Donald Trump rapidly reversed course in the last weeks, concluding there's more business to be done with Beijing than with Moscow. \n Trump's evolving views on those two world powers have brought the U.S. back into alignment with former President Barack Obama's pattern of \"great power\" politics. Though Russia critics welcomed Trump's newly hardened tone, there's less enthusiasm from America's allies in Asia, who fear the U.S. could overlook China's more aggressive posture toward its neighbors. \n It may be that Trump, the businessman-turned-world leader, is discovering China's transactional approach to foreign relations is better suited to achieving his own goals. Chinese leaders have sought a U.S. relationship based on the two powers respecting each other's spheres of influence and not intervening in one another's internal affairs. \n Such a balance-of-powers approach had been Russia's traditional stance. Moscow still wants Washington out of its backyard, but Russia's alleged campaigns to influence the U.S. presidential election and upcoming votes in the heart of Western Europe have made it harder for American officials to take the offer seriously. Russia's support for Syrian President Bashar Assad and Trump's newfound commitment to militarily countering any chemical weapons attacks also is proving hard to square. \n Also, Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin's shared tendency toward nationalist, \"don't-mess-with-us\" rhetoric may be putting the pair on a collision course. \n The sudden U-turn for Trump has been head-snapping for people around the world, despite his self-professed penchant for unpredictability and willingness to adapt to changing circumstances. \n As the Republican presidential nominee, Trump praised Putin repeatedly as a strong, \"very smart\" leader. Trump dismissed America's Russia hawks as \"stupid people or fools\" and predicted that under his leadership the Cold War foes would \"work together to solve some of the many great and pressing problems and issues of the world.\" \n Trump's gestures to Moscow even fueled perceptions that his campaign and Russia were colluding to help him get elected \u2014 a possibility the FBI is now investigating. \n \"Frankly, if we got along with Russia and knocked out ISIS, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing,\" Trump told a radio host in October, citing his still unrealized goal to have both countries cooperate to defeat the Islamic State group. \n This past week, it was the opposite message, as the U.S. and Russia feuded about Syria. \n \"We're not getting along with Russia at all,\" Trump said. \"We may be at an all-time low.\" \n Trump's declaration came at a joint news conference with the leader of NATO, an alliance established as a Cold War bulwark against the Soviet Union. Trump had dismissed NATO as \"obsolete,\" but now says it is \"no longer obsolete.\" \n As he shifts away from Russia, Trump is offering an outstretched hand to China. Trump recently hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping at Trump's Florida resort, and on Thursday hailed Xi as a \"terrific person\" and a \"very special man.\" \n For years Trump said that China was \"eating our lunch,\" and he peppered his campaign rallies with promises to label China a currency manipulator as one of his first acts. He even threatened to start a trade war, arguing that China's trade surplus was the reason for America's economic woes. \n Trump's growing focus on the North Korean threat, heightened by signs the North might soon conduct another nuclear test, has changed Trump's thinking. Now he is looking for help from China, North Korea's dominant trade partner, and easing up on his rhetoric. \"I think China has really been working very hard\" on North Korea, he said. \n Coinciding with this new assessment was Trump's announcement that he won't declare China a currency manipulator. It was Trump's second major concession to Xi, after backing away from a threat to abandon America's \"One China\" policy that sees Taiwan as part of China. \n So what did Trump, the self-declared deal-maker, get in return? \n \"The U.S. hasn't gotten anything from China yet,\" said Evan Medeiros, who was Obama's top Asia adviser in the White House. \"The question becomes, if they don't give him what he wants, what happens next?\" \n Trump and White House aides have pointed to Beijing's move to restrict coal imports from North Korea as a sign it's listening to Trump. But the restriction merely put in place U.N. sanctions passed last year with China's support \u2014 before Trump took office. \n Although U.S. allies Japan and South Korea are heartened by Trump's North Korea focus, his softer tack toward Beijing is causing concern. China's other designs for Asia include staking sovereignty to maritime territories, sometimes far from its coast, that others countries claim as well. \n Despite Trump's argument that China is taking North Korea seriously, China remains adamantly opposed to U.S. deployment of an advanced missile defense system in South Korea. Trump, like Obama before him, insists the system's sole purpose is to protect against the North. Beijing isn't so sure and doesn't like such sophisticated radar being able to peer into Chinese territory. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Changing Trump views toward Russia, China worry some allies"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alex Jones, center right, was escorted by police out of a crowd of protesters outside the Republican convention in Cleveland in July 2016. A lawyer defending Jones, a the right-wing radio host and conspiracy theorist, in a child-custody dispute said Jones is a \"performance artist\" whose on-air persona differs from the private man. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> The right-wing radio host and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones is a performance artist whose true personality is nothing like his on-air persona, according to a lawyer defending the \"Infowars\" broadcaster in a child custody battle. \n Attorney Randall Wilhite said at a pretrial hearing in Austin last week that evaluating Jones based on his on-air comments is like judging Jack Nicholson based on his role as the Joker in \"Batman.\" \n Jury selection in the case began today and Kelly Jones is seeking sole or joint custody of the children, ages 14, 12 and 9. \n Alex Jones began on public access television in Austin and his \"Infowars\" programming on radio, YouTube and other platforms draws millions of listeners \n Infowars.com, for instance, had 7.6 million global unique visitors from March 16 to April 14, according to Quantcast, which measures web audiences. Quantcast ranked Infowars.com 387th among all U.S. websites, not far behind Texas.gov, MLB.com and PBS.org. \n Infowars.com has alleged that the Newtown, Connecticut, school shooting was a hoax and that the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks involved the federal government. \n The Alex Jones YouTube channel has more than 2 million subscribers and more than 1.2 billion video views. \n He drew praise from Donald Trump when Trump was a candidate for the White House, telling Jones in December 2015: \"Your reputation is amazing. I will not let you down.\" \n But the judge overseeing the custody case, state District Judge Orlinda Naranjo, told lawyers last week that the focus of the trial must be on the Jones children. \n \"This case is not about 'Infowars' and I don't want it to be about 'Infowars,'\" she said. \n Jones pays $43,000 a month to Kelly Jones, whom he divorced in 2015, the newspaper reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Infowars' host Jones disputes persona in custody battle"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Prince performed, in Feb. 2007, during the halftime show at the Super Bowl XLI football game in Miami. Nearly a year after Prince died from an accidental drug overdose in his suburban Minneapolis studio and estate, investigators still haven't interviewed a key associate nor asked a grand jury to investigate potential criminal charges, according to an official with knowledge of the investigation. \n MINNEAPOLIS >> A doctor who saw Prince in the days before he died had prescribed the painkiller oxycodone under the name of Prince's friend to protect the musician's privacy, according to court documents unsealed today that revealed nothing about how the pop superstar got the fentanyl that actually killed him. \n The affidavits and search warrants were unsealed in Carver County District Court as the yearlong investigation into Prince's death continues. The documents show authorities searched Paisley Park, cellphone records of Prince's associates, and Prince's email accounts to try to determine how he got the fentanyl, a synthetic drug 50 times more powerful than heroin. \n They don't reveal answers, but do shed light on Prince's struggle with addiction to prescription opioids in the days before he died. Oxycodone, the generic name for the active ingredient in OxyContin, was not listed as a cause of Prince's death. But it is part of a family of painkillers driving the nation's overdose and addiction epidemic, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Nearly 2 million Americans abused or were addicted to prescription opioids, including oxycodone, in 2014. \n Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at his Paisley Park home on April 21. \n Just six days earlier, Prince fell ill on a plane and made an emergency stop in Illinois as he was returning home from a concert in Atlanta. First responders revived him with two doses of a drug that reverses the effects of an opioid overdose. \n A search of Prince's home yielded numerous pills in various containers. Some were in prescription bottles for Kirk Johnson, Prince's longtime friend and associate. Some pills in other bottles were marked \"Watson 853,\" a label used for a drug that is a mix of acetaminophen and hydrocodone. Last August, an official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press that at least one of those pills tested positive for fentanyl, meaning the pill was counterfeit and obtained illegally. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because of the ongoing investigation. \n In addition to the dozens of pills recovered, authorities also found a pamphlet for an addiction recovery center in California, the documents unsealed today show. The day before Prince died, Paisley Park staffers contacted the California addiction specialist as they were trying to get Prince help. \n One affidavit says Dr. Michael Todd Schulenberg, a family doctor who saw Prince April 7, 2016, and again on April 20, acknowledged to authorities that he prescribed oxycodone for Prince the same day as the emergency plane landing \"but put the prescription in Kirk Johnson's name for Prince's privacy.\" \n Authorities also searched Johnson's cellphone records, to see who he was communicating within the month before Prince died. \n Messages left with attorneys for Schulenberg and Johnson weren't immediately returned today. Schulenberg has an active medical license and is currently practicing family medicine in Minnesota. His attorney, Amy Conners, told the AP last week that there are no restrictions on his license. \n Investigators haven't interviewed either Johnson or Schulenberg since the hours after Prince died, an official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. \n While authorities have the power to ask a grand jury to investigate and issue subpoenas for testimony, that step hasn't been taken, the official said. \n Prince did not have a cellphone, and authorities searched multiple email accounts that belonged to him, as they tried to determine who he was communicating with and where he got the drugs that killed him, according to the search warrants. The search warrants don't reveal the outcome of the email searches. \n The documents say some of the drugs in Prince's bedroom were in a suitcase with the name \"Peter Bravestrong\" on it. Police believe Bravestrong was an alias that Prince used when he traveled. The suitcase also contained lyrics for the song \"U Got the Look\" that appeared to be in Prince's handwriting. \n The day before Prince died, Paisley Park staffers contacted California addiction specialist Dr. Howard Kornfeld for help. Kornfeld sent his son, Andrew, to Minnesota that night, and the younger Kornfeld was among those who found Prince's body. \n Andrew Kornfeld was carrying buprenorphine, a medication that can be used to help treat opioid addiction. The Kornfelds' attorney, William Mauzy, has said Andrew had intended to give the medication to a doctor who planned to see Prince on April 21. \n Investigators have said little about the case over the last year, other than it is active. The official who spoke to the AP said the case has taken investigators to Illinois and California, as authorities have interviewed friends, family and any potential witnesses, including the flight crew and hospital staff that were present when Prince overdosed on the plane. \n AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson contributed to this story from Chicago. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Affidavit: Doc prescribed Prince meds under friend's name"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "A 66-year-old man has died after lifeguards found him floating unconscious in waters off Kaimana Beach in Waikiki Sunday. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office identified him as Timothy J. Lui-Kwan of Honolulu. \n Lui-Kwan was a veteran Honolulu attorney who defended the University of Hawaii at Hilo over the Thirty Meter Telescope project and was a partner in the Honolulu law office of Carlsmith Ball. \n Police said Lui-Kwan was swimming with his family at about noon and was later found unresponsive. Lifeguards brought him to shore, and paramedics transported him in critical condition to a hospital where he died. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man pulled from water in Waikiki was veteran attorney"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Afghan President Hamid Karzai spoke during an interview today with the Associated Press in Kabul, Afghanistan. Karzai said that the U.S. is using Afghanistan as a weapons testing ground, calling the recent use of the largest-ever non-nuclear bomb \"an immense atrocity against the Afghan people.\" \n KABUL, Afghanistan >> Former Afghan President Hamid Karzai said today that the U.S. is using Afghanistan as a weapons testing ground, calling the recent use of the largest-ever non-nuclear bomb \"an immense atrocity against the Afghan people.\" \n Last week, U.S. forces dropped the GBU-43 Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB) bomb in eastern Nangarhar province, reportedly killing 95 militants. Karzai, in an interview with The Associated Press, objected to the decision, saying that his country \"was used very disrespectfully by the U.S. to test its weapons of mass destruction.\" \n The office of President Ashraf Ghani said following the bomb's usage that there was \"close coordination\" between the U.S. military and the Afghan government over the operation, and they were careful to prevent any civilian casualties. \n But Karzai harshly criticized the Afghan government for allowing the use of the bomb. \n \"How could a government of a country allow the use of a weapon of mass destruction on its own territory? Whatever the reason, whatever the cause, how could they allow that? It just unimaginable,\" he said. \n The strike was carried out Thursday morning against an Islamic State group tunnel complex, carved into a mountain that Afghan forces had tried to assault repeatedly in recent weeks, according to Afghan officials. \n U.S. and Afghan forces have been battling the Taliban for more than 15 years. But the U.S. military unveiled the largest conventional bomb in its arsenal against the Islamic State group, which has a far smaller but growing presence in Afghanistan. U.S. President Donald Trump has publicly vowed to aggressively confront IS. \n Trump called the operation a \"very, very successful mission\" but Karzai had harsh words for the new U.S. leader. \n \"My message to President Trump today is that he has committed an immense atrocity against the Afghan people, against fellow human beings,\" he said. \"If the American government sees us as human beings, then they have committed a crime against fellow human beings, but if they treat us as less than human beings, well, of course they can do whatever they want.\" \n Karzai added that one of the fundamental reasons that he refused to sign the bilateral security agreement with the United States when he was the president was specifically to prevent such actions. \n \"I told the people of Afghanistan in the Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) we must not sign the BSA with the U.S., that we must not give them bases till the day they bring peace to Afghanistan,\" he said. \"Why would the Afghan people want to give the U.S. bases? For what? To continue the war in Afghanistan, to become more insecure, to lose peace forever, to suffer, to receive more bombs, to receive a weapon of mass destruction? Or for security, for peace and for a better life?\" \n The U.S. National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster met with President Ghani during a visit to Afghanistan on Sunday. According to statement from the office of the president, the pair discussed mutual counterterrorism efforts, security and economic development. \n The U.S. estimates 600-800 IS fighters are in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. American forces have concentrated on fighting them while also supporting Afghan forces against the Taliban. The U.S. has more than 8,000 troops on the ground in Afghanistan, training local forces and conducting counterterrorism operations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former Afghan President: Massive U.S. bomb was an 'atrocity'"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo provided by Christopher Cary, Rick Elliott of Bristol Seafood in Portland, Maine, examines a bag of scallops at auction in New Bedford, Mass. Fair trade certification status is now gaining in prominence with seafood in the U.S., where interest is growing in the story behind the fish and shellfish people consume. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> Fair trade coffee, bananas and \u2026 scallops? Yes, very soon. \n Fair trade certification status, which is conferred by independent groups to denote environmental sustainability and fair working conditions, has been around for years. But it's just now on the rise among seafood products in the U.S., where consumer interest in the story behind the fish and shellfish they eat is growing. \n Certification of seafood products, including tuna and shrimp, began in 2014, and the volume of imports of such products grew more than 350 percent last year to more than 1.2 million pounds (500,000 kilograms), said Fair Trade USA, a California-based nonprofit group. The first company to offer fair trade seafood harvested from U.S. waters will have scallops on the market this month. \n The company, Bristol Seafood of Portland, Maine, is looking to capitalize on the growing interest in authenticity of seafood, said its president, Peter Handy. \n \"There's a certain sanctity to food when it comes to the story about it,\" he said. \"It tastes better the more you know.\" \n Independent groups, including Fair Trade USA, provide certifications to a host of products that people buy in stores, ranging from fruit and nuts to home goods. The certification is most commonly associated with coffee, which launched the fair trade movement in the 1990s. \n To achieve certification, companies need to submit to an audit and interviews to make sure the food is produced with fair working conditions and environmental stewardship along the supply chain. Packaged products can then bear a \"Fair Trade Certified\" seal, which carries a price premium. \n Fair Trade USA currently certifies shrimp from Mexico, yellowfin tuna from Indonesia, and skipjack and yellowfin tuna from Maldives. It is the only group currently certifying seafood as fair trade, representatives for the nonprofit said. \n Interest in the seafood supply chain has grown since an Associated Press investigation of slave labor conditions in Thailand's shrimp fishery, said Ashley Apel, senior manager of the seafood program for Fair Trade USA. Even before that, a 2014 study by a pair of economists from the University of Kentucky said more than 80 percent of consumers were at least somewhat influenced by labels that tell the story of seafood. \n \"It was the right place and right time to show that the seafood industry needs a fair trade certification,\" Apel said. \n The standards for achieving the certification for seafood products focus on management of fish stocks and fishing habitat, as well as the wages and working conditions of the fishermen and others in the supply chain. Steps must be taken to eliminate forced labor and human trafficking, and workers must have the freedom to organize. At the same time, there must be documentation of things like proper waste management and protection of ecosystems, Fair Trade USA's materials state. \n Fair Trade USA is one of a handful of major groups involved in certifying food products, with another prominent one other being Germany-based Fairtrade International. \n They're banking on chefs and restaurants getting excited about the products. Barton Seaver, a chef and author in Freeport, Maine, said fair trade seafood is too new to be familiar to many restaurateurs but is part of seafood's future. \n \"It's currently in its infancy, but I think the products they are working with will quickly prove the model, and the value that it can offer,\" he said. \n The economic, environmental and humans rights impacts of fair trade labels are the subjects of debate and academic study. \n A 2014 study published in the Journal of Economic Perspectives stated that \"there is overwhelming evidence that Fair Trade-certified producers do receive higher prices than conventional farmers for their products.\" The evidence for environmental protection and economic security of workers was more mixed, but benefits to both were observed, the same study said. \n Jason Potts, a senior associate with the International Institute for Sustainable Development located in Montreal, said the question of \"are these things actually working?\" remains a difficult one to answer. \n \"We're attempting to answer this question. My message to the world is we need more impact research, and more data. Better data,\" he said. \n One of the big incentives for fishermen to participate in fair trade certification, Apel said, is that sales generate \"fair trade premiums,\" which are used for community development projects where harvesters live. The nonprofit delivered more than $200,000 of these premiums to fishermen last year. \n Erik Orman, who owns a pair of New Bedford scallop boats that harvest shellfish that will be certified fair trade, said he envisions the premium money being reinvested in fisheries science programs. The certification, he said, will also give the scallops an edge in the marketplace. \n \"For the consumer, they are socially conscious and able to choose the food they eat based on the criteria that are important to them,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seafood joins fair trade revolution, a scallop at a time"}

{"date": "April 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 30, 2017 file photo, former South Korean President Park Geun-hye arrives at the Seoul Central District Court for hearing on a prosecutors' request for her arrest for corruption, in Seoul, South Korea. South Korean prosecutors on Monday, April 17 indicted Park on high-profile corruption charges that could potentially send her to jail for life. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean prosecutors on Monday indicted ex-President Park Geun-hye on bribery, extortion, abuse of power and other high-profile corruption charges that could potentially send her to jail for life. \n It is the latest in a series of humiliations for Park, who was driven from office by massive and peaceful popular protests. Park was impeached in December, officially stripped of power in March and has been in a detention facility near Seoul since being arrested last month on allegations that she extorted from businesses, took bribes and committed other wrongdoing, all in collaboration with a longtime confidante. \n Prosecutors also indicted Shin Dong-bin, the chairman of Lotte, South Korea's fifth-largest business conglomerate, on a charge of offering a bribe of 7 billion won ($6 million) to Park and her friend Choi Soon-sil in exchange for a lucrative government license to open a new duty free shop. \n Park will remain jailed and be escorted from the detention center to a Seoul court for a trial that is to start in coming weeks and could take as long as six months. It is still unclear if the trial will start before a May 9 special election that will determine her successor. \n Park, 65, was elected South Korea's first female president in late 2012. The country will now watch as she is forced to stand in court while handcuffed, bound with rope and possibly dressed in prison garb. \n If convicted, her bribery charge carries the biggest punishment, ranging from 10 years in prison to life imprisonment. \n While deeply unpopular among many South Koreans, Park still has supporters, and some conservative politicians and media outlets are already demanding that authorities pardon her if she's convicted. \n Some of her supporters still stage protests in downtown Seoul every weekend. Such rallies could pressure whoever becomes her successor at a time when South Korea also faces increasing North Korean nuclear threats and diverse economic woes. \n South Korea pardoned two convicted former leaders in the late 1990s in a bid for national reconciliation amid financial crisis, and its court had until recently showed leniency toward jailing many corrupt business tycoons because of worries about hurting the economy. \n Park's scandal triggered huge political turmoil in South Korea, with millions taking to the streets to call for her ouster for months before her supporters launched their own protests. Dozens of high-level figures, including Choi, Park's friend of 40 years, top administration officials and Samsung heir Lee Jae-yong have already been indicted and await separate criminal trials. \n Prosecutors charged Park with conspiring with Choi and a presidential adviser to pressure 18 business groups to donate a total of 77.4 billion won ($68 million) for the launch of two non-profit foundations controlled by Choi. \n Park and Choi were also charged with taking bribes from two of the business groups, Samsung and Lotte, and colluding with other top officials to blacklist artists critical of Park's government to deny them state support. Park also faces charges that she passed on dozens of documents with sensitive information to Choi via one of her presidential aides. \n According to prosecutors, Park and Choi allegedly took about 30 billion won ($26 million) in bribes from Samsung in return for a government support for a smooth company leadership transition. \n Park has denied any legal wrongdoing, arguing that she only got help from Choi to edit some presidential speeches and on public relations. \n Park is the daughter of late dictator Park Chung-hee, one of the most divisive figures in South Korean history. Some recall him as an enormous human rights abuser while others credit him for spearheading a rapid economic rise in the 1960-70s. Critics say Park's 2012 election wouldn't have happened without conservatives' nostalgia for her father. \n Park Chung-hee's iron-fisted 18-year rule ended after he was gunned down by his spy chief in 1979, five years after his wife was killed during an assassination attempt that originally targeted her husband. \n Park Geun-hye once described Choi, 60, as someone who helped her when she had difficulties in the past, an apparent reference to her parents' deaths. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-South Korean leader Park indicted, faces trial"}

