{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "The search for a missing aircraft with three people aboard off the coast of Molokai continued Monday. \n The Maui Fire Department said it conducted an aerial search for the Cessna 172, and also assisted between 40 to 50 volunteers with land- and shore-based searches. \n The Coast Guard suspended its search operations at sunset Sunday after the aircraft disappeared from radar Friday night off Molokai. No debris from the plane or oil slicks have been found. \n Aboard the Cessna were pilot Michael Childers and passengers John Mizuno and Whitney Thomas, all in their 20s. \n The plane left the Molokai Airport and was headed to Oahu, and is believed to have crashed about 4 miles east of Ilio Point. \n Childers and Thomas work as servers at Haleiwa Joe's in Kaneohe, and Mizuno is Childers' close friend. Thomas, 25, is a 2010 graduate of Kamehameha Schools. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Volunteers join search for missing Cessna"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "Two men have been charged with car theft in connection with incidents in the Punchbowl area. \n Joshua Nicholas Kingsley Tong, 30, and Chad Sabado Timbresa, 35, were arrested Saturday night. \n Bail for each was set at $25,000. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Two charged with Punchbowl area car thefts"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "A fire in an old Maui sugar cane field was extinguished on Monday afternoon. \n The Maui Fire Department said a brush fire was reported at about 3:47 p.m. in the Pulehu/Omaopio area, and arrived to find a fire burning in an old cane field. It was extinguish within 2 hours after scorching about 2 acres of brush. \n There were no injuries reported and the cause had not been determined. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Brush fire scorches former Maui cane field"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Liona Spencer, left, and Keoki Medeiros \n COURTESY PHOTO \n Liona Spencer \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A relative (who did not wish to be identified) made a memorial for the 38 year old woman who died on New Years eve due to a firework blast on Komohana Street at Barber's Point. \n A woman who died in a New Year's Eve fireworks mishap has been identified as 38-year-old Liona Spencer of Kapolei. \n Her partner, Keoki Medeiros, 36, was also injured and is in the hospital under intensive care.  \n The couple have a 16-year-old daughter and an 18-year-old son. \n The incident happened in front of Pinky Tows at 91-229 Komohana St. in Kapolei, where Medeiros works. \n Spencer, who was also known as \"Ona,\" was operations manager for next-door Paradise Lua. Both companies are owned by George Grace III, who is Medeiros' uncle. \n Honolulu police detectives are continuing to investigate the fatal fireworks incident, and fire officials said the two suffered from \"flash-related burn injuries.\" \n \"It was a blast injury but as far as what (kind of fireworks caused it), I don't know\u2026\" said Honolulu Fire spokesperson Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. \n Relatives of Medeiros said he remains under intensive care but is doing fine, said environmentalist Carroll Cox, who was asked to pass on their message of grief. \n \"During that time (at Paradise Lua), she and Keoki raised two wonderful children\u2026family meant everything to her,\" the relatives said in a prepared statement signed the \"Grace Ohana.\" \n \"This is a difficult time for us as Liona was not only an integral part of our companies but our family as well. She was an incredibly kind, fun-loving and dependable member of the Grace Ohana. \n \"Liona, along with her longtime partner, Keoki Medeiros, worked for the family business. She graduated from Waipahu High School and attended Heald College for a career in the travel industry. She came to work for us in the late 90s and helped to develop and grow our companies from the ground up. During that time, she and Keoki raised two wonderful children while being involved in every aspect of the business\u2026from the simplest tasks to the greatest whether it was answering phones or running a full-scale operation. As a daughter, sister, mother and partner, family meant everything to her. She was known for cracking jokes, being reliable under pressure, and being a caring and kind person. \n \"Liona was our everything. Although she died due to a tragic accident, she did so after a living a vibrant life full of amazing moments, having left an indelible impression upon everyone that she met. She will be greatly missed. We appreciate your prayers and the kind words of condolences and hope that all will join us in wishing a speedy recovery for her partner and our nephew, Keoki.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Victim of New Year's Eve fireworks fatality identified"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "A man was injured when a gas leak from the oven he was using caused an explosion in a Waianae residence this afternoon. \n The Honolulu Fire Department said the incident occurred at 87-919 Kulauku Street just before 3 p.m., when neighboring residents were evacuated as a precaution and the gas to the home was shut off. \n The victim, in his 20s, reported that he had been cooking when the oven door exploded, said HFD. He was treated for burns and transported to a hospital. \n A crew from the Hawaii Gas Company and HFD hazardous materials personnel tested the air quality before allowing residents to return by 4:04 p.m. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man injured after oven blast from gas leak in Waianae"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama accompanied by first lady Michelle Obama and his daughters Malia and Sasha, waves from Air Force One, upon their arrival at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., Monday, Jan. 2, 2017. The President and his family are returning from Hawaii after vacation. \n WASHINGTON >> His last vacation behind him, President Barack Obama is entering the closing stretch of his presidency, an eleventh-hour push to tie up loose ends and put finishing touches on his legacy before handing the reins to President-elect Donald Trump. \n Obama returned to Washington midday Monday from Hawaii with less than three weeks left. His final days will largely be consumed by a bid to protect his endangered health care law, a major farewell speech and the ongoing handover of power to Trump. \n In an email to supporters on Monday, Obama said his valedictory speech on Jan. 10 follows a tradition set in 1796 when the first president, George Washington, spoke to the American people for the last time in office. The speech will take place at McCormick Place, a giant convention center in Obama's hometown of Chicago. \n \"I'm thinking about them as a chance to say thank you for this amazing journey, to celebrate the ways you've changed this country for the better these past eight years, and to offer some thoughts on where we all go from here,\" Obama said. \n Obama's chief speechwriter, Cody Keenan, traveled with Obama to Hawaii and spent much of the trip working on the speech. The Chicago trip will likely be Obama's last outside Washington as president and will be include a \"family reunion\" for Obama's former campaign staffers. \n Obama is also planning last-minute commutations and pardons, White House officials said, in line with his second-term effort to cut sentences for inmates given unduly harsh sentences for drug crimes. Though prominent offenders like Edward Snowden and Rod Blagojevich are also asking for leniency, Obama's final acts of clemency are expected to remain focused on drug offenders whose plight Obama tried but failed to address through criminal justice reform. \n After taking office eight years ago, Obama and his aides were effusive in their praise for how Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush, helped his team take over the massive federal bureaucracy. Obama has vowed to pass on the favor to Trump. But the transition hasn't been without incident. \n The two teams have clashed over the Trump team's requests for information Obama aides fear could be used to eliminate government employees who worked on Obama priorities like climate change and minority rights overseas. Trump's team, meanwhile, has been frustrated by Obama's attempts to box Trump in with parting moves to block ocean drilling, declare new monuments and further empty out the Guantanamo Bay prison. \n While on his annual vacation in Oahu, Obama asserted himself forcefully on two foreign policy issues that put him in direct conflict with Trump. Obama directed the U.S. to defy tradition by allowing a U.N. Security Council resolution criticizing Israel on settlements to pass, then slapped Russia with sweeping penalties over U.S. allegations of hacking. \n The final days are Obama's last chance to define his presidency before his loses the bully pulpit and cedes his legacy to historians. For Obama, helping Americans understand how his two terms have reshaped American life is even more critical amid concerns that Trump may undo much of what he accomplished, including the health law. \n As Trump and Republicans vow to gut the Affordable Care Act, Democrats are working to devise a strategy to protect the law by exploiting GOP divisions about how to replace it. To that end, Obama will travel Wednesday to the Capitol to meet with House and Senate Democrats, likely his last meeting with his party's lawmakers as president. \n His administration is also working feverishly to finish up regulations in the pipeline that Obama hopes can be completed in the final days, perhaps increasing the likelihood his policies carry over. But the closer it gets to Trump's inauguration, the harder those tasks become. \n Though Obama remains president until Jan. 20, the White House can't process the departure of all its staffers on a single day. So this week Obama aides will start \"offloading,\" turning in their Blackberries and shutting down their computers for the last time, leaving a smaller staff on hand for the final days. \n Obama must also prepare to become a private citizen for the first time in two decades. An office of the former president must be stood up, and Obama's family will be making arrangements to move into a rental home in Northwest Washington where they plan to stay until youngest daughter Sasha finishes high school. \n The Obamas have long lamented how the presidency denied them freedom and privacy, with first lady Michelle Obama likening the White House to \"a really nice prison.\" But on their last Hawaii vacation, the first family took time out to visit Breakout Waikiki, where visitors are \"trapped\" in a room together and must try, as a team, to escape. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Under 3 weeks left: Obama in closing stretch of presidency"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters against the Dakota Access Pipeline rappel from the catwalk in U.S. Bank Stadium during the first half of an NFL football game between the Minnesota Vikings and the Chicago Bears, Sunday, Jan. 1, 2017, in Minneapolis. \n MINNEAPOLIS >> Three people who were arrested after Dakota Access pipeline protesters rappelled from the roof of the Minnesota Vikings' stadium to unfurl a banner were released from jail Monday with charges pending. \n The Vikings' season finale against the Chicago Bears was not interrupted by the protest Sunday, but eight rows of fans seated below the banner at U.S. Bank Stadium were cleared as a precaution. \n The banner urged Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank to divest from the four-state, $3.8 billion pipeline. Opponents contend the pipeline could affect drinking water and Native American artifacts. Texas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners says the pipeline will be safe. \n Minneapolis police spokesman Officer Corey Schmidt said a 32-year-old man and 26-year-old woman were arrested Sunday for allegedly sneaking up on a truss connected to the roof and rappelling down to unfurl the huge banner. Schmidt declined to discuss the alleged role of a third person who was arrested, a 27-year-old woman, citing the ongoing investigation. \n Schmidt said a complaint with formal charges is expected to be filed Tuesday. \n The Hennepin County Jail roster shows all three suspects were released from custody Monday. The two climbers \u2014 a man and a woman \u2014 plan to make a brief statement and answer questions outside of the downtown Minneapolis stadium on Tuesday, a spokeswoman for the protest group said in a news release. \n One possible charge the trio could face is burglary. Minnesota's burglary law includes entering a building without consent and with the intent to commit a crime. Schmidt said the manner in which the suspects got inside the stadium was part of the ongoing probe. \n The protesters rappelled into place during the second quarter, and hung in a seated position about 100 feet above the seats that were evacuated for safety. The pair watched the rest of the game, occasionally shifting positions or waving at spectators. One wore a purple Brett Favre Vikings jersey. \n U.S. Bank Stadium operator SMG said in a statement that they apparently climbed over a guard rail to access the ridge truss. Police spoke with them from a catwalk in attempt to get them to stop, and by the fourth quarter about a half-dozen police and firefighters in rappelling gear were on the truss waiting to remove the pair. \n The protesters willingly climbed up their ropes when the game ended, as fans booed them from below. \n Vikings spokesman Lester Bagley said the team's only concern was for the \"safety of our fans and guests.\" \n Protesters say U.S. Bank has extended a large credit line to Energy Transfer Partners. U.S. Bank spokesman Dana Ripley declined comment. \n The pipeline would carry oil from western North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. Protesters camped in North Dakota for months to try to stop completion of the project. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 released in Dakota Access pipeline stadium protest"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Now that church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been convicted in a federal death penalty trial, some say the parade of killings of black people feels at odds with the call to forgive. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. >> After a judge ruled Monday that Dylann Roof is competent to represent himself, the same jury that last month unanimously found him guilty in the slayings of nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church will return to court to begin contemplating his punishment. \n With the 22-year-old representing himself, the process is sure to be unconventional. But even if Roof is sentenced to death, it's highly unlikely he'd be executed anytime soon. \n While prosecutors plan to call up to 38 people related to the nine people killed and three who survived the June 2015 slaughter during Bible study at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, Roof said last week he plans on calling no witnesses and presenting no evidence. \n Roof was found guilty last month on 33 federal charges, including hate crimes and obstruction of the practice of religion. A jury took less than three hours to return its verdict, and a judge dismissed the jury for a break over the holidays. \n Typically in what's known as the sentencing phase, defense attorneys call relatives and other witnesses to testify about their client's unsteady state of mind before and during the crimes. Given that background, the defense hopes, a jury might be more likely to spare the defendant's life and opt against the death penalty. \n But Roof, who is acting as his own attorney, has said he plans to do no such thing. \n In his journal, which was read in court during his trial, Roof said his doesn't believe in psychology, which he called \"a Jewish invention\" that \"does nothing but invent diseases and tell people they have problems when they don't.\" \n Roof also seems to be determined to try to keep evidence embarrassing to him or his family out. Not only did he take over his own defense, but he asked the judge at a hearing last week if he could file a motion limiting what prosecutors can introduce. \n Roof also was adamant that a transcript of a hearing where he was found mentally competent not be released to the public. \n \"I know this is not a legal argument, but the unsealing of the competency hearing defeats the purpose of me representing myself,\" Roof said at last week's hearing. \n Neither Roof, nor U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel nor prosecutors have given specifics on the evidence Roof is objecting to. \n On Thursday, Gergel ordered another competency evaluation of Roof \"in an abundance of caution,\" after his standby counsel filed a sealed motion again questioning Roof's mental ability to proceed. \n On Monday, over the objection of an attorney representing media outlets including The Associated Press, Gergel ordered the competency hearing to be closed to the public. Saying he'd have to sequester jurors if he opened up the proceedings, the judge promised to release a transcript after Roof is sentenced. \n \"This is an incredibly sensitive moment in this proceeding,\" Gergel said. \"We are putting in the hands of 12 people the life and death of a person.\" \n After a daylong hearing, Gergel ultimately ruled Roof is competent to stand trial and also to represent himself at sentencing. He also granted Roof's request for an extra day to prepare for his case. \n Roof's lawyers tried repeatedly both to stop him from being his own lawyer and to work mental health-related evidence into the first phase of his trial, saying they feared Roof fired them because he feared the attorneys would present evidence that would embarrass him when trying to save his life. \n Prosecutors objected at every turn, and Gergel wouldn't allow any of it into court, ruling mitigation evidence is allowable during sentencing and not before. \n Court papers show prosecutors are expected to present evidence showing that Roof picked his victims because of their race, killed them to incite more violence, showed no remorse and killed three particularly vulnerable people who were 70 years old or older. \n Evidence speaking to Roof's mental state, one expert argues, could make the difference between life and death. \n \"The Dylann Roof case is a classic example of the type of problem you can have when an obviously mentally ill or emotionally disturbed defendant is permitted to represent himself,\" said Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center. \"There's a huge difference in the eyes of a jury between someone they perceive as evil or despicable and someone they perceive as being seriously mentally ill. \u2026 If you take mental health out of it, you are putting a thumb on the scale of death.\" \n Both the judge's decision to allow Roof to represent himself and waive the introduction of mental health evidence are sure to be raised in an inevitable appeal, Dunham argued. \n Roof also faces nine murder charges in state court, where prosecutors have also said they will seek the death penalty in a trial likely to begin sometime next year. \n Whether he's sentenced to death or not, it's unlikely Roof would be executed anytime soon, in either jurisdiction. The federal government hasn't executed anyone since 2003, and there are years of appeals between a death sentence being levied and carried out. \n South Carolina's death chamber hasn't been used since 2011, due at least in part to a lack of availability for the drugs the state uses for lethal injection. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "With Roof as his own lawyer, sentencing to begin in slayings"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mourners chanted slogans as they carried the Turkish flag-draped coffin of Yunus Gormek, 23, one of the victims of the attack at a nightclub on New Year's Day, during the funeral in Istanbul today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image taken from CCTV provided by Haberturk Newspaper today shows the man identified by police as the main suspect in the New Year's Day terror attack at an Istanbul nightclub, earlier that night before the attack. The attack at the nightclub in Istanbul's Ortakoy district during New Year's celebrations killed dozens of people and wounded dozens of others. \n ISTANBUL >> The Islamic State group claimed responsibility today for a mass shooting at an Istanbul nightclub that killed 39 people, most of them foreign tourists from Muslim countries who were ringing in the new year. It was the first claim of its kind for IS in Turkey. \n The group said Christian revelers were targeted in response to Turkish military operations against IS in northern Syria. The claim came after an IS propaganda video urging attacks on Turkey, which is home to an airbase used in the U.S.-led effort against IS in Syria and Iraq. \n Turkish authorities never confirmed the authenticity of the Dec. 22 video that purported to show Turkish soldiers who were burned alive, but access to social media was temporarily restricted in what appeared to be an effort to curb its circulation. \n The nightclub assailant, armed with a long-barreled weapon, killed a policeman and a civilian early Sunday outside the Reina club before entering and firing at some of the estimated 600 people inside. The establishment is frequented by famous locals, including singers, actors and athletes. \n The Islamic State group boasts of having cells in Turkey, regularly issues propaganda in Turkish and is believed to have hundreds of Turks in its ranks. But until now, the main act of aggression it had claimed in Turkey was the March 2016 killing of a Syrian journalist and an attack on riot police in the province of Diyarbakir, which Kurdish militants also claimed. \n For some analysts, the claim of responsibility signaled a shift in IS strategy in Turkey, a predominantly Muslim nation. \n \"It's a new phase,\" security analyst Michael Horowitz said. \"What we saw before was an undeclared war, and now we're entering an open war.\" \n The IS claim said only that the attacker was a \"soldier of the caliphate\" who struck to \"let infidel Turkey know that the blood of Muslims that is being shed by its airstrikes and artillery shelling will turn into fire on its territories.\" \n Early Turkish media reports suggested the Istanbul nightclub gunman was probably from either Uzbekistan or Kyrgyzstan and may have been part of the same cell that staged the airport attack. \n Authorities obtained the fingerprints and a basic description of the gunman and are close to identifying him, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus said today after a weekly cabinet meeting. He confirmed eight people have been detained in connection to the attack. \n By attacking as the nation was celebrating the new year, the group indicated that it intends to continue being a \"scourge\" against Turkey in 2017, Kurtulmus said. \n Initially, IS activity in Turkey appeared designed to stoke tensions with the country's ethnic Kurds and reflected events in Syria. The first dramatic attack came July 2015, when a suicide bomber hit a rally of activists in the border town of Suruc, at a time when Kurdish fighters in Syria where under siege just across the border in Kobane. \n The worst IS-linked attack to rock Turkey came just months after, in October 2015, when twin suicide bombings killed 102 people at a peace rally in the capital, Ankara. \n In 2016, IS was blamed by analysts and Turkish authorities for a wider range of attacks, including the June attack on Istanbul Ataturk Airport that killed 45 people and two other deadly bombings against tourists in Istanbul. IS was also suspected of directing an attack by a suicide bomber \u2014 possibly as young as 12 \u2014 that killed more than 50 people at an outdoor wedding in the city of Gaziantep. \n A member of NATO, Turkey launched an offensive to northern Syria in August in a bid to clear a strategic border area of IS militants and contain the gains of Kurdish fighters. In October, Turkish-backed Syrian forces took the symbolically important town of Dabiq, which is central to IS propaganda. Turkish jets regularly bomb IS in the then town of Al-Bab, and Ankara wants to play a role in dislodging IS from its bastion in Raqqa. \n \"Islamic State is sending a strong message to the Turkish government that it will pay in blood for the offensive in northern Syria,\" Anthony Skinner, an analyst with the Verisk Maplecroft security firm, wrote in an email to The Associated Press. \n Many analysts also see IS latest attack on Turkey as a sign of growing desperation. \n The group has been threatened in al-Bab, Raqqa and Mosul in Iraq and \"needs to reassert itself,\" said Horowitz, director at the intelligence analysis firm Prime Source. \n The aggression on Turkey, he added, is in line with the group's practice of equating mass-casualty terrorism attacks with heavy bombings and airstrikes on IS-held territories. \n In its claim, IS said the nightclub attack was aimed at Christians celebrating a pagan holiday, suggesting a symbolic choice of target that can be justified to radical Sunni Muslim supporters as punishment of sinners. But in reality, many of the victims hailed from majority-Muslim nations in the Middle East. \n Max Abrahms, a Northeastern University political scientist, said IS understands that civilian attacks can be counterproductive in countries where it has abundant support and has avoided conflict with authorities in Turkey and Saudi Arabia. To him, the change of tact in Turkey reflects that IS is \"desperate\" in the wake of losses in Syria and Iraq. \n \"There's no question that Islamic State is suffering in an irreversible way,\" Abrahms said. So the group \"is keen to commit as many attacks as possible these days and is much more likely to claim credit for them in order to signal that it has continued capability to mount operations around the world.\" \n Also today, Anadolu said more than 100 Islamic State targets in Syria have been hit by Turkey and Russia in separate operations. Last week, Turkey and Russia brokered a cease-fire for Syria that excludes the IS and other groups considered to be terrorist organizations. \n Associated Press writers Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Bassem Mroue in Beirut and Dominique Soguel in Vannes, France, also contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "IS claims responsibility for New Year's nightclub attack"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "A 75-year-old Kalihi man was arrested after allegedly throwing a rock at a 71-year-old man in what appeared to be an argument among neighbors on New Year's Day, Honolulu police said. \n Police were called to the scene about 5:25 p.m. Sunday. The suspect was arrested and is being held pending investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi man arrested for allegedly throwing rock at another man after argument"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "A 78-year-old man died after being found floating and unresponsive in waters off Ala Moana Beach Park Saturday afternoon. \n After being brought to shore about 3:53 p.m., city emergency medical crews transported the victim to a nearby hospital where he later died. \n There were no suspicious circumstances, Honolulu police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Man dies after he was found unresponsive in waters off Ala Moana Beach Park"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mariah Carey performs at the New Year's Eve celebration in Times Square on Saturday, Dec. 31, 2016, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Dick Clark Productions is hitting back against Mariah Carey's claim it sabotaged her live performance on its \"New Year's Rockin' Eve\" special. \n Carey's disaster during the annual New Year's Eve special in Times Square made international headlines: The superstar vocally stumbled through her short set, failing to sing for most of it despite a pre-recorded track of her songs playing in the background. \n Carey was visibly upset during the performance and afterward tweeted \"(expletive) happens.\" Her representative Nicole Perna blamed technical difficulties, and in an interview with Billboard she said Dick Clark Productions hampered Carey's performance. \n \"She was not winging this moment and took it very seriously,\" Perna told Billboard. \"A shame that production set her up to fail.\" \n Perna said Carey's earpiece wasn't working and she flagged the issue to the production team but was told it would be OK when she got on stage. \n \"However, that was not the case, and they were again told that her earpiece was not working,\" Perna said. \"Instead of endeavoring to fix the issue so that Mariah could perform, they went live.\" \n In a statement released on Sunday, the production company called such claims \"absurd.\" \n \"As the premier producer of live television events for nearly 50 years, we pride ourselves on our reputation and long-standing relationships with artists,\" it said. \"To suggest that dcp (Dick Clark Productions), as producer of music shows including the American Music Awards, Billboard Music Awards, New Year's Rockin' Eve and Academy of Country Music Awards, would ever intentionally compromise the success of any artist is defamatory, outrageous and frankly absurd.\" \n It said that in \"very rare instances\" there are technical errors that can occur with live television. It said an initial investigation, however, indicated it had no involvement in the challenges associated with Carey's performance. \n \"We want to be clear that we have the utmost respect for Ms. Carey as an artist and acknowledge her tremendous accomplishments in the industry,\" it said. \n A person familiar with the production of the show who asked for anonymity to speak publicly about the incident said all of the other performers, including Gloria Estefan, rehearsed onsite for their performances and Carey was there but had a stand-in for her rehearsal, atypical for the show's performers. The person said all of the monitors were working and no technical problems were found. \n Perna later disputed the claim that Carey did not rehearse. \n \"Mariah did in fact rehearse at 3:00 p.m., Perna said in an email to The Associated Press on Monday. \"She went through vocals and her team ran through sound. All was well at rehearsal. She was prompt for rehearsal and her performance.\" \n Ironically, Carey was Dick Clark Productions' first live performer for the broadcast in 2005, when it went off without any such problems. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dick Clark Productions rejects Mariah Carey's sabotage claim"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Syrian refugee Ahmad Alkhalaf, left, dashed away from Rayyan Jalal while playing capture the flag, Dec. 10, with friends during a day camp for local Muslim children in Sharon, Mass. The young boy who lost his arms in a refugee camp bomb blast is thriving in his new life in Massachusetts. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Syrian refugee Ahmad Alkhalaf smiled while playing with friends during a Dec. 10 day camp for local Muslim children in Sharon, Mass. \"Anything is possible in this world. You just have to believe in yourself,\" said Ahmad, whose arms were blown off above the elbows in a refugee camp bomb blast in 2014, which also killed three of his brothers. \n SHARON, Mass. >> A Syrian boy who lost his arms in a refugee camp bomb blast is thriving in his new life in Massachusetts. But the fate of the family he left behind to seek medical treatment in the U.S. remains uncertain. \n Over the past year, 11-year-old Ahmad Alkhalaf has attended Democratic President Barack Obama's final State of the Union, been fitted for prosthetic arms and enrolled in the local public school. He's also learned to live with his disability, taking swimming, gymnastics and martial arts lessons. \n But his father worries what the future holds for the rest of the family he's trying to bring to the U.S. \n Republican President-elect Donald Trump has promised to slow the influx of Syrian refugees into the country or curtail the flow of Muslim immigrants altogether. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Armless Syrian boy thrives in U.S., hopes family can join him"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "A group of 15 hikers had to be airlifted out of Waimanu Valley on Hawaii island after they were stranded due to a rain-swollen stream. \n On Sunday, a separate group of five people hiked out of the valley to an area with mobile phone coverage to call 911 for the group of stranded hikers, according to Hawaii County Fire Department Capt. Peter Andrade. The stranded hikers could not cross Waimanu Stream following heavy rains. \n A company of firefighters subsequently set up a landing zone near Waipio Valley Lookout and a rescue chopper was sent to extract all 15 hikers from the north side of the Waimanu Valley floor, Andrade said. The hikers were flown out and were uninjured. \n The group of five hikers that had made the call of 911 later hiked out of the valley at 8:30 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "15 hikers airlifted out of Waimanu Valley on Big Isle"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pro-statehood supporters awaited the arrival of Puerto Rico's new governor at the seaside Capitol in San Juan, Puerto Rico today. Ricardo Rossello was sworn in today as the U.S. territory prepares for what many believe will be new austerity measures and a renewed push for statehood to haul the island out of a deep economic crisis. \n SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico >> Puerto Rico's new governor was sworn in today, promising an immediate push for statehood in a territory facing a deep economic crisis. \n Gov. Ricardo Rossello, 37, proposed several measures aimed at alleviating the crisis shortly after he was sworn in at midnight. Among them is a proposal to hold a referendum that would ask voters whether they prefer statehood or independence. Many have argued that Puerto Rico's political status has contributed to its decade-long crisis that has prompted more than 200,000 people to flee to the U.S. mainland in recent years. \n \"The United States cannot pretend to be a model of democracy for the world while it discriminates against 3.5 million of its citizens in Puerto Rico, depriving them of their right to political, social and economic equality under the U.S. flag,\" Rossello said in his inaugural speech, delivered in Spanish. \"There is no way to overcome Puerto Rico's crisis given its colonial condition.\" \n The crowd rose to its feet and cheered as Rossello announced that he would fly to Washington, D.C., today to back a bill to admit Puerto Rico as the 51st state. \n He also said he would soon hold elections to choose two senators and five representatives to Congress and send them to Washington to demand statehood, a strategy used by Tennessee to join the union in the 18th century. The U.S. government has final say on whether Puerto Rico can become a state. \n Rossello said he also aims to boost public-private partnerships and use that revenue to save a retirement system that faces a $40 billion deficit and is expected to collapse in less than a year. He pledged to work closely with a federal control board that U.S. Congress created last year to oversee Puerto Rico's finances, and he has said he supports negotiations with creditors to help restructure a public debt of nearly $70 billion. \n \"Puerto Rico's recovery begins today,\" he said. \n Rossello announced that he has already signed several executive orders, including one to promote bilingual education and others ordering agencies to reduce their budgets and contracts for professional services by 10 percent. \n He also seeks to privatize services such as the generation of energy, establish an office to oversee and distribute federal funds to cut down on corruption, and to create financial incentives for doctors to boost the number of dwindling specialists. In addition, Rossello pledged to provide female government employees with the same pay as their male counterparts. \n Thousands of supporters cheered as they clutched umbrellas to protect themselves from a searing sun. \n \"This is a historic moment for Puerto Rico,\" said 50-year-old Jose Davila as he waved a large flag from Rossello's pro-statehood party. \"He's the hope of our island, he's the hope for statehood, he's the hope for a people that have suffered.\" \n Puerto Ricans have been hit with dozens of new taxes in the past four years and increases in utility bills as former Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla aimed to generate more revenue for a government he said was running out of money. Despite those and other measures, the island's government has defaulted on millions of dollars' worth of bond payments and declared a state of emergency at several agencies. \n The federal control board has requested a revised fiscal plan that has to be approved by end of January, saying that the one Garcia submitted last year was in part unrealistic and relied too heavily on federal funds. Garcia had refused to submit a revised plan to include austerity measures. Rossello has said he would request an extension of that deadline as well as an extension of a moratorium that expires in February and currently protects Puerto Rico from lawsuits filed by angered creditors. \n As supporters streamed early today toward the Capitol building, one yelled out, \"Today, a new Puerto Rico begins!\" to the cheers of others, including those holding U.S. flags. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Puerto Rico's new gov promises immediate push for statehood"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pink arrived at the Oct. 2015 Autism Speaks to LA Celebrity Chef Gala in Santa Monica, Calif. Pink kicked off the new year by sharing the first photo of her new baby with his big sister. \n Pink has kicked off the new year by sharing the first photo of her new baby with his big sister. \n Moore wrote in the caption that she and husband Carey Hart \"thank you for your love and we send it back to you in spades.\" \n Jameson Moon Hart was born on Dec. 26. \n Moore and Hart were married in 2006. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Proud mom Pink shares first sibling photo with new baby"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. spoke during a Nov. 15 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. Congress ushers in a new era of all-Republican rule, with a tight GOP grip on the House, a slim majority in the Senate and a newfound ally in the White House in Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> On Tuesday at noon, with plenty of pomp and pageantry, members of the 115th Congress will be sworn in, with an emboldened GOP intent on unraveling eight years of President Barack Obama's Democratic agenda and targeting massive legacy programs from Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson such as Social Security and Medicare. \n In the election, Republicans kept their tight grip on the House and outmaneuvered the Democrats for a slim majority in the Senate. In less than three weeks, on the West Front of the Capitol, Chief Justice John Roberts will administer the presidential oath to Donald Trump, the GOP's newfound ally. \n First up for Republicans is repeal and delay of the health care law, expediting the process for scrapping Obama's major overhaul but holding off on some changes for up to four years. The tax code is in the cross-hairs. Conservatives want to scuttle rules on the environment and undo financial regulations created in the aftermath of the 2008 economic meltdown, arguing they are too onerous for businesses to thrive. \n The only obstacle to the far-reaching conservative agenda will be Senate Democrats who hold the power to filibuster legislation, but even that has its political limitations. Twenty-three Democrats are up for re-election in 2018, including 10 from states Trump won, and they could break ranks and side with the GOP. \n Here are a few things to know about Congress: \n BY THE NUMBERS \n Vice President Joe Biden, in one of his final official acts, will administer the oath to 27 returning senators and seven new ones. Republicans will have a 52-48 advantage in the Senate, which remains predominantly a bastion of white men. \n There will be 21 women, of whom 16 are Democrats and five, Republicans; three African Americans, including California's new Democratic senator Kamala Harris, and four Hispanics, including Nevada's new Democratic senator Catherine Cortez Masto. \n Across the Capitol, the House is expected to re-elect Rep. Paul Ryan as Speaker, with all the campaign-season recriminations involving the Wisconsin Republican and Trump largely erased by GOP wins. Once sworn in, Ryan will then administer the oath to the House members. \n The GOP will hold a hefty 241-194 majority in the House, including 52 freshmen \u2014 27 Republicans, including Wyoming's Liz Cheney, daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, and 25 Democrats. \n CONFIRMING THE CABINET \n The Senate will exercise its advice and consent role and consider nominations of 15 department secretaries and six people tapped by Trump to lead agencies or serve in roles with Cabinet-level status, such as the EPA and U.N. ambassador. \n Democrats won't make it easy. \n Several in the party have been highly critical of several of Trump's choices, from Rick Perry, who forgot during the 2012 presidential campaign that the Energy Department was the one he wanted to eliminate, to Treasury pick Steve Mnuchin, the former Goldman Sachs executive whom Democrats have dubbed the \"foreclosure king\" for his stake in OneWest Bank that profited from the foreclosure crisis. \n Others nominees, such as retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis for defense secretary, should easily win confirmation. First, though, Congress must pass a law allowing the former military man to serve in a civilian post. \n There is a limit to what Democrats can do. Rules changes in 2013 allow some nominees, including Cabinet picks, to be confirmed with a simple majority, preventing Democrats from demanding 60 votes to move forward. \n SUPREME COURT VACANCY \n Adding to the drama of the new Congress will be high-profile confirmation hearings for Trump's nominee for the Supreme Court. \n Justice Antonin Scalia died last February and Republicans refused to consider Obama's nominee, Merrick Garland, insisting that the next president should fill the high court vacancy that's now lasted more than 10 months. \n Trump released a list of potential choices during the campaign that included Utah Sen. Mike Lee, who clerked for Justice Samuel Alito. Since the election, the president-elect also has met with Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who clerked for former Chief Justice William Rehnquist, prompting talk about a possible nomination for the onetime presidential rival. \n Trump has said he wants to nominate a justice who would help overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that legalized abortion. Cruz and Lee would fulfill that pledge. \n NEW FACE IN LEADERSHIP \n The point man for Senate Democrats is Brooklyn-born Chuck Schumer, who will be a chief antagonist to fellow New Yorker Trump. \n Schumer succeeds Nevada's Harry Reid, who retired after five terms, and joins Congress' top leaders \u2014 Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Speaker Ryan \u2014 in what is certain to be tough negotiations next year on spending and policies. \n RUSSIAN HACKING \n The first public hearing on the intelligence community's assessment that Russia interfered in the U.S. election is Thursday in the Senate Armed Services Committee, with James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, set to testify. Expect individual panels to investigate, but not a special, high-profile select committee. McConnell has rejected that bipartisan call. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Congress ushers in new era of all-Republican rule"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Patrick Conway, director of the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation, posed for a photograph in the center's offices in Baltimore County, Md. on April 12. Heart attacks and broken hips are the cause of much suffering as people grow older, and now Medicare is trying to change the way it pays for treatment to promote better quality and try to contain costs. \n WASHINGTON >> Heart attacks and broken hips cause much suffering and worry as people grow older. This year, Medicare wants to start changing how it pays for treatment of these life-threatening conditions, to promote quality and contain costs. Beneficiaries and family members may notice a new approach. \n Hospitals and doctors in dozens of communities selected for large-scale experiments on this front are already gearing up. The goal is to test the notion that better coordination among clinicians, hospitals, and rehab centers can head off complications, prevent avoidable hospital re-admissions and help patients achieve more stable and enduring recoveries. If results back that up, Medicare can adopt the changes nationwide. \n The cardiac and hip fracture experiments are the latest development in a big push under the Obama administration to reinvent Medicare, steering the program away from paying piecemeal for services, regardless of quality and cost. It's unclear whether Donald Trump as president will continue the pace of change, slow down or even hit pause. \n Trump's Health and Human Services nominee, orthopedic-surgeon-turned-congressman Tom Price, has expressed general concern that the doctor-patient relationship could be harmed by Medicare payment changes seeking to contain costs. And the Medicare division that designed the experiments \u2014 the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation \u2014 is itself under threat of being abolished because it was created by President Barack Obama's 2010 health care law. \n Some outside groups, including AARP, worry that Medicare may be moving too fast and that focusing on cost containment could lead to beneficiaries being shortchanged on rehab care. \n Innovation center director Patrick Conway, who also serves as Medicare's chief medical officer, is plowing ahead nonetheless. \"Delivery system reform and paying for better care are bipartisan issues,\" Conway said. And quality ranks ahead of cost savings in evaluating any results, he added. \n The cardiac and hip fracture experiments focus on traditional Medicare, which remains the choice of nearly 7 in 10 out of Medicare's 57 million beneficiaries. The cardiac experiment involves both heart bypass and heart attack patients. The trials join similar ongoing tests involving surgery for hip and knee replacement, as well as care for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. \n In the experiments, doctors, hospitals, and rehab centers get paid the regular Medicare rates. But hospitals are given responsibility for overall quality and cost, measured against benchmarks set by Medicare. If the hospital meets or exceeds the goals, it earns a financial bonus, which can be shared with other service providers. If the hospital falls short, it may have to pay the government money. \n \"Now your doctor and hospital are working together to make sure they are well coordinated,\" said Conway. \n Under the old system, if a patient was discharged from the hospital after a heart attack, \"they might hand you a piece of paper that said please follow up with your primary care doctor,\" Conway continued. \"In this model, the hospital is going to have a strong incentive to make sure you follow up.\" \n Overall, about 168,000 Medicare beneficiaries are treated for heart attacks in a given year, while 48,000 undergo heart bypass surgery for clogged arteries and 109,000 have surgery for broken hips. \n Around the country, hospitals in 98 metro areas will be involved in the cardiac experiment. The hip surgery experiment involves 67 areas that are also part of Medicare's ongoing test with hip and knee replacements. \n Areas in the cardiac test include Boston, as well as Akron, Ohio; Charleston, South Carolina; Fort Collins, Colorado; Utica, New York; and Yuma, Arizona. A smaller group of communities will be involved in a related experiment that pays hospitals for coordinating rehab care for heart patients. Although the benefits of cardiac rehab are widely recognized, only a small share of patients receives it. \n The hip fracture test includes the Miami, New York, and Los Angeles metro areas, as well as Austin, Texas; Bismarck, North Dakota; Flint, Michigan, and New Orleans. \n Hospitals are not happy with the changes, though doctors have generally been supportive. A big concern for hospitals is that Medicare requires mandatory participation by all the facilities in areas selected for these tests. But Conway says that's likely to lead to even better results. The idea is that hospitals will watch each other's performance closely, and the ones that have room to improve will try to catch the high achievers. \n Online: \n Metro areas involved in Medicare's experiments \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Medicare launches revamp for heart attacks, hip fractures"}

{"date": "January 2, 2017", "text": "LEE SANG-HAK/YONHAP VIA AP \n In this photo taken on Sept. 20, 2014, South Korea's Chung Yoo-ra, the daughter of Choi Soon-sil, the confidante of disgraced President Park Geun-hye, competes during the equestrian dressage team competition for the 17th Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea. South Korean prosecutors said Monday, Jan. 2, 2017, Chung has been arrested in Denmark and authorities are working to get her returned home in connection with a huge corruption scandal. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean prosecutors said Monday that the daughter of the confidante of impeached President Park Geun-hye has been arrested in Denmark, and that authorities were working to get her returned home in connection with a huge corruption scandal. \n Park was impeached last month by lawmakers amid public fury over prosecutors' allegations that she conspired to allow her longtime friend, Choi Soon-sil, to extort companies and control the government. \n Denmark police arrested Choi's daughter, Chung Yoo-ra, over the weekend on charges of staying there illegally. \n South Korea had asked Interpol to search for Chung because she didn't return home to answer questions about the scandal. \n South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported that Chung, a former member of the national equestrian team, allegedly took advantage of her mother's relationship with Park to get unwarranted favors from Seoul's Ewha Womans University. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Daughter of woman in South Korea scandal arrested in Denmark"}

