{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump poses for a portrait in the Oval Office in Washington on Friday. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump will mark the end of his first 100 days in office with a flurry of executive orders, looking to fulfill campaign promises and rack up victories ahead of that milestone by turning to a presidential tool he once derided. But Trump's frequent use of the executive order points to his struggles getting legislation though a Congress controlled by his own party and few of the orders themselves appear to deliver the sweeping changes the president has promised. \n White House aides said that Trump will have signed 32 executive orders by Friday, the most of any president in their first 100 days since World War II. That's a far cry from Trump's heated campaign rhetoric, in which he railed against his predecessor's use of executive action late in his tenure as President Barack Obama sought to maneuver around a Republican Congress. Trump argued that he, the consummate deal maker, wouldn't need to rely on the tool. \n \"The country wasn't based on executive orders,\" said Trump at a town hall in South Carolina in February 2016. \"Right now, Obama goes around signing executive orders. He can't even get along with the Democrats, and he goes around signing all these executive orders. It's a basic disaster. You can't do it.\" \n But after taking office, Trump has learned to love the executive order. This week, he will sign one on rural issues, another on veterans and several on energy. \n The White House has defended the use of executive orders as necessary to accomplish the speedy solutions it says the American people elected Trump to enact. At first, the president's West Wing advisers fashioned an onslaught of executive action to set the tone for this term, with the centerpiece of that first-week blitz being Trump's travel ban. \n But that hastily drawn ban was rejected by the courts. A second replacement order also remains in judicial limbo. \n Presidents frequently turn to executive orders when they struggle to advance their agendas through Congresses controlled by the opposition party. In Trump's case, he's struggled even though both houses of Congress are in the hands of Republicans; his health care bill never even came for a vote in the House of Representatives after it drew sharp criticism from moderate and conservative Republicans alike. \n And in the Senate, Republicans need to win over some Democratic lawmakers to get the 60 votes needed for passage of a contested bill. But the Senate is generally more inclined to cut bipartisan deals than the House because senators have statewide constituencies. \n \"This president has found that legislating is hard work,\" said Mark Rozell, dean of George Mason University's Schar School of Policy and Government. \"Executive orders are the easiest, simplest way to showcase action by the president to begin to fulfill some of the pledges made in the campaign. \n Executive orders show action. But oftentimes they are often symbolic and only have a marginal impact on policy.\" \n A review of Trump's executive orders reveals that a number of them represent necessary first steps at unraveling Obama-era environmental safeguards and financial service regulations. In some cases, there is no other way around those administrative hoops and some of the orders have bringing about major changes. Among them: his late March order that directed federal agencies to rescind any existing regulations that \"unduly burden the development of domestic energy resources,\" a move that rolls back environmental protections that was denounced by Democrats and environmentalists and cheered by Republicans who advocate energy independence. \n But many of Trump's executive orders signed with great fanfare have had little immediate impact. And many simply order reviews of pressing issues that push decision-making down the line. \n For instance, during his campaign, Trump talked tough on trade, vowing to slap punitive tariffs on companies that move production offshore and on countries that undercut U.S. goods. Aides hailed one of the executive orders he signed on the topic as \"historic.\" Yet the order called only for the completion within 90 days of a large-scale report to identify trade abuse and non-reciprocal practice. \n And while Trump has pledged to overhaul the nation's tax code, the order he signed on Friday simply commissions a review of the nation's tax regulations. \n On Tuesday, Trump is expected to sign an order that will create an inter-agency task force that that will be charged with identifying measures to spur American agricultural growth. On Thursday, he's expected to sign an order to create whistleblower protections in the Office of Veteran Affairs while making it easier to discipline or terminate employees who fail to carry out their duties to help veterans. He's also poised to sign an order that directs a review of the locations available for off-shore oil and gas exploration. Another will instruct the Interior Department to review national monument designations made over the past two decades. \n \"Unlike his predecessor who abused executive authority to expand the size and scope of the federal government in an end run around Congress, President Trump is using his legal authority to restrain Washington bureaucrats,\" said White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders. \n Trump is far from the first president to turn to governing by executive orders signed from the friendly confines of the Oval Office rather than by legislation that would need to wend its way through the halls of Congress. Obama had frequently criticized his predecessor, George W. Bush, for governing unilaterally, but he too turned to the executive action, particularly after the Republicans seized control of Capitol Hill. \n Obama signed 276 during his eight years in office, slightly less than Bush (291) and Bill Clinton (364) did in their two terms, according to data compiled by the University of California-Santa Barbara. Executive orders were used relatively infrequently until Theordore Roosevelt ushered in a new era of executive action at the beginning of the 19th century, signing more than 1,000 while in office and establishing a template his successors. Franklin D. Roosevelt, president during the Great Depression and World War II, signed more than 3,700 during his 12-plus years in office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump touts executive orders he once lambasted"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A young girl watches as North Korean men and women take part in a mass dance on Tuesday in Pyongyang, North Korea. Pyongyang residents hold mass dances across the city to mark the 85th anniversary of the country's army. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> A U.S. guided-missile submarine arrived in South Korea on Tuesday and envoys from the U.S., Japan and South Korea met in Tokyo, as North Korea marked the anniversary of the founding of its military. \n Though experts thought a nuclear test or ballistic missile launch might happen, the morning came and went without either. South Korea's Yonhap news agency, citing a South Korean government source, reported that North Korea instead appeared to have held a major live-fire drill in the Wonsan city area. \n NORTH KOREAN GENERAL WARNS OF PRE-EMPTIVE STRIKE \n Crowds in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, laid flowers and paid respects at giant statues of the country's former leaders Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il, one day after the minister of defense reiterated that the North is ready to use pre-emptive strikes or any measures it deems necessary to defend itself against the \"U.S. imperialists.\" \n \"The situation prevailing on the Korean Peninsula is so tense that a nuclear war may break out due to the frantic war drills of the U.S. imperialists and their vassal forces for aggression,\" Gen. Pak Yong Sik told a \"national meeting\" of thousands of senior military and civilian officials. \n South Korea's military said it is closely watching North Korean troop movement around Wonsan, but didn't confirm the Yonhap report, which cited an unnamed source saying the North carried out an exercise with 300 to 400 artillery pieces. \n The streets of Pyongyang were quiet. Flower-laying and bowing at statues and portraits of the leaders is a regular routine on major anniversaries. People also gathered in open spaces to take part in organized dancing, another common way to mark holidays. \n \"Our great leaders founded and wisely led our revolutionary army, and just like that, now our respected Marshal Kim Jong Un is leading wisely, so even though the situation is tense, we are celebrating the day,\" said Choe Un Byol, who had come with his family to the bronze statues of the former leaders. \n North Korea often also marks significant dates by displaying its military capability. Pyongyang launched a missile one day after the 105th birthday of late founder Kim Il Sung on April 15. \n Recent U.S. commercial satellite images indicate increased activity around North Korea's nuclear test site, and third-generation dictator Kim has said the country's preparation for an ICBM launch is in its \"final stage.\" \n U.S. NAVY GATHERS OFF KOREAS \n The USS Michigan, a nuclear-powered submarine, arrived at the South Korean port of Busan in what was described as a routine visit to rest the crew and load supplies. Cmdr. Jang Wook from South Korean navy public affairs said there was no plan for a drill. \n The submarine's arrival comes as the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier heads toward the Korean Peninsula for a joint exercise with South Korea around the weekend. \n Despite the buildup, President Donald Trump has reportedly settled on a strategy that emphasizes increased pressure on North Korea with the help of China, the North's only major ally, instead of military options or trying to overthrow North Korea's government. \n WASHINGTON'S WORDS \n Trump told ambassadors from U.N. Security Council member countries that they must be prepared to impose additional and stronger sanctions on North Korea. \n \"This is a real threat to the world, whether we want to talk about it or not,\" Trump said at a White House meeting today. \"North Korea is a big world problem, and it's a problem we have to finally solve. People have put blindfolds on for decades, and now it's time to solve the problem.\" \n Nikki Haley, Trump's U.N. ambassador, said the U.S. is not looking for a fight with Kim and would not attack North Korea \"unless he gives us reason to do something.\" She praised China's increased pressure on North Korea. \n Asked about the threshold for U.S. action, Haley told American broadcaster NBC that \"if you see him attack a military base, if you see some sort of intercontinental ballistic missile, then obviously we're going to do that.\" \n But asked what if North Korea tests an intercontinental missile or nuclear device, she said: \"I think then the president steps in and decides what's going to happen.\" \n DIPLOMATS MEET IN TOKYO \n The U.S., Japan and South Korea agreed Tuesday to put maximum pressure on North Korea, the South's envoy for North Korea said after meeting his American and Japanese counterparts in Tokyo. \n \"We agreed to warn North Korea to stop any additional strategic provocation and take intolerably strong punitive measures against Pyongyang if it goes ahead with such provocations,\" Kim Hong-kyun told reporters following his meeting with Joseph Yun of the U.S. and Japan's Kenji Kanasugi. \n Kim said they discussed ways to get more cooperation from China and Russia, which they agreed is crucial to applying effective pressure on North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program. He said they also recognized China's recent steps toward that goal. \n Japan's Foreign Ministry announced that China's envoy for North Korea, Wu Dawei, was arriving in Tokyo on Tuesday for talks with Kanasugi that may take place later this week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea celebrates as South Korea, U.S. keep watch"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers dismantle the Liberty Place monument today which commemorates whites who tried to topple a biracial post-Civil War government, in New Orleans. It was removed overnight in an attempt to avoid disruption from supporters who want the monuments to stay. \n NEW ORLEANS >> A monument to a deadly white-supremacist uprising in 1874 was removed under cover of darkness by workers in masks and bulletproof vests today as New Orleans joined the movement to take down symbols of the Confederacy and the Jim Crow South. \n The Liberty Place monument, a 35-foot granite obelisk that pays tribute to whites who tried to topple a biracial Reconstruction government installed in New Orleans after the Civil War, was taken away on a truck in pieces before daybreak after a few hours of work. \n In the coming days, the city will also remove three statues of Confederate Gens. Robert E. Lee and P.G.T. Beauregard and Confederate President Jefferson Davis, now that legal challenges have been overcome. \n \"We will no longer allow the Confederacy to literally be put on a pedestal in the heart of our city,\" Mayor Mitch Landrieu vowed. \n The removal of the obelisk was carried out early in the morning because of death threats and fears of disruption from supporters of the monuments. \n The workers wore military-style helmets and had scarves over their faces. Police were on hand, with officers watching from atop a hotel parking garage. \n \"The statue was put up to honor the killing of police officers by white supremacists,\" Landrieu said. \"Of the four that we will move, this statue is perhaps the most blatant affront to the values that make America and New Orleans strong today.\" \n Citing safety concerns, the mayor would not disclose exactly when the other monuments would be taken down, except to say that it will be done at night to avoid trouble. \n He said the monuments will be put in storage until an appropriate place to display them is determined. \n Nationally, the debate over Confederate symbols has flared since nine black parishioners were shot to death by an avowed racist at a church in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015. \n South Carolina removed the Confederate flag from its statehouse grounds in the weeks after, and several Southern cities have since considered removing monuments. The University of Mississippi took down its state flag because it includes the Confederate emblem. \n New Orleans is a mostly black city of nearly 390,000. The majority-black City Council voted 6-1 in 2015 to take the monuments down, but legal battles held up action. \n Landrieu, a white Democrat, proposed the monuments' removal and rode to victory twice with overwhelming support from the city's black residents. \n Opponents of the memorials say they are offensive artifacts honoring the region's racist past. Others say the monuments are part of history and should be preserved. \n Robert Bonner, a 63-year-old Civil War re-enactor, was there to protest the monument's removal. \n \"I think it's a terrible thing,\" he said. \"When you start removing the history of the city, you start losing money. You start losing where you came from and where you've been.\" \n The Monumental Task Committee, which sued to preserve the memorials, condemned the middle-of-the-night removal as \"atrocious government.\" \n The Liberty Place monument was erected in 1891 to commemorate the failed uprising by the Crescent City White League. \n Sixteen White Leaguers, 13 members of the white and black Metropolitan police force and six bystanders were among those killed in the bloody battle down Canal Street. \n President Ulysses Grant sent federal troops to take the city back three days later. However, the White League grew in power in New Orleans after the battle, with its members and allies taking over the city and state government after Reconstruction. \n An inscription added in 1932 said the Yankees withdrew federal troops and \"recognized white supremacy in the South\" after the uprising. In 1993, those words were covered by a granite slab with a new inscription, saying the obelisk honors \"Americans on both sides\" who died and that the conflict \"should teach us lessons for the future.\" \n New Orleans removed the memorial from busy Canal Street during a paving project in 1989 and didn't put it back up until the city was sued. Even then, it was consigned to an obscure spot on a side street. \n Landrieu said the memorials don't represent his city as it approaches its 300th anniversary next year. \n Removing the monuments is \"not about blame,\" the mayor said. Rather, it's about \"showing the whole world that we as a city and as people are able to acknowledge, understand, reconcile and \u2014 most importantly \u2014 choose a better future, making straight what has been crooked and right what has been wrong.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Orleans takes down white supremacist monument"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin smiles while speaking to the media during the daily briefing in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington on Monday. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump plans to stick with his campaign pledge to slash the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, but the dramatic cut raises a problematic question for the White House: How can the president deliver the \"massive\" tax cut he promised without also blowing a massive hole in the budget? \n A senior administration official confirmed the planned reduction to corporate rates, speaking on condition of anonymity in order discuss details of the plan the president is expected to unveil Wednesday. \n Most outside economic analyses say the type of tax cuts being promoted by Trump would likely fuel even larger deficits for a federal government already projected to see its debt steadily rise. They are also unlikely to generate Trump's ambitious promised growth rate of 3 percent a year, roughly double the 1.6 percent growth achieved last year. These two factors are related because the Trump administration is counting on faster economic growth to produce additional tax revenues that could then close the deficit. The concept was popularized as \"trickle-down\" economics. \n The problem is that the economy can't grow quickly enough to cover the likely hole in the deficit. \n \"There's no pure tax cut that pays for itself,\" said Alan Cole, an economist at the right-leaning Tax Foundation. \n Trump has promised to release the outlines of his tax plan Wednesday and has said the plan would give Americans a tax cut bigger than \"any tax cut ever.\" During the campaign, he backed cutting the corporate tax rate and the personal income tax rate to 33 percent from a top marginal rate of 39.6 percent. \n Although he did not disclose details, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Monday the lower tax rates would generate so much economic growth that it would hold the deficit in check. \n \"The tax reform will pay for itself with economic growth,\" Mnuchin said at the White House news briefing, adding that the overhaul would ideally let someone file taxes on a \"large postcard.\" \n By running the risk of higher deficits, the Trump plan could damage the credibility of Republican lawmakers who spent years railing against the rising national debt under former President Barack Obama. Trump could also make it harder to pass lasting tax reform, since any policy that increases the debt above its baseline either requires Democratic support or \u2014 if passed by a slim majority of Republicans in the Senate \u2014 would expire in a decade. The House Republican tax blueprint tried to offset the lower rates by introducing a new tax system that applies to imports. \n Mnuchin and White House economic adviser Gary Cohn are scheduled to meet with congressional leaders Tuesday evening to talk about the president's tax plan. They are expected to meet with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas. \n Hatch and Brady will be key players in Congress as lawmakers try to tackle a tax overhaul. \n Trump's announcement Friday that he would unveil a tax plan this week caught lawmakers by surprise, despite regular conversations among Mnuchin, Cohn and congressional leaders, said a congressional aide. The aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, was not authorized to speak publicly about the issue. \n Without a proposal on the table, the White House has been vague about the president's support for ideas circulating in Congress. \n It's unclear whether the president favors the House Republican blueprint's border adjustment tax system, which would lower corporate rates to 20 percent by essentially taxing imports and excluding U.S. exports. \n Trump told Fox Business News that he prefers a \"reciprocal\" tax in which any tariffs, duties or taxes would match what trading partners charge. \n Most economists say it's unlikely that tax cuts can generate enough gains to prevent the budget deficit \u2014 estimated to total $559 billion this year \u2014 from rising. They also have recent real-world examples to make their case: Tax cuts in Kansas made by Gov. Sam Brownback failed to deliver the expected boost, forcing the state into years of grueling budget battles and harsh spending cuts to make up the gap. \n The benefits of the tax cuts could also be limited by economic forces beyond Trump's immediate control. \n The Federal Reserve could raise short-term interest rates, investors might charge the government higher borrowing costs and a stronger dollar could temper growth through exports, said Mark Doms, a senior economist at the bank Nomura. \n \"Doing some kind of tax cut might boost growth a bit, but there are forces that would counteract the tax cut,\" Doms said. \n Tax reform would likely have a modest effect on growth, almost surely not enough to match the administration's 3 percent growth target, said Mark Mazur, director of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center and a former assistant treasury secretary for tax policy in the Obama administration. Major tax cuts might also provide a short-term boost, but they would likely produce additional debt that would dampen growth in the future. \n \"The laws of arithmetic kind of catch up to you,\" Mazur said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's tax plan could face a budget deficit challenge"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Undated handout photo of a parchment manuscript of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, believed to date from the 1780s and found in a records office in Chichester, southern England. \n LONDON >> A unique copy of the U.S. Declaration of Independence has been discovered in an unexpected place \u2013 England. \n The copy, similar to the one viewed by millions each year at the National Archives in Washington has been locked away in a local records office in southeastern England forgotten by historians. Its significance wasn't understood until recently, when Harvard researcher Emily Sneff stumbled on a mention in a catalog of the office's holdings. Something tickled her curiosity: the copy was written on parchment. \n And when Sneff and Harvard professor Danielle Allen saw the document, they were stunned. \n \"I thought, 'Holy history, Batman!\" Allen told The Associated Press on Monday. \"We'd seen a lot of copies, but nothing like this.\" \n Sneff and Allen's sleuthing led to a discovery that could shed new light on the founding document of the United States. \n The team studied the document for two years and viewed it in person before sharing their conclusions with other historians last week. \n The experts have dated what is now being called the \"Sussex Declaration\" to the 1780s \u2014 a time of political tumult before the Constitutional Convention, when the new nation was struggling to survive as a loose association of states governed by the Articles of Confederation. \n The document is 24-inches-by-30 inches \u2014 the same size as the one housed at the National Archives. Also like the one at the archives, it is written by hand on parchment \u2014 the only two of their kind known to exist. \n But there are also key differences. The names are not in the same order. For instance, John Hancock isn't listed first or writ large, and the signatories aren't grouped by state. \n Historians believe the Sussex Declaration could have been owned by the Third Duke of Richmond, known as the \"Radical Duke\" because of his support for the American Revolution. The parchment came into the possession of a local lawyer who represented the family. It was deposited at the West Sussex Records Office in the 1950s. \n But it remains unclear how the document got to Britain. \n The researchers from the Declaration Resources Project plan to test the document this summer in an effort to clarify its provenance, and perform hyper-spectral imaging in hopes of deciphering text at the top of the parchment that appears to have been scraped off. \n What is already clear is that the document was made during the tumultuous years after the American Revolution. Just after the signing of the declaration, copies were reproduced and distributed throughout the colonies and across the Atlantic to England. But the Sussex version was created a decade later and based on the original at the National Archives. \n The Sussex Declaration is important because it underscores the arguments that divided the revolutionaries as they moved to establish a country. Historians have long debated whether there was continuity between the declaration and the Constitution or if it was a sharp break. The Sussex parchment suggests continuity. But it also has great import to the general public, Allen said. \n One of the major debates of the time was whether the new nation would be based on the authority of the people or the authority of the states. The transcriber meticulously copied the declaration only to jumble the signatories as a political statement, giving weight to the people rather than the states, Allen said. \n \"This is really a symbolic way of saying we are all one people,\" she said. \n It goes to the essence of debates that continue in the U.S., as typified by the fact that Hillary Clinton won last year's popular vote but Donald Trump became president because he won the Electoral College, which ensures the president is elected by a tally of states. \n \"This manuscript beautifully illuminates the nature of that puzzle,\" Allen said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Researchers find unique U.S. Declaration of Independence copy"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "CHICAGO >> A suburban Chicago college student who was accidentally killed during a hammer throw event was struck by an errantly thrown hammer while standing near the field during warmups, authorities said today. \n The hammer \u2014 a steel wire attached to a heavy metal ball that can weigh as much as 16 pounds \u2014 struck 19-year-old Wheaton College freshman Ethan Roser in the head during Saturday's meet, said Bill Murphy, Wheaton's deputy police chief. Roser, of Cincinnati, was volunteering at the meet and was going to measure the throws. \n An autopsy conducted today by the DuPage County Coroner's office determined, as expected, that the preliminary cause of death was head trauma. \n Murphy said investigators would continue to look into whether there was any criminal negligence, but that they don't suspect there was any. Wheaton College declined to say whether it would conduct its own investigation. \n Students at the Christian college about 25 miles west of Chicago gathered after the meet to pray for Roser, who transferred there in January from a school in Cincinnati. \n \"It was time for us to come together and really turn to God in this tough time,\" student Phoebe Morris told the (Arlington Heights) Daily Herald. \n Roser spent much of his childhood in Zimbabwe, where his parents were missionaries, and he was deeply religious. His mother, Pat Roser, said Ethan's faith played a big role in how he dealt with a leg injury in high school and in his decision to attend Wheaton. \n \"That just totally changed him, and he wanted to go and tell other young people about God,\" she told the newspaper. \"That's what he was doing at Wheaton.\" \n Roser's father, the Rev. Mark Roser, described his son as \"just a really special kid\" who considered his family members to be his best friends. \n \"We're having a really hard time saying goodbye and letting go,\" he told the paper. \"We know God's in control, and he works everything out even though it's beyond our comprehension.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Errant hammer throw during warmups killed student"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, accompanied by his daughter Ivanka Trump, talks via video conference Monday with International Space Station Commander Peggy Whitson on the International Space Station from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> \"Station, this is your president, do you hear me?\" \n President Donald Trump spoke live for about 20 minutes Monday morning with a pair of astronauts at the International Space Station, including commander Peggy Whitson, who set a new record for accumulated time in space at more than 534 days. \n Trump \u2014 asking questions from the Oval Office with his daughter Ivanka by his side, and with astronaut Kate Rubins and top advisers filling out the room \u2014 clearly relished the drama of the unusual call. He mentioned several times that it was being streamed live in classrooms across the country, and asked the astronauts about their daily routine and how they successfully did their jobs. \n \"That's what we like, great American equipment that works,\" Trump responded when Whitson told the president that his voice was being heard at the space station. \n Jack Fischer, the second astronaut speaking from the space station, seemed just as impressed with his trip, noting that he had been drinking a \"floaty ball-form coffee\" the morning before. \n \"Now, I'm talking to the president of the United States while hanging from a wall,\" Fischer said. \"It's amazing.\" \n He added that even drinking recycled urine to save precious water in space was \"really not as bad as it sounds.\" \n Trump deadpanned: \"That's good. I'm glad to hear that.\" \n Trump was eager to talk about the potential for further space travel, including a greater role for entrepreneurs and a human trip to Mars. When Whitson said a Mars trip would likely happen in the 2030s, Trump joked that NASA would have to speed up its timeline to complete the mission, \"at worst, during my second term.\" \n Trump congratulated Whitson and repeatedly praised her work. He said he would never travel 17,000 mph \"but that's what you do.\" \n Whitson said she was proud of the honor but credited the vast crew on Earth for making it possible. \n \"I've been dealing with politicians so much,\" Trump said. \"I'm so much more impressed with these people.\" \n ", "author": "Tribune Washington Bureau", "title": "Trump tells astronauts to get to Mars 'at worst, during my second term'"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / FEB. 3 \n Fifteen people were evaluated by Emergency Medical Services personnel following an ammonia leak at the Hawaiian Ice Co. this evening. \n A massive ammonia leak at the Hawaiian Ice Co. at Pier 38 this evening resulted in the evacuation of more than 100 people from neighboring businesses and vessels. \n According to Honolulu Fire Department spokesman Capt. David Jenkins, the leak originated from a 6,500-pound container. \n Witnesses said the leak produced a large noxious cloud that drifted across the pier. \n HFD responded to the 5:07 p.m. emergency call with 12 companies staffed with about 40 personnel. \n The department's hazardous materials team was able to enter the business and shut off the supply of ammonia. As of 7:15 p.m., HazMat personnel were continuing to take readings of ammonia levels to determine when the building could be re-opened for further ventilation. \n Fifteen people were evaluated by Emergency Medical Services personnel. Of those, nine received treatment on site for irritated eyes, breathing difficulties and other symptoms and refused transport to a hospital. One person was transported to an area hospital for further treatment. \n Ana Settle, 42, a cashier at Nico's Pier 38, was near the door of the fish market when a customer came in gagging from exposure to the ammonia. She called 911 then helped as the business evacuated staff and customers. \n \"You could feel it in your lungs,\" Settle said. \"I felt dizzy and I couldn't breathe. We got out of there as fast as we could.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pier 38 evacuated after ammonia leak"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chief nuclear negotiators from left to right, Joseph Yun, U.S. special representative for North Korea policy, Kenji Kanasugi, director general of the Japanese Foreign Ministry's Asian and Oceanian Affairs Bureau, and Kim Hong-kyun, special representative for Korean Peninsula peace and security affairs at the South Korean Foreign Ministry, join hands before their meeting about North Korean issues at the Iikura Guesthouse in Tokyo on Tuesday. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> A ruling Chinese Communist Party newspaper is warning North Korea against conducting another nuclear test, saying that would likely propel events past the \"point of no return.\" \n In an editorial Tuesday, the Global Times says the previous day's phone conversation between Presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping of China showed the two countries were in close communication over the tensions. \n It says China hopes for a peaceful outcome, but that Beijing has \"very limited influence on the entire situation.\" \n It says: \"The game of chicken between Washington and Pyongyang has come to a breaking point.\" The paper is known for its often stridently nationalistic views. \n It says if North Korea carries out a sixth nuclear test as expected, \"it is more likely than ever that the situation will cross the point of no return. All stakeholders will bear the consequences, with Pyongyang sure to suffer the greatest losses.\" \n As a traditional ally and North Korea's chief source of trade, food and fuel aid, China has come under intense pressure to use its influence to dissuade Pyongyang from additional nuclear tests and missile launches. \n However, Beijing is intensely wary of any measures that might cause the collapse of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's hard-line communist regime, fearing that could lead to a wave of refugees and a Pyongyang government beholden to Washington and Seoul. \n Meanwhile, U.S. envoy for North Korea Joseph Yun says he and his counterparts from Japan and South Korea agreed to coordinate \"all actions\" on North Korea. \n The three envoys also agreed that China has a key role in pressuring North Korea to abandon its missile and nuclear programs. \n Yun told reporters after a meeting in Tokyo that all diplomatic, military and economic actions on North Korea will be coordinated among the allies. \n Yun says China especially has \"a very, very important role\" to play. He says U.N. Security Council resolutions and sanctions on Pyongyang must be fully implemented. \n He says: \"There are a number of countries who could be more proactive\" in implementing the sanctions. He did not identify the countries. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese media warn N. Korea against nuke test"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "James Montgomery \n A man who pleaded guilty in 2006 to 55 misdemeanor counts of animal cruelty pleaded no contest in state court today to felony animal cruelty. \n James Montgomery, 68, faces a maximum five-year prison term at sentencing in July for first-degree animal cruelty. He will also be prohibited from possessing or owning any pet animal for five years. The charge stems from the discovery last May 21 of a malnourished puppy in a garbage bin outside Montgomery's Kahaluu home. \n Honolulu police said officers found the puppy along with a dead dog in the bin after receiving a report of someone throwing away live dogs. They then entered Montgomery's Mahakea Road home with officials from the Hawaiian Human Society and seized another 33 live dogs. \n Montgomery is charged with second-degree animal cruelty involving the 33 dogs, but the prosecutor has indicated that he will drop the charge after a state judge ruled that the seizure was done improperly. The judge ruled that police used evidence they obtained from entering Montgomery's home without permission to secure the search warrant they used for the seizure. Police didn't need a search warrant for the garbage bin. Montgomery's daughter directed the officers to it, opened it and allowed them to recover the puppy from it. \n Second-degree animal cruelty is a misdemeanor that becomes a felony when 10 or more animals are involved. \n The Humane Society says all of the dogs, including the one found in the garbage bin, have been adopted. The adoptions were made possible when Montgomery relinquished ownership of the dogs on Aug. 5. A spokeswoman said by then the Humane Society had spent thousands of dollars to care for the animals. Montgomery cannot be held responsible for the cost without being convicted of the second-degree animal cruelty charge. \n The Humane Society spent more than $260,000 caring for 64 dogs from the time they seized the animals from Montgomery's home in January 2005 to when Montgomery pleaded guilty 12 months later to 55 counts of misdemeanor animal cruelty. \n A state judge granted Montgomery's request to defer his guilty pleas. The judge also fined Montgomery $5,500, ordered him to pay $3,025 but did not order him to repay the Humane Society for the care of the animals. The judge even ordered the Humane Society to return the dogs to Montgomery to sell or otherwise find them new homes. The court dismissed all charges against Montgomery in 2008 after he proved that he completed all of the terms and conditions he was ordered to perform. \n ", "author": "By Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kahaluu man pleads no contest to animal cruelty"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE \n Jack Jones and Marcel Williams. \n VARNER, Ark. >> Two inmates received lethal injections on the same gurney tonight about three hours apart as Arkansas completed the nation's first double execution since 2000, just days after the state ended a nearly 12-year hiatus on administering capital punishment. \n While the first inmate, Jack Jones, was executed on schedule, shortly after 7 p.m., attorneys for the second, Marcel Williams, convinced a federal judge minutes later to briefly delay his punishment over concerns about how the earlier one was carried out. They claimed Jones gasped for air, an account the state's attorney general denied, but the judge lifted her stay about an hour later and Williams was pronounced dead at 10:33 p.m.. \n Initially, Gov. Asa Hutchinson scheduled four double executions over an 11-day period in April. The eight executions would have been the most by a state in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. The state said the executions needed to be carried out before its supply of one lethal injection drug expires on April 30. \n The first three executions were canceled because of court decisions, then inmate Ledell Lee was executed last week. \n The last state to put more than one inmate to death on the same day was Texas, which executed two killers in August 2000. Arkansas' last double execution occurred in 1999. \n Jones was sent to death row for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He was also convicted of attempting to kill Phillips' 11-year-old daughter and was convicted in another rape and killing in Florida. \n Jones said earlier this month that he was ready for execution. He used a wheelchair and he'd had a leg amputated in prison because of diabetes. \n The state conducted its first execution last week after a nearly 12-year hiatus. Initially, Gov. Asa Hutchinson scheduled four double executions over an 11-day period in April. The eight executions would have been the most by a state in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. The state said the executions needed to be carried out before its supply of midazolam, one lethal injection drug, expires on April 30. \n The first three executions were canceled because of court decisions, then inmate Ledell Lee was executed last week. \n Williams' \"morbid obesity makes it likely that either the IV line cannot be placed or that it will be placed in error, thus causing substantial damage (like a collapsed lung),\" his attorneys wrote in an earlier court filing asking justices to block the execution. \n Both men were served last meals on Monday afternoon, Arkansas Department of Correction spokesman Solomon Graves said. Jones had fried chicken, potato logs with tartar sauce, beef jerky bites, three candy bars, a chocolate milkshake and fruit punch. Williams had fried chicken, banana pudding, nachos, two sodas and potato logs with ketchup, Graves said. \n In recent pleadings before state and federal courts, the inmates said the three drugs Arkansas uses to execute prisoners \u2014 midazolam, vecuronium bromide and potassium chloride \u2014 could be ineffective because of their poor health. \n Jones, 52, lost a leg to diabetes and was on insulin. Williams, 46, weighs 400 pounds, is diabetic and has concerns that the execution team might not be able to find a suitable vein to support an intravenous line. \n The poor health of both men, their lawyers claimed, could make it difficult for them to respond during a consciousness check following a megadose of midazolam. The state shouldn't risk giving them drugs to stop their lungs and hearts if they aren't unconscious, they have told courts. \n The last state to put more than one inmate to death on the same day was Texas, which executed two killers in August 2000. Oklahoma planned a double execution in 2014 but scrapped plans for the second one after the execution of Clayton Lockett went awry. \n Arkansas executed four men in an eight-day period in 1960. The only quicker pace included quadruple executions in 1926 and 1930. \n Williams was sent to death row for the 1994 rape and killing of 22-year-old Stacy Errickson, whom he kidnapped from a gas station in central Arkansas. \n Authorities said Williams abducted and raped two other women in the days before he was arrested in Errickson's death. Williams admitted responsibility to the state Parole Board last month. \n \"I wish I could take it back, but I can't,\" Williams told the board. \n Jones was given the death penalty for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He strangled her with the cord to a coffee pot. \n In a letter earlier this month, Jones said he was ready to be killed by the state. The letter, which his attorney read aloud at his clemency hearing, went on to say: \"I shall not ask to be forgiven, for I haven't the right.\" \n Including Jones and Williams, nine people have been executed in the United States this year, four in Texas, three in Arkansas and one each in Missouri and Virginia. Last year, 20 people were executed, down from 98 in 1999 and the lowest number since 14 in 1991, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arkansas executes 2 inmates"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A screen capture of dashcam video showing a volunteer firefighter rescuing a girl who fell out of a church bus in Arkansas. \n HARRISON, Ark. >> A 4-year-old girl fell through the open back door of a moving church bus onto an Arkansas state highway, but was rescued from the road by a volunteer firefighter who happened to be driving behind. \n Firefighter Ryan Ciampoli's dashboard camera recorded the harrowing moment on Wednesday when the door swings open with the girl clinging to it. She quickly falls onto the road and appears immobile. \n The bus drives away. \n The video shows Ciampoli approaching the girl and gently scooping her up. \n Ciampoli later told reporters he normally wouldn't have moved her due to the nature of her fall, but he was concerned because the accident happened in the middle of a state highway. \n The girl's family told reporters the girl is expected to make a full recovery. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dashcam video captures Arkansas 4-year-old's fall from bus"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tucker Carlson, left, and Bill O'Reilly. \n LOS ANGELES >> Five days after being fired from his top-rated Fox News Channel perch, Bill O'Reilly used a podcast to express his dismay and vowed that \"the truth will come out.\" \n \"I am sad that I'm not on television anymore,\" he said in an episode Monday of his personal website's \"No Spin News\" podcast, available only to subscribers after this week's free window. \"I was very surprised how it all turned out.\" \n O'Reilly, who exited Fox News amid sexual harassment allegations that he has denied, said he couldn't add much more \"because there's much stuff going on right now.\" \n \"But I can tell you that I'm very confident the truth will come out and when it does, I don't know if you're going to be surprised, but I think you're going to be shaken, as I am,\" said O'Reilly, who was Fox's most popular and most lucrative personality. \n He declined to expand on that point, he said, \"because I just don't want to influence the flow of the information. I don't want the media to take what I say and misconstrue it.\" \n But his listeners have a right to know exactly what happened, and \"we are working in that direction,\" O'Reilly said. \n O'Reilly's remarks were the first since his exit on Wednesday, which took place while he was away on his vacation. He had issued a statement after Fox announced his departure, defending himself against what he called \"unfounded claims\" and saying he took pride in his 20-plus years with the news channel. \n O'Reilly's firing came after The New York Times reported in early April that five women had received settlements totaling $13 million after they alleged sexual harassment and other mistreatment and dozens of advertisers pulled out of his show. He was paid a reported $25 million upon his exit. \n During his podcast, O'Reilly didn't address speculation that he might land elsewhere in broadcasting or cable, but he discussed briefly how he intended to build his online forum into a \"genuine news program.\" \n On Monday's roughly 20-minute podcast, he discussed topics including President Donald Trump's poll numbers. As the program is developed, guests and other elements would be added, he said. \n Not long after O'Reilly signed off online, Tucker Carlson's show moved into the 8 p.m. EDT time slot that had been home to \"The O'Reilly Factor.\" \n Carlson tipped his hat to O'Reilly at the top of \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" without discussing why he left. \n \"I watched Bill O'Reilly at this hour for years, and I always marveled at how well-prepared he was, how tough he was, and how crisply and directly he expressed his views,\" he said. \"What O'Reilly did was not easy. He set a high bar, and I'm gonna do my best to meet it.\" \n One of Carlson's guests, Caitlyn Jenner, teased him about being shifted to various Fox News time slots because of the departures of Megyn Kelly, who left for a new job at NBC, and O'Reilly. \n \"You've been running around \u2026. Hopefully you're here for a while,\" Jenner said, smiling, and then discussed politics and gender identity issues with the host. \n Earlier Monday, former Fox News host Andrea Tantaros filed a lawsuit against Fox News saying she believes network operatives used bogus social media accounts to torture her after she complained about sexual harassment by longtime former CEO Roger Ailes, who resigned last July. The network denied her claims. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "O'Reilly surprised by Fox exit, says truth will come out"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nandi Cain, center, answers a reporters question concerning the alleged beating he received from a Sacramento Police officer two weeks ago during a news conference Monday, April 24, 2017, in Sacramento, Calif. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> A black man hurled to the ground and punched repeatedly in the face by a police officer this month has filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against the city and county of Sacramento, claiming Monday he was targeted because of his race and abused in jail after his arrest. \n The lawsuit seeking unspecified monetary damages for Nandi Cain, who police said was jaywalking, also named the officer as a plaintiff and identified him as Anthony Figueroa, said Cain's lawyer, John Burris. \n Cain told reporters that his memory of the event is blurry because he suffered a concussion and could barely see because of a black eye and that his nose was broken. \n Burris said Cain was guilty mainly of \"walking while black\" and that the incident reminded him of the videotaped beating of black motorist Rodney King in Los Angeles. Four white police officers were acquitted in King's beating 25 years ago, sparking days of deadly rioting. \n Police who had criticized the officer's actions during the widely publicized April 10 event captured on video had not identified him, saying only that the officer was a two-year member of the force placed on unpaid administrative leave. \n Officer Matthew McPhail, a department spokesman, said the department wasn't commenting because of the pending lawsuit. \n Figueroa also did not immediately respond to an emailed request for comment about the lawsuit or the April 10 incident, which officials have said happened when Cain was told by the officer to stop because he had jaywalked on a residential street in California's state capital. \n McPhail and Cain's attorneys said they did not know the race or ethnicity of the arresting officer. \n Cain, 24, refused and challenged the officer to a fight, officials have said. \n Video taken by a police cruiser dash camera and bystanders captured Cain complaining the officer was stopping him \"for nothing\" and telling the officer, \"if you were a real man you would take your gun away and fight me like a real man.\" \n The officer then lunged at Cain and tackled him, punching him repeatedly, according to the video released by the police department. Video of the confrontation filmed by a bystander went viral and generated outrage across the U.S. \n Cain was handcuffed for suspicion of resisting arrest and an outstanding misdemeanor arrest warrant, authorities have said. Police said he continued resisting by kicking the interior of a patrol car and was restrained with a leg hobble. \n After being brought to a jail, Cain was repeatedly kneed in the ribs by corrections officers who also used their knees to pin him down while stripping off his clothes, said the federal lawsuit filed Sunday in Sacramento. \n \"I've been embarrassed and discriminated against when all I've been trying to do is go home from work,\" Cain told reporters. \n Cain cried out in pain while he was naked on the floor of the jail and was mocked by the corrections officers, the lawsuit said. \n It said he was left alone in a cell without medical attention, food or the ability to make a phone call. \n The allegations about Cain's treatment in the jail \"will be investigated accordingly,\" a sheriff's department spokesman, Sgt. Tony Turnbull, said in a statement. \"I would like to reiterate that these are only allegations, and before people jump to conclusions, let the investigation speak for itself.\" \n Cain was released from jail after nine hours and no charges were filed against him. \n Since then, Cain said he has been depressed with nightmares and cold sweats and unable to sleep or eat regularly. He said he is still receiving medical treatment for the concussion. \n Cain speculated that he might still be in jail if a bystander had not initially posted video of the confrontation. \n \"Racism is still alive, and you would think, it's 2017 that it would die, but it still exists,\" Cain said, adding that he had been racially targeted before but that this event marked the first time it was captured in images. \n He added: \"Now that we brought it to surface, justice will be served and we will make sure that this doesn't happen to anybody else.\" \n The police department and Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg have previously called the officer's behavior disturbing and unreasonable. \n Burris contested the allegation that his client was jaywalking. \n \"But jaywalking in and of itself does not and should not ever result in a person being beaten about his face and head without a justification for it,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Black man punched by California officer files rights lawsuit"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Death-row inmates Jack Jones, left, and Marcel Williams. Jones received a lethal injection that lasted 14 minutes. The state of Arkansas was set to execute Marcel Williams about an hour later after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected Williams' last appeals, but a federal judge temporarily halted the proceedings due to an emergency filing from Williams' attorneys. \n VARNER, Ark. >> A federal judge temporarily blocked Arkansas from executing a second inmate tonight after attorneys questioned whether the first execution had gone properly. \n Jack Jones received a lethal injection earlier this evening that lasted 14 minutes. The state was set to execute Marcel Williams about an hour later after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected Williams' last appeals, but a federal judge temporarily halted the proceedings due to an emergency filing from Williams' attorneys. \n U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker halted Williams' execution until she issues another order. His death warrant expires at midnight. \n In the emergency filing, Williams' attorneys wrote that officials spent 45 minutes trying to place an IV line in Jones' neck before placing it elsewhere. It argued that Williams, who weighs 400 pounds, could face a \"torturous\" death because of his weight. \n Intravenous lines are placed before witnesses are allowed access to the death chamber. \n Arkansas' attorney general says the attorneys' account of the Jones execution was \"inaccurate.\" \n An Associated Press reporter who witnessed the execution said Jones moved his lips briefly after the midazolam was administered, and officials put a tongue depressor in his mouth intermittently for the first few minutes. His chest stopped moving two minutes after they checked for consciousness, and he was pronounced dead at 7:20 p.m. \n Jones, who'd argued that his health conditions could lead to a painful death, gave a lengthy last statement. His final words were: \"I'm sorry.\" \n \"I hope over time you can learn who I really am and I am not a monster,\" he said in the roughly 2-minute statement. \n Williams was scheduled to be executed at 8:15 p.m. after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected his final appeals, but Baker's order placed that on hold. \n Jones was sent to death row for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He was also convicted of attempting to kill Phillips' 11-year-old daughter and was convicted in another rape and killing in Florida. \n Jones said earlier this month that he was ready for execution. He used a wheelchair and he'd had a leg amputated in prison because of diabetes. \n The state conducted its first execution last week after a nearly 12-year hiatus. Initially, Gov. Asa Hutchinson scheduled four double executions over an 11-day period in April. The eight executions would have been the most by a state in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. The state said the executions needed to be carried out before its supply of midazolam, one lethal injection drug, expires on April 30. \n The first three executions were canceled because of court decisions, then inmate Ledell Lee was executed last week. \n Williams' \"morbid obesity makes it likely that either the IV line cannot be placed or that it will be placed in error, thus causing substantial damage (like a collapsed lung),\" his attorneys wrote in a court filing asking justices to block the execution. \n Both men were served last meals this afternoon, Arkansas Department of Correction spokesman Solomon Graves said. Jones had fried chicken, potato logs with tartar sauce, beef jerky bites, three candy bars, a chocolate milkshake and fruit punch. Williams had fried chicken, banana pudding, nachos, two sodas and potato logs with ketchup, Graves said. \n Before Lee's execution Thursday, Arkansas hadn't put an inmate to death since 2005. In several of the 31 states where executions are legal, drug shortages have often forced delays as manufacturers prohibit their use in executions. Arkansas believes that secrecy it grants to suppliers can solve that problem, though it still has difficulty obtaining the drugs. Courts have also forced rewrites of Arkansas' lethal injection protocols, causing further delays. Jones and Williams committed their crimes more than two decades ago. \n In recent pleadings before state and federal courts, the inmates said the three drugs Arkansas uses to execute prisoners \u2014 midazolam, vecuronium bromide and potassium chloride \u2014 could be ineffective because of their poor health. \n Jones, 52, lost a leg to diabetes and was on insulin. Williams, 46, weighs 400 pounds, is diabetic and has concerns that the execution team might not be able to find a suitable vein to support an intravenous line. \n The poor health of both men, their lawyers claimed, could make it difficult for them to respond during a consciousness check following a megadose of midazolam. The state shouldn't risk giving them drugs to stop their lungs and hearts if they aren't unconscious, they have told courts. \n The last state to put more than one inmate to death on the same day was Texas, which executed two killers in August 2000. Oklahoma planned a double execution in 2014 but scrapped plans for the second one after the execution of Clayton Lockett went awry. \n Arkansas executed four men in an eight-day period in 1960. The only quicker pace included quadruple executions in 1926 and 1930. \n Williams was sent to death row for the 1994 rape and killing of 22-year-old Stacy Errickson, whom he kidnapped from a gas station in central Arkansas. \n Authorities said Williams abducted and raped two other women in the days before he was arrested in Errickson's death. Williams admitted responsibility to the state Parole Board last month. \n \"I wish I could take it back, but I can't,\" Williams told the board. \n Jones was given the death penalty for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He strangled her with the cord to a coffee pot. \n In a letter earlier this month, Jones said he was ready to be killed by the state. The letter, which his attorney read aloud at his clemency hearing, went on to say: \"I shall not ask to be forgiven, for I haven't the right.\" \n Including Jones, eight people have been executed in the United States this year, four in Texas, two in Arkansas and one each in Missouri and Virginia. Last year, 20 people were executed, down from 98 in 1999 and the lowest number since 14 in 1991, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. judge temporarily blocks 2nd Arkansas execution"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "Kauai police identified today a hiker who died after she was swept away in a stream this weekend as Fiona Choi, 26, of Lihue. \n Choi was hiking with a group on the Kaapoko Tunnels Trail in Wailua on Saturday when she slipped and fell while crossing a stream, Kauai firefighters said. \n She managed to grab onto a rock downstream, but was no longer there by the time the group reached the spot. \n After an unsuccessful search of the area, the group exited the trail and called for help about 5:35 p.m. Responding firefighters searched the area via helicopter, but suspended the search at 7:35 p.m. due to darkness. \n The search resumed at 6 a.m. Sunday, and Choi's body was located in the stream about an hour later. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai woman swept away in stream identified"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "Hawaii island police reopened Paradise Drive in Puna this afternoon after someone fired a gun from a pickup. \n The suspect's vehicle was reported to be a white Ford diesel truck with dual tires, a black gate, and utility boxes. The driver fled the scene, and the truck was later found abandoned, police said. \n Police reported the closure at about 2:30 p.m. and said the road was closed in Hawaiian Paradise Park at the intersection with 29th Avenue for an investigation. \n Police confirmed a gun was fired, but no one was hurt and no property damage was reported. \n The road was reopened about 4:30 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police investigate gunshot in Hawaiian Paradise Park"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n David Dao was dragged off a United Airlines flight in Chicago. The incident was caught on video and widely shared online, causing a public relations nightmare for United Airlines. \n CHICAGO >> The physician who was dragged off a United Airlines flight in Chicago this month was verbally and physically abusive, and flailing his arms before he lost his balance and struck his mouth on an armrest, according to the aviation officer who pulled the man out of his seat. \n The Chicago Department of Aviation on Monday released the officer's report of the incident, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request by The Associated Press. The report reveals for the first time the officer's version of what happened aboard the plane at O'Hare International Airport on April 9. \n The incident \u2014 which was videotaped by other passengers and widely shared online \u2014 became an international embarrassment for both the airlines and the city's aviation department. \n The report also includes the name of the officer, James Long, who authorities initially declined to identify. \n In the report, Long said he boarded the United Express flight after being called in response to a disturbance involving two people regarding a refusal to leave the aircraft. United has said four passengers had been ordered off the airplane to make room for four employees to fly to Louisville, Kentucky. \n Long said he approached Dr. David Dao to ask the 69-year-old physician to get off the plane. Long said Dao refused and \"folded his arms tightly.\" Long said he reached out to \"hold\" Dao and was able to pull him away from his window seat on the aircraft and move toward the aisle. \n \"But suddenly the subject started flailing and fighting,\" Long wrote. \n Dao then knocked Long's hand off his arm, causing the struggling Dao to fall and strike his mouth on an arm rest on the other side of the aisle, according to the report. Long said he then dragged Dao because Dao refused to stand up. \n Long said he wrote the report and gave his version of events only because he faced losing his job. \n In a separate report released Monday, labeled a \"Hospitalization Case Report,\" the Chicago Police Department said Dao was observed striking his face against an armrest as aviation officers \"attempted to escort\" him from the flight. \n Neither report details Dao's injuries, but at a news conference days after the incident, Dao's attorney said the doctor suffered a broken nose and a concussion, and lost two front teeth. \n Long said he was able to remove Dao from the airplane. Long said that once off the plane and in the walkway back to the gate, Dao said he was a diabetic, but then got up off the floor and ran back onto the aircraft. Long alleges Dao, while running back to the plane, said they'd have to kill him. \n Long and two other aviation officers were subsequently placed on leave by the aviation department. \n The report jibes with comments that United CEO Oscar Munoz made in the aftermath of the incident, in which he called Dao belligerent. Munoz later offered a more emphatic mea culpa, saying: \"No one should ever be mistreated this way.\" The aviation department has also profusely apologized and vowed an investigation \n Dao's attorney, Thomas Demetrio, told NBC's \"Today\" show on Monday that he intended to file a lawsuit. \n The aviation department also released its use of force policy, which was sent to all officers after the incident. It says aviation security personnel should use force only when \"reasonably necessary to defend a human life, effect an arrest or control a person,\" and that the force used \"shall only be that which is necessary to overcome the resistance being offered by an offender and to effect lawful objectives.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Aviation officer gives his version of United flight removal"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n University of California, Berkeley students who invited Coulter to speak on campus filed a lawsuit against the university, saying it is discriminating against conservative speakers and violating students' rights to free speech. Campus Republicans invited Coulter to speak at Berkeley on April 27, but Berkeley officials informed the group that the event was being called off for security concerns. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> Ann Coulter is now at the center of a civil rights lawsuit filed today against the University of California, Berkeley by students who say the school is violating their right to free speech by canceling the conservative pundit's speaking event on campus this week. \n The lawsuit marks the latest twist in a high-profile debate over whether Coulter will be allowed to speak Thursday at UC Berkeley, which has been known for decades as a bastion of free speech and tolerance and the birthplace of the 1960s Free Speech Movement. \n A legal team led by Harmeet Dhillon, a San Francisco attorney who is also a prominent California Republican, filed the case on behalf of the Berkeley College Republicans, who invited Coulter, and the Young America's Foundation, which is helping to organize and finance the event. \n \"Berkeley is well known as a place where ideas used to be welcome. At least on the conservative side. At least until this recent election,\" Dhillon told a news conference after filing the lawsuit at the U.S. District Court in San Francisco. \"The university is required to give equal access to speakers of different viewpoints.\" \n The lawsuit says that Berkeley is trying \"to restrict and stifle the speech of conservative students whose voices fall beyond the campus political orthodoxy.\" \n Dhillon is also a committeewoman to the Republican National Convention for California and former vice chairwoman of the California Republican Party. \n Campus Republicans invited Coulter to speak at Berkeley this Thursday, but Berkeley officials informed the group last week that the event was being called off for security concerns. \n The university then backtracked and offered an alternate date, but Coulter has insisted that she plans to still come Thursday. It remains unclear where she would hold the event, and no details have been publicized. \n Coulter is not a plaintiff on the lawsuit. But she voiced support for it on Twitter, posting today that the lawsuit \"demands appropriate & safe venue for my speech THIS THURSDAY.\" \n The university's attempt to call off the event came after a series of violent clashes this year on campus and in downtown Berkeley between far-right and far-left protesters. \n The lawsuit demands unstated damages and compensation for attorney fees, a trial by jury and an injunction against Berkeley officials from \"restricting the exercise of political expression on the UC Berkeley campus.\" \n It names four university officials as defendants, including University of California President Janet Napolitano and Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas B. Dirks, and three police officials, including university police chief Margo Bennett. \n The University of California president's office issued a statement saying it welcomes speakers of all political viewpoints and \"is committed to providing a forum to enable Ann Coulter to speak on the Berkeley campus.\" \n \"The campus seeks to ensure that all members of the Berkeley and larger community \u2014 including Ms. Coulter herself \u2014 remain safe during such an event.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ann Coulter's backers at UC Berkeley file lawsuit"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "Hawaiian Electric Co. said today it submitted plans with state regulators to revive the last of three major solar farms it cancelled last year. \n HECO said it is looking to buy energy from Houston-based NRG Energy, Inc.'s Kawailoa Solar facility on the North Shore for 11 cents a kilowatt hour. The solar farm, slated to be built near Haleiwa, will be the state's largest solar facility. Kawailoa Solar will be able to produce 49 megawatts at peak. \n The state Public Utilities Commission has to approve the application as well as contracts for two other revived utility-scale solar farms that HECO submitted in January. \n The three solar projects, owned by NRG, have the combined capacity to power more than 17,974 homes at peak, with a total of 109.6 megawatts of solar generation. They have the capability of increasing the renewable output on Oahu by 3 percentage points\u2014 currently, renewable energy makes up 19.4 percent of Oahu's fuel mix. \n Craig Cornelius, president renewables at NRG, said he wants to work on more projects in the state. \n \"We're glad to be moving those three down the line,\" Corneilius said. \"We hope what we do here is not limited to the first three projects. We've come here because we respect what the state has committed itself to in terms of its energy transformation.\" \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HECO revives plan for Haleiwa solar farm"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Laura Seylar, registrar of Collections Management, slides open a section of the art rack at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum's David and Fela Shapell Family Collections, Conservation and Research Center in Bowie, Md. \n BOWIE, Md. >> The small wicker doll chair was a modest toy, but it meant the world to Louise Lawrence-Israels. A gift for her second birthday, it was the only toy she possessed during the approximately three years she spent hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam, just five blocks from the house where Anne Frank wrote in her diary. \n The chair is one of thousands of artifacts housed in the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum's new conservation and research center, which opened Monday on the annual memorial day for the 6 million Jews killed by Nazi Germany during World War II. \n \"It was a big thing for me to actually give the chair, because it was a significant thing,\" said Lawrence-Israels, 75, one of about two dozen Holocaust survivors who attended the center's opening. \"A lot of people can look at it and see how it was for a little child in hiding.\" \n The David and Fela Shapell Family Collections, Conservation and Research Center, located in the suburbs of the nation's capital, is a state-of-the-art facility with 103,000 square feet (9,570 sq. meters) for documents and artifacts, with room for expansion. \n The center houses thousands of items in eight climate-controlled vaults in a building designed to withstand tornadoes and hurricanes. Its collection includes everyday objects, from children's toys and clothes to sewing machines used in concentration camps. \n Travis Roxlau, director of collections services, said center officials have spent 25 years gathering the items. \n \"We collect stories, and all of the objects that go along with those stories, because as the surviving generation passes on, these are going to be the objects that are left to help us tell the history of the Holocaust,\" Roxlau said. \n Survivors say the center's holdings are critical to preserving the reality of the Holocaust. \n \"I think the most important thing is to make sure that the memory of the Holocaust isn't forgotten,\" said Alfred Munzer, 75, who donated a silver teething ring that went with him at the age of nine months when he was put into hiding with a Dutch-Indonesian family in the Netherlands in 1942. He also donated two small photographs of him that his mother kept hidden while she was confined in concentration camps. \n Munzer, of Washington, D.C., said the center and its artifacts will serve \"as a lesson to the world as to where hate can lead to.\" \n Lawrence-Israels, of Bethesda, Maryland, noted that she and other Holocaust survivors are \"not going to be here forever, and once we're not here anymore the museum and this institution will speak for us.\" \n \"This is the only evidence that we leave behind, and with the climate today it's important that people see that this was real,\" Lawrence-Israels said. \n Scholars and researchers will have access to materials in the facility. A reading room is scheduled to open in the next year. The museum also is in the process of making documents and images available online. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Holocaust Museum opens conservation and research center"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "COURTESY USGS \n A major earthquake struck off the coast of Chile. No tsunami threat was issued for Hawaii. \n A major earthquake struck off the coast of Valparaiso, Chile at about 11:38 a.m. Hawaii time today but it was not strong enough to cause a tsunami threat to the state. \n The magnitude 7.1 earthquake struck about 22 miles west of Valparaiso and about 85 miles west-northwest of Santiago at a depth of 6 miles, said U.S. Geological Survey officials. Buildings swayed in Santiago, the capital, 70 miles miles to the east. \n The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center on Oahu said while there was no threat to Hawaii, small tsunami waves were observed in the coastal regions near the epicenter. \n Chile's emergency services office says no damage to infrastructure has been immediately reported and authorities are discounting the possibility of a tsunami. \n Chile is highly earthquake-prone. A devastating 8.8-magnitude quake and the tsunami it unleashed in 2010 killed more than 500 people. It was among the strongest ever recorded. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Major earthquake strikes off Chile coast; no tsunami threat to Hawaii"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ivanka Trump, listens as her father President Donald Trump, talks via a video conference to astronauts on the International Space Station today from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Ivanka Trump's advocacy for women and girls will take her to a conference in Berlin Tuesday, an attention-getting first international outing aimed at building support for investment in women's economic empowerment programs. \n Back home, the first daughter's plan to push for policies that benefit working mothers is getting less of the spotlight. \n Trump, an unpaid White House adviser, has not yet offered specific legislation or publicly revealed how she plans to move forward with the child care and family leave policies she promoted during her father's campaign. But a senior administration official says she and others have been working quietly behind the scenes to revise her campaign proposals and build momentum. \n The official, who requested anonymity to discuss internal policy talks, stressed that child care is a part of the White House tax policy conversation. The president is set to roll out tax reform priorities Wednesday, but the official declined to discuss those plans in advance of the announcement. \n President Donald Trump has noted his support for his daughter's efforts. In his joint address to Congress, he said he wants to work with lawmakers \"to make child care accessible and affordable, to help ensure new parents have paid family leave.\" \n Some advocates said they would like to see a proposal. Patricia Cole, senior director of federal policy for Zero to Three, a nonpartisan organization that focuses on early childhood, said, \"We would really welcome a conversation.\" \n Ivanka Trump, who stepped away from running her fashion brand to take on a White House role, will spend Tuesday in Berlin at the invitation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. There she will attend a panel discussion as part of the W20 Summit, a women-focused effort within the Group of 20 countries. She will also take in a technical school, visit the United States embassy and go to the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe. \n In advance of the summit, Ivanka Trump co-authored an op-ed in the Financial Times, calling for more global efforts to invest in women's economic empowerment. \n \"The evidence is overwhelming that supporting women's economic participation has enormous dividends for families, communities and whole economies,\" Trump wrote with Jim Yong Kim, the president of the World Bank. \n Trump has spent the first three months of her father's presidency talking about women's empowerment, often at White House forums and roundtables. Today, she joined her father for a conversation with astronauts on the International Space Station and touted a bill the president signed that asks the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to encourage girls to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. \n \"Encouraging women and girls to pursue STEM careers is a major priority for this administration,\" said Trump. \n Her moves toward policy have been far less public. She has met privately with lawmakers, including a sit-down with Republican women in February. \n Trump's challenge is persuading a Republican-led Congress with a plate full of other priorities. Lawmakers are focused on repealing President Barack Obama's health care law and overhauling the tax code, and less eager to take on a proposal more likely to pique the interest of Democrats. \n At Ivanka Trump's urging, Trump's campaign proposed six weeks of leave for mothers \u2014 although not fathers \u2014 with the government paying wages equivalent to unemployment benefits. The proposal also included new income tax deductions for child care expenses and a new rebate or tax credit for low-income families. \n But the official said the draft child care plan has shifted away from a tax deduction \u2014which critics say would benefit wealthier families. A plan currently under discussion would expand the child and dependent tax credit, boosting the amount, permitting it to cover up to four children and making it refundable to help low-income families with no tax burden. Higher-income households would not be eligible. \n The thinking on leave policies has evolved from maternity leave to a more inclusive family leave, the official said, adding that they are also looking at other funding options beyond the savings in unemployment insurance that were originally targeted. \n Ivanka Trump's prospects have some feeling optimistic. \n \"I do think they're going to try and I think they might get something done,\" said Kris Perry, executive director of the First Five Years Fund, a nonpartisan advocacy group for young children. She added that \"there's also huge value in people like Ivanka speaking out on the public relations side.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ivanka Trump heads to Berlin for women's conference"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Jeremy J. Henderson, 42, appeared at Honolulu District Court today after he was charged with murder in connection with the death of a 29-year-old woman in Waikiki. \n A 42-year-old man appeared at Honolulu District Court today after he was charged with murder in connection with the death of a 29-year-old woman in Waikiki. \n Jeremy J. Henderson was charged Saturday with second-degree murder in the death of the woman. Although the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office withheld the victim's name and cause of death due to the pending investigation, a court document identified her as Ashley Brandeberry. \n Judge Clarence Pacarro denied deputy public defender Cameron Holm's request for a bail reduction Monday and confirmed Henderson's bail at $1 million. \n His preliminary hearing is set for Wednesday. \n Shortly after 4:15 a.m. Friday, patrol officers and Emergency Medical Services responded to a defibrillator call for an unconscious woman inside a hotel room in Waikiki. \n Police said Brandeberry was pronounced dead at 5:03 a.m. \n Police arrested Henderson at the Hilton Waikiki Beach Hotel, 2500 Kuhio Ave. on suspicion of murder after police determined the woman suffered from suspicious injuries. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man charged with murder of woman at Waikiki hotel appears in court"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FILE- In this April 19, 2017, file photo, Alex Jones, a well-known Austin-based broadcaster and provocateur, arrives for a child custody trial at the Heman Marion Sweatt Travis County Courthouse in Austin, Texas. Greek yogurt giant Chobani is suing Jones, accusing the conspiracy theorist of publishing false information about the company. Chobani filed the lawsuit Monday, April 24. \n BOISE, Idaho >> Greek yogurt giant Chobani filed a lawsuit Monday against right-wing radio host Alex Jones, accusing the conspiracy theorist of publishing false information about the company. \n Chobani says that Jones and his InfoWars website posted fabricated stories earlier this month that linked Chobani owner Hamdi Ulukaya and the company to a sexual assault case involving refugee children. The company filed the lawsuit in Idaho District Court in Twin Falls, where it operates the largest yogurt plant in the world. \n \"(Jones) is no stranger to spurious statements. He has claimed that the U.S. government orchestrated the 9/11 attacks and the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut,\" Chobani's attorneys wrote. \"Mr. Jones has now taken aim at Chobani and the Twin Falls community.\" \n The complaint says InfoWars released a video on April 11 describing Chobani's practice of hiring refugees and a sexual assault case that did not involve the yogurt company. \n During the video, an Info Wars reporter republished statements that claimed the Chobani plant brought crime and tuberculosis since it opened the plant five years ago while also pointing out previous reports of its willingness to hire refugees in Twin Falls. \n Twin Falls is one of the two cities in Idaho with a refugee resettlement center. \n The video was promoted using the headline \"Idaho Yogurt Maker Caught Important Migrant Rapists,\" even though the lawsuit points out that InfoWars didn't mention or prove that statement in the report. The story was tweeted out by Jones and other outlets. \n InfoWars didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. \n The report was critical of Ulukaya's support of hiring refugees while reporters then reacted to a separate issue involving three Twin Falls refugee boys who admitted to charges involved in the assault of a 5-year-old girl at an apartment complex. \n The 2016 assault sparked months of turmoil in Twin Falls after the story about the incident was spun by far-right blogs and anti-immigration groups into accounts that exaggerated and falsified many of the details. \n \"The defendants defamatory statements were designed to cause \u2014 and did in fact cause \u2014 customers to call for a boycott of Chobani's products,\" the lawsuit stated. \n Chobani's attorneys say Jones has ignored requests to remove the inaccurate coverage. It's seeking at least $10,000 in damages. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chobani yogurt company sues right-wing radio host Alex Jones"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thomas Demetrio speaks at a news conference in Chicago. The woman who sobbed after an American Airlines flight attendant took her stroller now has a lawyer, Demetrio, who also represents the Kentucky doctor who was dragged from a United Express flight earlier in the month. American says the woman on the flight on April 21, was supposed to leave her doublewide stroller to be stored in the cargo bay, not take it into the cabin. \n DALLAS >> The woman seen sobbing in a viral video after an American Airlines flight attendant took away her stroller now has a lawyer \u2014 the same attorney representing a man dragged off a United Express flight earlier this month. \n The Chicago lawyer, Thomas Demetrio, says the flight attendant was \"out of control\" and nearly hit one of the woman's two young children with the stroller. \n An American Airlines spokesman said Monday that the company has been in contact with the woman and refunded her tickets and upgraded her to first class for the rest of her trip to Argentina. \n The airline says the woman's doublewide stroller was tagged to be checked as cargo at the door to the plane, but instead she took it into the cabin, leading to the confrontation with the flight attendant. \n The airline spokesman said American is still investigating the incident and has grounded the flight attendant. American said in a statement Friday that the scene captured on video \"does not reflect our values or how we care for our customers.\" \n The incident before a flight from San Francisco to Dallas came two weeks after airport police in Chicago dragged a passenger off a plane after he refused to give up his seat to make room for an airline employee. \n Demetrio said the passenger, a 69-year-old Kentucky physician, plans to file a lawsuit. He said it was too soon to know whether the woman on the American Airlines plane would sue. \n Video of both events has put airlines on the defensive in the court of public opinion. \n \"We live in the age of cellphone video, so corporations have to take heed,\" Demetrio told NBC-TV. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Passengers in viral airline videos have same lawyer"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2014 \n House and Senate negotiators agreed to a bill that would decriminalize possession of drug paraphernalia, reducing the penalties for being caught with items such as a marijuana pipe or cigarette rolling papers to no more than $500. \n House and Senate negotiators agreed this morning to a bill that would decriminalize possession of drug paraphernalia, reducing the penalties for being caught with items such as a marijuana pipe or cigarette rolling papers to no more than $500. \n State Rep. Joy San Buenaventura, who introduced the bill, said she expects the measure will help to reduce overcrowding in the state's jails. \n When law enforcement authorities add a felony drug paraphernalia charge to other charges filed against people who are arrested, that increases the amount of cash those people person must produce to post bail and get out of jail, she said. That means paraphernalia charges contribute to jail crowding, she said. \n \"If you're caught at a party with a joint and rolling papers, odds are you're not going to have the thousands of dollars required in cash on hand to bail yourself out,\" she said. The measure would also cover items ranging from a methamphetamine pipe or needles to a plastic bag coated with drug residue. \n \"I'm hoping it's one step toward a more rational drug policy program, but I'm taking it as it is,\" said San Buenaventura. (D, Hawaiian Acres-Pahoa-Kalapana). \n Hawaii now has some of the most punitive drug paraphernalia laws in the nation, with possession of a pipe or other drug-related items punishable by up to five years in prison, and a $10,000 fine. \n San Buenaventura also said leaving that law in place would have a \"chilling effect\" on state plans to open medical marijuana dispensaries around the state. \n The issue will be important to the operators of medical marijuana dispensaries because \"they're going to need to sell paraphernalia to show the users how to use the medical marijuana that they sell,\" she said. \n The measure now advances to the full House and Senate for floor votes. If approved, it will then go to Gov. David Ige for his consideration, and it is unclear what Ige might do. \n The measure has been strongly opposed by Ige's state Attorney General Douglas Chin as well as the Honolulu and Hawaii island prosecutors. \n Chin argued in his testimony that changing the law probably won't do much to reduce the prison population. \n A felony paraphernalia charge is rarely filed by itself, and is more commonly filed in addition to another drug felony such as third-degree possession of a dangerous drug, which is also punishable by up to five years in prison, Chin said in written testimony. \n In other words, most people charged with felony paraphernalia possession are already facing prison time for another charge. Chin also said that most people convicted of paraphernalia possession are not required to serve out the full five-year maximum unless they are repeat offenders or have violent criminal histories. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Legislators agree to decriminalize some drug paraphernalia"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, sitting next to U.S. Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley, speaks during a working lunch with ambassadors of countries on the United Nations Security Council and their spouses, Monday, April 24, 2017, in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Sure enough, the big trans-Pacific trade deal is toast, climate change action is on the ropes and various regulations from the Obama era have been scrapped. It's also a safe bet President Donald Trump hasn't raced a bicycle since Jan. 20, keeping that vow. \n Add a Supreme Court justice \u2014 no small feat \u2014 and call these promises kept. \n But where's that wall? Or the promised trade punishment against China \u2014 will the Chinese get off scot-free from \"the greatest theft in the history of the world\"? What about that \"easy\" replacement for Obamacare? How about the trillion-dollar infrastructure plan and huge tax cut that were supposed to be in motion by now? \n Trump's road to the White House, paved in big, sometimes impossible pledges, has detoured onto a byway of promises deferred or left behind, an AP analysis found. \n Of 38 specific promises Trump made in his 100-day \"contract\" with voters \u2014 \"This is my pledge to you\" \u2014 he's accomplished 10, mostly through executive orders that don't require legislation, such as withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. \n He's abandoned several and failed to deliver quickly on others, stymied at times by a divided Republican Party and resistant federal judges. Of 10 promises that require Congress to act, none has been achieved and most have not been introduced. \n \"I've done more than any other president in the first 100 days,\" the president bragged in a recent interview with AP, even as he criticized the marker as an \"artificial barrier.\" \n In truth, his 100-day plan remains mostly a to-do list that will spill over well beyond Saturday, his 100th day. \n Some of Trump's promises were obviously hyperbole to begin with. Don't hold your breath waiting for alleged Army deserter Bowe Bergdahl to be dropped out of an airplane without a parachute, as Trump vowed he'd do at many of his campaign rallies. China's leader got a fancy dinner, complete with \"beautiful\" chocolate cake at Mar-a-Lago this month, not the promised \"McDonald's hamburger\" and humble pie. \n But many promises were meant to be taken seriously. Trump clearly owes his supporters a Mexico border wall, even if it doesn't end up being a foot taller than the Great Wall of China. \n One page of his 100-day manifesto is devoted to legislation he would fight to pass in 100 days. None of it has been achieved. \n The other page lists 18 executive actions and intentions he promised to pursue \u2014 many on Day One. He has followed through on fewer than a dozen, largely through the use of executive orders, and the White House is boasting that he will set a post-World War II record when he signs more this week. \n That's a change in tune. \n \"We need people in Washington that don't go around signing executive orders because they can't get people into a room and get some kind of a deal that's negotiated,\" he declared in New Hampshire in March 2015. \"We need people that know how to lead, and we don't have that. We have amateurs.\" \n Efforts to provide affordable child care and paid maternity leave, to make college more affordable and to invest in urban areas have been all but forgotten. That's despite the advantage of a Republican-controlled Congress, which the White House failed to pull together behind Trump's first attempt to repeal and replace \"Obamacare.\" \n An AP reporter who followed Trump throughout the presidential campaign collected scores of promises he made along the way, from the consequential to the fanciful. Here are some of them, and his progress so far: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ENERGY and the ENVIRONMENT: \n \u2014 Lift President Barack Obama's roadblocks on the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines. \n Done. Keystone XL is revived and construction of the Dakota Access is completed. \n \u2014 Lift restrictions on mining coal and drilling for oil and natural gas. \n Done. Trump has unraveled a number of Obama-era restrictions and initiated a review of the Clean Power Plan, which aimed to restrict greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants. \n \u2014 Cancel payments to U.N. climate change programs and pull out of the Paris climate accord \n Nope. Trump has yet to make a decision on Paris. His aides are torn. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ECONOMY and TRADE: \n \u2014 Pass a tax overhaul. \"Just think about what can be accomplished in the first 100 days of a Trump administration,\" he told his supporters again and again in the final weeks of the campaign. \"We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.\" He promised a plan that would reduce rates dramatically both for corporations and the middle class. \n Nowhere close. Trump has scrapped the tax plan he campaigned on, and his administration's new package is in its early stages, not only missing the first 100 days but likely to miss a new August deadline set by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Some details may emerge this week. \n \u2014Designate China a currency manipulator, setting the stage for possible trade penalties because \"we're like the piggy bank that's being robbed. We can't continue to allow China to rape our country, and that's what they're doing.\" \n Abandoned. Trump says he doesn't want to punish China when it is cooperating in a response to North Korean provocations. He also says China has stopped manipulating its currency for unfair trade advantage. But China was moving away from that behavior well before he took office. Also set aside: repeated vows to slap high tariffs on Chinese imports. \n \u2014Announce his intention to renegotiate or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement. \n Backtracked, in essence. A draft of his administration's plan for NAFTA proposes only a mild rewrite. But in his AP interview, he threatened anew to terminate the deal if his goals are not met in a renegotiation. \n \u2014 Direct his commerce secretary and trade representative to identify all foreign trading abuses that unfairly hurt American workers. \n Done. Trump has initiated plenty of studies over the past 100 days. \n \u2014 Slap a 35 percent tariff on goods from companies that ship production abroad. Force companies like Apple and Nabisco to make their products in the U.S. \n Nope. \n \u2014Embark on a massive $1 trillion effort to rebuild the country's infrastructure, including airports, roads and bridges. \n Not yet. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u2014 Immediately suspend the Syrian refugee program. \n Trump tried, but the first version of his travel ban was blocked by the courts. A revised version dropped references to Syrian refugees entirely. That was blocked, too. And he has yet to mention another campaign pledge: to deport Syrian refugees already settled in the U.S. \n \u2014 Inform his generals they have 30 days to submit a new plan for defeating the Islamic State group. \n Trump did indeed order up a plan. It's unclear what it is since it has yet to be made public. \n \u2014 Suspend immigration from \"terror-prone regions\" where he says vetting is too difficult. \n Trump's effort to bar immigration temporarily from some Muslim-majority countries has been stymied by courts. \n \u2014 Implement \"extreme\" immigration vetting techniques. \n In progress. The Homeland Security Department is considering a number of measures, like asking for visitors' phone contacts and social media passwords. \n \u2014Build an \"impenetrable physical wall\" along the length of the southern border, and make Mexico pay for it. \n The government has been soliciting bids and test sections could be built as soon as this summer. Mexico is not paying for this work. \n \u2014End federal funding to \"sanctuary cities\" \u2014 places where local officials are considered by Washington to be insufficiently cooperative in arresting or detaining people in the country illegally. \n The Justice Department has threatened to do so, but there are legal limits. \n \u2014 Immediately deport the estimated 2 million \"criminal aliens\" living in the country, including gang members, in joint operations with local, state, and federal law enforcement. \n Deportations have not increased. Arrests of people in the U.S. illegally are up and illegal border crossings are significantly down. \n \u2014Cancel visas for foreign countries that won't take back criminals deported by the U.S. \n There's been no discussion of this yet. \n \u2014\"Immediately terminate President Obama's two illegal executive amnesties,\" one of which allows young people brought into the country as children to stay and work. \n Trump has made no effort to end the program, even though it would take a single phone call. In fact, he told AP these young people can \"rest easy\" and not fear deportation. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n GOVERNMENT and the SWAMP: \n \u2014 Ask agency and department heads to identify job-killing regulations for elimination. \n Done. \n \u2014 Propose a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress. \n Nope. \n \u2014 \"Drain the swamp.\" \n On his pledge to curb the power of special interests, Trump has so far used an executive order to prohibit political appointees from lobbying the government for five years after serving in his administration and to ban outgoing officials from representing foreign governments. But he's discontinuing the Obama-era practice of releasing White House visitor logs, restoring a shroud over what special interests are getting in his gates. He's also issued at least one waiver to his lobbying ban, allowing a White House budget adviser to go advocate for a business trade group \n \u2014 Impose a hiring freeze on federal employees, excluding military and public safety staffers. \n This was one of Trump's first actions. But the freeze has since been lifted. \n \u2014Require that two regulations be eliminated for each new one imposed. \n Trump signed an order requiring agencies to identify two existing regulations for every new one imposed \u2014 though there is nothing in the order that requires the two to be eliminated. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n FOREIGN AFFAIRS: \n \u2014 End the strategy of nation-building and regime change. \n Trump's foreign policy posture is still in its early stages, though he has already intervened in Syria and has escalated rhetoric against North Korea. \n \u2014 Move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. \n The administration says it is studying the issue. \n \u2014 Negotiate the release of all U.S. prisoners held in Iran, even before taking office. Renegotiate or leave the Iran nuclear deal. \n No prisoners have been released. The administration is studying the nuclear deal and Trump told AP \"it's possible\" the U.S. will withdraw. \n \u2014 Create a safe zone in Syria for refugees, paid for by the Gulf states. \n Not yet. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n HEALTH CARE, COURTS and GUNS: \n \u2014\"My first day in office, I'm going to ask Congress to put a bill on my desk getting rid of this disastrous law and replacing it with reforms that expand choice, freedom, affordability. You're going to have such great health care at a tiny fraction of the cost. It's going to be so easy.\" \n The bill to replace \"Obamacare\" was pulled from Congress because it lacked enough support. He will try again with a revised plan. \n \u2014 Begin selecting a new Supreme Court judge to fill the court's vacancy. \n Done. Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch and the Senate approved him. \n \u2014 Eliminate gun-free zones in schools and on military bases. \n Nope. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n REALLY? \n \u2014 \"I promise I will never be in a bicycle race.\" \n So far, so good. Trump's vow came after John Kerry, then secretary of state, broke his femur in May 2015 while riding a bicycle. He was not in a bicycle race. \n \u2014Bar his generals from being interviewed on television. \n Never mind that. Army Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, as Trump's national security adviser, recently appeared on a Sunday news show. Several senior military officers have done Pentagon news conferences in the past few months that are taped by the networks. Gen. John Nicholson, the top general in Afghanistan, appeared at a news conference Monday. \n \u2014No time for play. \n Most weekends as president, Trump has broken his pledge to avoid the golf course, after years of criticizing his predecessor for playing the game. \"Because I'm going to be working for you, I'm not going to have time to go play golf,\" he told a Virginia rally in August. \"Believe me.\" \n \u2014Season's greetings. \n \u2014 \"If I become president, we're gonna be saying Merry Christmas at every store. \u2026 You can leave 'happy holidays' at the corner.\" \n As president-elect over the holidays, he sent a \"Merry Christmas\" tweet. So did President Obama. And both sent Happy Hanukkah wishes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's 100-days promises: A long way to go on most of them"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke from the crash of a B-52 was seen on the flight line at Andersen Air Force Base on Guam on May 19. An Air Force investigation has concluded that birds and mechanical issues \u2014 not pilot error \u2014 caused the crash of a B-52 bomber in Guam a year ago. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> An Air Force investigation has concluded that birds and mechanical issues \u2014 not pilot error \u2014 caused the crash of a B-52 bomber in Guam a year ago. \n The bomber from Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota aborted takeoff during a routine training mission the morning of May 19, 2016, and caught fire after leaving the runway. None of the seven crew members were injured, but the $112 million plane was destroyed. \n The pilot saw birds in the area during takeoff at the same time that cockpit instruments indicated a loss of thrust necessary to get the plane aloft, Air Force Global Strike Command said in a recent statement about the results of its investigation. It isn't known whether there was an actual bird strike. \n \"I don't think they found any evidence, but the plane was burned up,\" Global Strike Command spokeswoman Carla Pampe said today. \n The pilot aborted takeoff, and when the plane landed its drag chute failed and the plane's brake limits were exceeded, officials said. \n \"The speed of the aircraft was basically too fast\" for the equipment to work properly, Pampe said. The mechanical problems do not indicate any larger issues among the B-52 fleet, she said. \n Pampe also said the pilot \"followed the technical orders for the indications that the pilot had.\" \n The bomber was assigned to the 69th Expeditionary Bomb Squadron, which is part of the 5th Bomb Wing at Minot Air Force Base. It was deployed to Guam as part of the military's continuous bomber presence in the Asia-Pacific region. Guam is a U.S. territory 3,700 miles southwest of Hawaii. \n Minot Air Force Base declined comment on the report, referring a call to Global Strike Command. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Birds, equipment issues caused B-52 bomber crash in Guam"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers stand outside an office building following reports of an armed person there, reported in Lake Highlands near the High Five in Dallas, Monday, April 24, 2017. The office building is now safe police said, without commenting on whether anyone was injured or killed. \n DALLAS >> A man fatally shot his female supervisor and then killed himself, leading to an evacuation of a multi-story building in the northern part of Dallas this morning, police said. \n Randy Blankenbaker, Dallas police assistant chief of investigations, said that they won't release the identities of those who died until relatives are notified. He said they also are not yet saying what kind of office they worked in. \n Blankenbaker said that the man was a current worker in the office. \"We don't know if today was a regular workday for him or not,\" Blankenbaker said. \n He says that there were witnesses to the shooting in a meeting room who were not injured. \n Police were alerted to the shooting at about 10:45 a.m. and responded to the office where the shooting was taking place. He said that an officer had to shoot a glass entry door to access the office where the shooting happened. He said that's the only known shot fired by an officer. One of the officers suffered minor injuries from broken glass during the entry. \n Officials found the two dead in the meeting room. \n Officers then conducted a floor-by-floor search of the building, searching for suspects and also ensuring that all tenants who took shelter were safely escorted from the building. That was completed by 12:49 p.m. \n Television footage showed a heavy police response, including a SWAT team, at the office tower near a multi-level highway interchange known as the High Five. A broken window could be seen on one of the upper floors of the mirrored building. \n Bailee Christian told KXAS-TV that she heard two gunshots \u2014 one when she was still inside and another after she and her co-workers had been evacuated from the building. She said that when she heard the second shot she also heard screaming. \n \"It was very intense in the moment, very scary,\" Christian said. \n Christian, who works in a call center on the 10th floor, said her boss told everyone to hide in the back corner of the office. \n \"Probably about 6 minutes goes by and a police officer, a couple actually, came up to grab us,\" Christian said. \n Mary Jo Nsuk, who works on the 10th floor, heard a commotion coming from below and heard police say, \"Come out with your hands up.\" About five minutes later, police came to the door to escort her downstairs. She left her belongings behind, including her cellphone and shoes. \n \"Police were doing their best to make sure all floors were clear,\" Nsuk told The Dallas Morning News. \"They protected people with shields and a cop was facing backwards when they were trying to get us downstairs.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dallas police: Man fatally shoots boss, kills self at office"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "KAILUA-KONA >> University of Hawaii and state officials are joining forces to contain an insect that is threatening grazing lands on the Big Island. \n \"The kikuyu grass was pretty much dead in most areas, with weedy types of grasses coming in,\" university extension agent Mark Thorne said about the damaged pasture. \"There's virtually nothing for the cattle to graze, and it was a fairly large area.\" \n The spittlebug, which creates \"spittle masses\" where nymphs mature into adults, feeds at the base of grasses and sucks fluid from the plants. Over time, this weakens the grass and can kill it. \n \"If it spreads out from the Kona area and gets out into the Kohala and Waimea pastures. it could be very devastating for the cattle industry here,\" Thorne said. \n The two-lined spittlebug is native to the southeastern United States. It's not known how it arrived on the Big Island. \n State agriculture officials are working with the Florida Department of Agriculture to identify natural enemies of the insect. \n \"If they're able to do that, we would be able to import them in to the (Hawaii Department of Agriculture) quarantine,\" state entomologist Robert Curtiss said. \"Eventually, we would want to release a biocontrol agent if we could find them.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Invasive spittlebug threatens Big Isle grazing land"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis, right, and U.S. Army General John Nicholson, left, commander of U.S. Forces Afghanistan, held a news conference at Resolute Support headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan today. \n KABUL, Afghanistan >> The United States must confront Russia for providing weapons to the Taliban for use against American-backed forces in Afghanistan, top U.S. military officials said today. \n At a news conference with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis at his side, Gen. John Nicholson, the American commander in Afghanistan, wouldn't provide specifics about Russia's role in Afghanistan. But said he would \"not refute\" that Moscow's involvement includes giving weapons to the Taliban. \n Earlier today, a senior U.S. military official told reporters in Kabul that Russia was giving machine guns and other medium-weight weapons. The Taliban are using the weapons in the southern provinces of Helmand, Kandahar and Uruzgan, according to the official, who briefed journalists on intelligence information on condition of anonymity. \n Russia denies that it provides any such support to the Taliban, which ruled Afghanistan until the U.S.-led invasion in 2001. Russia says contacts are limited to safeguarding security and getting the hard-line religious fundamentalists to reconcile with the government \u2014 which Washington has failed for years to advance. Russia also has promoted easing global sanctions on Taliban leaders who prove cooperative. \n Asked about Russia's activity in Afghanistan, where it fought a bloody war in the 1980s and withdrew in defeat, Mattis alluded to the increasing U.S. concerns. \n \"We'll engage with Russia diplomatically,\" Mattis said. \"We'll do so where we can, but we're going to have to confront Russia where what they're doing is contrary to international law or denying the sovereignty of other countries.\" \n \"For example,\" Mattis told reporters in the Afghan capital, \"any weapons being funneled here from a foreign country would be a violation of international law.\" \n Mattis met with President Ashraf Ghani and other senior government officials just hours after the nation's defense minister and Army chief resigned over a massacre of more than 140 Afghan troops at a military base last Friday. \n The insurgent assault was the biggest ever on a military base in Afghanistan, involving multiple gunmen and suicide bombers in army uniforms who penetrated the compound of the 209th Corps of the Afghan National Army in northern Balkh province on Friday, killing and wounding scores. The death toll was likely to rise further. \n Referring to the Russians again, Nicholson said \"anyone who arms belligerents who perpetuate attacks like the one we saw\" isn't focused on \"the best way forward to a peaceful reconciliation.\" \n Given the sophisticated planning behind the attack, he also said \"it's quite possible\" that the Pakistan-based Haqqani network was responsible. The Taliban claimed it carried out the attack. \n Nicholson recently told Congress that he needs a few thousand more troops to keep Afghan security forces on track to eventually handling the Taliban insurgency on their own. The Trump administration is still reviewing possible troop decisions. \n Mattis today offered a grim assessment for Afghan forces fighting the Taliban. \n \"2017 is going to be another tough year,\" he said. \n Kabul was the final stop on Mattis' six-nation, weeklong tour. He is the first member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet to visit Afghanistan. As part of the administration's review of Afghan policy, Trump's national security adviser, Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, visited Kabul last week to consult with Nicholson and Afghan officials. \n The war began in October 2001. The U.S. has about 9,800 troops in Afghanistan. They ended their combat mission against the Taliban in 2014 but are increasingly involved in backing up Afghan forces on the battlefield. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. general in Afghanistan suggests Russia arming the Taliban"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. The U.S. State Department's recent promotion of President Donald Trump's for-profit Florida resort is drawing criticism from Democrats and ethics advocates. \n WASHINGTON >> The U.S. State Department's recent promotion of President Donald Trump's Florida resort is drawing criticism from Democrats and ethics advocates. \n Mar-a-Lago is described in an April 4 blog post as \"Trump's Florida estate,\" where he has hosted foreign leaders. \n The post says, \"By visiting this 'winter White House,' Trump is belatedly fulfilling the dream of Mar-a-Lago's original owner and designer.\" \n Left unsaid: Mar-a-Lago is part of Trump's business empire. After his election, the resort doubled its membership fee to $200,000. As president, Trump has visited the property seven times. \n The post originated on \"Share America,\" a State Department project designed for \"engaging foreign audiences on important global issues.\" It has been republished by several U.S. embassies abroad. \n The State Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State Department's promotion of Trump's Mar-a-Lago draws fire"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Caitlyn Jenner poses for a portrait on Monday, April 24, 2017, in New York to promote her memoir, \"The Secrets of My Life.\" \n NEW YORK >> Caitlyn Jenner opened up today about her frank new memoir detailing her now 2-year-old transition and the bumps along the way, including her three failed marriages, thoughts of suicide while she was relentlessly pursued by paparazzi, and, finally, freedom to be her true self. \n And, yes, contrary to the thoughts of many in the trans community, she uses her former name, Bruce, in the book, \"The Secrets of My Life,\" out this week. And, yes, she describes her liberating, below-the-belt gender reassignment surgery \u2014 \"The Final Surgery\" as she calls it \u2014 on the very last page, insisting it's the last word for her about that. \n And yes, she takes on, briefly, her conservative political views when it comes to President Donald Trump and issues like less government, but not so on issues important to the LGBTQ community as a whole, such as same-sex marriage. \n \"Yeah, I've gotten criticized because I come from a more conservative Republican side, but my loyalties are not with the Republican Party. My loyalties are not with Donald Trump. I'm not a one-issue voter. I believe in limited government. I like lower taxes. I like a thriving economy. I like everybody working, but my loyalties are with my community and to make it better,\" Jenner said. \"The Republican Party has very disappointed me over the years.\" \n Why go to any of these places to begin with months after her formal coming out interview with Diane Sawyer on ABC, watched by 17.1 million viewers, then on the cover of Vanity Fair, and finally her now-canceled reality show on Bravo, \"I Am Cait,\" where she went on the road with fellow members of the trans community. \n \"I needed to pour my heart out on everything,\" the 67-year-old Jenner told The Associated Press of the book. \"What I was trying to accomplish is, one, get it all out for myself, so there was no other secrets left, but two, it was the way I dealt with my stuff.\" \n The book, co-written by Buzz Bissinger (he wrote the Vanity Fair story), has already brought on bitter, hurt tears from Jenner's third wife, Kris Jenner, whose closet Caitlyn once regularly raided as she stole moments to cross dress while struggling with her gender identity. They are moments, Caitlyn said, that Kris was well aware of before \"I made love to her\" after the two met in 1990. \n \"To be honest with you I haven't even talked to her about it,\" Jenner said of Kris' reaction to the book. \n There were many dark times for the Olympic gold-medal winning decathlete as he went about hiding his gender struggles, including a false start in transitioning in the 1980s. \n Jenner took hormones, then balked at that time, but her enlarged breasts did not disappear after the treatments stopped, requiring liposuction as she continued living as a man. \n There was one moment in particular, years later, that took Jenner to the ultimate dark place, suicide. The celebrity news site TMZ distributed a photo of a disheveled Jenner emerging from a doctor's office after a procedure to have her trachea shaved so she could appear more like a woman. This was before Diane Sawyer and her formal coming out, and it felt like a painful, forced outing. \n \"It got to the point where I thought, you know what, I know the easy way out,\" Jenner said. \"I got a gun in the house. \u2026 But then the next day I thought, wouldn't that be the stupidest thing you've ever done, to silence your voice? You have the opportunity here to really make a difference, to live your life honestly.\" \n Jenner has spent much of the last two years learning from the trans community from a vantage point of white, wealthy privilege that she fully acknowledges in the book, and trying to make amends with her huge family, including six children and four Kardashian stepchildren. \n But two family members, Jenner's younger brother who died years ago in a car accident, and Jenner's late father, will never know her secrets. \n \"He was a good man. We were very close,\" she said of her dad. \"He was very proud of Bruce and the things that I was accomplishing in my life, and especially the Games and everything. \u2026 I think it would have been very difficult for him, just like it would be difficult for me.\" \n Jenner dedicates the book, from Grand Central Publishing, to her father and brother. As for his dad likely not understanding, that's OK, she said. \n \"Somebody asked me the question the other day, what if Kendall came up to you and said that she was trans and wanted to transition into a guy, and I went, achhhh, my little angel, you know, my cute little girl. That's tough for a parent. I get that,\" Jenner said of daughter and model Kendall Jenner. \n Life these days is good. Better than good, Jenner said, though she looks forward to the day where she isn't thinking about her gender every second of every day. \n \"I am extraordinarily comfortable with myself,\" she said. \"But I haven't quite got there. \u2026 My life is so simple now. I just get up, be myself, get ready, go out, do my thing. I'm very motivated so, yeah, it's all good.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Caitlyn Jenner talks of suicide, secrets in new book"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Yu Wei Gong, left, spoke to Deputy Public Defender Diamond Grace in Circuit Court on April 17. Gong, 26, pleaded not guilty to murder at Circuit Court today in connection with his mother's death. \n A 26-year-old Waikiki man pleaded not guilty to murder at Circuit Court today in connection with his mother's death. \n Yu Wei Gong appeared at his arraignment before Judge Colette Garibaldi after an Oahu grand jury indicted him Wednesday with second-degree murder in connection with the death of his mother, Liu Yun Gong. With the assistance of a Mandarin interpreter, Deputy public defender Darcia Forrester pleaded not guilty to the charge on Gong's behalf. \n Garibaldi confirmed his bail at $2 million and set his trial for June. \n On the morning of April 11, Gong called 911 and told a police dispatcher that he had killed his mother in September. He told the dispatcher and \"it was an accident and he didn't mean to do it.\" \n The following morning, police executed a search warrant at Gong's apartment located at 414 Launiu St. and recovered seven bags of dismembered body parts in the kitchen freezer. \n Policed matched fingerprints to those of Gong's mother through her Hawaii driver's license records. A deputy medical examiner determined she died of blunt-force head injuries. The manner of death was classified as a homicide. \n Gong lived in the apartment with his mother. Police said he and his mother got into an argument after Gong told her he wanted to work instead of attending school. It's unclear when the argument took place. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Waikiki man accused of killing mom pleads not guilty"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters hold flags near the East Front of the Capitol in Washington, Monday, April 24, 2017, during a rally to support the legalization of marijuana. Smoking pot in public remains illegal everywhere in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Supporters of legal marijuana say four people have been arrested after smoking pot on the U.S. Capitol grounds. \n Monday's \"smoke-in\" was intended as an act of civil disobedience. Those lighting up want pot to be legalized nationwide and for the federal government not to interfere with states that already have legal pot. \n Nikolas Schiller, a co-founder of the group D.C. Marijuana Justice, says two men and two women were arrested by U.S. Capitol police shortly after they started smoking on Monday afternoon. \n Those arrested included Adam Eidinger, the group's other co-founder. Eidinger also was arrested with seven others Thursday during a pot giveaway near the Capitol. \n Capitol police spokeswoman Eva Malecki says the four were charged with possession, a violation of federal law. \n It wasn't clear whether they had attorneys. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pot 'smoke-in' on U.S. Capitol grounds leads to 4 arrests"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United States ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley listened, April 7, as Syria's Deputy U.N. Ambassador Mounzer Mounzer spoke during a Security Council meeting on the situation in Syria at United Nations headquarters. \n WASHINGTON >> The United States could strike North Korea if it attacks a U.S. military base or tests an intercontinental ballistic missile, President Donald Trump's U.N. ambassador said today. \n Further reading \n In several television interviews, Nikki Haley praised China's involvement in trying to pressure North Korea to cease missile testing and criticized Pyongyang's leader, Kim Jong Un, as unstable and paranoid. \n Asked about the threshold for U.S. action, Haley told NBC's \"Today Show\" that \"if you see him attack a military base, if you see some sort of intercontinental ballistic missile, then obviously we're going to do that.\" \n Haley said the U.S. wasn't looking for a fight and wouldn't attack North Korea \"unless he gives us reason to do something.\" \n \n \n _informq.push(['embed']); \n The Trump administration has been working to rally support behind its efforts to pressure Pyongyang into abandoning its nuclear program and ending missile tests. Trump spoke again to the leaders of China and Japan late Sunday to discuss the matter. \n The White House said in a brief statement today that Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping reaffirmed the \"urgency of the threat posed by North Korea.\" Trump has repeatedly promised that China will earn a better trade deal with the U.S. if it helps to exert pressure on its allied neighboring nation. \n When asked what would happen if North Korea tests an intercontinental missile or nuclear device, Haley told NBC: \"I think then the president steps in and decides what's going to happen.\" \n North Korea has been aggressively pursuing a decades-long goal of putting a nuclear warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM, capable of reaching the U.S. mainland. North Korea conducted two nuclear tests last year alone, which would have improved its knowledge on making nuclear weapons small enough to fit on long-range missiles. \n South Korean officials say there's a chance the country will conduct its sixth nuclear test or its maiden test launch of an ICBM around the founding anniversary of its military on Tuesday. \n Haley said the U.S. is working with China to pressure North Korea on the missile and nuclear testing and other issues, including the detention over the weekend of a U.S. citizen, bringing to three the number of Americans now being held there. \n Haley said the detentions are North Korea's effort to \"have a bargaining chip\" for talks with the U.S. \n \"What we're dealing with is a leader who is flailing right now and he's trying to show his citizens he has muscle,\" Haley told \"CBS This Morning.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Haley warns N. Korea about attacking U.S. base or testing ICBM"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actress Erin Moran of the television show, \"Happy Days\" in Los Angeles in Feb. 1982. Moran, the former child star who played Joanie Cunningham in the sitcoms \"Happy Days\" and \"Joanie Loves Chachi,\" died Saturday at age 56. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Erin Moran arrived at the Fox Reality Channel Really Awards in Los Angeles in Sept. 2008. Moran, the former child star who played Joanie Cunningham in the sitcoms \"Happy Days\" and \"Joanie Loves Chachi,\" died Saturday at age 56. \n CORYDON, Ind. >> Authorities say former \"Happy Days\" star Erin Moran likely died from cancer at her southern Indiana home. \n A statement released today by the Harrison County Sheriff's Department says an autopsy revealed the 56-year-old actress had stage-four cancer, but doesn't specify what type. \n The department says Moran died Saturday in the rural community of New Salisbury, about 20 miles northwest of Louisville, Kentucky. Officials say standard toxicology test results are pending but that no illegal narcotics were found at the home. \n A Burbank, California, native, Moran began acting in TV and movies before she was 10 years old. In 1974, she was cast in \"Happy Days\" as Joanie Cunningham, the kid sister to high school student Richie Cunningham, played by Ron Howard. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Happy Days' star Moran likely died from cancer"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "Firefighters responded to fire at an unoccupied home in Kailua early today. \n The fire occurred shortly before 2:20 a.m. at 891 Kainui Dr. Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said 18 firefighters arrived at the two-story home and saw light smoke emerging from the rear of the house. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 2:27 a.m. and extinguished it by 2:42 a.m. \n Jenkins said no one was home at the time of the fire and the structure was boarded up. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation and the damage estimate has yet to be determined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters extinguish Kailua house fire"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "WAILUKU >> Signs have been posted warning people against trespassing near a crop of sunflowers on Maui that is being grown as part of an experiment to produce biofuel. A growing number of visitors have been attracted to the yellow flowers that recently started blooming weeks ago. \n \"It's disheartening,\" said Pacific Biodiesel Vice President Kelly King. \"I don't know what makes people think they have the right to take flowers. We're happy to share with people, but it's gotten out of hand.\" \n The Hawaii-based company posted a statement on its Facebook page last week reminding people that the 7-acre property is a working farm on private property that is closed to the public. Access to the property has been restricted for safety reasons, said Kim Sloan, a Pacific Biodiesel spokeswoman. \n \"People are calling it the latest Maui attraction,\" Sloan said. \"We didn't expect this type of excitement or attraction.\" \n The state Department of Transportation has also put up \"no parking\" signs by the sunflower field, which is near the intersection of Honoapiilani and Kuihelani highways. Motorists have been creating a safety hazard by parking on the shoulders of both roadways. \n The crop will soon reach the end of its life cycle and will be harvested in June, King said. \n Pacific Biodiesel plans to yield 100 gallons of oil per acre at the site to produce biofuel. The seeds will be crushed for oil, while the leaves may be used as a food source for people and other parts of the plant will be used as feed for livestock. \n Another crop of sunflowers is being planted across 14 acres at a nearby field, King said. \n The company said on its Facebook page that it plans to offer tourism events and educational tours in the future. Pacific Biodiesel Technologies wants to create an opportunity for \"people to come in legally\" and \"share in the crop and the promise of diversified agriculture,\" King said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui biodiesel sunflower project attracts unwanted visitors"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump poses for a portrait in the Oval Office in Washington, Friday, April 21, 2017. With his tweets and his bravado, Trump is putting his mark on the presidency in his first 100 days in office. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 16, 2017, file photo, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney speaks at the White House, in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump stepped back today from demanding a down payment for his border wall in must-past spending legislation, potentially removing a major obstacle to a bipartisan deal just days ahead of a government shutdown deadline. \n Trump told a gathering of around 20 conservative media reporters Monday evening that he would be willing to return to the wall funding issue in September, according to two people who were in the room. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the get-together, which was not originally intended to be on the record. \n The border wall money is fiercely opposed by Democrats, whose votes are needed to pass the government-wide spending legislation that comes due Friday at midnight. The wall is also unpopular with many Republicans, and GOP negotiators on Capitol Hill were uneasy about the clash over the wall potentially sparking a government shutdown. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York, who has a key role providing Democratic votes to pass the legislation, welcomed Trump's reported shift on the wall. \n \"It's good for the country that President Trump is taking the wall off the table in these negotiations,\" Schumer said late Monday. \"Now the bipartisan and bicameral negotiators can continue working on the outstanding issues.\" \n The wall was the most pressing issue confronting lawmakers as they returned from a two-week spring recess to face a critical deadline. Congress must pass a $1 trillion catch-all spending bill to pay for all agencies of government or trigger a partial shutdown Saturday, which happens to coincide with the 100th day of Trump's presidency. \n \"I'm optimistic. I don't think anybody wants a shutdown,\" Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., said as he exited a meeting of GOP leadership. \"The White House and basically the minority leaders of the House and Senate have to have some level of agreement on the things that you're adding.\" \n The negotiations over the spending bill took center stage Monday despite a separate White House push for fast action to revive health care legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. After signaling last week that they hoped for a vote as soon as this week on a rewritten health bill, White House officials softened their stance Monday. Echoing the views of House GOP leaders, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said there would be a vote on health care legislation when House leaders count the 216 votes needed to pass it. \n \"I think we want to make sure that we've got the votes and we're headed in the right direction before putting some artificial deadline,\" Spicer said. \n Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan were embarrassed last month when they had to pull their \"Obamacare\" replacement bill off the floor without a vote as it became clear it would fail. Since then leaders of conservative and moderate factions in the House have been negotiating on a compromise allowing states to opt out of certain \"Obamacare\" requirements, and they appear to be making progress, although legislative text had not been finalized as of Monday. \n The original GOP bill eliminated many of the \"Obamacare\" mandates, offered skimpier subsidies for consumers to buy care and rolled back a Medicaid expansion. Conservatives balked, saying it didn't go far enough. \n With Democrats unanimously opposed, it remains to be seen whether the health care deal will come together and attract the needed support. Trump talked it up on Twitter, writing Monday: \"If our healthcare plan is approved, you will see real healthcare and premiums will start tumbling down. ObamaCare is in a death spiral!\" \n Trump also pushed for his border wall, a central campaign pledge that he still insists Mexico will pay for in the end, though Democrats and even most Republicans doubt that will ever come to pass. Cost estimates range past $20 billion and the White House had been seeking $1.4 billion as a down payment in the spending bill. \n Trump turned again to Twitter: \"The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)! If the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be! #BuildTheWall.\" \n But some of the conservative journalists who met Monday evening with Trump reported he said wall funding could wait until the fall. Prior to the White House demand late last week for border wall money, it had largely been assumed on Capitol Hill that the spending measure would include funding for additional security steps along the border, but that there wouldn't be any money explicitly dedicated for new wall construction. That approach now appears likely to prevail. \n The other major stumbling block on the spending bill involves a demand by Democratic negotiators that the measure fund cost-sharing payments to insurance companies that help low-income people afford health policies under Obama's health law, or that Trump back off a threat to use the payments as a bargaining chip. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump backs away from demand for border wall money"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this April 15, 2017, photo, missiles are paraded across Kim Il Sung Square during a military parade to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of Kim Il Sung in Pyongyang, North Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> North Korea marks the founding anniversary of its military on Tuesday, and South Korea and its allies are bracing for the possibility that it could conduct another nuclear test or launch an intercontinental ballistic missile for the first time. \n North Korea often marks significant dates by displaying its military capability. It so far has carried out five nuclear tests. \n Such a move could test the developing North Korea policies of U.S. President Donald Trump, who has reportedly settled on a strategy that emphasizes increased pressure on North Korea with the help of China, the North's only major ally, instead of military options or trying to overthrow North Korea's government. \n Trump spoke by phone with both the Japanese and Chinese leaders Monday. Chinese state broadcaster CCTV quoted President Xi Jinping as telling Trump that China strongly opposes North Korea's nuclear weapons program and hopes \"all parties will exercise restraint and avoid aggravating the situation.\" \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Trump agreed to urge North Korea to refrain from what Abe called provocative actions. \"The North Korean nuclear and missile problem is an extremely serious security threat to not only the international community but also our country,\" the Japanese leader told reporters in Tokyo afterward. \n Recent U.S. commercial satellite images indicate increased activity around North Korea's nuclear test site, and third-generation dictator Kim Jong Un has said the country's preparation for an ICBM launch is in its \"final stage.\" \n South Korea's Defense Ministry has said North Korea appears ready to conduct such \"strategic provocations\" at any time. South Korean Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, the country's acting leader in place of ousted President Park Geun-hye, who has been arrested over corruption allegations, has instructed his military to strengthen its \"immediate response posture\" in case North Korea does something significant on Tuesday's anniversary. \n There is also a possibility that North Korea, facing potential changes in regional dynamics as Washington presses Beijing to pressure North Korea more aggressively, opts to mark the anniversary with a missile launch of lesser magnitude. North Korea separately fired what U.S. officials said were a Scud-type missile and a midrange missile earlier this month, but the launches were analyzed as failures. \n While the U.S. has dispatched what Trump called an \"armada\" of ships to the region, including an aircraft carrier, U.S. officials have told The Associated Press that the administration doesn't intend to militarily respond to a North Korean nuclear or missile test. South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported Monday that South Korean naval ships will conduct a training exercise with the aircraft carrier, the USS Carl Vinson. \n In a statement released late Friday, North Korea's Foreign Ministry accused Trump of driving the region into an \"extremely dangerous phase\" with the dispatch of the aircraft carrier and said the North was ready to stand up against any threat posed by the United States. \n With typical rhetorical flourish, the ministry said North Korea \"will react to a total war with an all-out war, a nuclear war with nuclear strikes of its own style and surely win a victory in the death-defying struggle against the U.S. imperialists.\" \n Adding to the tensions, North Korea detained a U.S. citizen on Saturday, bringing the number of Americans being held there to three. The reasons for the detention of Tony Kim, who taught accounting at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, weren't immediately clear. \n Under Kim's leadership, North Korea has been aggressively pursuing a decades-long goal of putting a nuclear warhead on an ICBM capable of reaching the U.S. mainland. \n Last year, North Korea conducted two nuclear tests, which would have improved its knowledge in making nuclear weapons small enough to fit on long-range missiles. It also launched a long-range rocket last year that delivered a satellite into orbit, which Washington, Seoul and others saw as a banned test of missile technology. \n On April 15, North Korea offered a look at its advancing nuclear weapon and missile programs in a massive military parade in Pyongyang honoring late state founder Kim Il Sung, the grandfather of the current ruler. \n The displayed military hardware included prototype ICBMs and new midrange solid-fuel missiles that can be fired from land mobile launchers and submarines, making them harder to detect before launch. \n The parade also featured previously unseen large rocket canisters and transporter erector launcher trucks, or TELs. This indicated that North Korea is developing technologies to \"cold-launch\" ICBMs, ejecting them from the launch tubes before they ignite in midair, which would prevent its limited number of ICBM-capable launcher trucks from being damaged and also allow the missiles to be fired from silos. \n Analysts say North Korea is also likely developing solid-fuel ICBMs, and that some of the canisters might have contained prototypes. \n North Korea had earlier shown signs it was working on a new ICBM. \n In March, North Korean state media reported that the country successfully conducted a ground test of a new high-thrust rocket engine, which it said was a breakthrough for its space program and efforts to create \"Korean-style strategic weapons.\" Kim was quoted as saying \"the whole world will soon witness what eventful significance the great victory won today carries.\" \n While North Korea almost certainly needs more time to create a solid-fuel ICBM, test launches for its existing liquid-fuel ICBMs, including KN-08s and KN-14s, could come much sooner. \n Experts say these missiles could one day be capable of hitting targets as far as the continental United States, although North Korea has yet to flight test them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea, allies brace for North Korea follow-up act"}

{"date": "April 24, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2016 \n Sheryl Sandberg's new book, \"Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience and Finding Joy,\" recounts the death of her husband, her grief, and how she recovered from it. \n NEW YORK >> Though perhaps best known as Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg is also a mentor, a mother, a billionaire and an author. When her husband Dave Goldberg died suddenly in 2015 while they were vacationing in Mexico, she added \"widow\" to the list. \n \"The grief felt like a void, like it was sucking me in and pushing on me, pulling me in and I couldn't even see or breathe,\" she said in an interview with the Associated Press. \"People who have been through things like this told me it gets better. And I really didn't believe them\u2026. I want other people going through things to believe it does get better.\" \n Her new book \u2014 \"Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience and Finding Joy,\" written with psychologist Adam Grant \u2014 chronicles the devastating loss, her grief and how she emerged from it with a new perspective on life. A humbled follow-up to her first book, \"Lean In ,\" it's also a how-to, drawing from studies and the experiences of others to describe techniques for building strength and resilience and ways to support those going through hard times. \n Sandberg also uses the new book to address what she now sees as shortcomings in the career advice she offered women in \"Lean In.\" Surveying the world as a wealthy corporate executive rendered her oblivious to the circumstances faced by less fortunate women, she acknowledged. Not everyone can lean in; not everyone wants to. \n \"I didn't get it,\" she wrote. \"I didn't get how hard it is to succeed at work when you are overwhelmed at home.\" \n The most affecting parts of the book recount not just Sandberg's grief, but that of her children. When she had to tell them that their father died. When, arriving at the cemetery for his funeral, they \"got out of the car and fell to the ground, unable to take another step. I lay on the grass, holding them as they wailed,\" unable to protect them from their sorrow. \n It did get better, though slowly. Sandberg returned to work at Facebook in a haze, unable to summon her previous self-confidence. \n \"I couldn't understand when friends didn't ask me how I was. I felt invisible, as if I was standing in front of them but they couldn't see me,\" she writes, adding later, that by staying silent in such situations \"we often isolate friends, family and co-workers.\" \n At Facebook, Sandberg has long been an advocate of \"bringing your whole self to work,\" meaning a willingness to share your personal life with co-workers. But this can get tricky when it comes to facing trauma. Sandberg found it difficult, and even considered carrying around a stuffed pachyderm to encourage co-workers and even friends to talk about the \"elephant in the room.\" \n Picking up the pieces \n Then one day, about a month after Goldberg died, she decided to post on Facebook about her grief, her gratitude toward her friends, and her related tumultuous feelings \u2014 for instance, coming to believe she would never again feel real joy. She wrote it out, not planning to share it publicly. After some more thought, she decided it couldn't possibly make things worse. \n The change was immediate. Friends, co-workers and strangers \u2014 many of whom had dealt with loss themselves \u2014 began reaching out. It helped, Sandberg wrote. The post has been shared more than 400,000 times and has some 74,000 comments. It opened up a conversation. \n \"I know it almost sounds silly because I certainly work at Facebook and I know what Facebook's mission is,\" she said. \"But experiencing it for myself was a very \u2026 deep experience.\" \n Talking about these things, as difficult as it might be, can be a lifeline. As is getting help at work, something Sandberg acknowledged not everyone can. Facebook has recently extended its bereavement policies to allow employees more time off after the death of a loved one. But Sandberg says supporting people once they are back at work \u2014 including reminding them that their contributions are needed and welcome \u2014 is just as important. \n \"Death is not the only kind of adversity that summons up the elephant,\" Sandberg wrote in the book. \"Anything that reminds us of the possibility of loss can leave us at a loss for words. Financial difficulties. Divorce. Unemployment. Rape. Addiction. Incarceration. Illness.\" \n Building strength \n A few weeks after she lost her husband, Sandberg was talking with a friend, making plans for someone to fill in for a father-child activity. Crying, she told the friend \"But I want Dave.\" He put his arm around her and said, \"Option A is not available. So let's just kick the s\u2014- out of Option B.\" \n Sandberg said she believes strongly in pre-traumatic growth \u2014 people's ability to build up resilience before something bad happens so that they are able to deal with it better. She has peppered the book with anecdotes and studies about resilience, from the story of Malala Yousafzai, the 19-year-old Pakistani activist and Nobel Peace laureate, to that of the survivors of a 1972 plane crash in the Andes described in the book (and movie) \"Alive.\" \n \"Tragedy does not have to be personal, pervasive or permanent, but resilience can be,\" she writes. \"We can build it and carry it with us throughout our lives.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sheryl Sandberg picks 'Option B' in her book on resilience"}

