{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "COURTESY LEISHA RAMOS \n The 2-year-old pitbull Kai'ele and a baby \n COURTESY LEISHA RAMOS \n Leisha Ramos with her dog Kai'ele \n COURTESY LEISHA RAMOS \n Leisha Ramos with her baby and her dog Kai'ele \n Leisha Ramos was looking forward to her return to her home island of Oahu after living on the Big Island, when a series of events led to a security guard fatally shooting her dog Kai'ele at Honolulu International Airport Tuesday night. \n \"I was just in shock\u2026He was such a sweetheart,\" said Ramos of the 2-year-old pit bull. \"He never attacked anybody.\" \n A state Department of Transportation spokesman confirmed that a Securitas security officer was involved in the incident just before 7 p.m. and that an investigation is underway, but gave no other details. Securitas Security Services USA officials did not respond to a query about the incident. \n Authorities were holding the body of Kai'ele as evidence as they continue an investigation. \n Ramos said her boyfriend had parked his vehicle near a smoking area inside a vehicle holding area near the Hawaiian Airlines terminal Tuesday night. \n Kai'ele was left chained to a nearby coconut tree, while Ramos' boyfriend went to help gather her luggage at a baggage claim area. \n She said Kai'ele's chain did break but he wasn't snarling, barking or growling. \n Ramos said she tried to grab the dog by his collar with her right hand while holding her 5-month-old baby in her left arm, when the security guard fatally shot Kai'ele in the head. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Family's dog fatally shot by airport guard"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The illuminated Capitol Dome is reflected off the top of parked cars before dawn in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> Congress has sent President Donald Trump legislation that would kill an online privacy regulation, a move that could eventually allow internet providers such as Comcast, AT&T and Verizon to sell the browsing habits of their customers. \n The Federal Communications Commission rule issued in October was designed to give consumers greater control over how internet service providers share information. But critics said the rule would have stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among Internet companies. \n The House voted 215-205 to reject the rule. The Senate had already voted to the block it. \n The vote is part of an extensive effort that Republicans have undertaken to void an array of regulations issued during the final months of Democratic President Barack Obama's tenure. But the vote was closer this time with 15 Republicans siding with Democrats in the effort to keep the rule in place. \n Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said Republicans put profits over the privacy concerns of Americans. \n \"Overwhelmingly, the American people do not agree with Republicans that this information should be sold, and it certainly should not be sold without your permission,\" Pelosi said. \"Our broadband providers know deeply personal information about us and our families.\" \n Internet companies like Google don't have to ask users' permission before tracking what sites they visit. Republicans and industry groups have blasted that discrepancy, saying it was unfair and confusing for consumers. \n But proponents of the privacy measure argued that the company that sells you your internet connection can see even more about consumers, such as every website they visit and whom they exchange emails with. That information would be particularly useful for advertisers and marketers. \n Undoing the FCC regulation leaves people's online information in a murky area. Experts say federal law still requires broadband providers to protect customer information \u2014 but it doesn't spell out how or what companies must do. That's what the FCC rule aimed to do. \n The Trump-appointed chairman of the FCC, Ajit Pai, is a critic of the broadband privacy rules and has said he wants to roll them back. He and other Republicans want a different federal agency, the Federal Trade Commission, to police privacy for both broadband companies like AT&T and internet companies like Google. GOP lawmakers said they care about consumer privacy every bit as much as Democrats did. \n Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy of California said the FTC has acted as America's online privacy regulator since the dawn of the internet. He called the rule an effort to strip the agency of that role. \n \"The internet has become the amazing tool that it is because it is largely left untouched by regulation\u2014and that shouldn't stop now,\" McCarthy said. \n Republican Rep. Kevin Yoder of Kansas parted ways with his Republican colleagues on the issue. He said the privacy protections were \"commonsense measures\" that would have ensured internet users continue to have control over their personal information. \n \"We don't want the government having access to our information without our consent, and the same goes for private business,\" Yoder said. \n Broadband providers don't currently fall under FTC jurisdiction, and advocates say it has historically been a weaker agency than the FCC. \n The American Civil Liberties Union urged Trump to veto the resolution, appealing to his populist side. \n \"President Trump now has the opportunity to veto this resolution and show he is not just a president for CEOs but for all Americans, said the ACLU's Neema Singh Guliani. \n Republicans repeatedly discounted the privacy benefits generated by the rule. Over the last two months, they've voted to repeal more than a dozen Obama-era regulations in the name of curbing government overreach. The criticism of their efforts was particularly harsh Tuesday. \n \"Lawmakers who voted in favor of this bill just sold out the American people to special interests,\" said Rep. Jared Polis, D-Colo. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House sends bill to Trump blocking online privacy regulation"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner has been a power player able to avoid much of the harsh scrutiny that comes with working in the White House, but he's found that even the president's son-in-law takes his turn in the spotlight. \n WASHINGTON >> Jared Kushner has been a power player able to avoid much of the harsh scrutiny that comes with working in the White House. But this week he's found that even the president's son-in-law takes his turn in the spotlight. \n In a matter of days, Kushner, a senior Trump adviser, drew headlines for leaving Washington for a ski vacation while a signature campaign promise fell apart. The White House then confirmed he had volunteered to be interviewed before the Senate intelligence committee about meetings with Russian officials. At the same time, the White House announced he'll helm a new task force that some in the West Wing have suggested carries little real influence. \n Kushner became the fourth Trump associate to get entangled in the Russia probe. North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr, the chairman of the intelligence committee, said Tuesday that Kushner would likely be under oath and would submit to a \"private interview\" about arranging meetings with the Russian ambassador and other officials. \n The news came as the White House announced Kushner would lead a new White House Office of American Innovation, a task force billed as a powerful assignment for Kushner. But the task force's true power in the White House remained unclear, according to a half-dozen West Wing officials and Kushner associates who spoke on the condition of anonymity. \n The official White House line is that the group would have sweeping authority to modernize government, acting as strategic consultants who can draw from experiences in the private sector \u2014 and sometimes receive input from the president himself \u2014 to fulfill campaign promises like battling opioid addiction and transforming health care for veterans. White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Monday that it would \"apply the president's ahead-of-schedule-and-under-budget mentality\" to the government. \n But others inside and outside the White House cast doubt on the task force's significance and reach, suggesting it was a lower priority for the administration and pointing out that similar measures have been tried by previous presidents with middling success. The assignment revived lingering questions about whether Kushner had opted to focus his time on a project that would put him at some distance from some Trump's more conservative and controversial policy overhauls. \n The announcement came just days after Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, were photographed on the ski slopes of Aspen, Colorado, as the GOP health care deal began to unravel amid protests from conservative Republicans that it did not go far enough in replacing President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act. Kushner rushed back to Washington on Friday but it was too late to save the bill, which was scuttled hours later by House Speaker Paul Ryan. \n Two people close to Kushner vehemently denied the president was upset at his son-in-law for being absent, saying Trump had given the trip his blessing. And a senior White House official insisted the timing of the task force announcement was planned weeks in advance. \n Kushner, who has been at his father-in-law's right hand since the campaign, has long been viewed as a first-among-equals among the disparate power centers competing for the president's ear. Kushner, who routinely avoids interviews, draws power from his ability to access Trump at all hours, including the White House residence often off-limits to staffers. \n His portfolio is robust: He has been deeply involved with presidential staffing and has played the role of shadow diplomat, advising on relations with the Middle East, Canada and Mexico. Though Kushner and Ivanka Trump have been spotted with some frequency on the Washington social circuit, the president's son-in-law is routinely in the office early and leaves late, other than on Fridays when he observes the Sabbath. \n While those close to Trump flatly state that Kushner, by virtue of marriage, is untouchable, this is a rare moment when he has been the center of the sort of political storm that has routinely swept up the likes of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior counselor Kellyanne Conway. It points to a White House whose power matrix is constantly in flux. \n Kushner has been closely allied with senior counselor Dina Powell and National Economic Council director Gary Cohn, the former Goldman Sachs executive and a registered Democrat. That group has, at times, been at odds with conservatives led by Bannon, who to this point has been the driving force behind the White House's policy shop. \n When Kushner officially joined the administration in January as a senior adviser, it was suggested that the real estate heir would draw upon the private sector to streamline and modernize government. His task force has been meeting since shortly after the inauguration and started talking to CEOs from various sectors about ways to make changes to entrenched federal programs. \n \"Jared is a visionary with an endless appetite for strategic, inventive solutions that will improve quality of life for all Americans,\" said Hope Hicks, Trump's longtime spokeswoman. \n A list supplied by the White House of some of those who have met with Kushner reads like a who's who of the American business world, including Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, Tim Cook of Apple and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase. Kushner usually does more listening than talking in the meetings, largely avoiding ideological arguments while asking questions about efficiency and best practices, according to a person who has attended a gathering but is not authorized to discuss private conversations. \n But the Trump team is hardly the first seeking to improve how the government operates. The Reagan administration tasked the Grace Commission in 1982 with uncovering wasteful spending and practices, while the Clinton administration sought its own reinvention of government in 1993 with what was initially called the National Performance Review. Previous commissions have not produced overwhelming results in changing the stubborn bureaucracy, casting some doubt on what Kushner's team can accomplish. \n Philip Joyce, a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland, said the domestic spending cuts in Trump's budget blueprint suggest that this new committee would most likely focus more on shrinking the government than improving its performance. \n Even then, any change would be unlikely to deliver significant budget savings compared to reforming entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. \n \"It's not the main thing we ought to be focusing on,\" Joyce said. \"It's at the margins of the big issues facing the country, certainly in terms of the budget.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kushner, taking new White House role, faces rare scrutiny"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Last month, a man wore a Captain America costume representing a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, during the Saudi Comic Con (SCC) which is the first event of its kind to be held in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia. The kingdom, which bans movie theaters and other entertainment venues, is challenging its ultraconservative image and loosening the reins on fun by opening its doors to live shows, including some American ones. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> Monster trucks, hip-hop dancing and Game of Thrones all have one surprising thing in common now: Saudi Arabia. \n The kingdom, which bans movie theaters and other entertainment venues, is challenging its ultraconservative image and loosening the reins on fun by opening its doors to live shows, including some American ones. \n Clerics and many citizens still consider it all very sinful, but the growing entertainment scene has a powerful backer \u2014 the second-in-line to the throne. Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's support is key to this cultural push, which also means the fun is tightly controlled. \n Still, it's a notable shift from just a few years ago, when the religious police \u2014 known as the Muttawa\u2014 would shoo women out of malls for wearing bright nail polish, insist restaurants turn off music and break up gatherings where unrelated men and women were mixing. \n Last year, the Muttawa were ordered to soften their approach and their powers were curtailed. \n Though most Saudis voluntarily adhere to the country's Islamic mores, there are plenty who are happy to embrace reforms \u2014 or what could also be seen as a return to the more relaxed era of the 1980s, when music concerts were performed. \n The recent all-male concert of Saudi singer Mohammed Abdu was both nostalgic and groundbreaking. He had not performed in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, since the late 1980s. \n History is also being made. The first ever Comic-Con event in Saudi Arabia drew thousands of spectators in February in the Red Sea city of Jiddah. \n Fans dressed up as their favorite Marvel characters. Actors Julian Glover and Charles Dance \u2014 Grand Maester Pycelle and Tywin Lannister from HBO's Game of Thrones \u2014 made an appearance. Rock music blared in the halls. For most of the event men and women were not segregated \u2014 a surprising departure from the norm in schools, universities, mosques, restaurants and the many Starbucks and Pizza Huts across the country. \n Though women must dress in loosely-fitted, long robes and most cover their hair and face with black veils, there was a female-only area at Comic-Con for those dressed up in colorful superhero costumes. \n Moiz Muqri has been collecting comic books since the 1990s, when there was little else to do in the kingdom. \n \"An event like Comic-Con, I could not have imagined it happening in Saudi Arabia five years ago,\" said the 37-year-old resident of Jiddah, who wore a Spiderman hoodie to the event. \"It is a seismic shift what has happened in the last two, three years.\" \n The event was a step too far for some. It drew backlash from tens of thousands of Saudis on Twitter, including the prominent imam of the Prophet Muhammad's mosque in Medina. \n Sheikh Hussein al-Sheikh denounced the event for its life-size statues and its glorification of mystical superheroes, seen as a form of idolatry. He said it was \"shameful that there be such events sponsored by an official entity,\" and called for a boycott. \n Within weeks his Twitter account was deleted without explanation \u2014 a reminder that speaking out against the government remains a red line. \n The official arm behind these events is the General Entertainment Authority, created last year as part of a wider effort by the deputy crown prince to diversify the oil-driven economy. \n A major aim is to keep some of the Saudi tourism money spent abroad each year in the country. The National Committee for Tourism says Saudis spent $35 billion abroad in 2015. \n The Entertainment Authority wants to double what Saudi families currently spend on entertainment in the kingdom by 2030. Saudi Arabia is also in talks to open a Six Flags theme park. \n Another aim is to appease the country's majority youth, who \u2014 unlike older generations\u2014 have unrestricted access to the world through their smartphones. \n One of the first shows to perform under this new banner was iLuminiate, a performance that fuses hip-hop dance with electrified glow-in-the-dark suits. \n Several thousand men and women packed halls in Riyadh and Jiddah in October to watch the dancers perform to Michael Jackson, Bruno Mars and Missy Elliott hits. \n Egyptian-American creator Miral Kotb, a software engineer and dancer, said she was approached to bring the show to Saudi Arabia by the company Live Entertainment with support from the government. \n \"They wanted something that would be family-friendly\u2026 so people are dancing in the dark and it is a pretty, I guess, conservative show as far as the movements,\" she said. \n There were a few women on stage, but there was no way to know who was doing what because the dancers were dressed in special suits and performing in the dark. Kotb says they took out hip movements and changed the costumes to look more conservative. \n Crowds were loud and excited. \"They were hungry for it,\" Kotb said. \n There are still no plans for movie theaters, but an evening with American movie star Al Pacino may take place in May, according to the Entertainment Authority's website. Also scheduled for 2017 is a performance by Blue Man group, a comedy play, a poetry recital and drag racing. \n Previously, Saudi Arabia hosted WWE wrestling matches for male-only crowds. This month, the all-American Monster Jam truck show roared in Riyadh. Tens of thousands showed up to watch the massive, four-meter-tall (13 feet) monster trucks fly across pits and dunes. \n Female drivers, mechanics and spectators were not allowed. The kingdom bars women from driving. \n \"You respect their religion and their beliefs and they really didn't seem to have a problem with us,\" said Monster Jam driver Randy Brown, a native of North Carolina. \n \"It was unbelievable how excited they were to have us there,\" Brown said. \"It was an experience that I wouldn't trade for anything.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Saudi Arabia's first Comic Con defies killjoy image"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson in Honolulu. Watson is hearing arguments today on whether to extend his temporary order blocking President Donald Trump's revised travel ban. \n Hawaii's attorney general says a federal judge's decision to extend an order blocking President Donald Trump's travel ban affirms values of religious freedom. \n State Attorney General Douglas Chin says today's longer-lasting ruling means that Muslims and refugees will face less uncertainty. \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson granted Hawaii's request to extend his previous temporary block of provisions that would suspend new visas for six Muslim-majority countries and halt the nation's refugee program. \n Watson rejected the government's request to narrow his ruling to apply only to the six-nation ban. Watson is stopping the government from enforcing both provisions until he orders otherwise. \n Attorneys for the government didn't immediately return requests for comment. \n Watson issued his 24-page ruling several hours after a hearing on Hawaii's request. \n Update: 4:40 p.m. \n A federal judge in Hawaii is extending his order that blocks President Donald Trump's travel ban until the state's lawsuit works its way through the courts. \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson issued the written ruling today after hearing arguments. \n Seeking the longer-lasting hold, state Attorney General Douglas Chin argued that the ban's implied message is like a \"neon sign flashing 'Muslim ban, Muslim ban'\" that the government didn't bother to turn off. \n The Department of Justice had said that if Watson grants the request, he should narrow the ruling to cover only the part of Trump's executive order that suspends new visas for people from six Muslim-majority countries. \n Government attorney Chad Readler said a freeze on the U.S. refugee program had no effect on Hawaii. \n Previous coverage \n A federal judge in Hawaii questioned government attorneys today who urged him to narrow his order blocking President Donald Trump's travel ban because suspending the nation's refugee program has no effect on the state. \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson is hearing arguments on whether to extend his temporary order until Hawaii's lawsuit works its way through the courts. Even if he does not issue a longer-lasting hold on the ban, his temporary block would stay in place until he rules otherwise. \n Department of Justice attorney Chad Readler, participating by telephone, asked Watson to be guided by narrower rulings blocking only the part of Trump's executive order that suspends new visas for people from six Muslim-majority countries. \n Hawaii has only made generalized concerns about effects to students and tourism, Readler said. \n Watson said the government only argued for the narrower interpretation after a federal judge in Maryland blocked the six-nation travel ban but not the suspension of the refugee program. That judge said it wasn't clear that the refugee freeze was similarly motivated by religious bias. \n Watson noted that the government said 20 refugees were resettled in Hawaii since 2010. \n \"Is this a mathematical exercise that 20 isn't enough? \u2026 What do I make of that?\" the judge said. \n Readler replied that 20 is simply a small number of refugees. \n \"In whose judgment?\" Watson asked. \n The Maryland ruling noted that national security is not the primary purpose of the travel ban as Trump claims, Hawaii Attorney General Douglas Chin countered. Constitutional harm exists regardless of the number of people affected or for how long, he said. \n In his arguments, Chin quoted Trump's comments that the revised travel ban is a \"watered down\" version of the original. \n \"We cannot fault the president for being politically incorrect, but we do fault him for being constitutionally incorrect,\" Chin said. \n Earlier this month, Watson prevented the federal government from suspending new visas for people from Somalia, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya and Yemen and freezing the nation's refugee program. His ruling came just hours before the federal government planned to start enforcing Trump's executive order. \n The judge, nominated to the bench by former President Barack Obama in 2012, had agreed with Hawaii that the ban would hurt the state's tourism-dependent economy and that it discriminates based on nationality and religion. \n Trump called Watson's ruling an example of \"unprecedented judicial overreach.\" \n Hawaii's ruling would not be directly affected by a decision siding with the federal government in the Maryland case, legal experts said. The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals has set a hearing for May 8 to consider the administration's appeal. \n \"Cases with splits in authority are cases the U.S. Supreme Court exists to resolve,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. judge in Hawaii extends order halting travel ban"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton gestures while speaking before the Professional Businesswomen of California today in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> A spirited Hillary Clinton took on the Trump administration today in one of her first public speeches since she lost the presidential election, criticizing the country's Republican leaders on everything from health care to the shortage of women appointees in top administration positions. \n Cracking jokes about her November defeat and her months out of the limelight since, Clinton spoke to thousands of businesswomen in San Francisco, joking there was no place she'd rather be, \"other than the White House.\" \n Without mentioning President Donald Trump by name, Clinton faulted the Republican presidential administration repeatedly, including calling its representation of women in top jobs \"the lowest in a generation.\" \n She rebuked White House press secretary Sean Spicer, again not by name, for hours earlier today chiding a black woman journalist during a news conference for shaking her head. \n \"Too many women have had a lifetime of practice taking this kind of indignity in stride,\" Clinton said. \n \"I mean, it's not like I didn't know all the nasty things they were saying about me. I thought some of them were kind of creative,\" she said. \"But you just have to keep going.\" \n Clinton declared herself appalled at a much-circulated photo showing an all-male group of Republican lawmakers last month negotiating women's coverage in health care legislation, noting a social-media parody of it that showed an all-dog panel deciding on feline care. \n Last week's failure of the GOP health care bill, Clinton told a cheering, applauding crowd, was \"a victory for all Americans.\" \n Trump has named four women to his Cabinet, the same number as in former President George W. Bush's first Cabinet. Trump earlier this week pointed to the work he planned to have his daughter, Ivanka Trump Kushner, do on childcare and other issues involving working women and men in her unsalaried role in his administration. \n Clinton has kept a low profile after Trump defeated her for the presidency, except chiefly for sightings while she took walks outdoors with her husband, former President Bill Clinton. She said earlier this month that she intended to start speaking out again on public issues. \n Today, she urged voters to resist Trump policies that she said included suspicion of refugees and voter suppression in some areas. \n \"These are bad policies that will hurt people and take our country in the wrong direction,\" Clinton said, relaying what she had become one of her mantras since the November election. \n \"It's the kinds of things you think about when you take long walks in the woods,\" she said. \"Resist, insist, persist, enlist.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton jabs Trump in first major post-election speech"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Arkansas fans cheer on the Hogs during an NCAA college football game in Sept. 2015 against UTEP at Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium in Fayetteville, Ark. \n LITTLE ROCK, Ark. >> An Arkansas House committee advanced a measure today to exempt college sporting events from a state law allowing guns after the Southeastern Conference appealed for guns to be banned from facilities such as football stadiums. \n Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed the new state law last week allowing concealed handguns at colleges, government buildings, some bars and even the State Capitol. \n The House Judiciary Committee advanced the exemption measure after it was amended. Under the amended exemption, college stadiums such as the University of Arkansas' Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium and the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences would be able to designate sensitive areas where they wouldn't want people to carry concealed handguns. To prohibit concealed carry in those sensitive areas, they would have to put together a security plan for those areas and submit it to Arkansas State Police for approval. \n Republican Rep. Bob Ballinger told the panel that the changes to the proposed exemption measure were made to address concerns people had with the original bill. \n \"We took ten steps forward, and a lot of people weren't quite ready to go that far forward. So now we're taking one step backward,\" Ballinger said. \n Ballinger said that if college sporting events and the medical facilities were going to prohibit concealed carry, then they must demonstrate that they will provide the necessary security. \n The National Rifle Association, which supported the expanded concealed handguns law, opposes the exemption measure in its current and previous form. \n \"There is no language in (the bill) that could be classified as an SEC exemption,\" NRA spokesman Lars Dalseide said in an email. \"Instead we have a bill that eliminates a considerable amount of fundamental freedoms recognized by the governor just last week.\" \n SEC Commissioner Greg Sankey said the measure signed into law last week by the governor creates concerns for the conference and its member institutions. The University of Arkansas is an SEC school, and Razorback Stadium holds 72,000 people. \n \"Given the intense atmosphere surrounding athletic events, adding weapons increases safety concerns and could negatively impact the intercollegiate athletics program at the University of Arkansas in several ways, including scheduling, officiating, recruiting and attendance,\" Sankey said in a statement. \n The law takes effect Sept. 1, but Arkansas residents likely won't be allowed to carry concealed weapons into the expanded locations until early next year. The law gives Arkansas State Police until January to design the additional training that will be required. More than 220,000 people have concealed handgun licenses in the state. \n The law that Hutchinson signed last week originally was intended to only allow faculty and staff to carry concealed handguns at college campuses, but the bill expanded as it hit roadblocks in the Legislature. \n Arkansas law currently allows faculty and staff at colleges and universities to carry concealed handguns on campus if the schools allow it. None have opted to do so since that law was enacted in 2013. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arkansas panel backs gun ban at stadiums after SEC plea"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marco Contreras, 41, right, is embraced by his mother, Maria Contreras, as his lawyers cheer following a Los Angeles court hearing during which he was declared factually innocent in Los Angeles today. Contreras, whose attempted-murder conviction was tossed by a California judge, walked free after 20 years in prison. \n LOS ANGELES >> A man whose attempted-murder conviction was tossed by a California judge walked free Tuesday after 20 years in prison. \n Marco Contreras, now 41, was embraced by his mother as his lawyers cheered following a Los Angeles court hearing during which he was declared factually innocent. \n \"I just had to be patient, and wait,\" said Contreras, telling KCAL-TV he always knew he would be exonerated. \n Loyola Law School's Project for the Innocent, which fought for his release, pointed to a combination of factors that resulted in the conviction for a shooting and robbery at a Compton gas station in 1996. \n Contreras' vehicle, which he had lent to someone else, was in the vicinity. An eyewitness wrongly identified him as the shooter, despite the fact that he was at home sleeping at the time. \n A probe by the Sheriff's Department and the district attorney's office not only determined that Contreras was innocent, but led to the arrest of another suspect in the case. \n The law school project and prosecutors jointly petitioned Superior Court Judge William Ryan to release him. \n Contreras, who served two decades of a life-plus-seven-years sentence, said his spirituality helped him suppress anger during his time behind bars. He steadfastly maintained his innocence and fought to have his case re-investigated. \n Paula Mitchell, Loyola's legal director, said before the hearing that erroneous eyewitness identifications account for about 75 percent of all wrongful convictions in the U.S. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man exonerated for attempted murder free after 20 years"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "DES MOINES, Iowa >> Republicans in the Iowa Legislature are backing newly filed legislation that would ban abortions once a fetal heartbeat is detected, which would be the strictest ban in the country if enacted. \n A GOP-led House committee had been set to vote on the provision today but lawmakers later adjourned without a decision. It's expected to be taken up again Wednesday. \n The measure was added to a separate bill that would ban most abortions at 20 weeks of pregnancy. The new version would include several abortion restrictions. \n Democrats criticized the legislation in an afternoon press conference, though they don't have the legislative power to stop the bill's advancement. \n \"This is an all-out assault on women and a sneak attack from Republicans at the last minute,\" said Democratic Rep. Beth Wessel-Kroeschell, a ranking member of the House Human Resources Committee that was set to take up the measure. \n GOP Rep. Shannon Lundgren, a committee member and the bill's floor manager, said Democrats should not be surprised by the move. She also acknowledged backers of the bill are still securing enough support from other House Republicans. \n \"Overall, we are a pro-life caucus,\" she said. \"We've been talking about running a bill through our committee since the beginning of session. Republicans ran on pro-life issues.\" \n Planned Parenthood of the Heartland spokeswoman Rachel Lopez sent out a press release calling it the \"most extreme and overreaching abortion legislation ever introduced in Iowa.\" \n If the new version of bill is passed, it would still require floor votes in both chambers before it could reach the Republican governor's desk. Ben Hammes, a spokesman for Gov. Terry Branstad, did not immediately comment on support for the bill. \n \"Obviously, Gov. Branstad is very pro-life,\" Hammes said in an email. \"But until we see legislation in its final form, we will reserve judgment.\" \n Ed Failor, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Bill Dix, said in an email, \"we do not wish to comment on house actions as they move through their process.\" \n Among provisions in the amendment: \n -A pregnant woman will need to wait 72 hours, or three days, before she can get an abortion. \n -State health officials would be required to make available to a woman seeking an abortion reading material that encourages adoption. It would include language stating Iowa's interest in promoting adoption over abortion. \n -A woman seeking an abortion would need to sign documentation acknowledging she was told a heartbeat was detected and the statistical probability of bringing the pregnancy to term. \n -A woman or her spouse could sue a doctor in certain instances for performing an abortion. Parents could sue the physician if the woman was a minor or unmarried. \n -A legal clause would state that if a part of the bill is found invalid, it does not affect other provisions. \n The so-called \"heartbeat bill\" would prohibit most abortions once a fetal heartbeat is detected, which can be as early as six weeks into pregnancy. Ohio Gov. John Kasich vetoed a similar measure late last year. In January 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to review lower court rulings overturning North Dakota's so-called fetal heartbeat law. \n A handful of states have introduced heartbeat bills this year, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights. \n If enacted in Iowa, the measure is expected to face legal challenges over its constitutionality. The U.S. Supreme Court's 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling established a nationwide right to abortion, though states were permitted to restrict abortions after viability \u2014 the point when the fetus has a reasonable chance of surviving under normal conditions outside the uterus. The ruling offered no legal definition of viability, saying it could range between 24 and 28 weeks into a pregnancy. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iowa Republicans back 'fetal heartbeat' abortion legislation"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bradley Mitchell inspected the damage to his uncle's boat after it smashed against the bank at Shute Harbour in Airlie Beach, Australia. \n TOWNSVILLE, Australia >> Residents of Australia's cyclone-battered tropical northeast emerged from their homes on Wednesday to find roofs lying in their yards, boats flung onto rocks and roads blocked by tangles of fallen trees and power lines, as emergency officials tried to reach communities cut off by the powerful storm. \n Cyclone Debbie, which slammed into the coast of Queensland state on Tuesday with winds up to 260 kilometers (160 miles) an hour, weakened quickly as it moved inland and was downgraded to a tropical low by Wednesday morning. \n Australia's military sent vehicles, aircraft and supplies to the region, and clean-up efforts were expected to begin later Wednesday. Around 60,000 houses were without power, and several communities remained isolated with no access to communications. Emergency workers were trying to reach those areas to ensure residents were safe, Queensland Police Commissioner Ian Stewart said. \n \"Nature has flung her worst at the people of north Queensland,\" Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull told reporters. \"It is now our job to make sure that every agency pulls together \u2026 to provide support to the people of north Queensland who have had a very tough day and night.\" \n There were no reports of deaths from the storm. One man was injured after a wall collapsed in the town of Proserpine, Stewart said. He was in stable condition. \n Proserpine was one of the worst-hit areas, along with the resort town of Airlie Beach and the town of Bowen. There was also serious damage to resorts on the idyllic Whitsunday Islands, a popular tourist destination, Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said. Around 200 people vacationing on Daydream Island were awaiting evacuation, and water supplies were running low. \n \"There would be nothing more tragic than waking up and seeing walls that have come in from your houses, roofs that have gone off, and debris that is lying across your roads,\" Palaszczuk told reporters. \n At the port of Shute Harbour, 10 kilometers (6 miles) east of Airlie Beach, the storm tossed around 30 vessels onto the rocks, Whitsundays Regional Council Mayor Andrew Willcox said. \n Queensland Fire and Rescue Service Commissioner Katarina Carroll said the state emergency services department had received 800 calls for help, and that number was expected to rise as power came back on in communities. \n The area produces sugarcane and a wide range of fruits and vegetables, including mangoes and peppers, and farmers were just beginning to check on damage to their crops Wednesday morning. \n Farmer Bill Atkinson, who lives 25 kilometers (15 miles) from Airlie Beach, said the storm had battered his property, tearing roofs off sheds, knocking down trees and partially destroying his sugarcane. \n \"It's going to be sad. It hasn't done (the crop) any favors,\" he said. \"The cane is bent over, the tops are cracked off.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cyclone rips off roofs, flings boats onto land in Australia"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Trekkers hiked towards Everest Base camp near Lobuche, Nepal. \n KATHMANDU, Nepal >> Mountaineering expedition organizers in Nepal say they are sending huge trash bags with climbers on Mount Everest during the spring season to collect trash that then can be lifted by helicopters back to the base camp.  \n Damodar Parajuli of the Expedition Operators Association of Nepal said Wednesday that bags have already been sent to the Everest base camp to be carried by climbers, guides and porters to higher elevations. \n Each bag can hold up to 80 kilograms (176 pounds) of trash collected and can be hooked to helicopters to be flown back to the base camp. \n Climbers say it is urgent to remove trash left by previous expeditions from Camp 2 on the mountain. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Expeditions to send huge trash bags to clean Mount Everest"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "RIVERHEAD, N.Y. (AP) \u2014 A foster father who took in more than 100 troubled boys over 20 years is set to go on trial on charges he sexually abused eight of the children. In addition to the alleged abuse of the boys, prosecutors also said the man sexually abused a dog in front of a child. \n The case against Cesar Gonzales-Mugaburu sparked an investigation into New York's foster care system that found \"abysmal\" communication among the child welfare agencies involved. The suspect's lawyer disputes that any abuse took place at his client's suburban Long Island home. Opening arguments are scheduled to begin Wednesday. \n Gonzales-Mugaburu, 60, of Ridge, New York, was arrested in January 2016, after authorities said two boys in his care reported alleged abuse to a caseworker. Prosecutors said that prompted a wider investigation, which led to additional charges involving other alleged victims. Gonzales-Mugaburu has pleaded not guilty to child endangerment, sexual misconduct and other charges, and remains jailed on $1 million bond. \n Prosecutors said Gonzales-Mugaburu earned more than $1.5 million over two decades as a foster parent, caring for particularly troubled boys, which entitled him to a higher income than a traditional foster parent. He cared for as many as six to eight children at a time since at least 1996. \n An 83-page report released by Suffolk County District Attorney Thomas Spota last month outlined a remarkable series of failures that allowed Gonzales-Mugaburu to take in more than 100 children over 20 years, despite being the subject of 18 separate child abuse investigations. None of those investigations led to criminal charges. \n The report said rules intended to protect the reputations of falsely accused foster parents were partly to blame. Substandard abuse investigations were another issue. But the biggest problem, the report said, was the simple failure of four governmental and one nonprofit child welfare agencies to share information. \n Gonzales-Mugaburu's attorney, Donald Mates, said he disagreed with the findings in the report. There never was any reason for the agencies to fail to uncover abuse, because, he said, it never happened. Mates also said that at least some of the alleged victims have a financial reason to see Gonzales-Mugaburu convicted because they have filed lawsuits against an agency that placed them in his home. \n A spokeswoman for SCO Family of Services, one of the state's largest foster home providers which placed dozens of children with Gonzales-Mugaburu, has said it never uncovered any evidence of abuse prior to his arrest. \n SCO said since the scandal erupted, it has worked with the state, the Administration for Children's Services and Suffolk County \"to diligently address each and every concern about the quality of care provided in this home.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New York foster father faces trial in sex abuse case"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington Wizards guard John Wall, left, takes the ball past Los Angeles Lakers guard D'Angelo Russell, right, on the way to making a dunk during the first half of an NBA basketball game today in Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES >> John Wall scored 34 points and Washington rallied in the fourth quarter to beat the Los Angeles Lakers 119-108 on Tuesday night, clinching the Southeast Division title for its first division crown in 38 years. \n Wall shot 14 of 25 and Bradley Beal was held to 16 points on 7-of-16 shooting, but the Wizards ended the longest division-title drought in NBA history with their fourth straight victory. \n \"I didn't know that,\" coach Scott Brooks said before the game. \"Now we're fighting for playoff positioning.\" \n When the franchise last claimed a division title in 1978-79, it was known as the Bullets of the Atlantic Division and played in suburban Landover, Maryland. The team had won its lone NBA championship the previous season and went on to lose the 1979 Finals to the Seattle SuperSonics. \n From 1979-80 on, Washington has had one of the worst winning percentages in the league, and while the team has made the playoffs 14 times in that span, it hasn't gotten past the second round. \n Washington put the divisional slump in the past by outscoring the Lakers 37-13 in the fourth. \n The Wizards opened on a 19-6 run to tie it at 101 with their starters on the bench for much of the spurt. Wall returned with his team down four and hit a layup and stole Russell's bad pass for a fast-break one-handed tying dunk. \n Beal came back, too, and he and Wall combined to score Washington's next seven points for a 108-104 lead. \n Kelly Oubre Jr. hit a 3-pointer to make it 113-108, effectively finishing off the Lakers. \n D'Angelo Russell led Los Angeles with 28 points and Jordan Clarkson added 22 points. \n The Lakers led by 16 in the third, when they outscored the Wizards 28-14 to start. Wall tossed up an air ball during the Lakers' run before making his team's last two baskets to pull them to 95-92 going into the fourth. \n The Lakers have lost 16 of 18 since the All-Star break and have eight games remaining before missing the playoffs yet again. \n The Lakers kept it close in the first half, leading 58-55 at the break. \n Rookie David Nwaba's layup at the buzzer allowed the Lakers to tie it at 27 to end the first quarter. Larry Nance Jr. blocked Jason Smith and Russell came up with the ball, feeding Nwaba on the fastbreak. \n TIP-INS \n Wizards: They didn't have a field goal over the final 4:13 of the opening quarter, with four different Lakers blocking five shots in that stretch. \u2026 They opened their five-game trip with a 12-point win over defending NBA champion Cleveland on Saturday. \u2026 They have won five straight over the Lakers in L.A. \n Lakers: Coach Luke Walton turned 37 on Tuesday. \u2026 They lost the season series 2-0, getting beaten by eight points on Feb. 2. \n INGRAM OUT \n Lakers forward Brandon Ingram sat out his second straight with right patellar tendinitis after playing in the team's first 72 games, including 33 starts. He's averaging 9.0 points, 4.1 rebounds and 2.0 assists as a rookie. \n \"He gives us a dynamic presence out there,\" Walton said. \"He's grown so much as a player. Not only are we losing some scoring, but defense.\" \n Walton said Ingram wasn't pleased when told he wouldn't be playing. \n \"That's a good thing,\" he said of Ingram's frustration. \n UP NEXT \n Wizards: At Clippers on Wednesday in last back-to-back of season. They are 19-11 in such games. They beat L.A. by seven points at home in December. \n Lakers: At Minnesota on Thursday in a rematch of last Friday's game in L.A., where the Lakers won by 11 points in their first overtime game of the season. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wizards beat Lakers 119-108 to clinch division title"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "USGS \n A magnitude-6.6 earthquake struck the east coast of Russia at 6:09 p.m. Hawaii today. \n A magnitude-6.6 earthquake struck at 6:09 p.m. Hawaii time near the east coast of Kamchatka, Russia, the U.S. Geological Survey reported. \n The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center says the quake did not generate a Pacific-wide tsunami, and there is no threat to Hawaii from a tsunami. The warning center set the magnitude at 6.9. \n The quake was 6 miles deep, and just inland of the east coast. \n It was followed by a magnitude-4.6 aftershock. \n The area is one of the most seismic regions in Russia, the USGS says. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "No tsunami threat from quake on Russia's east coast"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "FACEBOOK / AP \n Facebook says it wants to let your camera \"do the talking\" as more people are posting photos and videos instead of blocks of text. \n NEW YORK >> Facebook is adding more Snapchat-like features to its app. The company says it wants to let your camera \"do the talking\" as more people are posting photos and videos instead of blocks of text. \n Facebook is rolling out an app update starting Tuesday. With it, you can tap a new camera icon on the top left corner. That opens up the phone's camera to do a photo or video post. You could have posted photos from the app before, but it took an extra tap. \n Once you open the camera, you'll find Facebook's other new Snapchat-like features, including filters that can be added to images. \n Other effects, such as animations and other interactive filters, are a new twist to dressed-up photos. \n Also new is a \"stories\" tool that lets you post photos and videos that stay live for 24 hours. This feature is already available on Messenger and Instagram, which is owned by Facebook. \n Snapchat pioneered camera-first sharing and is wildly popular with younger users. Years ago, Facebook tried to buy the company but was rebuffed. Since then, it has been trying, with varying degrees of success, to clone Snapchat's most popular features. \n It might be working: Snapchat's growth rate has slowed down since Instagram introduced its own \"stories\" feature. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook adds more Snapchat-like features"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Baltimore Police Department shows Reno Owens, who was homeless. Police say an officer fatally shot Owens on Friday during a hostage standoff in which Owens, armed with a butcher knife, refused to release a 1-year-old boy and a 4-year-old girl. \n BALTIMORE >> Body camera video captured a scene rarely made public: a Baltimore SWAT supervisor ordering an officer to kill a man holding two children hostage with a knife. While the video is jarring, the footage offers an unusual window into how officers make a difficult decision to use lethal force. \n Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis showed the graphic footage of the recent standoff at a Baltimore rowhome to reporters Tuesday, the latest of three officer shootings recorded by body cameras since the city rolled them out last year. About 900 officers now wear the cameras daily. \n The video captures a SWAT team sergeant outside the house where authorities had been unsuccessfully pleading for nearly an hour Friday for 39-year-old Reno Owens to release the 1-year-old boy and 4-year-old girl he was holding. The sergeant said the man, also clutching a 12-inch butcher knife, could kill the children at any time, and that nonlethal force wasn't an option. \n \"I want you to be calm,\" the sergeant tells SWAT Officer Zachary Wein. \"I want you to be relaxed, and I want you to walk in there and kill this guy.\" \n Moments later, video shows Wein walking up the steps, exchanging a few words with Owens, who still refuses to cooperate, and then firing a single fatal shot. During the exchange, Owens can be heard saying, \"I'd rather go out this way.\" \n Davis praised the officers for their \"courage, bravery and grace under pressure,\" and stressed such commands from SWAT supervisors are not uncommon in hostage cases involving \"a deadly threat.\" But seldom are such exchanges captured on camera. \n More such dramatic videos are expected to become available in cities nationwide where body cameras are being deployed by police agencies, pressed for greater transparency in dealings with the public after protests in recent years over the deaths of black men and others at the hands of law enforcement. \n Civil unrest erupted across Baltimore in 2015 after the death of Freddie Gray, a young black man whose neck was broken in the back of a police transport van. Last year the department began deploying body cameras, and earlier this year entered into a consent decree with the U.S. Department of Justice over its history of excessive force, unlawful stops and discriminatory practices. \n Davis said he decided not to publicly distribute footage of Friday's standoff to protect the children from being re-traumatized later. \n \"As they go through their childhood, adolescence and rest of their lives, we didn't want to create a video footprint they would be exposed to,\" he said at a news conference. \n Police said Owens had spent the night at his female cousin's house, awoke early Friday, went to her children's room and took them hostage. Footage shows the woman meeting officers outside the home and telling them that Owens charged at her with a knife in his hand. \n Owens' mother, Doreen Parker, said she was shocked when she heard the news. Owens lived with her, she said, and while he sometimes struggled with depression, \"he loves kids; he would never hurt anybody.\" \n The footage shows officers in a bedroom doorway pleading with Owens, who is heard screaming and cursing at them in bouts. He also is heard threatening the children and also laughing, reciting prayers and at one point singing \"Rock-a-bye Baby.\" One officer repeatedly tells Owens they want to help him and asks him to drop the knife. Owens doesn't cooperate. \n Outside after the sergeant gives a command to shoot, a lieutenant asks whether there was a less lethal option. The sergeant said 'no.' \n Davis said hostage negotiators had been called, but didn't make it in time. Police have not yet determined whether Owens was on drugs at the time. \n The actual shot that killed Owens wasn't shown, but authorities said regardless of what Owens was doing at that moment he was a deadly threat the entire time. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Baltimore police show jarring footage of SWAT shooting"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus watches a meeting between President Donald Trump and the Fraternal Order of Police today in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> In the behind-the-scenes drama of who's up and who's down in Donald Trump's White House, chief of staff Reince Priebus is playing a starring role. \n Priebus, a genial Midwesterner with deep ties to the Republican establishment that Trump toppled, has faced questions about his future since the day he set foot in the White House. And the focus on him is intensifying following Trump's failure to get enough GOP lawmakers to support a White House-backed health care bill, an embarrassing blow for the new president. \n There's blame to spare for the health care debacle at both the White House and on Capitol Hill. But Priebus is a particularly rich target, given that his value to Trump is tied to his relationships with GOP lawmakers, many of whom were elected during his six years as chairman of the Republican National Committee. \n \"Reince doesn't have a magic wand,\" said Henry Barbour, a friend and Republican national committeeman. \"He doesn't have an ability to make people do what they don't want to do \u2014 and he doesn't want to.\" \n Priebus' standing in the White House has broad implications for Trump's agenda. Beyond Vice President Mike Pence, he represents the president's most direct link to the traditional underpinnings of the Republican Party and is the buffer between the fiery nationalists and the more liberal New Yorkers who also occupy top White House jobs. \n Trump has voiced confidence in Priebus in recent conversations with associates, including after House Speaker Paul Ryan pulled the health care bill off the floor Friday, and White House officials say the two men appear to have developed a comfortable relationship. \n During the Republican primary, Priebus, 45, often remarked to colleagues that he spoke with Trump more than any of the other 17 GOP candidates. The president likes to make good-natured digs at Priebus in public remarks, joking about his \"crazy name\" and telling a meeting of auto industry executives that his chief of staff might end up running a car company someday. \n For laughs, Trump will sometimes recount a tense exchange with Priebus at one of the campaign's lowest moments: the release of a video in which Trump is heard making predatory comments about women. During an emergency campaign meeting, Priebus told Trump he should either drop out of the race or risk dragging down Republican candidates across the country. \n Steve Bannon, Trump's senior adviser, said it's not Priebus' grim \u2014 and ultimately inaccurate \u2014 warning that stuck with the president. It's the fact that Priebus showed up at all, given the intense pressure at the time for Republican leaders to abandon the party's nominee. \n \"Reince had the courage to get on a train in Washington, D.C., go to Penn Station, go to Trump Tower and come to the meeting,\" Bannon said. \"That's courage.\" \n Bannon, who was also considered for the chief of staff job, has grown unexpectedly close to Priebus and has distanced himself from the criticism by Breitbart News, the far-right website Bannon ran before joining Trump's campaign. \n \"They've got their heroes, they've got their villains, it's never going to change,\" Bannon said of Breitbart. He vouched for Priebus' populist credentials, saying, \"When left to his own devices, he's not really that establishment.\" \n Priebus inspires intense loyalty among those who worked with him at the RNC, several of whom followed him to the White House, including press secretary Sean Spicer. They describe him as a workhorse who is determined to unite the disparate factions of Trump advisers. \n \"He wants input, he wants buy-in, he wants people to feel like they're part of the process,\" said Katie Walsh, who worked alongside Priebus at the RNC and is now deputy chief of staff at the White House. \n But one White House official said Priebus' approach backfired early in the administration, leaving the impression that he was a pushover who didn't have full control of the staff. His style has also created uncertainty on Capitol Hill, where Republican lawmakers sometimes get conflicting messages from top White House officials, including during the health care debate and on a tax overhaul. \n A GOP leadership aide said Priebus himself appears to be less involved in shaping the details of Trump's agenda and more focused on trying to get White House officials on the same page. The aide was among about a dozen White House officials, Trump associates and congressional aides who spoke about Priebus, some on the condition of anonymity in order to disclose private conversations. \n Priebus is said to be sensitive to the criticism that has sprouted up about him, particularly when it's focused on his competency and management of the West Wing. That's created a mild sense of paranoia among his allies, according to another White House official, leading them to respond in outsized ways, both privately and publicly. \n \"He's somebody that always hears footsteps,\" the official said of Priebus. \n He's had to adjust the traditional role of chief of staff to fit a highly unconventional president. Unlike many of his predecessors, Priebus spends much of his day by Trump's side and typically sits in on his meetings with CEOs and other outside visitors. \n Kellyanne Conway, Trump's White House counselor, said that's a function of a president who can make decisions in those meetings that the chief of staff needs to know. \n \"This is a president that allows a lot of access,\" Conway said. For Priebus, she said, \"it requires a lot more physical presence.\" \n Priebus supporters say he has moved to tighten the reins in the West Wing in recent weeks, leading crisper discussions in his daily 8 a.m. staff meeting and taking a tougher line with those who veer from the day's plans. \n \"Reince has been on a learning curve in the executive branch, he's never been there,\" said Chris Ruddy, a friend of Trump's and among those who have been publicly critical of Priebus. \"There's a settling in that's taken place.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In Trump's White House drama, Priebus is favorite target"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "Local media outlets report that 36-year-old Oneal Ron Morris was sentenced Monday in Broward County court. She pleaded no contest last month to manslaughter and practicing medicine without a license. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> A judge has imposed a 10-year prison sentence on a South Florida transgender woman who performed illegal buttocks-enhancements, injecting her clients with toxic materials including tire sealant and superglue and causing one woman's death. \n Local media outlets report that 36-year-old Oneal Ron Morris was sentenced Monday in Broward County court. She pleaded no contest last month to manslaughter and practicing medicine without a license. \n Morris previously served more than a year in prison for injecting toxic materials into the rear-ends of clients throughout South Florida. \n Authorities say Shatarka Nuby paid Morris $2,000 for as many as 10 injections between 2007 and 2010. Nuby died from related complications in 2012. \n Morris' attorney said he disagreed with the sentence because her patients knew they were not dealing with a real doctor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fake doctor gets 10 years for bogus, deadly butt injections"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "SANOFI / AP \n A box containing two single-dose pre-filled syringes of the drug Dupixent. Today the Food and Drug Administration approved Dupixent for moderate or severe eczema, which causes red, fiercely itchy rashes on the face, arms and legs. \n TRENTON, N.J. (AP) \u2014 U.S. regulators have approved the first powerful, injected medicine to treat serious cases of the skin condition eczema. \n The Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday approved Dupixent for moderate or severe eczema, which causes red, fiercely itchy rashes on the face, arms and legs. \n In three studies of the drug including a total of 2,119 participants, one-third to two-thirds achieved clear or nearly clear skin after 16 weeks of treatment. About 4 in 10 had itching decrease sharply, bringing better sleep and reducing anxiety and depression, which affect many patients. \n Dupixent will have an initial list price of $37,000 per year, according to Paris, France-based Sanofi SA and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals of Tarrytown, New York, which developed the drug. \n Side effects can include cold sores and inflammation of the eye and eyelid. \n The drug is an antibody that patients inject just under the skin every two weeks. It binds to a specific protein to inhibit the immune system's inflammatory response. That's why in many study participants, Dupixent also improved the asthma and hayfever common in eczema patients. It's now in late-stage patient testing as an allergy treatment. \n Eczema treatments have generally been limited to topical medications, steroid creams, moisturizers and ultraviolet light, plus antihistamines to relieve itching. Those work fairly well for mild eczema, but not the severe \u2014 and most common \u2014 form, also called atopic dermatitis. \n Because of that, analyst Jeffrey Holford of Jefferies LLC wrote Tuesday that \"market expectations for Dupixent are high given the unmet need in this patient group,\" with sales expected to climb slowly to about $3.4 billion in 2025. \n Eczema often begins in young children, and most grow out of it, said Dr. Lisa Beck, a dermatology professor at the University of Rochester Medical Center in Rochester, New York. \n For others, the condition persists throughout adulthood, tormenting patients with relentless itching that triggers scratching, and with that, skin swelling, cracking, \"weeping\" of clear fluid and, eventually, thickening of the skin, according to the FDA. \n \"Many of these patients gave up on health care because we offered them nothing new for years and years,\" said Beck, a member of the National Eczema Association's scientific advisory board who participated in patient tests of Dupixent, also called dupilumab. \n \"It was a true game-changer\" for many patients, Beck said, greatly improving their skin and quality of life. \n Ashley Blua, 29, of Hermosa Beach, California, participated in one study and still gets Dupixent in an ongoing follow-up study. \n Blua, who's had eczema her whole life, said her eczema became much worse three years ago, covering most of her body. She had trouble focusing at work due to sleep deprivation, despite numbing her body with ice packs at night to reduce itching. She tried every topical cream, kept multiple changes of clothes in her car for when her skin bleeding seeped through blouses, and had frequent visits with dermatologists, allergists, a therapist and a psychiatrist. \n Several months after entering the study nearly two years ago, symptoms started easing. Now she only has only a few eczema patches \u2014 and no more itching. \n \"Now that I can live a normal life again, I've gotten engaged and we're getting married in August,\" says Blua. She's even planning to wear a white, strapless wedding gown. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FDA approves 1st drug for moderate, severe eczema"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "INVISION \n Michael Phelps is participating in Discovery network's Shark Week this summer. \n NEW YORK >> Olympic champ Michael Phelps is participating in Discovery network's Shark Week this summer, although he won't be asked to outswim one. \n It's not immediately clear what Phelps will be doing, although Discovery President Rich Ross said Tuesday he's intrigued about seeing the fastest human swimmer interact with nature's fastest. Perhaps Phelps can be encouraged to go underwater in a shark cage, he said. \n The week of shark-themed programming in mid-summer is annually Discovery's biggest event. Now that it is approaching its 29th year, programmers are on the lookout for a new wrinkle. \n Phelps has won 28 Olympic swimming medals, 23 of them gold. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Phelps participating in Shark Week this summer"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "NATIONAL MEMORIAL CEMETERY OF THE PACIFIC \n In January, members of a Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency joint service detailed in Honolulu prepared to drape the casket of an unknown serviceman killed in the Battle of Tarawa. Military and Veterans Affairs officials are digging up the remains of dozens of unidentified Marines and sailors killed on a remote atoll in the Pacific during one of World War II's bloodiest battles in an attempt to identify them. \n NATIONAL MEMORIAL CEMETERY OF THE PACIFIC \n In January, engineering equipment operator Richard Cabatic started to excavate the grave of an unidentified serviceman killed in the 1943 Battle of Tarawa before cemetery caretakers step in to carefully remove dirt by hand. \n NATIONAL MEMORIAL CEMETERY OF THE PACIFIC \n In January, cemetery caretaker Kenneth Miner prepared the casket of an unknown serviceman killed in the Battle of Tarawa for disinterment. \n Military and Veterans Affairs officials are digging up the remains of 94 unidentified Marines and sailors killed on a remote atoll in the Pacific during one of World War II's bloodiest battles. \n The servicemen were killed in the Battle of Tarawa in 1943 and buried as unknowns at a national cemetery in Honolulu after the war. Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency spokeswoman Maj. Natasha Waggoner said Tuesday advances in DNA technology have increased the probability of identifying the unknowns. \n More than 990 U.S. Marines and 30 U.S. sailors were killed in the three-day battle. About 550 are still unidentified, including some still in Tarawa, Waggoner said. \n National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific spokesman Gene Maestas said the disinterments began in October. The cemetery, which is also known as Punchbowl, expects to transfer the last eight servicemen to the military next Monday. \n The exhumations come two years after the Pentagon announced new criteria for exhuming remains from military cemeteries for identification. Shortly after, it dug up from Punchbowl cemetery the remains of nearly 400 unknowns from the USS Oklahoma who were killed in the 1941 Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor. The work to identify them is expected to take about five years. \n Waggoner said her agency doesn't have an estimate for how long it will take to identify the Tarawa remains. That's because some of the skeletons from Punchbowl are incomplete and parts of some bodies are still in Tarawa. \n The agency recently received Pentagon approval to exhume some 35 Punchbowl graves believed to hold the unidentified remains of servicemen from the USS West Virginia, which was also hit in the Pearl Harbor attack. The agency will schedule these disinterments after it gets a permit from the state of Hawaii, she said. \n Tarawa, which is some 2,300 miles (3,700 kilometers) southwest of Honolulu, is today part of the Republic of Kiribati. \n During the U.S. amphibious assault on Tarawa 74 years ago, Japanese machine gun fire killed scores of Marines when their boats got stuck on the reef at low tide. Americans who made it to the beach faced brutal hand-to-hand combat. \n Only 17 of the 3,500 Japanese troops survived. Of 1,200 Korean slave laborers on the island, just 129 lived. \n The U.S. quickly buried the thousands of dead. But these graves were soon disturbed as the Navy had to quickly build an airstrip to continue their push west toward Japan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Military digging up WWII battle remains from Punchbowl cemetery"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The latest Trump proposal, disclosed today, would eliminate $1.2 billion in National Institutes of Health research grants, a favorite of both parties. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is proposing immediate budget cuts of $18 billion from programs like medical research, infrastructure and community grants so U.S. taxpayers, not Mexico, can cover the down payment on the border wall. \n The White House documents were submitted to Congress amid negotiations over a catchall spending bill that would avert a partial government shutdown at the end of next month. The package would wrap up $1.1 trillion in unfinished spending bills and address the Trump administration's request for an immediate $30 billion in additional Pentagon spending. \n The latest Trump proposal, disclosed Tuesday, would eliminate $1.2 billion in National Institutes of Health research grants, a favorite of both parties. The community development block grant program, also popular, would be halved, amounting to a cut of $1.5 billion, and Trump would strip $500 million from a popular grant program for transportation projects. Some of that money would help pay for parts of the wall. \n Like Trump's 2018 proposed budget, which was panned by both Democrats and Republicans earlier this month, the proposals have little chance of being enacted. \n But they could create bad political optics for the struggling Trump White House, since the administration asked earlier for $3 billion to pay for the Trump's controversial U.S.-Mexico border wall and other immigration enforcement plans. During the campaign, Trump repeatedly promised Mexico would pay for the wall, a claim the country has disputed. \n \"The administration is asking the American taxpayer to cover the cost of a wall \u2014 unneeded, ineffective, absurdly expensive \u2014 that Mexico was supposed to pay for, and he is cutting programs vital to the middle class to get that done,\" said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. \"Build the wall or repair or build a bridge or tunnel or road in your community? What's the choice?\" \n The roster of cuts were sent to Capitol Hill as a set of options for GOP staff aides and lawmakers crafting a catchall spending bill for the ongoing budget year, which ends Sept. 30. \n Those talks are intensifying, but Senate Republicans are considering backing away from a showdown with Democrats over whether to fund Trump's request for immediate funding to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Senate Democrats have threatened to filibuster any provision providing money for the wall. And many Republicans aren't very enthusiastic about it and say the White House hasn't given them many specifics to go on. \n \"I'd like to hear the details. What is this wall?\" asked Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. \n Asked about including Southern border wall financing in the broader spending package, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., a key negotiator, said: \"They will not pass together. That's just my view.\" \n Blunt added, \"My view is there's a path to get 60 votes\" in the Senate, the total required to overcome a Democratic filibuster. Blunt is a member of the Senate GOP leadership team and a major player on health and human services accounts. \n The government would shut down except for some functions at midnight April 28 without successful action on spending. GOP leaders are eager to avoid a politically damaging shutdown, especially in the wake of last week's embarrassing failure to pass the Trump-pushed bill to repeal and replace former President Barack Obama's health care law. \n Negotiators have made progress on the core elements of a dozen must-do funding bills, but have ignored the White House's list of cuts in doing so. \n But the White House badly wants funding for the Mexico wall and hasn't fully engaged in the Capitol Hill negotiations. Pitfalls lay ahead in the talks, and the situation is especially fragile because of divisions among GOP ranks and uncertainty over who's playing the lead role at the White House on the particulars of budget work. \n According to new details sent to Congress, the administration wants immediate funds to complete an existing barrier in the Rio Grande Valley, $500 million to complete 28 miles of border levee wall near McAllen, Texas, and $350 million for construction along two segments near San Diego. \n Other cuts include $434 million to immediately eliminate a program to encourage community service opportunities for senior citizens, eliminating $372 million in remaining funding for heating subsidies for the poor, and cutting $447 million in transit grants. \n White House budget office spokesman John Czwartacki said the proposals were not being shared with the media. A Capitol Hill aide described the cuts to The Associated Press, speaking only on condition of anonymity because the budget document is not yet public. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House: Domestic cuts to finance border wall"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones arrives at the NFL football annual meetings on Monday in Phoenix. \n PHOENIX >> One day after approving the Oakland Raiders' move to Las Vegas, NFL owners got busy passing several rules changes and adopting resolutions they believe will speed the game and enhance player safety. \n Most notable Tuesday was the change in handling officiating of video replays. Referees will now watch replays on the field using Surface tablets, eliminating \"going under the hood\" to watch on television monitors. \n League officiating chief Dean Blandino and his staff in New York will make the final decisions on those calls, with input from the referee, who in the past was the ultimate arbiter after consulting with league headquarters. \n \"And I think that's important to remember, we're not taking the referee out of the equation,\" Blandino has said. \"The referee will still be involved, the referee will still give input, but will no longer have the final say.\" \n Also at the league meetings owners extended bringing touchbacks out to the 25-yard line for another year; eliminating \"leapers\" trying to block field goals or extra points; added protections for defenseless receivers running their routes; and made permanent the rule disqualifying a player who is penalized twice in a game for specific unsportsmanlike conduct fouls. \n A proposal to cut overtime in the regular season from 15 minutes to 10 was tabled for more study and likely will be brought back at the May meetings in Chicago. \n Also tabled was eliminating the mandatory summer cutdown to 75 players, which would leave only one cut at the end of preseason. \n Voted down were suggestions to permit coaches to challenge any officials' decisions other than scoring plays and turnovers, which automatically are reviewed. \n Washington's proposal to move the line of scrimmage to the 20-yard line instead of the 25 if a kickoff is sent through the uprights was defeated. \n Other actions taken Tuesday included: \n \u2014Crackback blocks by a backfield player who goes in motion are now banned. \n \u2014Creating an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty for committing multiple fouls during the same down with the purpose of manipulating the game clock. \n \u2014Allowing teams to interview or hire an employee of another team during the season if the other team consents. \n \u2014Modified some bylaws regarding bringing draft-eligible players to clubs' facilities; changed procedures for returning a player to the active ranks from lists such as physically unable to perform, non-football injury or non-football illness. \n The leaper rule clearly falls under the category of enhancing player safety, competition committee chairman Rich McKay said last week. \n \"I would say it's going to go as far as it needs to from a player safety standpoint,\" said McKay, president of the Atlanta Falcons. \"We're not going to put players in a position in which we think there is an unreasonable risk of injury. \n \"When we met with the NFLPA it was a rule that certainly caught their attention and they favored it right from the outset given what they felt like was a danger to the player, to the leaper and the risk of injury.\" \n Withdrawn were proposals to award a third coaches' challenge as long as a team was correct on one of its first two challenges instead of on both; eliminating the maximum of three challenges entirely; and permitting a club to negotiate and reach a contract with a head coaching candidate anytime during the postseason. Now, there is a specific window for interviewing such candidates, whose season must be over before they can be hired. \n The league also has considered allowing players and coaches on the sidelines to use the tablets to watch video, but that was not on the voting agenda Tuesday. For now, they can only look at still photos on the tablet. \n \"We're pleased to build on our partnership with the NFL and help lead the digital transformation of the game with today's approval of NFL referees conducting video reviews on Surface this upcoming season,\" said Jeff Tran, director of sports marketing and alliances at Microsoft. \n \"The introduction of Surface to this aspect of the game will improve consistency and accuracy of decisions and also speed up the overall review process to enhance the viewing experience for fans.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NFL owners revamp video replay for officiating"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Texas Department of Public Safety troopers investigate a two-vehicle crash that left several storm chasers dead today near Spur, Texas. \n SPUR, Texas >> Three storm chasers were killed when their vehicles collided at a rural crossroads during severe West Texas storms today. \n The storms spawned multiple funnel clouds and an occasional tornado in open areas of West Texas this afternoon. No damage was reported. \n The crash happened at a remote intersection near the town of Spur, about 55 miles southeast of Lubbock. Tornadoes had been reported nearby at the time of the crash and heavy rain had been reported in the area, according to the National Weather Service. \n The Texas Department of Public Safety identified the three storm chasers killed as Kelley Gene Williamson, 57, and Randall Delane Yarnall, 55, both of Cassville, Missouri, and Corbin Lee Jaeger, 25, of Peoria, Arizona. \n DPS Sgt. John Gonzalez said the Chevrolet Suburban driven by Williamson ran a stop sign and slammed into the Jeep driven by Yarnall with Jaeger as passenger. All three were killed instantly. \n On Wednesday, the threat shifts eastward, and forecasters say about 19 million people in Arkansas, Texas and Louisiana could see stormy weather, including the possibility of strong tornadoes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 storm chasers killed in crash during West Texas storms"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The White House Correspondents' Association announced Tuesday evening that they have been informed staff would not be attending out of \"solidarity\" with the president. Trump previously announced his intention to skip the annual dinner. \n WASHINGTON >> White House staff will be skipping this year's White House Correspondents' Association Dinner along with President Donald Trump. \n The White House Correspondents' Association announced Tuesday evening that they have been informed staff would not be attending out of \"solidarity\" with the president. Trump previously announced his intention to skip the annual dinner. \n The board says in a statement that it \"regrets this decision very much,\" but that the event will go on as planned. \n The annual fundraising dinner, which raises money for college scholarships, typically draws a mix of politicians, journalists, celebrities, as well as the president and first lady. Top White House staff members typically attend, often as guests of media organizations. \n ", "author": "", "title": "White House staff will also skip correspondents dinner"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n David Robert Daleiden, right, leaves a courtroom in April after a hearing in Houston. \n LOS ANGELES >> California prosecutors today charged two anti-abortion activists who made undercover videos of themselves trying to buy fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood with 15 felonies, saying they invaded the privacy of medical providers by filming without consent. \n State Attorney General Xavier Becerra announced the charges against David Daleiden of Davis, California, and Sandra Merritt of San Jose. The two operate the Irvine-based Center for Medical Progress. \n The allegations say the pair filmed 14 people without permission between October 2013 and July 2015 in Los Angeles, San Francisco and El Dorado counties. One felony count was filed for each person. The 15th was for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy. \n Becerra says they used a fictitious bioresearch company to meet with women's health care providers and covertly record them. \n Daleiden, in an email to The Associated Press, said the \"bogus\" charges are coming from \"Planned Parenthood's political cronies.\" \n \"The public knows the real criminals are Planned Parenthood and their business partners,\" Daleiden said. \n In April of last year, Daleiden said in a Facebook post that California Department of Justice agents raided his home, seizing all of his video footage along with personal information. \n Since then, the case had gone largely quiet, with virtually no revelations about the investigation and no indication that the charges were coming before they were filed today in San Francisco Superior Court. \n The prosecution got a new leader this year in Becerra, a longtime Congressional Democrat, who took over for Kamala Harris when she became a U.S. Senator. \n Daleiden and Merritt had previously been indicted in Texas on similar charges in January of 2016, but all of the charges were eventually dropped by July as prosecutors said a grand jury had overstepped its authority. The grand jury had originally been convened to investigate Planned Parenthood, but after finding no wrongdoing turned around and indicted Daleiden and Merritt instead. \n Messages left seeking comment from Planned Parenthood representatives late today were not immediately returned. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Felony charges for 2 who secretly filmed Planned Parenthood"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A boy named Giel wears a small white bracelet on his ankle on March 10, indicating that he's just finished treatment at an outpatient therapeutic program, as he stands on the outskirts of Udhaba, near Aweil, in South Sudan. \n NAIROBI, Kenya >> The world's largest humanitarian crisis in 70 years has been declared in three African countries on the brink of famine, just as President Donald Trump's proposed foreign aid cuts threaten to pull the United States from its historic role as the world's top emergency donor. \n If the deep cuts are approved by Congress and the U.S. does not contribute to Africa's current crisis, experts warn that the continent's growing drought and famine could have far-ranging effects, including a new wave of migrants heading to Europe and possibly more support for Islamic extremist groups. \n The conflict-fueled hunger crises in Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan have culminated in a trio of potential famines hitting almost simultaneously. Nearly 16 million people in the three countries are at risk of dying within months. \n Famine already has been declared in two counties of South Sudan and 1 million people there are on the brink of dying from a lack of food, U.N. officials have said. Somalia has declared a state of emergency over drought and 2.9 million of its people face a food crisis that could become a famine, according to the U.N. And in northeastern Nigeria, severe malnutrition is widespread in areas affected by violence from Boko Haram extremists. \n \"We are facing the largest humanitarian crisis since the creation of the United Nations,\" Stephen O'Brien, the U.N. humanitarian chief, told the U.N. Security Council after a visit this month to Somalia and South Sudan. \n At least $4.4 billion is needed by the end of March to avert a hunger \"catastrophe\" in Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, and Yemen, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in late February. \n But according to U.N. data, only 10 percent of the necessary funds have been received so far. \n Trump's proposed budget would \"absolutely\" cut programs that help some of the most vulnerable people on Earth, Mick Mulvaney, the president's budget director, told reporters last week. The budget would \"spend less money on people overseas and more money on people back home,\" he said. \n The United States traditionally has been the largest donor to the U.N. and gives more foreign aid to Africa than any other continent. In 2016 it gave more than $2 billion to the U.N.'s World Food Program, or almost a quarter of its total budget. That is expected to be reduced under Trump's proposed budget, according to former and current U.S. government officials. \n \"I've never seen this kind of threat to what otherwise has been a bipartisan consensus that food aid and humanitarian assistance programs are morally essential and critical to our security,\" Steven Feldstein, a former deputy assistant secretary of state in the Obama administration, told The Associated Press. \n In an interview last week with the AP in Washington, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell rejected the proposed cuts to foreign aid. \"America being a force is a lot more than building up the Defense Department,\" he said. \"Diplomacy is important, extremely important, and I don't think these reductions at the State Department are appropriate because many times diplomacy is a lot more effective \u2014 and certainly cheaper \u2014 than military engagement.\" \n The hunger crises in Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan are all the more painful because they are man-made, experts said, though climate change has had some impact on Somalia and Nigeria's situations, said J. Peter Pham, the head of the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council. \n South Sudan has been entrenched in civil war since late 2013 that has killed tens of thousands and prevented widespread cultivation of food. In Nigeria and Somalia, extremist groups Boko Haram and al-Shabab have proven stubborn to defeat, and both Islamic organizations still hold territory that complicates aid efforts. \n If Trump's foreign aid cuts are approved, the humanitarian funding burden for the crises would shift to other large donors like Britain. But the U.S.'s influential role in rallying global support will slip. \n \"Without significant contributions from the U.S. government, it is less able to catalyze contributions from other donors and meet even minimal life-saving needs,\" Nancy Lindborg, president of the United States Institute of Peace, said in prepared remarks to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday. \n Meanwhile, neighboring African countries will feel the immediate consequences of famine, experts said. On Thursday, the U.N. refugee chief said Uganda was at a \"breaking point\" after more than 570,000 South Sudanese refugees had arrived since July alone. \n Others fleeing hunger could aim for Europe instead. \n \"We are going to see pressure on neighboring countries, in some cases people joining traditional migration routes both from the Sahel into Europe, or south into various destinations in Africa,\" Joseph Siegle, director of research at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, told the AP. \n \"You have 19 countries facing some degree of food stress in Africa, and three of them are facing famine conditions. All three of them are facing conflict, and the vast majority of the countries facing more serious crises are non-democratic governments,\" Siegle said. \n He described a series of possible consequences. Most likely there will be increased flows of people migrating from Somalia and the vast Sahel region north into Libya, where trafficking routes are a valuable source of finance for the Islamic State, he said. \n Closer to home, people from South Sudan and Somalia seeking food likely will strain the resources of neighboring countries where political will and goodwill to refugees can be fleeting, said Mohammed Abdiker, director of operations and emergencies with the International Organization for Migration. \n The regional consequences will depend on how the international community responds, Abdiker said. \n Alex De Waal, executive director of the World Peace Foundation, summed up the situation: \"Famine can be prevented if we want.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Worst humanitarian crisis hits as Trump slashes foreign aid"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police closed Keaahala Road near Windward Community College in Kaneohe today to investigate suspicious items found in the area. \n Police closed a Kaneohe roadway for three hours today after a caller said he had placed fuel cans that might blow up at a health center near Windward Community College. \n The man made the call at about 12:06 p.m. from a phone with a blocked caller ID to the Windward Health Center, located just above the Kaneohe District Park, police said. \n The caller said he placed two diesel fuel cans near the Health Center driveway in the sun, and said they could possibly blow up. \n Police determined that because of the call and the possibility of it being an explosive device, it was best to shut down the mauka-bound lanes of Keaahala Road. \n Police secured the area, and waited for the bomb squad to assess the contents of the can. \n The bomb squad determined there was possibly some diesel fuel in the cans, but that they were not an immediate threat to anyone in the immediate area, Lt. Channing Hawkins of the Kaneohe station said. \n A city contractor was called to remove the cans. \n The roadway was reopened at about 3:15 p.m. \n Police opened a first-degree terroristic threatening investigation. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Bomb threat closes Kaneohe road"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "Visitors viewing the lava flow on the Big Island from a vessel will be required to maintain more than 980-foot distance from its entry point in the ocean. \n The U.S. Coast Guard announced it is imposing this \"temporary safety zone\" from noon today (March 28) through 8 a.m. Sept. 28. \n The Coast Guard said it was taking the action to ensure public safety because of the volcanic shrapnel and toxic gases emitted by the lava flow and the unstable sea cliffs. \n The Coast Guard said U.S. Geological Survey experts recommended 300 meters or 984 feet as the minimum safe distance to avoid hazards from the lava flow. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Lava flow boats must stay 980 feet away from entry point"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Las Vegas SWAT officers surrounded a bus along Las Vegas Boulevard, Saturday, in Las Vegas. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rolando Cardenas. A man visiting from Montana was shot on a Las Vegas bus on Saturday before the suspect barricaded himself in the vehicle and shut down the Strip for hours, authorities said Sunday. \n LAS VEGAS >> A man charged with killing one man and wounding another on a double-decker Las Vegas Strip transit bus told police he fired a gun because he felt threatened by a large male passenger who sat near him and was trying to scare him with gunfire, according to a police report obtained today. \n Rolando Cardenas, 55, also told detectives in a recorded interview following a standoff and his surrender Saturday afternoon that he was unemployed and recently became homeless. He said he thought he heard the large man, who was with two women, say he would attack him before he pulled a gun and fired twice. \n Cardenas remained jailed without bail at the Clark County jail in Las Vegas on murder, attempted murder, battery and firearm charges ahead of a court appearance Wednesday at which a judge is expected to appoint a lawyer to represent him. Attempts to reach relatives have been unsuccessful. \n Security video of the upper level of the enclosed bus showed Cardenas seated near the rear and passengers beginning down a stairwell at a stop near the Cosmopolitan hotel-casino when \"suddenly and without provocation\" Cardenas fired two shots, according to the police report. \n Police and prosecutors have said the video won't be made public until it is presented in court proceedings. \n Gary Brietling, 57, of Sidney, Montana, was behind his wife in the stairwell when he was mortally wounded in the chest, the arrest report said. He was pronounced dead 40 minutes later at a Las Vegas hospital. \n Jason Ellis, 39, of Las Vegas, was behind Brietling. He was wounded in the torso. Ellis was treated for his wound and released, a hospital spokeswoman said Monday. \n Neither the large man who Cardenas described nor the women were injured. They weren't named in the police report, and it wasn't clear if they were questioned as witnesses. Police had asked for people who fled the bus and sidewalk during the shooting to contact authorities. \n Messages left for Brietling family members and at a telephone number believed to be linked with Ellis were not immediately returned. \n Cardenas, who told authorities he is 5 feet 7 inches tall and 155 pounds, told detectives he \"felt bad about what happened,\" but he said again that \"all he wanted to do was scare the large male,\" the police report said. \n The Las Vegas Strip was closed during the four-hour standoff, during which police said Cardenas threw a SWAT robot out of the second level of the bus. He later told police he thought the device was a bomb. \n Police said he also shot twice at a SWAT camera before tossing a .40-caliber handgun out a window and surrendering. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Vegas bus shooting suspect says he feared larger passenger"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Team USA gymnast Jeanette Antolin, right, accompanied by Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, left, and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, to call on Congress to pass legislation that would require amateur athletics governing bodies to immediately report sex-abuse allegations to law enforcement and strengthen oversight of member gymnasiums and coaches. \n WASHINGTON >> Retired star gymnasts testified before Congress today that they were sexually abused by a former USA Gymnastics doctor and recommended a bill that requires tougher sex-abuse reporting for Olympic sports. \n Jamie Dantzscher, a 2000 Olympic bronze medalist, and three-time national champion rhythmic gymnast Jessica Howard recounted their experiences before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n They told the committee of their abuses by Dr. Larry Nassar, who is in jail without bond in Michigan and also faces federal child pornography charges. \n \"USA Gymnastics failed its most basic responsibility to protect the athletes under its care,\" Dantzscher said through tears. \n Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California is co-sponsoring a bill that requires organizations overseeing Olympic sports to immediately report sex-abuse allegations to law enforcement or child-welfare authorities. \n The bill and proposed changes to the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act come in the aftermath of the sex abuse scandal that led to the resignation of USA Gymnastics President Steve Penny. \n \"They failed to take action against coaches, trainers and other adults who abused children,\" Dantzscher said. \"And they allowed Dr. Nassar to abuse young women and girls for more than 20 years.\" \n Penny is a co-defendant in a civil lawsuit filed by Dantzscher, who has accused Nassar of sexual abuse. \n Dominique Moceanu, a 1996 gold medalist, described a \"culture of fear, intimidation and humiliation, established by Bela and Marta Karolyi.\" The legendary coaches are named in Dantzscher's civil lawsuit for physical abuse. \n U.S. Olympic Committee official Rick Adams and Stafford County (Va.) Commonwealth's Attorney Eric Olsen also testified. Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the committee chairman, criticized USA Gymnastics for declining to testify. \n Moceanu, now an advocate, spoke about emotional and verbal abuse during her time with USA Gymnastics. She said there is an \"urgent need\" to change the culture of the organization. \n Howard said, \"It has become glaringly obvious that USA Gymnastics has not done nearly enough to protect athletes from any form of abuse.\" \n Feinstein, who has been critical of USA Gymnastics' handling of the sex-abuse scandal, said she met two months ago with former gymnasts who were abused as teenagers and carried the trauma with them as adults. Dantzscher and Howard said they didn't realize as teenagers that Nassar had abused them. \n \"Dr. Nassar acted as the good guy, supporting me emotionally and promising me relief from the pain,\" Howard said. \"Now I know that in actuality he expertly abused me under the guise of 'treatment.'\" \n Nassar also was the doctor for Michigan State University's gymnastics team. He's been charged with sexually assaulting young gymnasts in the Lansing area and faces lawsuits from dozens of former athletes. He has denied wrongdoing. \n As part of the proposed legislation, governing bodies under the USOC umbrella would be required to report allegations of sexual abuse to law enforcement and train employees on how to handle situations. The statute of limitations for victims to sue their abusers would be extended. \n \"Young athletes should not have to fear victimization from coaches, doctors and other officials,\" Feinstein said at a news conference after the hearing. \n Retired gymnast Jeanette Antolin said at the news conference she was sexually abused by her first coach. She praised the proposed legislation, saying \"for so long we felt like we had no voice.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Star gymnasts testify at Congress about sex-abuse scandal"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, accompanied by Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, third from left, and Vice President Mike Pence, right, signed an Energy Independence Executive Order, today, at EPA headquarters in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Declaring \"the start of a new era\" in energy production, President Donald Trump signed an executive order today that he said would revive the coal industry and create jobs. \n The move makes good on his campaign pledge to unravel former President Barack Obama's plan to curb global warming. The order seeks to suspend, rescind or flag for review more than a half-dozen measures in an effort to boost domestic energy production in the form of fossil fuels. \n Environmental activists, including former Vice President Al Gore, denounced the plan. But Trump said the effort would allow workers to \"succeed on a level playing field for the first time in a long time.\" \n \"That is what this is all about: bringing back our jobs, bringing back our dreams and making America wealthy again,\" Trump said, during a ceremony at the Environmental Protection Agency headquarters, attended by a number of coal miners. \n The order initiates a review of the Clean Power Plan, which restricts greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants. The regulation, which was the former president's signature effort to curb carbon emissions, has been the subject of long-running legal challenges by Republican-led states and those who profit from burning oil, coal and gas. \n But just as Obama's climate efforts were often stymied by legal challenges, environmental groups are promising to fight Trump's pro-fossil fuel agenda in court. \n Trump has called global warming a \"hoax\" invented by the Chinese, and has repeatedly criticized the power-plant rule as an attack on American workers and the struggling U.S. coal industry. \n In addition to pulling back from the Clean Power Plan, the administration will also lift a 14-month-old moratorium on new coal leases on federal lands. \n The Obama administration had imposed a three-year moratorium on new federal coal leases in January 2016, arguing that the $1 billion-a-year program must be modernized to ensure a fair financial return to taxpayers and address climate change. \n Trump accused his predecessor of waging a \"war on coal\" and boasted in a speech to Congress that he has made \"a historic effort to massively reduce job-crushing regulations,\" including some that threaten \"the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners.\" \n The order will also chip away at other regulations, including scrapping language on the \"social cost\" of greenhouse gases. It will initiate a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule, to determine whether those reflect the president's policy priorities. \n It will also rescind Obama-era executive orders and memoranda, including one that addressed climate change and national security and one that sought to prepare the country for the impacts of climate change. \n The administration is still in discussion about whether it intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change. \n Trump's order could make it more difficult, though not impossible, for the U.S. to achieve its carbon reduction goals. The president's promises to boost coal jobs run counter to market forces, such as U.S. utilities converting coal-fired power plants to cheaper, cleaner-burning natural gas. \n Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, alarmed environmental groups and scientists earlier this month when he said he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to global warming. The statement is at odds with mainstream scientific consensus and Pruitt's own agency. \n The overwhelming majority of peer-reviewed studies and climate scientists agree the planet is warming, mostly due to man-made sources, including carbon dioxide, methane, halocarbons and nitrogen oxide. \n Opponents say Obama's effort would have killed coal-mining jobs and driven up electricity costs. The Obama administration, some Democratic-led states and environmental groups counter that it would spur thousands of clean-energy jobs and help the U.S. meet ambitious goals to reduce carbon pollution set by the international agreement signed in Paris. \n Trump's order on coal-fired power plants follows an executive order he signed last month mandating a review of an Obama-era rule aimed at protecting small streams and wetlands from development and pollution. The order instructs the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to review a rule that redefined \"waters of the United States\" protected under the Clean Water Act to include smaller creeks and wetlands. \n While Republicans have blamed Obama-era environmental regulations for the loss of coal jobs, federal data shows that U.S. mines have been shedding jobs for decades under presidents from both parties as a result of increasing automation and competition from natural gas, which has become more abundant through hydraulic fracturing. Another factor is the plummeting cost of solar panels and wind turbines, which now can produce emissions-free electricity cheaper than burning coal. \n According to an Energy Department analysis released in January, coal mining now accounts for fewer than 75,000 U.S. jobs. By contrast, renewable energy \u2014 including wind, solar and biofuels \u2014 now accounts for more than 650,000 U.S. jobs. \n The Trump administration's plans drew praise from business groups and condemnation from environmental groups. \n U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas J. Donohue praised the president for taking \"bold steps to make regulatory relief and energy security a top priority.\" \n \"These executive actions are a welcome departure from the previous administration's strategy of making energy more expensive through costly, job-killing regulations that choked our economy,\" he said. \n Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the order as \"a misguided step away from a sustainable, carbon-free future for ourselves and generations to come.\" \n \"It is essential, not only to our planet, but also to our economic future, that the United States continues to serve as a global leader in solving the climate crisis by transitioning to clean energy, a transition that will continue to gain speed due to the increasing competiveness of solar and wind,\" he said in a statement. \n Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump tosses Obama's 'clean' energy plan, embraces coal"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico >> A man in Puerto Rico has been sentenced to seven years in prison for biting off the head of a Chihuahua and punching his girlfriend. \n Authorities said today that a judge also ordered Luis Arroyo to pay a $3,000 fine in the case that included domestic abuse and mistreatment of an animal. Arroyo had pleaded guilty to assaulting his girlfriend, who owned the dog. \n The incident occurred in February in the western mountain town of Lares. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Puerto Rico man bit off head of girlfriend's dog"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police have identified a 20-year-old woman who died following a two-car crash on Hawaii island Monday night. \n A 20-year-old woman died following a two-vehicle crash Monday night on Hawaii island. \n Police identified the woman as Makaylyn Kalani, 20, of Pa\u02bbauilo. \n Kalani had been driving a 2008 Honda sedan north on Highway 270 near the 13-mile marker when it crossed the center line and collided with a 2009 Toyota pickup truck traveling south just before 8:40 p.m., police said. \n The occupants of the truck, a 24-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman, both of Kohala, were taken to the North Hawaii Community Hospital for treatment of their injuries. \n Kalani was taken to the Kona Community Hospital, where she was pronounced dead at 1:23 a.m. today. \n Police believe speed and inattention were factors in the crash. \n An autopsy has been ordered to determine the exact cause of death. \n Police have initiated an investigation and are asking anyone who may have witnessed the accident to contact Officer Christopher Kapua-Allison at 326-4646, ext. 229. Tipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 in Hilo. \n This is the 7th traffic fatality this year compared to five at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify woman who died in Big Isle crash"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's proposal to eliminate funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting would most dramatically affect rural and minority communities, eventually forcing some local television and radio stations to close, the corporation's president and chief executive officer told Congress today.  \n The president's budget would eliminate $445 million in federal funds for the non-profit corporation, which supports programs such as Sesame Street, Frontline and documentaries from filmmaker Ken Burns. \n Patricia de Stacy Harrison, the president and chief executive officer for the corporation, said federal funding generally represents 10 percent to 15 percent of a public broadcasting station's budget, but can represent as much as 80 percent of the annual budget for some stations. \n Harrison said stations serving rural and minority communities don't have the kind of in-depth donor base that would allow them to overcome the loss of federal funding. \n \"There would be a domino effect and it would start with rural stations,\" Harrison said. \n The Corporation for Public Broadcasting distributes its federal funding through grants to more than 1,400 radio and television stations around the country. The corporation is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the law that created it. Funding for the parent organization of the Public Broadcasting Service and National Public Radio has remained flat for several years. \n On Capitol Hill, Harrison was generally greeted with a supportive audience. Rep. Tom Cole, the Republican chairman of the panel reviewing the president's budget request, told Harrison that \"this is an agency we all admire.\" \n \"We do have tough decision ahead of us, but I think you make your case very well,\" said the Oklahoma lawmaker. \n Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., said in Washington, bad ideas never die. She called the effort to cut funding another effort to \"give Bert and Ernie a pink slip.\" \n Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., said that in a time of shrinking resources, he had questions about how the Corporation for Public Broadcasting could support programs such a Kumu Hina, a story of a transgender native Hawaiian teacher. \n \"I beg you, please remove the agenda from education,\" Harris said. \"This has to be neutral content.\" \n \"Maybe we don't get it right 100 percent of the time but I'm willing to bet we get it right 90 percent,\" Harrison said. \n She said the corporation can prove it makes a difference, particularly for those families that can't afford cable. \n \"But 1 percent poisons the well,\" Harris said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Public television chief says Trump budget would hit rural stations first"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ROSEMARIE BERNARDO / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police responded today to a shooting in an unit above Club Sun on Cummins Street in Kakaako. \n Police are investigating a shooting that occurred in Kakaako early today. \n The shooting occurred at about 4:15 a.m. in an upstairs unit in the Club Sun building at 532 Cummins St. Police are investigating the shooting as a possible attempted robbery \n Emergency Medical Services transported a 46-year-old man to a trauma hospital in serious condition after he sustained a gunshot wound. However, police said the man had been transported in extremely critical condition. \n Today's shooting is the same area where a previous shooting occurred in December. \n At about 5:45 a.m. on Dec. 24, witnesses said they heard a gunshot near Club Sun at the intersection of Kawaiahao and Cummins streets. \n A 39-year-old man sustained a gunshot wound to his leg and back. Emergency Medical Services transported the victim to a hospital in serious but stable condition. \n Additional details are pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man seriously injured in shooting in Kakaako"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer held up a document concerning a Washington Post story on Sally Yates as he talked to the media during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif. was pursued by reporters as he arrived for a weekly meeting of the Republican Conference with House Speaker Paul Ryan and the GOP leadership, today, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> A lawyer for former deputy Attorney General Sally Yates wrote in letters last week that the Trump administration was trying to limit her testimony at congressional hearings focused on Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The hearing was later canceled by the House intelligence committee chairman. \n In the letters, attorney David O'Neil said he understood the Justice Department was invoking \"further constraints\" on testimony Yates could provide at a committee hearing that had been scheduled for today. He said the department's position was that all actions she took as deputy attorney general were \"client confidences\" that could not be disclosed without written approval. \n \"We believe that the Department's position in this regard is overbroad, incorrect, and inconsistent with the Department's historical approach to the congressional testimony of current and former senior officials,\" O'Neil wrote in a March 23 letter to Justice Department official Samuel Ramer. \n The lawyer said Yates still intended to testify and would not disclose any classified information. The requirement that she not discuss even non-classified material \"is particularly untenable given that multiple senior administration officials have publicly described the same events,\" he said. \n House committee chairman Devin Nunes announced he was canceling the meeting on March 24, one of several moves that have sparked outrage from Democrats on the committee. The typically bipartisan panel has been torn by disputes over Nunes' ties to President Donald's Trump's campaign and questions about whether he can lead a probe independent of White House influence. \n Nunes today rebuffed calls to step aside from the investigation. \n \"It's the same thing as always around this place \u2014 a lot of politics, people get heated, but I'm not going to involve myself with that,\" he said. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan continued to express confidence in Nunes today, saying there is no need for the chairman to resign. \n The Washington Post first reported on the letters from Yates' attorney. The missives were posted online and a person familiar with the situation confirmed them as authentic to The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the correspondence. \n The White House called the Post story \"entirely false\" and said the administration had not taken any steps to block Yates from testifying at the hearing at which other Obama administration officials were also scheduled to testify. \n O'Neil declined to comment today, and a Justice Department spokeswoman did not return a message seeking comment. \n Yates, who was fired in January as acting attorney general after she refused to defend the Trump administration travel ban, was expected to be questioned about her role in the firing of Trump's first national security adviser, Michael Flynn. Yates alerted the White House in January that Flynn had misled the White House about whether he had discussed sanctions in a December phone call with the Russian ambassador to the United States. Flynn was not ousted from the White House until the discrepancies were made public. \n The hearing would have been another public airing of the infighting within the committee. Democrats on Monday called on Nunes to recuse himself from the investigation after he acknowledged he went to the White House complex to review intelligence reports and meet a secret source. Shortly afterward, Nunes announced that Trump associates' communications were caught up in \"incidental\" surveillance, a revelation President Trump used to defend his unproven claim that his predecessor tapped the phones at Trump Tower.  \n The Republican congressman's disclosure prompted the top Democrat on the committee, Rep. Adam Schiff, as well as the Democratic leaders in the House and Senate, to call on Nunes to recuse himself from the committee's Russia probe. \n Schiff said Nunes' connections to the White House have raised insurmountable public doubts about whether the committee can credibly investigate the president's campaign associates. \n \"I believe the public cannot have the necessary confidence that matters involving the president's campaign or transition team can be objectively investigated or overseen by the chairman,\" Schiff said in a statement Monday. \n But Rep. Jackie Speier, D-Calif., a member of the committee, said today that Nunes should step down \"in the interest of our integrity.\" She said his actions raise questions about whether the panel's investigation can be unbiased and independent. \n \"If you become a White House whisperer, you are not independent,\" she said on CNN. \n Nunes argues he had to review classified, executive branch documents from a secure facility at the White House because the reports had not been provided to Congress and could not be transported to the secure facilities used by the House intelligence committee. It is very unusual for a committee chairman and ranking member not to coordinate meetings related to an investigation. \n Nunes would not name the source of the information, nor would he disclose who invited him on the White House grounds for the meeting. He described the source as an intelligence official, not a White House official. In an interview on CNN, he suggested the president's aides were unaware of the meeting. \n Associated Press writers Stephen Ohlemacher, Vivian Salama and Jill Colvin contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyer says Trump administration moved to squelch testimony"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers fasten the sunken ferry Sewol to a semi-submersible transport vessel in waters off Jindo, South Korea, Tuesday, March 28, 2017. South Korea has held a memorial ceremony at sea for the nine passengers still missing from the 2014 ferry disaster that killed 304 passengers near the ship's wreckage that was raised from the waters last week. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> Salvage crews in South Korea on Tuesday found bones and shoes believed to be from missing victims of a 2014 ferry disaster that killed 304 people, an official said. \n The unexpected discovery, however, triggered an angry reaction from the missing victims' relatives, who criticized the government's salvage operation as poorly planned and questioned whether other remains might have gotten lost while workers raised the sunken ship last week. \n Workers have just completed a massive operation to lift the corroding 6,800-ton Sewol from the sea, and recovering the remains of the nine missing victims would put the country a step closer to finding closure to one its deadliest maritime disasters. \n Rescue workers had recovered the bodies of 295 people \u2014 most of them students on a high school trip \u2014 before the government ended underwater searches in November 2014, seven months after the ship sank. Nine of the ferry's passengers had remained missing. \n On Tuesday, crews found six bones near a beam beneath the front side of the ferry, which had been loaded onto a heavy lift transport vessel that will carry it to port, said Lee Cheoljo, an official from the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries. \n It wasn't immediately clear whether the bones, measuring from 4 to 18 centimeters (1.5 to 7 inches), belonged to one person or multiple people, said Lee, adding that DNA tests to identify the victims would take at least two to three weeks. Crews also found shoes and other items that were presumed to have belonged to victims. \n \"It's presumed that the bones came out with the mud that spilled out from the ship's front,\" said Lee, adding that the bones might have come out from the ship's A-deck, where passenger cabins were. \n He said crews suspended operations to empty the ferry of fuel and water and remove buoyancy equipment after the bones were discovered at around 11:25 a.m. \n Crews on the transport vessel have drilled dozens of holes in the ferry in an effort to empty it of water and fuel before it's ready to be transported to a port in the city of Mokpo. Relatives had expressed concerns that remains of the missing victims could slip out through the holes and get lost. \n A group representing the families issued a statement calling for the government to take stronger action to prevent the remains from getting lost during the salvage operations. They also called for the government to immediately search the mud the ferry has so far emitted, as well as the seabed where it was lifted from. \n \"It's now hard to discount the possibility that the (remains of the victims) could have gotten lost while the Sewol was being lifted from the seafloor and loaded onto the semi-submersible transport vessel,\" the group said. \"It's hard to withhold our feeling of devastation.\" \n Earlier Tuesday, relatives of the missing passengers participated in an emotional memorial service on a boat near the transport vessel, with representatives of Catholic and Protestant churches and Buddhists delivering prayers wishing for the remains of the nine to be recovered. \n Relatives threw into the sea yellow roses, a color that has become the symbol of their suffering, and watched from afar as crews on the transport vessel continued to empty the ferry of water and fuel. \n \"The ship has come up, but not the nine people inside it,\" Lee Geum-hee, the mother of a missing schoolgirl, told a television crew. \"Please don't forget there are people inside the dirty, rusty and smelly wreckage. \u2026 Please do the best and let us bring them back home.\" \n Once the ferry reaches a port in the city of Mokpo, investigators will spend about a month cleaning it and evaluating it for safety. They will then begin to search the vessel for the remains of the missing victims and look for clues that could further illuminate the cause of the sinking, which has been blamed on overloaded cargo, improper storage and other negligence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea finds presumed remains of ferry disaster victims"}

{"date": "March 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators from the Asian community protest outside Paris' 19th district's police station, Tuesday March 28, 2017. Violent clashes in Paris between baton-wielding police and protesters outraged at the police killing of a Chinese man in his home have seen three police officers injured and 35 protesters arrested, authorities said Tuesday. \n PARIS >> Chinese immigrants and China's government are protesting a police killing in Paris that prompted violent street clashes and exposed the fears and frustrations of France's large Asian community. \n Protesters gathered today in northeast Paris for a second day of demonstrations over the fatal shooting of a Chinese man in his apartment, and police launched an internal investigation into a death that took on diplomatic implications. \n Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China had summoned a representative of the French embassy in Beijing today and urged French officials to \"get to the bottom of the incident as soon as possible.\" \n Chinese authorities \"hope that Chinese nationals in France can express their wishes and demands in a reasonable way,\" Hua said. \n Residents and police gave conflicting accounts of what happened before the man was shot to death by police on Sunday evening. \n Police said an officer fired in self-defense during a raid after the man wounded an officer with a \"bladed weapon.\" Rumors circulated among Chinese immigrants that 56-year-old Shaoyo Liu was in front of his children while cutting up fish with scissors and had not hurt anyone. \n Protesters outraged by the killing and baton-wielding police clashed for several hours on Monday night. Three police officers were injured and 35 protesters arrested, authorities said today. \n With chants of \"murderers\" and candles that spelled \"opposition to violence\" lining the road, scores of demonstrators broke down barricades, threw projectiles and set fire to cars. \n Authorities said 26 demonstrators were held for participating in a group planning violence, six for throwing projectiles, and three others for violence against police that saw a police car damaged by arson. \n Witnesses said that one man of Chinese origin was injured in the clashes, according to China's state-run Xinhua News Agency. \n France's Foreign Ministry responded today by calling the security of Chinese in France \"a priority.\" \n The ministry confirmed that an inquiry has started to shed light on the circumstances of the shooting. \n The move did not calm some 100 people from Paris' Asian community who gathered at the police station today afternoon, including families and friends of people detained the night before. \n \"Justice must be done, the killer must be punished!\" the protesters shouted. \n A meeting of the Chinese community in Paris was planned to discuss possible further actions. \n France is home to Europe's largest population of ethnic Chinese, a community that routinely accuses police of not doing enough to protect it from racism. \n In September, 15,000 people rallied in the French capital to urge an end to violence against the Asian community after the beating death of Chinese tailor Chaolin Zhangh called attention to ethnic tensions in Paris immigrant suburbs. The victim's lawyer said the August 2016 attack was ethnically motivated. \n \"Chinese are victims of racist attitudes in France, especially from other ethnic groups,\" Pierre Picquart, an expert on China at the University of Paris VIII, said. \"They are targets for crime because they often carry cash and many don't have residence permits, so can be threatened easily. They're angry with police for not protecting them enough.\" \n \"Chinese people do not like to protest or express themselves publicly, so when we see them like this, it means they are very, very angry. They've had enough of discrimination,\" Picquart added. \n He estimated that there are 2 million people of Chinese origin living in France, a country with a population of about 66 million. \n The recent killing and clashes came after thousands of people marched in Paris to condemn the alleged rape in February of a young black man by police. \n The alleged incident in the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois turned the 22-year-old, identified only as Theo, into a symbol for minorities standing up to police violence. \n Associated Press writer Louise Watt in Beijing and Angela Charlton in Paris contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police killing exposes anger, fear of Chinese in France"}

