{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "Police arrested today a 34-year-old man who allegedly robbed a 41-year-old woman in the Pearl Ridge area. \n Police said the man allegedly threatened the woman and used force to try to her belongings. \n The man was later found and arrested at 1:25 p.m. on suspicion of second-degree robbery. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police arrest man who allegedly robbed a woman in Pearl Ridge area"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "Shawn Blazsek in his home in Toledo, Ohio last month. The memory-loss center director who told him he had Alzheimer's disease didn't have a medical or psychology license needed to do so. Another test confirmed he did not have Alzheimer's. \n TOLEDO, Ohio >> Shawn Blazsek knew a string of concussions from high school football and boxing was catching up with him. He would go days without sleeping and was forgetting how to tie his shoes. Still, at age 33, he was stunned after being told he had Alzheimer's disease. \n He started planning out who would take care of his four kids if something happened to his wife, and thought about how hard it would be for them when he could no longer recognize his family. So he stuffed fistfuls of sleeping pills into a bottle and wrote himself a note, vowing to swallow all of them when he wasn't able to remember the names of his children. \n That day never came. Nine months later, he learned that the memory-loss center director who diagnosed him didn't have a medical or psychology license needed to do so. Then another test confirmed he did not have Alzheimer's. \n He is one of more than 50 people suing the now-closed clinic's former director and its owner, saying they, too, were told they had Alzheimer's or another form of dementia. Most now know it's not true, while a few are awaiting confirmation. \n Some say they spent months undergoing treatment while planning out their final years. Some quit their jobs, sold possessions or took one last special trip. One killed himself. \n Blazsek crammed years of fatherly advice into a matter of months, showing his son how to check the oil on a car and teaching his wife about the household finances. \n \"I was preparing her to be a single mom,\" he said. \n The couple figured he had no more than 10 years to live and even less time before his memory was gone. \n \"Here I am, thinking I'm going to be a widow at 43. What am I going to do?\" said his wife, Jennifer. \"Who's going to teach my boys how to shave? Who's going to play ball with them?\" \n So far, the case has yet to result in any charges against Sherry-Ann Jenkins, who opened the Toledo Clinic Cognitive Center in early 2015 through the Toledo Clinic, a multi-specialty medical center with more than 150 doctors. \n Attorneys on both sides would not say whether there is a criminal investigation, although court records indicate the Ohio Medical Board has talked with some of the patients. \n The lawsuits say that Jenkins, who has a doctorate degree in physiological science, wasn't authorized to order medical tests and that her husband, a licensed doctor who is a partner in the Toledo Clinic, signed off on the tests and was sometimes listed as the referring physician on billing even though he did not see any of the patients. \n An attorney for the couple would not answer questions about the cognitive clinic, which abruptly shut down after about a year in early 2016. Jenkins and her husband did not respond to messages seeking comment. \n In court filings responding to the lawsuits, each of which seeks more than $1 million in damages, their attorney did not dispute that Jenkins was unlicensed but denied most of the other allegations. \n The former patients have sued the Toledo Clinic, as well, saying it should have known Jenkins lacked the training and credentials to treat and diagnose patients. Michael D'Eramo, chief administrative officer of the Toledo Clinic, said he could not comment. \n Some describe her as compassionate and easy to talk with, saying she ended therapy sessions by telling them to give her a hug. At her suggestion, a few patients appeared in articles touting the benefits of her holistic treatments, which included memory games and daily doses of coconut oil. But they also say she fought hard against medication and getting a second opinion. \n Nearly all of those diagnosed by Jenkins began seeing her after suffering traumatic brain injuries or worsening cognitive issue. Some, like Blazsek, are continuing treatment with other doctors. \n Attorney David Zoll, who is representing those suing Jenkins, said that it's not clear how many patients she saw and that others might not know they were misdiagnosed with Alzheimer's. More than 30 people added their names to the lawsuits late last month. \n He said he believes she was motivated by greed, saying several patients were overbilled. The cognitive clinic grew rapidly, he noted. \n \"Many times she would see the first person and have them bring in their whole family,\" Zoll said. \"And many times she would diagnose the whole family.\" \n Kay Taynor was diagnosed with Alzheimer's on her second visit to Jenkins and then referred five or six friends and family members to her office, including her husband of 48 years. All were told they had the disease, she said, but her husband, Gary, took it hardest. \n \"He's got a smile that just lights up the room, and I never saw it again,\" she said. \"He just sunk in his chair. To me, he never stood up again. He was never tall again. He gave up.\" \n Gary fell into depression, spending his final weeks sitting in a chair with his hands in his lap until he went into their garage and shot himself in the head, she said. An autopsy did not show any signs of Alzheimer's, she said. \n Don Tanner said he, too, felt like taking his own life. \n He was sent to the clinic for therapy in February 2015 after suffering a severe brain injury in a fall. The trauma of healing while dealing with the devastating diagnosis of Alzheimer's became unbearable. \n \"She gave me a death sentence,\" said Tanner, who told his wife he wanted to jump off a bridge and then thought about wandering off into the marsh behind their home with his gun. \n He had seen firsthand how Alzheimer's gradually erodes someone while caring for his dad. He spent many days shaving and dressing his father, who died only months before Tanner's own diagnosis. \n \"It was just cemented in my mind that I wasn't going to put my family through that,\" he said. \n His wife enlisted their daughters and friends to stay with him while she was at work, fearing what she'd find when she returned. \"If he had a bad day, I didn't know where that would send him,\" said his wife, Monica. \n It wasn't until last summer \u2014 after the clinic had closed \u2014 that a new doctor told him there was no way he had Alzheimer's. \n \"God must have been on my side, because I didn't go out there and get that damn gun,\" Tanner said. \"But man I thought of it. Something kept telling me it's not there yet.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinic falsely told dozens they had Alzheimer's, suits say"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUI FIRE DEPARTMENT \n Maui firefighters conducted a search for a man swept into the ocean on Jan. 23. \n Maui firefighters rescued a Canadian visitor today after he injured himself in a fall and could no longer walk at a popular tourist attraction on Maui's north shore. \n The 65-year-old Ontario man was injured today when he lost his footing and fell onto the rocks at about 3 p.m., a Maui Fire Department spokesman said. The man couldn't put weight on his feet and wasn't able to walk back up the trail. \n Firefighters picked up the man by helicopter and took him to awaiting paramedics on Kahekili Highway. Paramedics took the man to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Canadian man's tumble leads to rescue at Olivine Pools"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo shows Fatemeh Reshad, an infant from Iran with a life-threatening heart condition, who will be treated at OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital in Portland, Ore. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> An Iranian infant in need of life-saving heart surgery arrived today at a Portland hospital with her family after being temporarily banned from coming to the U.S. by President Donald Trump's immigration orders. \n Iranian doctors told Fatemeh Reshad's parents weeks ago that she needed at least one urgent surgery to correct serious heart defects, or she will die, according to her uncle, Samad Taghizadeh, a U.S. citizen who lives in Portland. \n The family previously had an appointment in Dubai to get a tourist visa. But it was abruptly canceled after Trump announced his executive order banning the entry of people from seven countries with Muslim majorities. The girl and her parents had to return to Iran. \n A Seattle judge issued a temporary restraining order on the ban the same day a waiver was granted for the baby. \n \"Fatemeh looks well,\" said Dr. Laurie Armsby, interim head of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology at OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital. \"Our tests this morning have confirmed her diagnosis and the urgent need for treatment.\" \n U.S. Sen. Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat, was instrumental in getting the waiver for the baby's family, as were New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and immigration attorneys. \n The hospital issued a statement saying that the family \"would like to extend their heartfelt thanks to everyone who helped make their trip possible. The family would like to give special thanks to the congressional delegations and governors of Oregon and New York.\" \n Jennifer Morrissey, a Portland immigration attorney who championed the baby's cause, said \"This was truly a team effort to beat the clock, given the medical and legal hurdles Fatemeh was facing.\" \n The family of the 4-month-old chose Portland because of its proximity to relatives and because of OHSU's expertise in treatment of the heart condition. \n Armsby said the infant's heart condition had \"resulted in injury to her lungs\" but there is time \"to reverse this process.\" \n The hospital said treatment would begin with a cardiac catheterization, performed by Armsby, followed by a five- to six-hour surgical procedure performed by Dr. Irving Shen, a nationally respected expert on Fatemeh's condition. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iranian baby with heart defect admitted to Oregon hospital"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Armed police officers patrol in the courtyard of the Louvre museum near where a soldier opened fire after he was attacked in Paris on Friday. \n PARIS >> The health of an Egyptian man suspected of charging soldiers at the Louvre museum with a machete has taken a turn for the worse, French authorities said Tuesday. \n The suspect has been hospitalized in Paris since he was shot four times by soldiers Friday after slightly injuring one in an underground mall that is part of the Paris museum complex. He allegedly shouted \"Allahu akbar!\" while rushing toward the soldiers. \n Identified as Abdullah al-Hamahmy, he was put under supervised custody at the European Hospital Georges-Pompidou on Saturday after his condition improved. But the Paris prosecutor's office said Tuesday night that the custody was \"lifted\" after his condition \"sharply deteriorated during the day.\" His current condition was \"incompatible\" with keeping him in custody, it said. \n After remaining silent during his first two questionings, the suspect had started to answer investigators' questions Monday. He confirmed his name as Abdullah al-Hamahmy and identified himself as a 29 year-old Egyptian citizen, the prosecutor's office said. \n During Monday's questioning, the suspect gave \"his first version of the facts,\" the office added, but gave no details. \n Soon after the attack, Egyptian officials identified the suspect with his full name, Abdullah Reda Refaie al-Hamahmy, but said he was 28. \n With its custody ended Tuesday night, the prosecutor's office said the case is no longer under its supervision and has shifted to the authority of counter-terrorism investigating magistrates. \n The office said it would ask the investigating judges to file preliminary terrorist charges against al-Hamahmy once his condition has improved enough. It said it was seeking charges of \"attempted terrorist murders\" and \"terrorist criminal conspiracy.\" \n The Louvre was closed after the attack Friday morning, but was reopened over the weekend. \n The suspect's father, Reda Refaie al-Hamahmy, said his son has lived in Dubai the past five years and was employed by a law firm. \n Egyptian officials have said local security agencies were gathering information on al-Hamahmy to help establish if he was a member of any militant groups or had been radicalized. Egyptian Investigators were examining his social media accounts. The information gathered will be shared with French authorities, they have said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Condition of suspect in Louvre attack worsens, charges sought"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 9, 2015 photo, police officers work at the scene of a Kosher market in Paris after attacker Amedy Coulibaly took hostages. He was killed when police raided the store. \n WASHINGTON >> A White House list of what it calls underreported terrorist attacks did not support President Donald Trump's claim that the media are downplaying a \"genocide\" carried out by the Islamic State group. But it did shine new light on the difficulty in defining the scope, source and motives behind the violence carried out in the name of radical Islam. \n A close review of the 78 attacks listed by the White House shows almost all the attacks were reported by the news media and that many were widely covered by local and international outlets. The review, carried out by Associated Press reporters on four continents, found that more than half of the attacks, including most of those in the Middle East, were linked to the Islamic State group, as the White House suggested. Others were ruled IS-inspired, but carried out by lone wolf attackers. But in some cases, the motive was unclear, and investigations as to possible extremist links were inconclusive. \n The examples range from knife-wielding assailants in Texas to hostage-takers in Australia to the gunman who killed at least 129 people across Paris in 2015. The magnitude of the attacks on the document circulated by the White House \u2014 which appeared to be hastily compiled and included several typos \u2014 ranges from several dozen dead to one or two people injured. \n It has some notable omissions. It did not include any attacks by Boko Haram, an Islamist insurgent group operating in West Africa that is responsible for far more deaths than the Islamic State. The group, which has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, has led an uprising that has killed more than 20,000 people and left 2.6 million homeless this decade in Nigeria and neighboring countries. \n It also pays little heed to the scores of terror acts that have plagued nations like Syria and Iraq that are close to the Islamic State's caliphate and under near-daily siege. \n The list itself was created to bolster the case for Trump's executive order restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries and suspending the U.S. refugee program. But that ban would not have prevented any of the terrorist attacks on the list that occurred in the United States. \n Here's a closer look at some of the attacks on the list: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n UNITED STATES \n The inclusion of some of the attacks in the United States defies credulity. \n Among those on the White House's list are a deadly rampage in San Bernardino, California, in 2015 in which 14 people were killed and 21 injured, and the June 2016 nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, which left 49 dead, the biggest mass shooting in the nation's history. Both of those attacks received blanket news coverage for days, and all of the attacks in the U.S. received at least some attention by the American media. \n A 2015 attack in Garland, Texas, took place outside a venue hosting a provocative contest for Prophet Muhammad cartoons. According to trial testimony, the suspect, Elton Simpson, was an American Muslim who became the subject of a criminal investigation in 2006 because of his association \"with an individual whom the FBI believed was attempting to set up a terrorist cell in Arizona.\" He was never found to have links to the Islamic State group or any other established radical groups. \n Non-fatal knife attacks on police officers in Boston and New York, a knife attack at a Minnesota mall and the shooting of a police officer in Philadelphia were also reported. \n \"The notion that terrorism is an under-covered subject is preposterous,\" said David H. Schanzer, director of Duke University's Triangle Center on Terrorism and Homeland Security. \"It's highly over-covered compared to the amount of violence that we face in society.\" \n Citing a study his department recently published, Schanzer said, \"one out of every 2,000 homicides since 9/11 have been linked to al-Qaida or ISIS-inspiration or control.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n CANADA \n Two October 2014 attacks in Canada \u2014 one in Quebec and one in Ottawa \u2014 received media coverage in Canada, where attacks of this nature are rare. In Quebec, soldier Patrice Vincent was killed in an apparent act of homegrown terrorism. The suspect was known to police and had his passport seized to stop him from traveling to Syria. It was never determined whether the suspect had any ties to Islamic militant groups, though former Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper described the suspect as an \"ISIL-inspired terrorist,\" referring to the Islamic State group by an acronym. \n In the Canadian capital, one soldier was killed at a war memorial and two were wounded in shootings at the Parliament building. \n Meanwhile, in Quebec last week, a gunman who reportedly held anti-immigrant views killed six men at a local mosque in an incident described by Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as a \"terrorist attack.\" Trump has yet to personally comment on the attacks, although the White House did offer assistance to Trudeau. That attack wasn't listed. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n EUROPE \n Across Europe, attacks are increasingly being attributed to the flow of refugees across the continent \u2014 and it's hard to find a single attack, large or small, that didn't generate global coverage. \n Trump himself used a non-fatal knife attack outside the Louvre in Paris last week to underscore his efforts to ban migrants from entering the U.S., writing on Twitter, \"A new radical Islamic terrorist has just attacked in Louvre Museum in Paris. Tourists were locked down. France on edge again. GET SMART U.S.\" \n All of the attacks cited on the list in Europe were widely reported both by international and local media \u2014 some in real time. A 2015 attack at a Paris supermarket was covered live as it was happening. When the attacker, Amedy Coulibaly, pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group, it was urgently reported by The Associated Press and others. \n Links between the attackers and terror groups were also reported, although at times that did not happen until they were unearthed by investigators days later. \n In London, a 2015 knife attack by a man shouting \"this is for Syria\" at an underground rail station made headlines in newspapers around the world. Police said they treated it as a terrorist incident, although a link was never drawn between the attacker and any particular group. \n A 2014 attack on a police station by a Muslim convert in Joue-les-Tours, France, was reported by The Associated Press at the time and followed up with his brother's arrest in Burundi. AP did not report on any links to the Islamic State group, although British media later said he posted a black Islamic State flag on his Facebook page. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA \n The Muslim world is the front line in the battle against the Islamic State group, and civilians across the region have not been spared the group's deadly campaign. \n A number of attacks cited on the White House list occurred in Egypt. A 2015 attack on a camp used by a multinational peacekeeping force was reported by several news outlets, as was the Islamic State group claim. Other attacks occurred in Cairo in 2015, including one that resulted in the kidnapping and beheading of a Croatian national, and a car bomb at the Italian Consulate that left one dead. Both were claimed by the Islamic State group and reported worldwide. \n Additional attacks in Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Tunisia and Turkey were also reported by various news outlets, citing officials who linked the attacks to the Islamic State group \u2014 a common claim by governments across the Middle East, even when dealing with lone wolf attackers. \n The White House list did not include any attacks in Iraq, Syria or Yemen, where civilians are targeted almost daily by militant attacks. Many of those attacks are covered by the media, despite the often-perilous conditions involved in reporting those stories. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AUSTRALIA \n Included on Trump's list is a standoff at a Sydney chocolatier in 2014. The incident drew round-the-clock coverage by the world's news outlets. A request by attacker Man Haron Monis for an Islamic State group flag during the faceoff fueled anxiety about the group's expanding influence across the globe. \n Monis himself was never determined to have had contact with the group. \n An incident shortly before that in Melbourne also made headlines when Numan Haider was shot dead by police in connection with the stabbing of two police officers. Photographs on Haider's Facebook site included images of what appeared to be members of the Islamic State group. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's list of underreported terror doesn't back up claim"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This screen shot provided by Merriam-Webster shows the new word \"prosopagnosia\" on the company's online dictionary Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster added today more than 1,000 new words and new definitions to existing entries on its website. \n NEW YORK >> Attention, word nerds: This is your bonus round, courtesy of Merriam-Webster. \n In addition to elevating \"surreal\" in 2016 to word of the year, the dictionary company on Tuesday added about 1,000 new words and new definitions to existing listings on its website, Merriam-webster.com. \n Among 17 of the latest disclosed by the company are: \"arancini,\" those stuffed, breaded and fried Italian rice balls, \"conlang,\" meaning an invented language like Klingon, \"fast fashion\" and \"microaggression,\" a flash-point favorite on some college campuses. \n The rest? Well, it's up to language treasure hunters to find those for themselves. \n This is the first time the company has freshened up website listings since 2014, when it added entries to a new paper edition of its collegiate book and online at the same time. \n \"Some of these we've been watching for many years and some of these are very new words,\" said Peter Sokolowski, Merriam-Webster's editor at large. \n Alphabetically speaking, arancini leads the charge. Foreign food words are among the richest sources of new words in English and this one is borrowed from the Italian for \"little orange.\" Besides, Sokolowski said in a recent interview, \"Anything that's deep fried is good. We've all had them but I didn't know this name. We all love exploring the world through food.\" \n Among the others: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n CONLANG : \"This is a personal favorite because this is a linguistics word,\" said Sokolowski, a lexicographer. In addition to Klingon, the made-up language of \"Star Trek,\" Elvish of \"The Lord of the Rings\" is another famous example. \"I have two friends who have written whole books about conlangs,\" Sokolowski said. \n \"They're serious languages. They have declensions, they have verb tenses, they have grammar and accents and all the rest of it. They sound more realistic if the language is actually developed,\" he added. \n FAST FASHION : It's that thing when manufacturers can quickly bring fashion to market at relatively inexpensive prices, such as the wares sold by H&M, Zara, Topshop and others. Fashion designers have embraced the idea of moving looks quickly into stores straight from runways, as opposed to showing collections ahead of their designated seasons. \n The sleuths at Merriam-Webster, based in Springfield, Massachusetts, found a reference as early as 1977, in a Pittsburgh newspaper referring to a line of moderately priced shoes for women. \n MICROAGGRESSION : Merriam-Webster defines it thusly: \"A comment or action that subtly and often unconsciously or unintentionally expresses a prejudiced attitude toward a member of a marginalized group (such as a racial minority).\" \n Such slights have been broadly defined in debates over acceptable speech among college students. On at least one campus, Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts, new freshmen on campus began last year to be introduced to the term, along with learning about \"safe spaces,\" another new lookup entry on Merriam-Webster's site. \n GHOST : An informal definition has been added, for the practice of abruptly cutting off all contact with someone, such as a former romantic partner, by no longer accepting or responding to calls and messages. \n PROSOPAGNOSIA : The inability to recognize faces. It came up recently because the late psychologist Oliver Sacks \"wrote about the fact that he himself suffered from prosopagnosia,\" Sokolowski said. It comes from the Greek word meaning face or mask. \n The fresh entries also include: \"Seussian,\" for \"having a playful or outlandish quality\" relating to the works of beloved children's writer Dr. Seuss, aka Theodore Geisel; \"microbiome,\" for communities of bacteria, fungi and viruses inhabiting a particular environment, most notably the human body; and \u2014 last but not least \u2014 recognition for a slang definition of \"shade,\" as in throwing some publicly as a subtle or indirect insult. \n \"This is social media speaking,\" Sokolowski said of shade. \"What I like about it is that it assumes a very highly informed reader. It assumes you will get the whole joke.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ghosting, shade, microaggression hit Merriam-Webster website"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump listens during a meeting with county sheriffs in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> A House committee voted on Tuesday to eliminate an independent election commission charged with helping states improve their voting systems as President Donald Trump erroneously claims widespread voter fraud cost him the popular vote. \n The party-line vote came less than two days after Trump vowed to set up a White House commission helmed by Vice President Mike Pence to pursue his accusations of election fraud. \n \"We're going to look at it very, very carefully,\" Trump said of voter fraud in an interview with Fox News that aired Sunday. \"It has to do with the registration, and when you look at the registration and you see dead people that have voted.\" \n Reports that Trump told congressional leaders in a meeting last month that 3 to 5 million ballots were cast illegally during the 2016 race were met with discomfort on Capitol Hill. While top Republicans have refused to disavow his charges of election fraud, they haven't pushed for action on the issue, which remains a low priority for congressional leadership. \n The vote in the House Administration Committee underscored, once again, the political differences between the Republican president and the party's rank-and-file. The GOP majority on the committee eliminated the Election Assistance Commission, which was created by Congress after the 2000 Florida recount to upgrade voting technology and provide election-related information to federal entities, state officials and election administrators. \n Republicans, who led the effort to terminate the agency, say it's a prime example of government waste. They've been introducing legislation to end the commission for years with little success. \n \"If we're looking at reducing the size of government this is a perfect example of something that can be eliminated,\" said Rep. Gregg Harper, R-Miss., the committee chairman, after the bill passed on a 6-3 vote. \"We don't need fluff.\" \n Harper said he hadn't spoken to Trump about the legislation. \"He's certainly welcome to call me at any time,\" he said. \n In separate testimony on Capitol Hill, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly endorsed providing states \"as much help as we can to make sure that their systems are protected in future elections.\" \n The bill was opposed by committee Democrats and voting rights groups, who argued that the federal agency plays a vital role in protecting elections from hacking and other types of interference. \n \"At a time when the vast majority of the country's voting machines are outdated and in need of replacement, and after an election in which foreign criminals already tried to hack state voter registration systems, eliminating the EAC poses a risky and irresponsible threat to our election infrastructure,\" said Wendy Weiser, the democracy program director at the Brennan Center for Justice. \n Congress allotted nearly $3.3 billion to states and territories to support upgrading voting systems, and much of that money was placed into bank accounts where it gained interest. As of October 2015, the most recent date available, nearly $376 million remained unspent in dozens of states across the country. \n As of today, the commission's independent inspector general has not released audit reports for nine of a total of 55 states and territories, according to the EAC. \n \"Each day we hear from state and local election officials who need our help to navigate the challenges they face,\" said EAC chair Thomas Hicks, in a statement. \"We are focused on serving them and the American voters. Congress should remain a trusted partner in that effort.\" \n The committee also voted to terminate the public financing system, which provides major party presidential nominees a lump sum grant of roughly $94.14 million in the general election. But by accepting the grant, a candidate may not raise any additional funds and is severely limited in how much of his own money he can give or lend to his campaign. \n President Barack Obama effectively ended the practice of candidates taking general election public financing in 2008, when he chose not to accept it. His Republican rival John McCain took the grant that year and was swamped by the Obama campaign's spending. Neither Hillary Clinton nor Trump accepted public financing this year. \n Money for the public financing of campaigns is collected through voluntary $3 checkoffs on taxpayers' returns. The checkoffs do not affect how much money a taxpayer owes. \n The legislation would devote $63 million of the available funds to pediatric cancer research. The remainder would be returned to the Treasury for deficit reduction. \n It is not clear if the full House will vote on the measures. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As Trump fears fraud, GOP votes to kill election commission"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., questions then Education Secretary-nominee Betsy DeVos on Capitol Hill on Jan. 17. \n WASHINGTON >> Sen. Elizabeth Warren has earned a rare rebuke by the Senate for quoting Coretta Scott King on the Senate floor. \n The Massachusetts Democrat ran afoul of the chamber's arcane rules by reading a three-decade-old letter from Dr. Martin Luther King's widow that dated to Sen. Jeff Sessions' failed judicial nomination three decades ago. \n The chamber is debating the Alabama Republican's nomination for attorney general, with Democrats dropping senatorial niceties to oppose Sessions and Republicans sticking up for him. \n King wrote that when acting as a federal prosecutor, Sessions used his power to \"chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens.\" \n Quoting King technically put Warren in violation of Senate rules for \"impugning the motives\" of Sessions, though senators have said far worse stuff. And Warren was reading from a letter that was written 10 years before Sessions was even elected to the Senate. \n Still, top Senate Republican Mitch McConnell invoked the rules. After a few parliamentary moves, the GOP-controlled Senate voted to back him up. \n Now, Warren is forbidden from speaking again on Sessions' nomination. A vote on Sessions is expected Wednesday evening. \n Democrats seized on the flap to charge that Republicans were muzzling Warren, sparking liberals to take to Twitter to post the King letter in its entirety. \n Warren argued: \"I'm reading a letter from Coretta Scott King to the Judiciary Committee from 1986 that was admitted into the record. I'm simply reading what she wrote about what the nomination of Jeff Sessions to be a federal court judge meant and what it would mean in history for her.\" \n Warren was originally warned after reading from a statement by former Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., that labeled Sessions a disgrace. \n Democrats pointed out that McConnell didn't object when Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, called him a liar in a 2015 dustup. \n The episode was followed by lamentations by Senate veterans, including its most senior Republican, Orrin Hatch of Utah, about how the Senate is too partisan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Warren violates arcane rule, sparking Senate dustup"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Joseph Monge, one of three suspects arrested in a deadly fire that struck an apartment building in the Westlake district of Los Angeles in 1993, killing 12. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ramiro Valerio and Johanna Lopez, two of three suspects in a deadly Los Angeles fire. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This May 1993 photo provided by the Los Angeles Police Department shows investigators at the scene of a deadly fire that struck an apartment building in the Westlake district of Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES >> Three gang members accused in a 1993 fire set to retaliate against an attempt to quell drug sales at a Los Angeles apartment building were charged Tuesday with murder after the blaze killed seven children, three women and two late-term fetuses, prosecutors said. \n Ramiro Valerio, 43, of Palmdale and Joseph Monge, 41, of Montebello, and Johanna Lopez, 51, each pleaded not guilty Tuesday to 12 counts of murder and other charges, Los Angeles prosecutors said. The three were held without bail following their arraignments Tuesday afternoon. It wasn't immediately clear if they had attorneys who could comment on the allegations. \n The March 3, 1993 fire was set as revenge after a new apartment manager tried to stop rampant drug dealing in the building filled with poor immigrants, authorities said. \n Someone set a mattress ablaze in a hallway, causing fire and smoke to spread throughout the building as the manager was moving into a second-floor unit of the three-story, 40-unit building in the Westlake neighborhood. \n The residents, nearly all of them from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala, tried to escape by jumping from windows and climbing down bed sheets tied to balconies. Neighbors formed a human chain to pass down children from upper floors. Other children were dropped from balconies into waiting hands. \n Lopez had been arrested in 2011 in connection with the deadly blaze and was awaiting trial, according to court records. Valerio and Monge were arrested by Los Angeles police detectives on Feb. 3. \n In 2013, the Los Angeles Police Department's Robbery-Homicide Division began a fresh examination of the case and began re-contacting witnesses. Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey said residents of the apartment building had initially refused to cooperate with police after the fire, fearing retaliation from gang members, but some have now agreed to testify to testify in the case. \n Two men were charged in the 1990s, but the cases were eventually dropped for a lack of evidence. \n Prosecutors said all three defendants would be eligible for the death penalty if they are convicted, but prosecutors have not yet said whether they will pursue capital punishment in the case. \n Police said a fourth person was being sought, but no information about him was released because he fled the country. \n Prosecutors said the 10 people killed included: 24-year-old Olga Leon and her three children, ages 4 to 7; 29-year-old Alejandrina Roblero and her three young children who were between 6 and 11; 21-year-old Rosalia Ruiz; and a one-year-old child, Lancy Mateo. \n Leon and Ruiz were pregnant when they died. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 face murder charges in 1993 Los Angeles apartment fire"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Karen Shore held up a sign outside of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco today. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> President Donald Trump's travel ban faced its toughest test yet today as a panel of appeals court judges hammered away at the administration's claim that the ban was motivated by terrorism fears while also directing pointed questions to an attorney challenging the executive order on grounds that it unconstitutionally targeted Muslims. \n The contentious hearing before three judges on the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals focused narrowly on whether a restraining order issued by a lower court should remain in effect while a challenge to the ban proceeds. But the judges also jumped into the larger constitutional questions surrounding Trump's order, which temporarily suspended the nation's refugee program and immigration from seven mostly Muslim countries that have raised terrorism concerns. \n The hearing was conducted by phone \u2014 an unusual step \u2014 and broadcast live on cable networks, news websites and various social media outlets. It attracted a huge audience, with more than 130,000 alone tuned in to the court's YouTube site to hear audio. \n Judge Richard Clifton, who spent more than 25 years in private law practice in Honolulu before being nominated to the court by President George W. Bush in 2002, asked an attorney representing Washington state and Minnesota what evidence he had that the ban was motivated by religion. The two states are suing to invalidate the ban. \n \"I have trouble understanding why we're supposed to infer religious animus when in fact the vast majority of Muslims would not be affected.\" \n Only 15 percent of the world's Muslims are affected, the judge said, citing his own calculations. He added that the \"concern for terrorism from those connected to radical Islamic sects is hard to deny.\" \n Noah Purcell, Washington state's solicitor general, cited public statements by Trump calling for a ban on the entry of Muslims to the U.S. He said the states did not have to show every Muslim is harmed, only that the ban was motivated by religious discrimination. \n Clifton also went after the government's attorney, asking whether he denied statements by Trump and former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who said recently that Trump asked him to create a plan for a Muslim ban. Judge Michelle T. Friedland, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, asked why the case should not move forward to determine what motivated the ban. \n \"We're not saying the case shouldn't proceed, but we are saying that it is extraordinary for a court to enjoin the president's national security decision based on some newspaper articles,\" said August Flentje, who argued the case for the Justice Department. \n Under questioning from Clifton, Flentje did not dispute that Trump and Giuliani made the statements. \n Clifton said he understood if the government argued that statements by Trump and his advisers should not be given much weight, but he said they are potentially evidence in the case. \n Friedland also asked whether the government has any evidence connecting the seven nations to terrorism. \n Flentje told the judges that the case was moving fast and the government had not yet included evidence to support the ban. Flentje cited a number of Somalis in the U.S. who, he said, had been connected to the al-Shabab terrorist group. \n The ban has upended travel to the U.S. for more than a week and tested the new administration's use of executive power. \n Whatever the court eventually decides, either side could ask the Supreme Court to intervene. \n The government asked the appeals court to restore Trump's order, saying that the president alone has the power to decide who can enter or stay in the United States. Several states insist that it is unconstitutional. \n Flentje offered the 9th Circuit a third option, saying the court could exempt from the ban people who have previously been admitted to the U.S., but keep it in place for people who have never been to the country. \n The judges repeatedly questioned Flentje on why the states should not be able to sue on behalf of their residents or on behalf of their universities, which have complained about students and faculty getting stranded overseas. \n Purcell said that restraining order has not harmed the U.S. government. Instead, he told the panel, Trump's order had harmed Washington state residents by splitting up families, holding up students trying to travel for their studies and preventing people from visiting family abroad. \n A decision by the 9th Circuit was likely to come later this week, Madden said. \n Trump said Tuesday that he cannot believe his administration has to fight in the courts to uphold his ban, a policy he says will protect the country. \n \"And a lot of people agree with us, believe me,\" Trump said at a round table discussion with members of the National Sheriff's Association. \"If those people ever protested, you'd see a real protest. But they want to see our borders secure and our country secure.\" \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly told lawmakers that the order probably should have been delayed at least long enough to brief Congress about it. \n If the case does end up before the Supreme Court, it could prove difficult to find the necessary five votes to undo a lower court order. The Supreme Court has been at less than full strength since Justice Antonin Scalia's death a year ago. The last immigration case that reached the justices ended in a 4-4 tie. \n How and when a case might get to the Supreme Court is unclear. The travel ban itself is to expire in 90 days, meaning it could run its course before a higher court takes up the issue. Or the administration could change it in any number of ways that would keep the issue alive. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judges hammer attorneys on both sides of travel ban case"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Pedestrians on King Street make their way to University Avenue on Monday. \n A second cold front this week is expected to begin moving down the island chain by Friday, ushering in the possibility for another bout of windy and rainy weather this weekend, the National Weather Service said. \n Related: \n High surf warning in effect for most islands \n Behind the departing front, a drier air mass is settling over the islands and will usher in pleasant conditions and colder-than-normal nighttime temperatures from tonight through Thursday, the Weather Service said. \n Thursday night, impacts from the approaching cold front will begin reaching the islands. \n A rain band associated with the incoming front will reach Kauai Friday and move down the island chain through Sunday. Forecasters said there was a chance for \"widespread flooding over the smaller islands as the front moves through.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Approaching cold front may bring more wind and rain"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with county sheriffs in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> A group of Republican senior statesmen are pushing for a carbon tax to combat the effects of climate change, and hoping to sell their plan to the White House. \n Former Secretary of State Jim Baker is leading the effort, which also includes former Secretary of State George Shultz. In an opinion piece published Tuesday night in The Wall Street Journal, they argued \"there is mounting evidence of problems with the atmosphere that are growing too compelling to ignore.\" \n The group will meet Wednesday with White House officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, senior adviser Jared Kushner, and Gary Cohn, director of the National Economic Council. Ivanka Trump is also expected to attend, according to a person familiar with the plans. The person was not authorized to discuss the meeting publicly and insisted on anonymity. \n Carbon taxes are designed to raise the cost of fossil fuels to bring down consumption. Baker and Shultz detailed in the opinion piece their plan for a gradually increasing carbon tax, with dividends being returned to people, as well as border adjustments for the carbon content of exports and imports and the rollback of regulations. \n So far, Trump has sent mixed signals on whether or how he will try to slow Earth's warming temperatures and rising sea levels. \n During the transition, Trump met with prominent climate activists Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio. Ivanka Trump, a close adviser to her father, has indicated interest in working on the issue. But the president has also hired oil industry champions who want to reverse President Barack Obama's efforts to rein in emissions. \n The White House press office did not immediately respond to request for comment. \n Also supporting Baker's effort are Hank Paulson, treasury secretary for former President George W. Bush; Greg Mankiw, who chaired Bush's Council of Economic Advisers; and Marty Feldstein, chairman of President Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisors, according to the person familiar with the plans. \n Also on the list are former Walmart chairman Rob Walton; Thomas Stephenson, a partner at the venture capital firm Sequoia Capital; and Ted Halstead, founder of New America and the Climate Leadership Council. \n The vast majority of peer-reviewed studies and climate scientists agree the planet is warming, mostly due to man-made sources. Under Obama, the U.S. has dramatically ramped up production of renewable energy from sources like solar, in part through Energy Department grants. \n Some environmental activists support a tax on emissions to help transition off fossil fuels. Sen. Bernie Sanders advocated for a carbon tax as part of his bid for the Democratic nomination last year. Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, never supported a tax, though she offered a slew of proposals to deal with climate change. \n Trump's Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was the longtime chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil. Exxon was long considered a leading opponent of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels. But under Tillerson's leadership, Exxon has started planning for climate change and even voiced support for a carbon tax. \n Trump's choice to run the Environmental Protection Agency is Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, who denies climate change science. And Trump's nominee to run the Energy Department, former Gov. Rick Perry, also has questioned climate science while working to promote coal-fired power in Texas, though he also oversaw the growth of renewable power in Texas, which became a leading wind-energy producer while he was governor. \n Carbon tax legislation is unlikely to receive a warm welcome in the GOP-controlled Congress, where Republicans were staunchly opposed to Obama's climate agenda. Last year, Republicans in the House approved symbolic measures opposing a fee on crude oil and a carbon tax on emissions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP senior statesmen making push for a carbon tax"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUI FIRE DEPARTMENT \n Maui firefighters extinguished today this brush fire, which burned on a steep hillside over Hana Highway. \n Maui firefighters extinguished a brush fire this morning that scorched five acres over two days near Hana Highway. \n Motorists traveling on Hana Highway reported a fire near milepost 11 just before 5:10 p.m. Monday. \n Firefighters arrived and observed the fire charred a quarter-acre of thick vegetation and large eucalyptus trees on the hillside mauka of the highway, approximately a mile from Honomanu Bay, according to the Maui Fire Department. \n Police closed the highway for three hours as a safety precaution as firefighters battled the fire. \n Flames climbed up a near vertical slope that hampered fire crews' efforts from reaching the fire. The department also could not deploy Air 1 because of rainy and cloudy conditions. \n Crews left the area Monday night and returned this morning with Air 1 conducting water drops. \n The brush fire was extinguished shortly before 10:40 a.m. The fire department said the cause was undetermined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui firefighters extinguish brush fire above Hana Highway"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. John Whitmire, D-Houston, speaks as the Texas Senate debates a contentious \"sanctuary cities\" proposal that would compel local police to enforce federal immigration laws and is on track to be the first piece of legislation passed by either chamber this session, Tuesday, Feb. 7, 2017, at the Texas Capitol in Austin, Texas. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> The Texas Senate has preliminarily approved an anti-\"sanctuary cities\" bill punishing local governments that don't cooperate with federal immigration authorities. \n It's the strongest indication yet that the state's Republicans look to crack down on an issue championed by President Donald Trump. \n Tuesday night's vote after hours of sometimes-emotional debate clears the way for the proposal to sail through the GOP-controlled Texas Legislature in record time. It stalled in previous sessions. \n The bill still needs final Senate approval Wednesday, then must clear the state House. But Gov. Greg Abbott has made it an \"emergency item\" speeding up that process. \n The proposal denies state grant money to jurisdictions where police refuse federal requests to surrender immigrants already in custody for possible deportation. \n Abbott also has called for removing from office locally elected officials resisting such requests. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Texas Senate votes to OK contentious 'sanctuary cities' bill"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Straub Medical Center nurse Janelle Carroll administered a hepatitis A vaccine to a patient in September. An additional hepatitis A vaccine booster is required six months later and may be effective for 25 years. \n Hawaii's Department of Health is reminding people who were vaccinated during last year's hepatitis A outbreak that it's time for a second dose. \n The department said Tuesday that data shows there were about 90,000 hepatitis A vaccines administered in Hawaii between July and November. \n In August, state health officials identified frozen scallops imported from the Philippines served at a sushi chain as the probable source of the outbreak. \n The outbreak sickened hundreds of people. \n State Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Park warns that outbreaks continue to occur worldwide and that a local outbreak could happen again. \n She says while one dose of the vaccine provides good protection, two doses are necessary for lasting immunity. \n The second dose must be administered six months after the first one. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "People vaccinated during Hepatitis A outbreak in Hawaii need 2nd shot"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PESS \n Rohi Atassi, right, from Syria, leads new U.S. citizens in the Pledge of Allegiance after Atassi and 116 others from 37 countries took the oath of citizenship from U.S. District Judge Sara Ellis, left, in the Northern District of Illinois, during a naturalization ceremony. Atassi has not returned to Syria since his last visit in the fall of 2011. \n CHICAGO >> Rohi Atassi was among 117 immigrants to become the newest American citizens during a Chicago naturalization ceremony today, but the Syrian dentist stood out among his peers. \n The 29-year-old was unexpectedly asked to lead immigrants from 37 countries in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Federal Judge Sara Ellis, who oversaw the ceremony, asked for a Syrian volunteer after delivering an impassioned speech about the difficulties immigrants face. \n While she never specifically mentioned President Donald Trump's executive order barring immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries including Syria, Atassi said her words resonated with him. \n \"I'm very happy that a Syrian who just became an American had a chance to lead the pledge,\" he said. \n He and his family have been on edge the last few weeks as he's had friends detained at airports because of the executive action, which is undergoing legal challenges. He was left wondering if his citizenship would be approved and questioning how he'd travel. His family members have mixed citizenship status: His mother is a naturalized U.S. citizen, his father has a green card and his fiancee is U.S. born with Syrian roots. \n Atassi, who's had a green card for a decade, has watched his birthplace of Aleppo destroyed by years of war. \n \"The Syrian people are already victims,\" he said. \"All these people are running from terrorism.\" \n During the ceremony, Ellis talked about her own experiences of becoming a U.S. citizen and judge. Her family is from Jamaica and she was born in Canada. Ellis was nominated to the post in 2013 by former President Barack Obama. Her office declined to elaborate on Tuesday's ceremony, saying only that she usually asks a new American to recite the Pledge of Allegiance. \n As for Atassi, his first orders of business were to register to vote and apply for a U.S. passport. \n \"I'm allowed to participate in a democracy. I'm excited to experience it,\" he said, adding that he was encouraged by the supportive atmosphere of the ceremony. \"When I was leaving, a few people told me, 'Congratulations, welcome home.'\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syrian man leads Pledge of Allegiance at citizenship event"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Olivia One Feather, right, of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, Jessica Dominy, center, of the Muckleshoot tribe, and Paul Cheoketen, of the Wagner Saanich First Nations, smile after the Seattle City Council voted to divest from Wells Fargo. \n SEATTLE >> The Seattle City Council today voted to cut ties with banking giant Wells Fargo over its role as a lender to the Dakota Access pipeline project as well as other business practices. \n The crowd erupted in cheers and chanted \"water is life\" when the council unanimously passed the measure, which directs officials to end the city's contract with the San Francisco-based bank once it expires in 2018 and not to make new investments in Wells Fargo securities for three years. \n \"The example that we have set today can become a beacon of hope\" for activists across the country, said Councilmember Kshama Sawant, who co-sponsored the legislation. \n Seattle's measure comes on the same day that the Army told Congress that it will allow the $3.8 billion Dakota Access oil pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota, completing the disputed four-state project. The stretch is the final big chunk of work on the 1,200-mile pipeline that would carry North Dakota oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n The Standing Rock Sioux, whose reservation is just downstream from the pipeline's crossing, fears a leak would pollute the tribe's drinking water. The tribe has led protests that drew hundreds and at times thousands of people who dubbed themselves \"water protectors\" to an encampment near the crossing. \n Tribal members urged the Seattle council to send a broader message to oppose the pipeline and stand with indigenous people. \n \"You have been a city setting the example to the world and I look to you to do that now,\" Olivia One Feather, a member of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, told the council. \"When big cities such as this do the right thing, it sparks hope in the world.\" \n Environmental activists across the country have called on a number of banks to stop financing the construction of the oil pipeline as well as on individuals to pull their money out of those banks. \n Wells Fargo has said it is one of 17 involved in financing the pipeline and that it is obligated by carry out its credit agreement. The bank is providing $120 million of the $2.5 billion. \n \"While we are disappointed that the city has decided to end our 18-year relationship, we stand ready to support Seattle with its financial services needs in the future,\" said Tim Brown, Wells Fargo Middle Market Banking regional manager. \n Wells Fargo manages more than $3 billion of Seattle's operating account, processing everything from payroll and vendor payments to revenues collected from city business taxes to city fines. \n The legislation passed Tuesday calls out Wells Fargo for a number of enforcement orders issued against it in recent years. Regulators fined Wells Fargo $185 million after employees opened millions of customer accounts fraudulently to meet sales goals. \n In the wake of that scandal, California and Illinois announced they would suspend some business relationships with the bank. Also in response, Seattle city officials last October ended negotiations with Wells Fargo over a $100-million bond deal for the city's electric utility. \n Some who spoke Tuesday urged the council to look for a nonprofit bank, credit union or other financial institution that aligns with the city's social values when it seeks to replace Wells Fargo. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seattle to cut ties with Wells Fargo over oil pipeline"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump looks at a figurine given to him by a group of county sheriffs, Tuesday, in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's dark view of violent crime in America rests largely on a bogus claim: that the murder rate is higher than it's been in nearly half a century. Actually, the murder rate is down sharply in that time, despite a recent spike.\u00a0 \n Today, he told a meeting of sheriffs: \"The murder rate in our country is the highest it's been in 47 years, right? Did you know that? Forty-seven years. I used to use that \u2014 I'd say that in a speech and everybody was surprised because the press doesn't tell it like it is.\" He circled back to add: \"The murder rate is the highest it's been in, I guess, from 45 to 47 years.\" \n It's true that 2015 saw one of the largest increases in decades, up 10 percent from 4.4 murders per 100,000 people in 2014, but even with that rise homicides are not on the order of what the country experienced in previous decades. \n Trump has misrepresented crime statistics on several occasions. He stated last month that Philadelphia's murder rate has been \"terribly increasing\" even though it dropped slightly last year. The city's murder rate rose in the previous two years but remained substantially lower than in past decades. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump repeats debunked murder rate claim"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New England Patriots' Tom Brady reacts after a two-point conversion, during the second half of the Super Bowl game against the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday in Houston. \n HOUSTON >> Tom Brady and his missing jersey have still not been reunited. \n The investigation, which is being led by the Houston police department's Major Offenders division, has so far not turned up any leads on who swiped the jersey, Houston Police Executive Assistant Chief George Buenik said Tuesday. \n The Texas Rangers, the state's top law enforcement officers, are assisting in the investigation along with the NFL's security department. \n Brady's jersey was taken from the New England Patriots' locker room at Houston's NRG Stadium after the team's 34-28 victory over Atlanta in the Super Bowl on Sunday. \n Buenik said officials are aware the jersey is considered valuable. \n \"So we are deeming this a pretty important case,\" Buenik said at a news conference held the same day the Patriots were celebrating their win with a Boston parade. \"We want our top investigators on this case and hopefully we'll make an arrest and more importantly recover that jersey for Tom Brady.\" \n Buenik said investigators are working to identify who was in the locker room at the time the jersey was taken. Police are also trying to determine who had access to the locker room but that could be a long list as players, all the coaches, team support staff and members of the media all had access, he said. \n While a Houston police officer was stationed outside the locker room, access to the location was controlled by New England Patriots team security, Buenik said. \n \"We're attempting to gather a list of people who were in that locker room at that point so we can interview them,\" he said. \n Investigators are also working to obtain video, including from some news cameramen, that might have caught the crime on tape. \n \"We are asking all the cameramen to check your video to see if they may have captured something,\" Buenik said. \"Police investigators maybe contacting you so we can look to see in an attempt to identify everybody in that locker room at the time.\" \n Crime Stoppers of Houston will also be offering a reward for any information leading to the stolen jersey and to the arrest of the person who took it, Buenik said. \n When asked about the need for police to get involved in the search for a missing jersey, Buenik said, \"Our Major Offenders squad deals with all kinds of specialty cases.\" \n \"Texas Rangers offered their assistance along with NFL security, private security at (the stadium),\" he said. \"We are going to take everybody's assistance and offers to see if they can help us.\" \n Brady has joked that he expects to see the jersey soon in an online auction. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Houston police still searching for missing Brady jersey"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement and protesters clash near the site of the Dakota Access pipeline in Cannon Ball, N.D. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> Dakota Access pipeline opponents involved in a violent clash with police in North Dakota in November are unlikely to succeed in a lawsuit alleging excessive force and civil rights violations, a federal judge said Tuesday. \n U.S. District Judge Daniel Hovland didn't immediately rule on a motion filed Monday by law enforcement to dismiss the lawsuit, but he did deny an earlier request by pipeline opponents to bar police from using such things as chemical agents and water sprays as a means of dispersing crowds of protesters. \n Hovland said protesters \"are unlikely to succeed on the merits of their claims,\" which include that police used inappropriate force, injuring more than 200 protesters, and violated their civil rights. The judge said protesters were trespassing during the confrontation and that \"no reasonable juror could conclude\" that officers acted unreasonably. \n \"The rights of free speech and assembly do not mean, and have never meant, that everyone who chooses to protest against the Dakota Access pipeline may do so at any time, any place, and under any set of conditions they choose in total disregard of the law,\" Hovland said. \"To allow that to occur would result in anarchy and an end to the rule of law in civilized society.\" \n Rachel Lederman, lead attorney for the protesters, called Hovland's ruling \"disturbing\" and said she'll appeal. \n \"The judge indicates that he's formed opinions based on television and newspapers and pretty much disregards the large volume of evidence that the plaintiffs have presented,\" she said. \n Randall Bakke, attorney for the officers, said he was pleased with the ruling. \n The Nov. 20-21 confrontation occurred at a blockaded bridge near the encampment where pipeline opponents have gathered in the hundreds and sometimes thousands since last summer, fighting a $3.8 billion project they believe could harm drinking water and Native American cultural sites. That's disputed by Energy Transfer Partners, the Texas-based developer of the four-state pipeline to move North Dakota oil 1,200 miles through South Dakota and Iowa to Illinois. \n Law enforcement acknowledges using tear gas, pepper spray, rubber bullets, bean bag rounds and water sprays against protesters they say assaulted officers with rocks, burning logs, lug nuts, padlocks and frozen water bottles. Officers say they were heavily outnumbered by protesters and were being marked by lasers and spotlights, leading to fears they were being targeted by snipers. One officer was struck in the head by a thrown object and dazed. \n \"In addition to being concerned about the obvious risks to the physical safety of law enforcement on the scene if overrun, there was genuine concern about the potential need to resort to deadly force for the protection of law enforcement and emergency responders,\" the officers' attorneys said in asking that the case be dismissed. \n Protesters are seeking unspecified money damages. They allege a wide range of injuries, including burns, broken bones, eye injuries, hypothermia, and wounds requiring stitches and staples. Among those injured was Sophia Wilansky, a 21-year-old New York woman who was hospitalized with a serious arm injury. Protesters maintain she was injured by a grenade thrown by police, while authorities say she was hurt by a small propane tank that protesters rigged to explode. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge says Dakota pipeline protest suit unlikely to succeed"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n resident-elect Donald Trump walks Labor Secretary-designate Andy Puzder from Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. \n WASHINGTON >> Labor Secretary nominee Andrew Puzder acknowledged Tuesday that he had employed a housekeeper who wasn't authorized to work in the U.S., as the Senate's top Republican came to his defense and dismissed the issue as a \"mistake\" that had been fixed. \n \"Number one, the administration strongly supports Andy Puzder and wants to stick with him,\" Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters. \"He's qualified for the job, and for myself, I'm enthusiastically in his camp.\" \n It wasn't clear all Republicans were following McConnell's lead on Puzder, whose confirmation process was already complicated by his delay in filing ethics documents and Democrats' questions about how a fast food CEO could be an effective advocate for American workers. \n Puzder said in a statement that he and his wife were unaware the housekeeper was not legally permitted to work in the U.S. during the years they employed her. \n \"When I learned of her status, we immediately ended her employment and offered her assistance in getting legal status,\" Puzder said. \"We have fully paid back taxes to the IRS and the State of California.\" \n Details about the housekeeper's immigration status were not known. Nor was it clear when and for how long Puzder employed the worker. \n Puzder spokesman George Thompson said Tuesday that the fast food CEO remains committed to becoming labor secretary and is working on divesting from his financial holdings. \n Asked if the housekeeper matter is disqualifying, Republican Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina replied, \"I don't think it should be. It seems to have been cleared up.\" \n But some Republicans on the Senate Health, Education, Welfare and Pensions Committee, which will consider the nomination, said they would look into the matter. \n \"It deserves our attention,\" Sen. Johnny Isakson of Georgia said Tuesday. \"I am researching it because it's important.\" \n Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, one of two Republicans to buck the Trump administration and vote against Betsy DeVos' confirmation as education secretary, said she wants to hear more from Puzder at his hearing. \n Puzder's confirmation hearing has been delayed at least three times, and Chairman Lamar Alexander has said he won't schedule it until Puzder has submitted required disclosures on such matters as how he would avoid conflicts of interest as CEO of CKE Restaurants Inc. First, Puzder must get approval of the plan from the Office of Government Ethics, which had not happened as of Tuesday. \n Alexander, in a statement, defended Puzder. \n \"Since Mr. Puzder reported his mistake and voluntarily corrected it, I do not believe that this should disqualify him from being a cabinet secretary,\" he said. \n Puzder's acknowledgement about the housekeeper is the second that goes against Trump's vow to keep jobs in American hands. He also has acknowledged outsourcing CKE Restaurants' technology help desk, the type of practice Trump derides as being anti-American worker. \n Democrats and their allies have piled on with unflattering stories from workers at Puzder's restaurants, and they question how well he can advocate for American workers given that he opposes a big hike in the minimum wage and other labor priorities. \n \"What we have heard is story after story about how he spent his career squeezing workers for profit, leaving many with lost wages, no financial security and no retirement,\" said Democratic Sen. Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the Senate HELP committee. \"If Mr. Puzder ever does come before our committee, he's going to have a lot of explaining to do.\" \n Puzder is the second Trump pick who has faced questions over hiring of household workers. \n Mick Mulvaney, Trump's pick to run the Cabinet-level White House budget office, had acknowledged that he failed to pay more than $15,000 in payroll taxes for a household worker more than a decade ago. He has repaid the government, and those developments do not seem to be impeding his prospects for confirmation. \n The Huffington Post first reported Puzder's disclosure about the housekeeper. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'A mistake': GOP downplays Puzder's housekeeper issue"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Big Island police responded to a report of a man in a white Jeep who fired several gunshots at a group of people who were standing near their vehicles in a parking lot in proximity to McDonald's at Puainako Center. \n Hawaii County police arrested three people in connection with a shooting at a shopping center parking lot in Hilo Monday night. \n Police arrested a 29-year-old man, of no permanent address, on suspicion of five counts of attempted second-degree murder, five counts of attempted first-degree murder, terroristic threatening, resisting an order to stop a vehicle and reckless driving. \n A 32-year-old Pahoa woman and a 17-year-old boy arrested on suspicion of attempted murder were released pending further investigation. \n Capt. Randall Medeiros of the Hawaii Police Department's Criminal Investigations Section said the three suspects are acquaintances. \n At about 10 p.m., police responded to a report of a man in a white Jeep who fired several gunshots at a group of people \u2014 four men ages 18 and 19, and a 20-year-old woman \u2014 who were standing near their vehicles in a parking lot in proximity to McDonald's at Puainako Center, 2100 Kanoelehua Avenue. \n No injuries were reported, however, two vehicles were struck by bullets multiple times. \n Medeiros said there is no indication the suspects and victims knew one another. \n A police chase ensued after responding officers spotted the suspect in Keeau at about 12:25 a.m. Shortly after, the vehicle stopped and a woman and a 17-year-old boy exited the car before it sped away. \n About a half-hour later, police said the 29-year-old man ditched his car near the old mill in Keeau and ran away. Soon after, police caught the suspect. \n Medeiros said the gun used in the shooting has not been recovered. \n Police are investigating the circumstances that led to the shooting. \n Individuals may also call CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspect arrested in attempted murder case at Hilo shopping center"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke during a meeting with county sheriffs in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON >> There's a Texas state senator with a new target on his back, courtesy of President Donald Trump and the Rockwall County sheriff. \n At a meeting today with sheriffs from around the country, Sheriff Harold Eavenson complained about a state senator who wanted to make it harder for law enforcement to get control of assets forfeited by drug traffickers. \n \"I want to hear his name. We'll destroy his career,\" Trump offered. \n The sheriff shrugged and declined to offer a name during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room at the White House, where Trump met with about a dozen sheriffs. Reached later by cellphone, Eavenson again declined to identify the lawmaker. He said he didn't take the president's offer to destroy the senator literally. \n \"He was just being emphatic that he did not agree with that senator's position,\" Eavenson said, adding of the senator in question, \"I'm not into assassinating his character.\" \n Eavenson will become president of the National Sheriff's Association in June. He has been active in the Sheriff's Association of Texas. \n The object of ire big enough to mention to the president wasn't immediately clear. Eavenson referred to \"him\" several times and confirmed that it's a male senator. Speculation quickly swirled in Austin. \n During the meeting, Trump went around the room asking the sheriffs to air top concerns. \n \"There's a state senator in Texas that was talking about legislation to require conviction before we could receive that forfeiture money,\" Eavenson told the president. \n \"Do you believe that?\" Trump said. \n \"And I told him that the cartel would build a monument to him in Mexico if he could get that legislation passed,\" Eavenson said. \n \"Who is that state senator? I want to hear his name. We'll destroy his career,\" Trump said, prompting laughter. \n Eavenson said he appreciated Trump's sentiment. \n \"He was making a point about how much he opposed that kind of philosophy,\" the sheriff said. \"I appreciated what the president said. I can assure you that he is on our side.\" \n The conversation focused on border security and immigration, mental health and the jail population, and asset forfeiture. \n The latter topic was the one discussed by Eavenson, a sheriff for 16 years. He's concerned about state legislation that would make it harder to seize assets involved in the drug trade, and said the state senator pushing in that direction is misinformed. \n \"Some people sold him a bill of goods about the fact that just regular citizens are getting stopped, getting their money seized. I'm not saying that has never happened, but I promise you it is in the minuscule minority,\" the sheriff said, adding that there are state and federal procedures in place to protect the innocent. \"It doesn't take long to connect the dots when you make a score and then maybe a dog gets on their car, and that money's been around dope.\" \n The president also vowed during the meeting to stop terrorism and to push hard in courts to reinstate executive orders blocking refugees and halting entry from seven Muslim countries. \n \"They want to take a lot of our powers away. Some people with the wrong intentions,\" he said, reiterating his vow to secure the border to keep out drugs and immigrants. \"We're committed to securing our borders. \u2026 We're going to be building a wall.\" \n Before the president arrived, Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway chatted with Eavenson and Sheriff Carolyn Welsh of Chester County, Pa. \u2014 the only female sheriff on hand and treasurer of the National Sheriffs' Association. \n Conway \u2014 a regular on cable news programs throughout the campaign, the transition and the new administration \u2014 chatted with Sheriff Richard Stanek of Hennepin County, Minn. The sheriff seemed unclear who she was. \n \"What's your first name?\" he asked. \"Kellyanne,\" she replied. \n Once he arrived, Trump used the platform \u2014 and the assembled media \u2014 to continue his media-bashing crusade, announcing that in his view, sheriffs don't get the news coverage they deserve. \n \"The sheriffs are good people,\" he said. \n As he went around the room seeking input from the sheriffs, Trump asserted that the country's murder rate is the highest it's been in 45 to 47 years \u2014 a debunked claim based on faulty math. Nationally, the annual murder rate jumped from 2014 to 2015 by the highest percentage since 1971, but the number of murders annually peaked in the early 1990s, and the per capita murder rate peaked in 1980. \n Trump singled out Chicago, saying that the city is worse than some war-torn parts of the Middle East. \n As for immigration, Trump said, \"you're not allowed to use the phrase 'silent majority' anymore,\" but if that majority were to express its demands for a new immigration policy, \"you would see a real protest.\" \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Trump offers to 'destroy' Texas state senator to help sheriff"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman carries an umbrella as she crosses a street with children in San Francisco, Tuesday, Feb. 7, 2017. Flash flood watches are in place for parts of Northern California down through the Central Coast as heavy rains swamp roads and threaten to overtop rivers and creeks. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Emergency crews in the San Francisco Bay Area rescued stranded residents from flooded homes and cars Tuesday as the latest storm in this wet California winter set off street flooding and rockslides. \n In Marin County north of San Francisco, authorities sounded the community emergency siren at 8 a.m. when heavy rain and high tide started to send roaring Corte Madera Creek over its banks at the town of Kentfield. \n Flooding affected about 1,000 residents, Marin County Fire Battalion Chief Bret McTigue said. Emergency crews in boats and on foot carried out seven rescues for people trapped in their homes or cars as the water rose. About 40 homes had substantial amounts of water in them, McTigue said. \n \"This storm packed the biggest punch \u2026 of all the storms we had this year,\" McTigue said. \n South of San Francisco, one of several rockslides and mudslides overturned a pickup truck on a state route near Santa Cruz. \n The National Weather Service said more than an inch of rain could fall in the region this week. \n In the state capital, the Sacramento River was expected to swell to just a few feet below flood stage. \n The storm also whipped up strong winds, with gusts topping 50 mph throughout the San Joaquin Valley and into Southern California. \n The rain total in downtown Los Angeles since October \u2014 the start of the wet season \u2014 hit about 15\u00bd inches and already exceeds the normal amount for an entire year, the weather service said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sirens and rescues as new storm hits Northern California"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gather for a protest in Bucharest, Romania. Romania's president Klaus Iohannis told lawmakers Tuesday the country is in a \"fully-fledged\" political crisis, after hundreds of thousands demonstrated against a government measure that would weaken the country's anti-corruption drive. \n BUCHAREST, Romania >> Romania's president told lawmakers Tuesday that the country is in a \"fully-fledged\" political crisis, after hundreds of thousands demonstrated against a government measure that would weaken the country's anti-corruption drive. \n In an address to Parliament, President Klaus Iohannis, a critic of the two-month-old government, said the majority of Romanians now believed the country was going in the wrong direction. \n \"Romania needs a government that is transparent, which governs predictably by the light of day, not sneakily at night,\" the president said, referring to the late hour the government passed an emergency ordinance last week aimed at decriminalizing some forms of official corruption. \n The move \u2014 which bypassed Parliament and was not signed off by Iohannis, who has limited powers \u2014 ignited the biggest protests seen since communism ended in the country in 1989. As a result, the government will now seek to introduce the plan in Parliament. \n Thousands gathered for the eighth consecutive evening in Victory Square outside the government offices, shouting \"Social Democratic Party, the red plague!\" and \"Resign!\" In smaller numbers, about 2,000 protesters gathered outside the presidential palace yelling \"Get out, you traitor!\" \n Iohannis, who was elected in 2014 by direct vote, was chairman of the opposition Liberal Party. He quit the party that year to stand as president. \n He has been critical of the government headed by Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu, which came into being after the December parliamentary elections. \n The government \"has been saying publicly I can't stomach the result of the vote \u2026 that I'd overturn a legitimate government,\" Iohannis said. \"That's false. You won, now govern and legislate, but not at any price.\" \n Some lawmakers booed and shouted \"shame on you!\" at Iohannis and walked out. Other lawmakers cheered. \n Despite the crisis, Iohannis said Romania didn't need early elections, a view the government shares. \n Liviu Dragnea, chairman of the governing Social Democratic Party, and Senate speaker Calin Popescu Tariceanu refused to greet the president when he arrived at Parliament. \n In his speech, Iohannis pressed ahead with an earlier initiative to hold a referendum on another government initiative to pardon prisoners. Critics say the proposal will help government allies convicted of corruption. \n Dragnea, the main power broker behind the government, expressed disappointment Iohannis did not deliver a \"speech of unity,\" and said \"he should leave the government alone, to govern.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Romania protests endure as president says country in crisis"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fire set by demonstrators protesting a scheduled speaking appearance by Breitbart News editor Milo Yiannopoulos burns on Sproul Plaza on the University of California, Berkeley campus. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> University of California, Berkeley police took a hands-off approach to protesters on the campus last week when violent rioters caused chaos when they overtook a largely peaceful protest against a controversial speaker, but that response by campus officers is being questioned amid widening political polarization and increasingly hostile demonstrators. \n Last week's protest featured \"Black Bloc\" tactics employed by mask-wearing protesters dressed head-to-toe in dark clothing and using crude weapons to vandalize property. \n While officers largely stood to the side, about 150 people labeled \"agitators\" by Berkeley police used metal rods, Molotov cocktails and commercial-grade fireworks to overwhelm police and smash bank branch and storefront windows in downtown Berkeley.' \n They also lit raging fires in a rampage that caused more than $100,000 damage while protesting the scheduled appearance of right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos on Feb. 1, whose appearance was canceled while he was evacuated from campus in a bullet-proof jacket. \n Only one person was arrested in the mayhem that injured six people \u2014 prompting criticism of training for campus police at the entire University of California system that emphasizes officer restraint and patience during protest in the name of protecting students' free speech rights. \n \"The UC 'hands-off' approach was to the citizens' detriment and the officers' detriment in this situation,\" said John Bakhit, a lawyer for the union representing about 400 of the system's police officers. \n Officers should have been given more discretion to prevent the vandalism and violence and make arrests at the Berkeley protests, Bakhit said. \n \"The frustrating thing for the police officers is that they weren't allowed to do their jobs,\" he said. \n Berkeley Police Sgt. Sabrina Reich defended the response, saying officers feared increased violence and more serious injuries if the violence escalated accompanied by a heavier-handed police response. Investigators are reviewing extensive video taken during the protest and more arrests are possible, she said. \n Several officers did fire paint-ball like guns to mark rioters for detention and their possible arrest, she said. But if officers had made more arrests at the scene, up to three officers would have had to give up crowd control duty to escort each suspected rioter to jail, Reich said. \n \"It was a crowd-control situation,\" Reich said. \"We steered clear of individual action.\" \n Berkeley campus police had never encountered Black Bloc tactics before Wednesday, Reich said, \"something we'll have to prepare for and address going forward.\" \n More mayhem and serious injuries could have happened if police had mounted an aggressive crackdown, said Berkeley spokesman Dan Mogulof, who called the protest unprecedented for the campus. \n Protesters wearing similar attire used similar tactics during President Donald Trump's Washington, D.C. inauguration last month and have taken similar approaches against police at other demonstrations. \n Officials warned of the threats of violence ahead of the Yiannopoulos event, said California state Assemblyman Travis Allen, a Republican who criticized Chancellor Nicholas Dirks for failing to properly prepare for the protest. \n The rioting, Allen said, was \"a direct result of the permissive attitude of the University's faculty and administration.\" \n Mogulof countered that a mass effort by officers to target the 150 violent protesters mixed in with a much larger group of peaceful protesters would not have worked and could have turned the incident into a tragedy. \n \"If people think police could wade into a crowd of 1,500 to arrest 150 armed infiltrators they're dreaming,\" he said. \"There would have been conflict and there would have been violence and near guarantee that our students would have been injured.\" \n However, Mogulof said university badministrators and police are looking into \"possible changes that would not preclude controversial speakers but that would minimize the destruction.\" \n Campus security and free speech rights experts said it is difficult for officers to keep the peace at protests while ensuring free speech is guaranteed. \n \"It can be tough,\" said Robert Shipley, executive director of the Philadelphia-based Foundation for Individual Rights in Education. \"Campus police need to be as restrained while still getting the job done.\" \n The University of California system adopted its current crowd control polices after officers at Berkeley and the University of California, Davis, came under blistering national criticism in 2011 for their tactics. \n That November, baton-wielding Berkeley police beat students erecting tents on campus and arrested more than 20 during the Occupy demonstrations against corruption, greed and the divide between rich and poor. Davis campus police were seen on video using pepper spray on students nonviolently participating in the Occupy rallies. \n University of California responded with a report recommending 49 police tactic changes which were later adopted throughout the university system and urged campus officer to protect students' peaceful protest rights. \n Berkeley campus police may soon face another test because Yiannopoulos plans to return to Berkeley to give the speech he was \"prevented from delivering.\" \n \"Hopefully within the next few months,\" he wrote Saturday on Facebook. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Berkeley probes 'hands-off' police response to protest chaos"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this recent but undated photo made available by Virgin.com, former President Barack Obama kitesurfed during his stay on Moskito Island, British Virgin Islands. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this recent but undated photo made available by Virgin.com, former President Barack Obama prepared to kitesurf during his stay on Moskito Island, British Virgin Islands. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this recent but undated photo made available by Virgin.com, former President Barack Obama, joked with Richard Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, during his stay on Moskito Island, British Virgin Islands. \n NECKER ISLAND, British Virgin Islands >> Former President Barack Obama, and his wife, Michelle, have spent some time vacationing with Richard Branson since leaving the White House. \n The Virgin Group founder put up a blog post with pictures and video of the ex-president kitesurfing off one of Branson's private islands in the British Virgin Islands. Branson writes that Obama, who's a native of Hawaii, told him he was prevented from surfing by his security detail during his time in office. \n Branson says after spending a couple days learning to kitesurf, Obama bested the billionaire in a watersport challenge. \n He says inviting the Obamas to his island was \"a huge honor.\" \n Obama spent his first days after leaving Washington vacationing in Palm Springs, California. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obamas join Richard Branson for private island getaway"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump had lunch with troops while visiting U.S. Central Command and U.S. Special Operations Command at MacDill Air Force Base, Fla. on Monday. Trump, who spent the weekend at Mar-a-Lago, stopped for a visit to the headquarters before returning to Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Pleading for a repeal of a law that strictly limits defense spending, a panel of four-star military officers warned lawmakers today that the fiscal constraints are crippling the military's ability to respond to threats around the world. \n Appearing before the House Armed Services Committee, the officers delivered a message that appears to grow grimmer each time it's delivered. It echoed President Donald Trump who promised to reinvest in a \"depleted\" military although annual defense spending is more than $600 billion. \n \"You've been lacking a little equipment, we're going to load it up. You're going to get a lot of equipment,\" Trump said at Central Command on Monday. \n Each of the military services have delivered to Congress plans for increasing the 2017 defense budget by more than $30 billion to acquire new jet fighters, armored vehicles, improved training and more. The informal proposals, obtained by The Associated Press, represent the first attempt by Trump's Defense Department to halt the erosion of the military's combat readiness. The shortfalls outlined in the documents may provide Trump and the national security hawks in Congress with a powerful incentive to strike the caps on military spending. \n Adm. William Moran, the vice chief of naval operations, says more than half of all Navy aircraft are grounded because they're awaiting maintenance or lack needed spare parts. The figure is even higher for the service's front line F/A-18 fighter jets, according to Moran. \n Gen. Daniel Allyn, the Army's vice chief of staff, told the panel that only three of the Army's more than 50 brigade combat teams have all the troops, training and equipment needed to fight at a moment's notice. \n Portions of the plans will likely be included in the formal supplemental budget for 2017 that the Trump administration is sending to Capitol Hill soon. \n The Marine Corps, arguing for a $4.2 billion boost to its 2017 budget, warned that the \"nation's force in readiness\" will have to continue shifting money intended for new weapons to pay current bills. \n \"As near-peer competitors probe the limits of American retrenchment and the operational environment grows more complex, the Marine Corps of today is largely optimized for the past and sacrificing modernization to sustain current readiness,\" the service's budget amendment reads. \n The Navy's request totals $12 billion in additional spending and asks for 24 F/A-18E/F Super Hornet fighters, one San Antonio-class amphibious landing dock ship, and dozens more Sidewinder missiles. \n Without more money, the 2017 fiscal year \u2014 which ends Sept. 30 \u2014 \"is projected to have a significant shortfall in afloat readiness,\" according to the Navy document. \n The Budget Control Act of 2011 set limits on how much could be spent on defense through 2021 while exempting money provided for overseas warfighting operations. Between 2011 and 2014, the Pentagon's budget fell by more than $100 billion. Across-the-board spending limits known in Washington-speak as sequestration were triggered in 2013, forcing reductions that led to widespread concern the military services would be unprepared to fight the nation's wars. \n The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 provided temporary relief from the cuts, but unless the law is changed the limits will return in the 2018 budget year and would force defense budgets to levels far lower than the Pentagon says are prudent. If the budget caps are breached, automatic spending reductions would be triggered. Money provided for warfighting operations is exempt from the caps. \n That prospect unnerves the top Pentagon brass. Gen. Stephen Wilson, the vice chief of staff of the Air Force, told the committee the service's \"advantage over potential adversaries is shrinking.\" Wilson said the average Air Force aircraft is 27 years old and more than half of the inventory would qualify for antique vehicle license plates in the state of Virginia. \n The Republican chairmen of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees, Rep. Mac Thornberry of Texas and Sen. John McCain of Arizona, are pushing for a base military budget of $640 billion in 2018 \u2014 a nearly $100 billion increase over the amount authorized for the 2017 fiscal year. Thornberry says Republican plans to rein in federal spending in other areas, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and overhauling the tax code will generate savings that can be funneled into defense. \n But the push to dramatically increase defense spending could run into stiff resistance from fiscal conservatives, who have argued any budget savings should be used for deficit reduction. The picture will get even murkier if Trump holds to his campaign pledge to reduce taxes and protect entitlement programs from cuts. Democrats, meanwhile, will demand dollar-for-dollar hikes for domestic programs, further complicating efforts to add tens of billions of dollars in military spending. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Military leaders say budget caps are crippling armed forces"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nazanin Zinouri, 29, is greeted at the Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport in Greer, S.C., with kisses from her dog Dexter and well-wishers holding signs reading \"Welcome Home.\" Zinouri, an Iranian engineer and Clemson University graduate, had been unable to return to the United States because of the executive order President Donald Trump signed that limited travel to the U.S. from seven Muslim-majority countries. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> President Donald Trump's travel ban faced its toughest test yet today as a panel of appeals court judges hammered away at the government's arguments that the ban was motivated by terrorism fears but also directed pointed questions to an attorney who claimed it unconstitutionally targeted Muslims. \n The contentious hearing before three judges on the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals focused narrowly on whether a restraining order issued by a lower court should remain in effect while a challenge to the ban proceeds. But the judges also jumped into the larger constitutional questions surrounding Trump's order, which temporarily suspended the nation's refugee program and immigration from seven mostly Muslim countries that have raised terrorism concerns. \n The hearing was conducted by phone \u2014 an unusual step \u2014 and broadcast live from the court's website to a record audience. \n Judge Richard Clifton, a George W. Bush nominee, asked an attorney representing Washington state and Minnesota, which are challenging the ban, what evidence he had that the ban was motivated by religion. \n \"I have trouble understanding why we're supposed to infer religious animus when in fact the vast majority of Muslims would not be affected.\" \n Only 15 percent of the world's Muslims were affected, the judge said, citing his own calculations. He added that the \"concern for terrorism from those connected to radical Islamic sects is hard to deny.\" \n Noah Purcell, Washington state's solicitor general, cited public statements by Trump calling for a ban on the entry of Muslims to the U.S. He said the states did not have to show every Muslim is harmed, only that the ban was motivated by religious discrimination. \n Clifton also went after the government's attorney, asking whether he denied statements by Trump and former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who said recently that Trump asked him to create a plan for a Muslim ban. \n \"We're not saying the case shouldn't proceed, but we are saying that it is extraordinary for a court to enjoin the president's national security decision based on some newspaper articles,\" said August Flentje, who argued the case for the Justice Department. \n Under questioning from Clifton, Flentje did not dispute that Trump and Giuliani made the statements. \n Judge Michelle T. Friedland, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, asked whether the government has any evidence connecting the seven nations to terrorism. \n Flentje told the judges that the case was moving fast and the government had not yet included evidence to support the ban. Flentje cited a number of Somalis in the U.S. who, he said, had been connected to the al-Shabab terrorist group. \n The ban has upended travel to the U.S. for more than a week and tested the new administration's use of executive power. \n The live broadcast of the oral arguments on the court's YouTube site had 137,000 connections \u2014 by far the largest audience for an oral argument since the 9th Circuit began live streaming about two years ago, said David Madden, a spokesman for the court. Some news outlets also carried the live stream. \n Whatever the court eventually decides, either side could ask the Supreme Court to intervene. \n The government asked the appeals court to restore Trump's order, saying that the president alone has the power to decide who can enter or stay in the United States. Several states insist that it is unconstitutional. \n The judges repeatedly questioned Flentje on why the states should not be able to sue on behalf of their residents or on behalf of their universities, which have complained about students and faculty getting stranded overseas. \n Purcell said that restraining order has not harmed the U.S. government. Instead, he told the panel, Trump's order had harmed Washington state residents by splitting up families, holding up students trying to travel for their studies and preventing people from visiting family abroad. \n A decision by the 9th Circuit was likely to come later this week, Madden said. \n Trump said Tuesday that he cannot believe his administration has to fight in the courts to uphold his ban, a policy he says will protect the country. \n \"And a lot of people agree with us, believe me,\" Trump said at a round table discussion with members of the National Sheriff's Association. \"If those people ever protested, you'd see a real protest. But they want to see our borders secure and our country secure.\" \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly told lawmakers that the order probably should have been delayed at least long enough to brief Congress about it. \n If the case does end up before the Supreme Court, it could prove difficult to find the necessary five votes to undo a lower court order. The Supreme Court has been at less than full strength since Justice Antonin Scalia's death a year ago. The last immigration case that reached the justices ended in a 4-4 tie. \n How and when a case might get to the Supreme Court is unclear. The travel ban itself is to expire in 90 days, meaning it could run its course before a higher court takes up the issue. Or the administration could change it in any number of ways that would keep the issue alive. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Appeals court hammers on government arguments for travel ban"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n About 100 people at the Honolulu International Airport, on Jan. 29, held signs to greet travelers and protest President Donald Trump's executive order to ban immigration from seven predominately Muslim nations. A federal judge in Honolulu is suspending Hawaii's lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump's travel ban on people from seven majority-Muslim countries. \n A federal judge in Honolulu is suspending Hawaii's lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump's travel ban on people from seven majority-Muslim countries. \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson today granted the government's request for a stay. He's halting the case while a nationwide injunction remains in place in a suit brought by Washington state and Minnesota. \n Washington state and Minnesota sued Trump last week, saying the ban harms residents and effectively mandates discrimination. The case is before the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. \n Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin filed a lawsuit Friday, saying the ban keeps families apart and harms the state's tourism industry. \n Watson's order cancels a hearing scheduled for Wednesday in the Hawaii lawsuit. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge issues stay on Hawaii Trump travel ban lawsuit"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "COURTESY WEST HAWAII TODAY \n A cyclist rides past a vacation rental on Alii Drive. Each Hawaii county has different rules for vacation rental and bed-and-breakfast properties. \n A Hawaii House committee today passed two bills that would allow the state to collect more tax revenue from the state's proliferating vacation rental and bed-and-breakfast properties while the state's counties figure out how to regulate them. \n The committee passed two bills that would allow vacation rental websites such as Airbnb to collect taxes on behalf of short-term rental operators who list their properties online. Operators must currently pay their own taxes. \n State House Tourism Committee Chairman Rep. Richard Onishi said he's aiming for legislation that would collect taxes and make sure short-term rentals are legal under state and county law. \n Airbnb and an internet industry representative testified against one bill that would require websites to take down rental listings that fail to comply with local laws. They argued federal law does not require websites to police user postings. \n Hotel companies and unions testified in favor of this bill. \n The bills must still be heard by other House committees. State Senate committees have scheduled a hearing on similar bills later this week. \n Each Hawaii county has different rules for short-term rentals. But Honolulu County, which covers Oahu, has not issued new permits since 1989 even though such places are increasingly popular with travelers. \n Hawaii Tourism Authority data from last year shows 7 percent more visitors stayed in vacation homes in Hawaii last year compared to the year before. That outpaced the 3.5 percent increase in visitors staying in hotels. \n Only about 800 short-term rental properties on Oahu have permits, even though thousands of vacation rental properties are advertised online. \n Gov. David Ige vetoed similar legislation last year out of concern it would facilitate illegal rentals. He said encouraging people to rent to visitors instead of residents could exacerbate Hawaii's severe housing shortage and homelessness crisis. \n Ige spokeswoman Cindy McMillan said it was too early to comment on specific measures this year. She said the governor's main concern is that many vacation rental owners may not comply with county land-use laws. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii lawmakers consider legislation on short-term rentals"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump saluted a Marine honor guard as he disembarked from Marine One upon arrival at the White House in Washington, Monday, from a trip to Florida. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump made an unsupported assertion Monday that terrorist acts in Europe are going unreported. A look at the matter: \n As for Trump's claim about Europe, it's probably true that you haven't heard of every attack on the continent that can be tied to terrorism. Scores if not hundreds happen every year. Many don't rise to the level of an international audience because they cause no casualties, or little or no property damage, or are carried out by unknown assailants for unclear reasons. \n One exhaustive list is the Global Terrorism Database, maintained by the University of Maryland. It lists 321 episodes of suspected or known terrorism in Western Europe alone in 2015. Many are anti-Muslim attacks against mosques, not the brand of terrorism Trump has expressed concern about. Many are attacks undertaken for right-wing or left-wing causes that have nothing to do with Islamic extremism or xenophobic attacks on mosques. \n Among examples from 2015 that were largely under the radar of Americans: \n \u2014On Oct. 24, assailants set fire to the residence of a Socialist Justice Party member in Gothenburg, Sweden, one of series of attacks against the party that day. \n \u2014On Sept. 13, assailants set fire to the Whitton Methodist Church hall in Richmond, England, with no reported casualties and no one immediately claiming responsibility. \n \u2014On Jan. 17, gunmen opened fire on patrons at a bar in Londonderry, Northern Ireland, causing no casualties. Dissident Republicans were thought to have been behind the attack. \n The database defines a terrorist act as one aimed at attaining political, religious, social or economic goals through coercion or intimidation of the public, outside acts of war. \n The devastating attacks by Islamic extremists that year are also on the list, among them the murderous assault on the Paris offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, and the even bloodier attack at Paris' Bataclan concert hall, the worst in a series of killings in one day. Those attacks and other deadly ones in Europe received saturation coverage for days. \n But even the smaller, non-lethal acts of terrorism received coverage: The database itself is built from media reports. \n THE WALKBACK \n Trump made his claim before a broad audience on live television, while speaking at Central Command headquarters in Florida. \n On Air Force One, before a smaller audience, Trump spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump did not really mean that terrorist attacks received no coverage. Trump's actual complaint, he said, was that such acts don't get enough attention. \n \"He felt that members of media don't always cover some of those events to the extent that other events might get covered,\" Spicer said. \"Like a protest gets blown out of the water, and yet an attack or a foiled attack doesn't necessarily get the same coverage.\" \n The White House later released a list of 78 worldwide attacks it described as \"executed or inspired by\" IS. Most on the list did not get sufficient media attention, the White House said, without specifying which ones it considered underreported. \n Attacks on the list that had high death tolls were given blanket coverage, such as the Brussels bombings in March, the San Bernadino, California, shootings in December 2015, and the Paris attacks in November 2015. Some with a smaller death toll, such as two attacks in Canada that killed one soldier each, were covered at the time and well known. \n The White House did not point to any examples supporting Trump's contention that terrorist attacks were \"not even being reported.\" Less than half of the 78 incidents the White House listed occurred in Europe. \n Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: No evidence that media ignores terror attacks"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICEAustin \n Austin Fernandez, 22, of Volcano was charged Thursday with first-degree theft, accomplice to first-degree theft, unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle and violating terms of probation. His bail was set at $36,000. \n A 22-year-old Volcano man has been charged in connection with the theft of four vehicles from an auto dealership in Kona. \n Austin Fernandez was charged Thursday with first-degree theft, accomplice to first-degree theft, unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle and violating terms of probation. His bail was set at $36,000. \n On Jan. 25, police said a 2016 Toyota Tacoma, 2014 Nissan coupe, 2011 Acura sedan and a 2013 Volkswagen sedan were stolen from the dealership located on the 75-600 block of Kuakini Highway. \n Police said Fernandez was observed operating the stolen Toyota. \n Another man, Kahekili Krause, 18, of Mountain View has been charged in connection with the auto thefts. \n All four vehicles have since been recovered. \n Police are continuing their investigation into the thefts. Anyone with information is asked to call the police department's non-emergency line at 935-3311 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Second man charged in auto theft from Big Isle dealership"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "Big Island police are renewing their appeal to the public for information on a 1997 unsolved murder involving a 27-year-old man. \n The body of Sean Burgado was discovered on May 21 at his Malaai Road home in upper Waiakea Uka. An autopsy determined he died from a gunshot wound to his chest. Police said his death was ruled a homicide. \n According to the Hawaii Police Department, Burgado's employer called an acquaintance of Burgado because he was worried about him after Burgado failed to show up for work for several days. \n Burgado, who worked at a health care facility, was last seen on the night of May 19 when he left the facility at the end of his shift. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle police seek information on cold case murder"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Emi Erickson surfed the Maui break \"Jaws\" today in Haiku in November. \n The National Weather Service has issued a high surf warning for most of the Hawaiian islands. \n The warning is in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for the north shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui as well as the north and west shores of Kauai County. \n The weather service said waves on the north shores are expected to peak at 20 to 25 feet later today through Wednesday. \n Waves of 13 to 18 feet on the west shores are also expected for Kauai and Niihau. \n Forecasters warn the public of high surf conditions that could impact roadways, especially during high tide tonight through Wednesday. \n The weather service also cautioned beachgoers of strong rip currents and ocean waters expected to sweep across beaches. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf warning in effect for most islands"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence presided over the Senate on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, during the Senate's vote on Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos. The Senate confirmed DeVos with Pence breaking a 50-50 tie. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testified on Capitol Hill, on Jan. 17, in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. The Senate was poised today, to confirm Devos by the narrowest possible margin, with Vice President Mike Pence expected to break a 50-50 tie, despite a last-ditch effort by Democrats to sink the nomination. \n WASHINGTON >> The Senate today confirmed school choice advocate Betsy DeVos as Education secretary by the narrowest of margins, with Vice President Mike Pence breaking a 50-50 tie in a historic vote. \n Two Republicans joined Democrats in the unsuccessful effort to derail the nomination of the wealthy Republican donor. The Senate historian said Pence's vote was the first by a vice president to break a tie on a Cabinet nomination. \n Democrats cited her lack of public school experience and financial interests in organizations pushing charter schools. DeVos has said she would divest herself from those organizations. \n Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska fear that DeVos' focus on charter schools will undermine remote public schools in their states. \n Despite the win, DeVos emerges bruised from the highly divisive nomination process. She has faced criticism, even ridicule for her stumbles and confusion during her confirmation hearing and scathing criticism from teachers unions and civil rights activists over her support of charter schools and her conservative religious beliefs. \n But President Donald Trump remained uncompromising and accused Democrats of seeking to torpedo education progress. In a tweet before the vote, he wrote: \"Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!\" \n \"We are just within one vote of sending this nomination back and asking the president to send us a nominee that can be supported by members on both sides of the aisle, that can set a vision that can fight for public schools, that can be that champion,\" Murray said. \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said DeVos will seek to empower states, not federal bureaucrats, to make important education decisions. \n \"I know that she is committed to improving our education system so that every child \u2014 every child \u2014 has a brighter future,\" McConnell said ahead of the vote. \n Emotions ran high ahead of the vote as constituents jammed senators' phone lines with calls and protesters gathered outside the Capitol, including one person in a grizzly bear costume to ridicule DeVos' comment during her confirmation hearing that some schools might want guns to protect against grizzlies. Her opponents also charge that DeVos has no experience to run public schools, having never attended one or sent her children to a public school. \n DeVos has provided few details about her policy agenda, but she is sure to have a busy job. She will have to weigh in on the implementation of the Every Student Succeeds Act and possibly undo some of the previous administration's regulation initiatives on school accountability and spending, which have been criticized by Republicans as federal overreach. Rules on such things as accountability already have been on hold. \n She will have to address several hot-button issues in higher education, such as rising tuition costs, growing student debt and the troubled for-profit colleges, many of which have closed down, leaving students with huge loans and without a good education or job prospects. Observers will pay close attention to how DeVos deals with sexual assault and freedom of speech on campuses. \n DeVos will also have to react to Trump's campaign proposal of funneling $20 billion of public funds toward school vouchers. \n In addition to DeVos, Republicans hope to confirm a series of other divisive nominees this week: Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions as attorney general, GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as health secretary and financier Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary. \n In each case, Democrats intend to use the maximum time allowed under the Senate's arcane rules to debate the nominations, which may result in late-night votes this week and delay Mnuchin's approval until Saturday. \n Republicans complain that previous presidents have been able to put their Cabinets in place more quickly. Democrats say it's Trump's fault because many of his nominees have complicated financial arrangements and ethical entanglements they claim they have not had enough time to dissect. Thus far, six Cabinet and high-level officials have been confirmed, including the secretaries of state, defense, homeland security and transportation. \n The clash over nominees has created a toxic atmosphere in the Senate that mirrors the tense national mood since Trump's election, with Democrats boycotting committee votes and Republicans unilaterally jamming nominees through committee without Democrats present. Yet there's little suspense about the final outcome on any of the nominees because Democrats themselves changed Senate rules when they were in the majority several years ago so that Cabinet nominees can now be approved with a simple majority, not the 60 votes previously required. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos confirmed as Education secretary as Pence breaks tie"}

{"date": "February 7, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Twitter logo appeared on a phone post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in Oct. 2015. Twitter today said it is taking more steps to clamp down on hate speech and abuse on its social networking service. \n NEW YORK >> Twitter has broadened its campaign against hate speech and abuse. \n The company said today that it has begun identifying people who have been banned for abusive behavior and it will stop them from creating new accounts. In July, the company banned conservative provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, an editor of the right-wing site Breitbart News, for \"participating in or inciting targeted abuse of individuals.\" \n But the company had been under fire for failing, for nearly a decade since its founding, to address hate and abuse on the site. Balancing its reputation as a free speech haven has at times come into conflict with efforts to protect users. \n Twitter also said today that it is creating a \"safe search\" feature that removes tweets with potentially sensitive content and tweets from blocked and muted accounts from search results. The tweets will still exist on Twitter if people look for them, but won't appear in general search results. \n Twitter is also singling out and collapsing potentially abusive and \"low-quality\" replies so only the most relevant conversations surface. These replies will also be accessible to those who seek them out, but Twitter is making them less visible. \n The company says the changes will be implemented in the coming weeks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Twitter broadens its campaign against hate and abuse"}

