{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "Embattled Hawaii telecommunications company Sandwich Isles Communications now faces more than $49 million in fines that are being proposed by the Federal Communications Commission for allegedly misusing federal funds, according to the federal agency. \n Sandwich Isles is also being required to repay another $27.3 million in federal funds for allegedly violating the rules of the FCC's \"high-cost\" program between 2002 and 2015, according to an announcement by the FCC. The high-cost program is designed to support telecommunications companies that operate in rural or other high-cost areas. \n After a vote on Monday, the FCC announced the proposed fine, which is formally known as a Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture. Sandwich Isles will have a chance to respond to the ruling before any final action is taken on the fine, according to the FCC. \n Al Hee, the founder of the company, was sent to prison earlier this year after he was convicted of federal tax evasion. \n Sandwich Isles holds the exclusive license to provide telecommunications services on Hawaiian homelands, but the FCC last year suspended millions of dollars in federal subsidies to the company while it audited spending by the company. \n The state Department of Hawaiian Home Lands announced last year that Hee's conviction had prompted a \"review and assessment\" by the department to determine whether Hee's legal problems could affect services for homesteaders, but the department has never made public the results of that review. \n U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, issued a statement tonight saying that he supports the FCC's effort to \"combat waste, fraud, and abuse of the Universal Service Fund by Sandwich Isles Communications,\" adding, \"The mishandling of these funds is morally and legally unacceptable, and I expect SIC to fully comply with the order without disruptions in service or additional costs to their customers on Hawaiian Home Lands.\" \n The proposed fine and the demand for repayment revolve around the use of Universal Service Funds, which are generated from money collected from telecommunications customers across the country. Sandwich Isles has received hundreds of millions of dollars in Universal Service Funds since it began operations. \n The proposed fines follow an investigation by the FCC's Enforcement Bureau's Universal Service Fund Strike Force. The commission announced a proposed fine of $49,598,448 on Sandwich Isles, its parent company Waimana Enterprises, and Hee. \n Sandwich Isles is accused of violating the commission's accounting rules, and submitting inaccurate data that was used to obtain millions of dollars in improper high-cost support payments, according to a statement Monday from the commission. This is the FCC's first enforcement action in the high-cost program, according to the commission. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "FCC fines Sandwich Isles Communications nearly $50 million"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Twitter sign outside of its headquarters in San Francisco. \n The Rio Olympics, the American presidential election and Pokemon Go were the top global trends on Twitter in 2016.  \n The social media site says Rio2016 was the most tweeted-about topic around the world, followed by Election2016 and PokemonGo. Euro2016, Oscars, Brexit, Trump and BlackLivesMatter also made the top 10. \n A Spanish gamer known as elrubius originated the year's most popular tweet: It reads \"Limonada\" (lemonade) and was re-tweeted more than 1.3 million times. One Direction's Harry Styles had the second most-repeated post \u2014 quoting a Taylor Swift song \u2014 with more than 700,000 retweets. A postelection tweet from Hillary Clinton encouraging little girls to recognize their power and seize opportunities was the third most popular of the year with 634,560 retweets. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rio2016, Election2016, PokemonGo top Twitter trends"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "LEILA FUJIMORI / LFUJIMORI@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Apickup truck struck a 6-month-old boy and a 3-year-old boy Monday evening in a crosswalk on Kalanianaole Highway at Wailea Street near the Waimanalo Beach Park. \n The 6-month-old boy who was taken to a hospital in critical condition after he, his mother and a 3-year old boy were struck by a vehicle in Waimanalo has died, according to the baby's aunt. \n The mother is grieving and the 3-year-old boy is fighting for his life, said Genevieve Kalahiki during a phone interview from Las Vegas. \"We just pray over the doctors and the nurses to try to do their best.\" \n Police arrested Annie Akau, 26, of Waimanalo last night in connection with the hit-and-run accident involving the trio. \n Akau was arrested at her home Monday at 11:30 p.m. on suspicion of negligent injury, operating a vehicle under the influence of an intoxicant, driving without a license, endangering the welfare of a minor and other offenses. \n At about 6:46 p.m., police said the woman was traveling westbound on Kalanianaole Highway in a white 1997 Chevy S-10 pickup truck with a 38-year-old man when she struck the family who was crossing the roadway in a marked crosswalk near Oluolu Street. \n The truck then sideswiped a silver 2010 Honda Elantra driven by a 36-year-old Kailua man who had stopped on the eastbound lane to allow the family to cross. \n The truck then stopped and Akau fled the scene, leaving the truck behind. Police also arrested the 38-year-old man for hindering prosecution. \n About five hours later, officers located Akau at her home. \n Police said speed and alcohol are factors. \n The 24-year-old woman and 3-year-old boy were transported to Castle Medical Center and Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children, respectively, in serious condition. Police said the 6-month-old boy was transported to Castle Medical Center in \"extremely critical condition.\" \n Emergency Medical Services reported both the 6-month-old and 3-year-old were treated for head injuries. \n A baby stroller remained partially beneath the front of the truck while police investigated. \n \"I heard the screeching tires,\" said Lynn Mattson, 64, who lives behind the 7-Eleven. She said the infant \"was still stuck in the stroller in front of the truck. \u2026 The 3-year-old was lying on the corner in front of the crosswalk.\" \n Mattson said the family just had dinner at the father's mother's home. The mother was pushing the stroller with the baby and the father was walking right behind them. \n When she arrived, the father was yelling and the mother was screaming, Mattson said. \n She accompanied the father and got the baby out of the stroller. She held the baby because the father was so distraught. \n \"He was just a little thing,\" she said. \"All he was doing was gasping and vomiting.\" \n \"People just need to slow down,\" she said. \n She recalls at least two other accidents in the area, one fatal. \n Kalahiki said the area where her sister and her two children were hit is dark and doesn't have any street lights and no stop light at the crosswalk where the family was struck. \n She said she hopes the state Department of Transportation will install lights in the area. \"This is just ridiculous,\" she said. \"The Department of Transportation needs to something.\" \n \"I just don't want this to happen to anybody else,\" Kalihiki said. \n Kalahiki said they were on their way to 7-Eleven to get ice cream for the children when the family was struck by the pickup truck. \n Another woman said the new LED street lights make it difficult for drivers to see and believes that may have contributed to the crash and others. She said the community has complained to the Department of Transportation. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com and Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Baby dies after Waimanalo hit-and-run"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / MAY 27 \n U.S. President Barack Obama shook hands with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima, Japan. Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to visit the site of the world's first atomic bomb attack. \n TOKYO >> Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe won't apologize for Japan's attack when he visits the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor later this month, the government spokesman said Tuesday. \n Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said that \"the purpose of the upcoming visit is to pay respects for the war dead and not to offer an apology.\" \n Abe announced late Monday that he would have a summit meeting with President Barack Obama in Hawaii and visit Pearl Harbor. He will be the first Japanese leader to go to the site of the Japanese attack that propelled the United States into World War II. \n The unexpected announcement came two days before the 75th anniversary of the attack and six months after Obama became the first sitting American president to visit Hiroshima for victims of the U.S. atomic bombing of that city at the end of the same war. \n \"We must never repeat the tragedy of the war,\" Abe said. \"I would like to send this commitment. At the same time, I would like to send a message of reconciliation between Japan and the U.S.\" \n The White House confirmed that Obama and Abe would visit the USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 27. It said \"the two leaders' visit will showcase the power of reconciliation that has turned former adversaries into the closest of allies, united by common interests and shared values.\" \n Defense Secretary Ash Carter, on an official trip to Japan, said he would tell Abe at a meeting later Tuesday how pleased Obama and the U.S. are. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japanese leader Abe won't apologize at Pearl Harbor"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "LOS ANGELES >> The FBI and local law enforcement agencies say they have stepped up security on Los Angeles County's commuter rail system after the FBI was informed a terrorist attack on the Universal City subway station was planned for Tuesday.  \n Although the threat's credibility had not been confirmed, authorities were taking no chances, Deirdre Fike, assistant director of the FBI's Los Angeles office, told reporters tonight. \"Information was relayed this morning to the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force from our international partners that there was a potential threat from an anonymous phone call that was made on a public safety line,\" Fike said. \n The caller was very specific, telling authorities the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Universal City station was the target, she said. \n \"We are right now looking at the credibility of the threat,\" Fike said. \n Although authorities tend to receive more such threats during the holidays, she said, they chose to tell the public about this one because of its specificity and because the attack was threatened for the next day. \n The Universal City Red Line station is adjacent to Universal CityWalk, an area filled with restaurants, nightclubs and other entertainment activities and often crowded with tourists. Universal Studios and several high-rise hotel and office buildings are nearby. \n Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputies could be seen patrolling the area with dogs tonight. \n Mayor Eric Garcetti urged commuters to carry on with their normal activities Tuesday but to expect to see more security at every commuter rail stop in the region. \"In fact I'll be boarding the Red Line myself tomorrow morning at Universal City,\" he said. \n Police Chief Charlie Beck and Sheriff Jim McDonnell said stepped-up security would include additional uniformed officers, including some with dogs, as well as officers in plainclothes. \n \"This could be real, it could be a hoax. But we must remain calm but vigilant,\" McDonnell said. \n Both he and Beck encouraged anyone who sees anything suspicious to contact authorities immediately. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Security increased after threatened attack on LA rail stop"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "COURTESY NAOJ \n Hawaii's Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal by opponents of a giant telescope project on Mauna Kea. \n Hawaii's Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal by opponents of a giant telescope project on Mauna Kea. \n Contested-case hearings are still underway for the permit to build the telescope, but a group of opponents filed an appeal to the high court last month. They appealed various decisions, including time limits for parties to question witnesses. \n The court ruled Friday to dismiss the appeal for lack of appellate jurisdiction. The court didn't elaborate. \n Hawaii's land board urged the court to quickly dismiss the appeal. State lawyers called it premature because no decision has been made on whether the Thirty Meter Telescope will receive a construction permit. \n Telescope spokesman Scott Ishikawa said Monday project officials are pleased with the ruling. He says it shows that the process is fair. \n ", "author": "The Associated Press", "title": "TMT opponents lose Hawaii court appeal"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n The suspect is described caucasian and of stocky build, in his 50s. He has white hair and a white mustache, and walks with a \"distinct waddle,\" police said. \n Police are searching for suspects in three bank robberies, two of them committed back-to-back on Saturday possibly by the same man. \n On Saturday the Bank of Hawaii Chinatown branch at 101 North King Street was robbed at 10:15 a.m.; and the American Savings Bank, Walmart Branch, located at 700 Keeaumoku Street at 11:05 a.m. The First Hawaiian Bank, 1580 Kapiolani was robbed at about 2:30 p.m. Friday. \n On Saturday in Chinatown, a male handed a teller at Bank of Hawaii a demand note and stated that he had a weapon, police said. He fled on foot in an unknown direction with an undisclosed amount of money. He is described as caucasian, medium build, short gray hair, brown eyes and he was wearing a dark Polo shirt and aviator sunglasses. \n Then at about 11:05 a.m., a man handed an American Savings teller at Walmart a demand note, and fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of money. Similar to the earlier robbery suspect, he was described as a caucasian male of medium build with thinning black hair, brown eyes and wearing a dark colored Polo shirt and aviator glasses on his head. \n In the Friday robbery, police said the man handed a teller a note demanding money and indicating he had a weapon. He fled on foot on Kapiolani with an undisclosed amount of cash. The suspect is described caucasian and of stocky build, in his 50s. He has white hair and a white mustache, and walks with a \"distinct waddle,\" police said. \n Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on your cellular phone. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police looking for three bank robbery suspects"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "A 32-year-old woman who died while on a kayak tour on Wailua River Saturday has been identified as Aimee Abrahim of El Cajon, Calif. \n The Kauai Fire Department located Abrahim's body Sunday after she was swept out to the ocean while crossing a stream. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine the exact cause of death. \n A flash flood watch was in effect for all islands Saturday when the five-hour tour started at 1 p.m. Stream gauges showed significant rises and rainfall intensified, prompting the National Weather Service to issue a flash food warning for Kauai at 4 p.m., according to hydrologist Kevin Kodama of the National Weather Service. \n \"We're all devastated,\" said, Pete Fisher, owner and operator of the Kayak Wailua tour company. Fisher said the tour was about three-quarters finished when the weather dramatically changed. \n At about 5 p.m., Abrahim and her sister were crossing a shallow stream while holding a rope to get to the other side to return to the kayak. Fisher said there was rapid streamwater near Uluwehi Falls and Abrahim and her sister lost their grip and were swept away. \n Abrahim's sister swam to shore. The Kauai Fire Department initiated a search for Abrahim and deployed its Air 1 helicopter to airlift seven other visitors and a guide to Wailua Homesteads. \n The search was suspended Saturday due to nightfall and dangerous flood conditions. Firefighters resumed the search at 7:30 a.m. Sunday and located Abrahim's body shortly after. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman swept away during Kauai kayak tour was California visitor"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n There had been 14 cases of salmonella on Oahu linked to eating poke prepared with raw fish and limu (seaweed) from the seaweed farm. The salmonella cases involved children and adults, who developeddiarrheal illness from mid- to late October. \n A Kahuku seaweed farm has been cleared by the state Department of Health after being shut down from salmonella contamination. \n Marine Agrifuture LLC (Olakai Farm), had been ordered to stop sellilng and distributing its fresh seaweeds \u2014 \"Kahuku Ogo,\" \"Robusta Ogo\" and \"Kahuku Sea Asparagus.\" The health department said tests had revealed salmonella bacteria in saltwater in packing and processing tanks at the Kahuku farm. \n There had been 14 cases of salmonella on Oahu linked to eating poke prepared with raw fish and limu (seaweed) from the seaweed farm. The salmonella cases involved children and adults, who developed diarrheal illness from mid- to late October. Four cases required hospitalization. \n \"This morning, the company was notified it may resume the sale and distribution of Kahuku Ogo, Robusta Ogo and Sea Asparagus food products harvested at the Kahuku farm,\" the health department said in a press release, indicating testing on Nov. 29 showed no presence of salmonella at the farm. \"The wells, all inlets to production ponds, and the growing and rinse tanks were also free from Salmonella and levels of indicator organisms (Enterococci and Clostridium perfringens) that would signal possible environmental contamination,\" the release said. \n \"Based on lab test results and visual confirmation by health inspectors of the thorough cleaning and improvements made to several critical components of the farm's physical infrastructure, the department is satisfied that all reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the safety of Marine Agrifuture'a food products,\" said Peter Oshiro, Food Safety Program manager. \"The department will continue to work with the farm on measures to prevent any future contamination of products.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kahuku seaweed farm cleared of salmonella contamination"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jill Stein, the presidential Green Party candidate, spoke at a news conference in front of Trump Tower, today, in New York. \n MADISON, Wis. \u00bb Presidential candidate Jill Stein's fight to force ballot recounts in three states focused today on Pennsylvania, where her Green Party was seeking an emergency federal court order for a statewide recount, and Michigan, where a hand recount began on the orders of a federal judge. \n President-elect Donald Trump narrowly defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in both states and Wisconsin, which started its recount last week. The recounts were not expected to change enough votes to overturn the result of the election. \n Stein, who received about 1 percent of the vote in all three states, says her intent is to verify the accuracy of the vote. She has suggested, with no evidence, that votes cast were susceptible to computer hacking. \n \"Let every vote count,\" Stein said today outside Trump Tower in New York \"That's what makes America great.\" \n The news conference, held on busy Fifth Avenue, was repeatedly interrupted by shouts of protest. Several Trump supporters heckled the proceedings, with one yelling, \"Jill Stein is a common criminal.\" \n Here's what's happening in each state and in Nevada, where a partial recount of the race was requested by independent presidential candidate Roque De La Fuente: \n WISCONSIN \n The recount began Thursday and continued over the weekend, with little change so far in the unofficial results as reported on election night. Six counties had completed their work as of this morning, with the margin between Trump and Clinton unchanged. Both candidates lost 20 votes. \n A federal lawsuit was filed late last week by a Trump voter and two super PACs seeking to stop the recount. The judge rejected a request to halt the recount while the lawsuit is pending and scheduled a hearing for Friday. \n State and local election officials have all said they don't expect Clinton to surpass Trump in Wisconsin, where he won by about 22,000 votes. \n The Wisconsin Elections Commission said no significant issues have been reported after four full days of recounting and any changes between canvass results and recount totals have been due to human error. \n MICHIGAN \n A federal judge late Sunday night in Detroit ordered a statewide hand recount of roughly 4.8 million ballots, which started in some counties this afternoon. Republicans appealed that ruling today. Trump won the state by about 10,700 votes, or two-tenths of a percentage point, over Clinton. \n Stein argued that a law is unconstitutional that requires a break of at least two business days after the Board of Canvassers' final action on a recount request. Judge Mark Goldsmith found that Stein had \"shown the likelihood of irreparable harm\" if the count was delayed even by two days and rejected the state's arguments about the cost to taxpayers. \n Republican Attorney General Bill Schuette, the Trump campaign and super PACs have filed separate lawsuits asking state courts to prevent the recount, arguing that Stein, as the fourth-place finisher, is not \"aggrieved\" because she has no chance of winning in a recount. A hearing is scheduled Tuesday on those actions. \n PENNSYLVANIA \n The Green Party filed a federal lawsuit today seeking a statewide recount \u2014 a move that came after the party on Saturday dropped a case set to be argued today in state courts. \n An updated count Friday by state election officials showed Trump's lead shrinking to 49,000 from 71,000 over Clinton, out of 6 million votes cast, as more counties finish counting overseas ballots and settled provisional ballot challenges. That is still shy of Pennsylvania's 0.5 percent trigger for an automatic statewide recount. \n Final counts are outstanding in some counties, but there are not enough uncounted votes to change the outcome, officials say. \n NEVADA \n A recount began today in Nevada at a county election warehouse near Las Vegas where officials say they expect it will take all week to review votes. Only nine other precincts in four Nevada counties are being reviewed at the request of De La Fuente. He picked the 93 precincts statewide that he wanted reviewed. If the sample shows a discrepancy of at least 1 percent for De La Fuente or Clinton, a full recount will be launched in all 17 Nevada counties. Clinton defeated Trump in Nevada by 27,202 votes, out of 1.1 million votes cast. \n De La Fuente finished last, with a fraction of 1 percent of the vote. He requested and paid about $14,000 for the recount to provide what he called a counterbalance to the recounts sought by Stein. \n Nevada Secretary of State spokeswoman Gail Anderson said the recount will be finished by the end of this week. \n Associated Press writers David Eggert in Lansing, Michigan; Marc Levy in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Jonathan Lemire in New York City; and Ken Ritter in Las Vegas contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Focus of recount effort shifts to Michigan, Pennsylvania"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pastor Thomas Dixon, left, prays during a prayer vigil in front of the Charleston County Courthouse as the jury deliberates in the Michael Slager trial Monday, Dec. 5, 2016, in Charleston, S.C. Slager, the former North Charleston police officer is charged with murder in the shooting death last year of Walter Scott. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. >> A South Carolina judge declared a mistrial Monday after a jury deadlocked in the murder trial of a former white police officer charged in the shooting death of an unarmed black motorist. \n Circuit Judge Clifton Newman the mistrial after a jury said it could not reach a verdict after deliberating more than 22 hours over four days. \n Former patrolman Michael Slager was charged with murder in the April 4, 2015 shooting death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. The judge had said the jury could also consider a lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter. \n Cellphone video showing taken by a bystander that showed Scott being shot in the back five times was shown widely in the media and on the internet and shocked the country, inflaming the national debate about how blacks are treated by law enforcement officers. \n After the video went public, Slager was fired by the police department and charged with murder. Scott's family called for peace in the North Charleston community. Their calls for calm are believed to have helped prevent the kind of violence that erupted elsewhere when black men were killed in encounters with law enforcement. \n It's the second time in recent weeks a jury has deadlocked in an officer-involved shooting. A mistrial was declared Nov. 12 when a jury in Cincinnati couldn't reach a verdict in the case of a former campus police officer who was also charged with shooting a black motorist. \n The video in the Scott slaying renewed debate over how blacks are treated by white law officers. There have been similar debates over race and policing in places from New York to Ferguson, Missouri and from Tulsa, Oklahoma to North Carolina. \n Slager's wife, Jamie, cried after the jurors were dismissed and briefly put her head on the bench in front of her. She said \"thank you for everything\" to the defense lawyers as they left the courtroom. She did not respond when reporters asked if she wanted to comment. \n One female juror wiped away tears with her hands and a tissue as the attorneys addressed them and thanked them for their hours of work. \n There were no outbursts in the courtroom, and Scott family attorney Justin Bamberg said no one from the family wanted to speak for now. \n Slager also faces trial next year in federal court on charges of depriving Scott of his civil rights. \n While Slager is white and Scott was black, the video, not the races of the men, dominated the trial. \n Scott was pulled in North Charleston for having a broken taillight on his 1990 Mercedes and then fled the car, running into a vacant lot. Family members have said he may have run because he was worried about going to jail because he was $18,000 behind on child support. \n The prosecution argued that the 35-year-old Slager let his sense of authority get the better of him. \n The defense maintained that the two men wrestled on the ground, that Scott got control of Slager's stun gun and then pointed the weapon at the 35-year-old officer before the shooting. The defense also contended there was no way the officer could tell if Scott was unarmed. \n Much of the testimony centered on the cellphone video, which at times was blurry and shaky. The jurors saw it video numerous times, including several times frame by frame. \n The defense contended that there was much more to the case than the brief video clip that was seen worldwide. \n They focused their case on the seconds before the shooting that were not captured on the cellphone video, which was taken by a barber who passed the scene walking to work. \n Slager took the stand and testified that Scott wrestled with him and grabbed his Taser and came at him with it. He said he was in \"total fear\" at the time he fired his gun. \n \"At that point I pulled my firearm and pulled the trigger,\" he testified. \"I fired until the threat was stopped as I was trained to do.\" \n Slager, who was five-year veteran of the department, also expressed regret over the whole incident. \n \"My family has been destroyed by it. The Scott family has been destroyed by it. It's horrible,\" he said. \n Last year, the city of North Charleston reached a $6.5 million civil settlement with Scott's family. In the wake of the shooting, the city also asked that the U.S. Justice Department conduct a review of its police department policies with an eye toward how the department can improve its relationship with residents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mistrial declared in black motorist's shooting"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fireworks went off over the Oceti Sakowin camp where people gathered to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline in Cannon Ball, N.D. Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vietnam veteran Allen Coomsta Matt walked into his teepee at the Oceti Sakowin camp where people gathered to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline as snow began to fall in Cannon Ball, N.D. today. \"I've been living in teepees all my life,\" said Matt. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A person looked out over the Oceti Sakowin camp where people gathered to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline as the sun rose in Cannon Ball, N.D. today. Protesters who celebrated a major victory in their push to reroute the Dakota Access oil pipeline vowed to remain camped on federal land as they waited to find out whether President-elect Donald Trump might seek to overturn a decision that delayed the $3.8 billion project. \n BISMARCK, N.D. \u00bb Industry leaders are urging President-elect Donald Trump to make approval of the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline a priority when he takes office next month, but a spokesman for Trump isn't offering many clues about how the incoming president might act. \n Meanwhile, the leader of the Standing Rock Sioux is calling on pipeline opponents to leave a camp in southern North Dakota where they've been protesting for months, as dangerous winter weather sets in. Many are vowing to stay, however. \n Here's a guide to the latest developments and key background about the protest: \n THE TRUMP FACTOR \n Two industry groups are calling on Trump to pave the way for the pipeline's completion when he enters the White House in January. The requests come after the Army Corps of Engineers declined to issue a permit for the $3.8 billion pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in southern North Dakota near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. \n The American Petroleum Institute represents the U.S. oil and natural gas industry, and the MAIN Coalition is made up of agriculture, business and labor entities that benefit from Midwest infrastructure projects. \n Trump supports construction of the pipeline, spokesman Jason Miller told The Associated Press today, but Miller wouldn't say whether Trump would reverse the Corps' decision. Miller said the Trump administration will review the situation \"and make the appropriate determination.\" \n Trump holds stock in Energy Transfer Partners. Pipeline opponents worry that Trump's investments could affect any decision he makes on the project as president. \n EASEMENT DENIAL \n The Corps on Sunday said it would not approve an easement for a pipeline crossing beneath Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir and the source of drinking water for the nearby Standing Rock Reservation. The Standing Rock tribe says the pipeline threatens its water and cultural sites. \n Corps Assistant Secretary for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy said her decision was based on the need to consider alternative routes. \n Dallas-based pipeline developer Energy Transfer Partners said the decision is politically motivated and that President Barack Obama's administration is just delaying the matter until he leaves office. \n Protesters, who describe themselves as \"water protectors,\" say they have no plans to leave despite the Corps' decision and recent wintry storms. Standing Rock Chairman Dave Archambault said today that he doesn't think there will be any developments for months and that people should go home. \n THE ORIGINS \n Energy Transfer Partners got federal permits for the pipeline in July, about two years after it was announced. The pipeline is projected to move a half-million barrels of crude oil daily to an existing pipeline in Patoka, Illinois, for shipment to Midwest and Gulf Coast markets. \n Supporters say the pipeline will have safeguards against leaks, and is a safer way to move oil than trucks and trains, especially after a handful of fiery \u2014 and sometimes deadly \u2014 derailments of trains carrying North Dakota crude. \n The Standing Rock Sioux, whose reservation straddles the North Dakota-South Dakota border, have challenged the Corps' decision to grant permits at more than 200 water crossings. A federal judge in September denied the tribe's request to block construction of the entire pipeline. \n MISSING LINK \n The pipeline is largely complete except for the section under Lake Oahe, about a mile upstream of the reservation. \n The tribe argues putting the pipeline there could affect drinking water for more than 8,000 tribal members and millions downstream. The Corps of Engineers granted Energy Transfer Partners the permits needed for the crossing in July, but the agency decided in September that further analysis was warranted given the tribe's concerns, leading to Sunday's decision. \n The company responded by asking U.S. District Judge James Boasberg to declare that it has the right to lay pipe under Lake Oahe. The judge isn't likely to issue a decision until January at the earliest. \n Obama raised the possibility of rerouting the pipeline in early November, and Archambault has said that would be acceptable to the tribe provided the new route isn't near the reservation and doesn't cross the Missouri River. But Energy Transfer Partners CEO Kelcy Warren told The Associated Press that that the pipeline won't be rerouted and the company has no alternative than to stick to its plan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oil industry urges Trump to approve Dakota Access pipeline"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mathew Borges, 15, attended his arraignment in Lawrence District Court in Lawrence, Mass. today. Borges was held without bail after pleading not guilty at the brief arraignment today on a first-degree murder charge. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mathew Borges, 15, right, was brought into the prisoner dock before being arraigned in Lawrence District Court in Lawrence, Mass. today. Borges was held without bail after pleading not guilty at the brief arraignment today on a first-degree murder charge. \n LAWRENCE, Mass. \u00bb A 15-year-old boy charged with killing a high school classmate whose headless body was found near a river said in a police report made public today that they had gone to smoke marijuana together and he had last seen the classmate alive. \n Mathew Borges was held without bail after pleading not guilty at his brief arraignment in Lawrence District Court on a murder charge. Borges is being prosecuted as an adult, so court proceedings were open. His lawyer, Edward Hayden, did not argue for bail. \n The body of 16-year-old Lee Manuel Viloria-Paulino was found near the Merrimack River in Lawrence on Thursday by a woman walking her dog. Police recovered his head nearby. His forearms had also been cut off, but it was unclear if they were recovered. \n Borges told police that he and Viloria-Paulino had gone to the river on Nov. 18 to smoke pot and later parted ways. \n But the police report also said Borges told a witness that he had \"done something bad\" and that he had \"stabbed a kid and cut his head off killing him.\" Borges was arrested Saturday. \n The motive for the killing is unclear and remains under investigation, Essex District Attorney Jonathan Blodgett said. Police recovered evidence at Borges' home, he said. \n Both boys were sophomores at Lawrence High School. \n Hayden, the defense lawyer, said Borges was a student in good standing with a part-time job. But he said he didn't know enough about the case to comment other than to say Borges is \"holding up well as can be expected of someone facing this kind of charge.\" \n Borges is being held at a youth detention facility and is due back in court Jan. 10. \n Viloria-Paulino's family has been critical of police, saying they at first said he was just a runaway and took too long to launch an investigation. Police haven't responded to that. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "No bail for 15-year-old charged with decapitating classmate"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "HONOLULU CRIMESTOPPERS \n Nathaniel Foster \n A 26-year-old man pleaded not guilty today in the shooting death of a 24-year-old man at an illegal McCully game room. \n Clad in an orange jumpsuit, Nathaniel Foster appeared before Judge Colette Garibaldi at Circuit Court via video teleconference from the Oahu Community Correctional Center for his arraignment on a second-degree murder charge in connection with the death of Kioco Melson. \n Trial is set for the week of Feb. 6 before Judge Shirley Kawamura. Foster remains in custody in lieu of $1 million aggregate bail. \n On the night of Nov. 23, police said Foster and Melson were arguing about money when Foster allegedly pulled out a black semi-automatic gun from his fanny pack and shot Melson multiple times, according to a court document. \n A witness told police Foster then stood directly over Melson as he was laying on the floor and shot him several more times before he fled. \n A SWAT team located Foster in Kalihi after a three-day manhunt. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man pleads not guilty in McCully game room fatal shooting"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "WAILUKU \u00bb A Maui man convicted of attempting to sell methamphetamine and marijuana out of his van has been sentenced to 20 years in prison. \n Hodges was arrested in December 2015 after police pulled him over and searched his van. Authorities say they found more than 2 grams of meth, 55 grams of marijuana and 42 oxycodone pills inside the vehicle. They also claimed to find a large gallon-sized plastic bag containing several empty packets, two digital gram scales and nearly $4,000 in cash. \n In handing down Hodges' sentence, Judge Rhonda Loo cited his lengthy criminal history. She said Hodges has 61 arrests and 11 convictions. \n Hodges, who represented himself during trial, argued in support of the sale of illegal drugs, saying it helps support the U.S. economy. \n Deputy Prosecutor Jeffery Temas said Hodges did not learn from his previous convictions for trying to sell drugs and possessing them. \n He \"wants all the protections of being an American, (but) he doesn't want the responsibility of being a good American,\" Temas said. \n Hodges has indicated he plans to appeal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui man gets 2 decades behind bars for drug promotion"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "A 19-year-old man killed in a crash in Kalihi has been identified as Alvin Esteban of Honolulu. \n Police said Esteban was traveling south on Kalihi Street on a moped Saturday night at a \"high rate of speed\" when he lost control and struck an overpass guardrail. He was thrown from his moped onto the roadway and pronounced dead at the scene. \n Police said speed is a factor and drugs may be involved. \n An autopsy is expected to be performed today to determine the exact cause of death. \n This is the 51st traffic-related fatality on Oahu compared to 44 at the same time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi man who died in moped crash identified"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An image from video on Saturday provided by KGO-TV shows the Ghost Ship Warehouse after a fire that started late Friday swept through the Oakland, Calif., building. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mourners embraced near the site of a warehouse fire Sunday, in Oakland, Calif. \n OAKLAND, Calif. \u00bb The death toll in the Oakland warehouse fire climbed to 36 today with more bodies still feared buried in the blackened ruins, and families anxiously awaited word of their missing loved ones. \n The laborious job of digging with shovels and buckets through the debris was suspended overnight because of a dangerously unstable wall but was expected to resume. \n Flames tore through the building, known as the \"Ghost Ship,\" during a dance party Friday night. The cluttered warehouse had been converted to artists' studios and illegal living spaces, and former denizens said it was a death trap of piled wood, furniture, snaking electrical cords and only two exits. \n It was the most lethal building fire in the U.S. in more than a decade. \n Authorities have identified 11 of the bodies but withheld some of the names. Those whose identities were yet to be released included a 17-year-old and the son of a sheriff's deputy, authorities said. \n Alameda County sheriff's spokesman Sgt. Ray Kelly said officials expect the death toll to rise, but he wouldn't speculate how high it might go. \n Investigators said they believe they have located the section of the building where the fire started, but the cause remains unknown. \n Also, the district attorney's sent a team to search for evidence of a crime in the warehouse, which was already under investigation by the city for possible code violations. \n The space had a permit to operate as a warehouse only. Neighbors had complained of people living there illegally, trash piling up and other unsafe conditions. \n A growing memorial of flowers, candles and notes paid tribute to the missing and the dead. \n Kai Thomas and a group of red-eyed classmates from an arts high school in San Francisco pressed against police tape Sunday near the street corner. They lost a friend in the blaze. \n Three of the boys had been in the cramped and dark building, Thomas said, but one got separated from them just before someone yelled, \"Fire!\" \n \"It was just really smoky and hard to see,\" said Thomas, who wasn't there but recounted what he had been told by two others who didn't want to speak. \"They jumped off the second-floor balcony and ran out.\" \n The boys waited for their 17-year-old friend for more than three hours, but he never emerged. \n Jesse James Alexander, a DJ who wasn't at the party, showed up at the scene Sunday to remember three friends who were killed, though he didn't want to give their names. \n Others were still holding out hope. \n Outside a sheriff's office where people gathered for word of their loved ones, Yuri Kundin said he was hoping for good news about two of his friends, Alex Ghassan and Hanna Henriikka Ruax, who was from Finland. \n One of the many notes left on a sidewalk around the corner from the remains of the warehouse read: \"Praying for you. \u2026 Hope you're still here.\" \n The couple who operated the building's arts colony, called the Satya Yuga collective, were identified as Derick Ion Almena and Micah Allison. They were believed to have been away at the time of the blaze. \n The couple had a troubled relationship, said Michael Allison of Portland, Oregon, the father of Micah Allison. He and other family members persuaded his daughter to go to a drug rehabilitation center in 2015, but Almena talked his way into the clinic and got Micah to leave with him, Michael Allison said. \n The couple's three children had lice and needed new clothes, prompting family to call child-protective services, said Michael Allison, who wept as he spoke. \n But Almena and his partner eventually were able to win custody of the children back and cut off all communication with Michael Allison, the father said. \n \"Whenever I could, I would to talk to (Micah) to get away from him because I knew he was dangerous from day one,\" he said. \"All of that has now been proven.\" \n A man identified as Derick Ion posted a Facebook message early Saturday, saying: \"Everything I worked so hard for is gone. Blessed that my children and Micah were at a hotel safe and sound.\" \n Almena did not immediately respond to emails or calls to phone numbers associated with him. No one answered a call to a number for Micah Allison. \n Almena had leased the space from its owner and then rented five recreational vehicles and other nooks on the ground floor as living spaces, said Danielle Boudreaux, a former friend of Almena and Allison. They held regular concerts and dance parties, like the one Friday, to make money, Boudreaux said. \n Shelley Mack was drawn there two years ago by the promise of living among artists and paying a reasonable amount in an area where the tech boom has created a housing shortage and driven up rents. She left after a few months. \n \"Some people were happy to have a roof over their head even though there was no heat or no place to eat or that it was filthy and infested,\" Mack said. \n \"You just get sucked in because it seems like it's this nice place and this artistic community and they talk a good game. There are people there that wanted to be there and believed in it. And I think I did too for a little bit. And then I afterward, I was like, um, no.\" \n Associated Press writers Ellen Knickmeyer, Olga Rodriguez, Tim Reiterman and Sudhin Thanawala in San Francisco, and Jonathan J. Cooper, Terry Chea and Janie Har in Oakland contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Death toll climbs to 36 in Oakland warehouse fire"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "A 45-year-old man who was taken to a hospital in critical condition Sunday after bystanders found him floating unresponsive in waters off Mokuleia Sunday has died. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office identified him as Loyd Carroll of Waialua. \n At about 3:30 p.m. Sunday, police and Emergency Medical Services said Carroll was participating in an ocean sport activity when bystanders found him floating unresponsive in waters fronting Crozier Loop. \n A bystander brought him to shore and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation until lifeguards and paramedics arrived. Emergency Medical Services administered advanced life support before transporting Carroll to a hospital where he died. \n An autopsy is expected to be performed today to determine the exact cause of death. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waialua man dies after being found unresponsive off Mokuleia"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "Honolulu firefighters responded to two separate fires in Aiea and Waikiki Sunday night. \n At about 9:13 p.m., 30 firefighters responded to a two-alarm fire at Taco Bell at Pearlridge Center Phase 1 where they observed smoke emerging from the fast food restaurant's exhaust vent. \n A contractor hired to clean the cooking exhaust vents told firefighters a fire occurred while cutting an access hole to clean the vent system and that they immediately extinguished it, according to a news release from the Honolulu Fire Department. \n There were no injuries. \n Firefighters remained at the scene to check whether the fire was fully extinguished. \n Approximately 20 minutes later, 18 firefighters responded to a fire at the Ambassador Hotel fire at 2040 Kuhio Ave. Upon arrival, they saw smoke coming from electrical conduits between the 15th and 16th floors. \n Firefighters checked the building for any fires, according to the fire department. \n No injuries were reported and firefighters administered ventilation operations to clear the building of smoke. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters put out fire at Pearlridge Center, clear smoke in Waikiki hotel"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Republican presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson during Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's Aug. 25 roundtable meeting with the Republican Leadership Initiative in his offices at Trump Tower in New York. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump, moving to complete formation of his Cabinet and decide other key posts, chose former campaign rival Ben Carson today to be secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. \n Trump's decision, announced by his transition office, comes as the real estate mogul continues a series of interviews, meetings with aides and other deliberations aimed at forming his administration. He announced several Cabinet appointees last week. \n In a statement, Trump said he was \"thrilled to nominate\" Carson, describing the retired neurosurgeon as having \"a brilliant mind\" and saying he \"is passionate about strengthening communities and families within those communities.\" \n Carson had been coy about joining the new administration, saying shortly after Trump's election victory that he wasn't certain he'd fit into a Cabinet-style role. The discussion at that time centered on speculation that Carson might be selected to head the sprawling Department of Health and Human Services. \n \"Ben shares my optimism about the future of our country,\" Trump said, \"and is part of ensuring that this is a presidency representing all Americans.\" \n House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said Carson had no credentials for the job and was a \"disconcerting and disturbingly unqualified choice.\" She said the country deserves someone with \"relevant experience to protect the rights of homeowners and renters.\" \n Carson was among the 16 Republican candidates who challenged Trump for the Republican nomination. He was a favorite of religious conservatives and a strong fundraiser, but his team burned through money quickly and he failed to win any of the early primary contests. \n Trump treated Carson harshly during the primary, saying he had a \"pathological temper.\" Still, Carson quickly endorsed Trump after he dropped out of the contest. \n As a Trump supporter, Carson was both loyal and critical. He conceded that Trump had \"major defects\" and said at one point that he would have preferred a scenario other than Trump winning the Republican primary. \n Last week, Trump announced that he planned to nominate former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as his Treasury secretary and billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce Department. He chose Betsy DeVos to be secretary of education and Elaine Chao, the wife of Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, to be transportation secretary. Trump also has turned to retired Marine Gen. James Mattis to be secretary of defense. \n He now has expanded his pool of candidates for secretary of state, raising a question about whether former CIA Director David Petraeus' guilty plea for leaking classified information disqualifies him to serve as the nation's top diplomat. \n Trump's aides had confirmed that the president-elect had settled on four finalists for the post. But over the weekend, two people close to the transition told The Associated Press that Trump is moving away from two of the four: former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee. \n That would leave Petraeus as a top contender, along with Tennessee Republican Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Both people close to the transition said Trump's prolonged decision-making process has left the door open to other options. Among other possibilities, one official says is Jon Huntsman, a former Republican Utah governor who also served as the ambassador to China and speaks Mandarin. \n The people close to the transition spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the private process publicly. \n Carson has often recounted his childhood as the son of a single mother in inner-city Detroit in his books and motivational speeches. In his 1996 autobiography \"Gifted Hands,\" Carson wrote of the humiliation he felt using food stamps from his mom to pay for bread and milk, and said how he began to excel at school only after receiving a free pair of glasses that allowed him to see the lessons written on chalk boards. \n Carson has not said whether his family ever lived in federally funded housing or received Section 8 subsidies to help pay rent. But as a political figure he has criticized such public assistance programs for creating \"dependency\" on the government among low-income minorities. \n With the help of financial aid and scholarships, Carson attended Yale University and the University of Michigan Medical School before being the first African-American named as the head of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore. There he garnered national acclaim for directing the first surgery to separate twins connected at the back of the head. \n Carson's rise to political prominence began with a 2013 speech at the National Prayer Breakfast, where he gave a withering critique of the modern welfare state and the nation's overall direction while President Barack Obama was seated just feet away. During the 2016 Republican presidential primary, Carson's inspirational life story, Christian faith and anti-establishment message briefly catapulted him last year ahead of Trump and other rivals in opinion polls. \n But his success on the campaign trail quickly crumbled amid questions about whether elements of his rags-to-riches autobiography were exaggerated or fabricated \u2014 including a purported childhood fit of rage in which he tried to stab his best friend in the belly only to be foiled by a belt buckle. Carson's business dealings also faced scrutiny, including his ties to a wealthy Pittsburgh dentist whom he helped avoid prison time for felony health care fraud. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump taps former campaign rival Carson as housing secretary"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sailors worked to repair the floating dock next to the USS Arizona Memorial in Pearl Harbor in June 2015, after the USNS Mercy hospital ship struck the memorial's dock in May as it was leaving Pearl Harbor. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama, right, talked with Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe after they joined leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) for a group photo in Lima, Peru on Nov. 20. Abe said Monday, he will visit Pearl Harbor with Obama at the end of this month, becoming the first leader of his country to go to the U.S. Naval base in Hawaii that Japan attacked in 1941, propelling the United States into World War II. \n TOKYO \u00bb Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will visit Pearl Harbor with U.S. President Barack Obama at the end of this month, becoming the first leader of his country to go to the site of the Japanese attack that propelled the United States into World War II. \n Monday's unexpected announcement came two days before the 75th anniversary of the attack and six months after Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to visit the memorial in Hiroshima for victims of the U.S. atomic bombing of that city at the end of the same war. \n Abe, in a brief statement to reporters, said he would visit Hawaii on Dec. 26 and 27 to pray for the war dead at the naval base at Pearl Harbor and to hold a final summit meeting with Obama before the latter's presidency ends. \n \"We must never repeat the tragedy of the war,\" he said. \"I would like to send this commitment. At the same time, I would like to send a message of reconciliation between Japan and the U.S.\" \n The White House confirmed a meeting in Hawaii on Dec. 27, saying \"the two leaders' visit will showcase the power of reconciliation that has turned former adversaries into the closest of allies, united by common interests and shared values.\" \n More than 2,300 U.S. servicemen died in the aerial attack, which will be marked Wednesday by a remembrance ceremony and a moment of silence at 7:55 a.m., when the Japanese planes hit their first target. \n Three and a half years later, the war came to an end after the U.S. dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945, and on the city of Nagasaki on Aug. 9, 1945. Japan surrendered six days later. \n Obama's decision to visit Hiroshima in May divided Americans and was broadly welcomed in Japan. Abe said Monday that Obama's message aiming for a world without nuclear weapons still touches the hearts of many Japanese. \n In the seven decades since the war, the United States and Japan have become staunch allies in one of the more remarkable turnarounds of former enemies in world history. \n \"Our talks in Hawaii will be a chance to show the rest of the world our ever stronger alliance in the future,\" Abe said. \n The announcement of the summit comes as Japan worries about the direction of U.S. foreign policy under Obama's successor, Donald Trump. \n There were mixed reactions to the timing of Abe's Pearl Harbor visit. \n Together with Obama's visit to Hiroshima, it will complete the reconciliation process and help smooth bilateral relations under any administration, said Tsuneo Watanabe, a senior research fellow at the Sasakawa Peace Foundation. \"Historical disputes tend to be brought up when relations become thorny \u2026 but once you put them behind and move on, it makes a difference if there is any negative sentiment in the future,\" he said. \n But Koichi Nakano, a professor of international politics at Tokyo's Sophia University, said Abe's Pearl Harbor visit and his commitment to the Japan-U.S. alliance in the future are tantamount to \"giving a blank check to Trump\" despite the uncertainty over bilateral relations under his administration. \n The president-elect said during the campaign that Japan and other allies should contribute more to the cost of stationing U.S. troops in their countries. About 50,000 American troops are based in Japan. \n Abe met with Trump in New York last month. He wouldn't disclose details, but said that Trump is a leader he can have great confidence in. \n Associated Press writers Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Josh Lederman in Washington, D.C., contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japanese leader Abe to visit Pearl Harbor with Obama"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A view of Reggie Wong Park is seen next to a steam plant. \n BOSTON >> A modest asphalt court that served as a nursery for a unique style of volleyball played by Chinese immigrants across the country now stands in the way of development, touching off a battle over preservation.  \n The prime slice of Chinatown real estate is steps from busy South Station and is home to a 1930s-era steam plant with towering smokestacks and a modern state government office. But it is also the site of Reggie Wong Memorial Park, a simple basketball and volleyball court where the game known as nine-man developed over generations. \n Nine-man holds a special place for those of Chinese descent, said Tunney Lee, an urban studies and planning professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose father was a player and organizer. \n The game traces its roots to a style of volleyball developed in Taishan, a southern Chinese city where many of the earliest Chinese immigrants hailed from, and became a critical social outlet for immigrants largely isolated from broader American society. \n \"Part of the image of the Chinese was that of weaklings who were passive and servile,\" Lee said. \"Volleyball was a skill sport with strategy, teamwork and aggressiveness.\" \n Standard volleyball has six players on each side. At its most basic, nine-man involves more players, a larger court and modified rules. Today's organizers say the first intercity game happened in Boston in 1935, between locals and a team from Providence, R.I. \n The competitions steadily grew over the years, with Chinese communities in New York, New Jersey, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Los Angeles regularly fielding teams to play on the streets, alleyways and parking lots of Boston's Chinatown. \n The North American Chinese Invitational Volleyball Tournament, which started in the 1940s a few blocks from Wong Park, carries on the intercity rivalry today, hosting an annual competition in a different Chinatown each Labor Day weekend. \n Republican Gov. Charlie Baker's administration began seeking proposals last month to purchase and develop the 5-acre site that's home to Wong Park as a centerpiece of his pledge to generate revenue and spur development by unloading underused government land. \n Chinatown activists and nine-man enthusiasts have voiced their concerns at community meetings this past year, prompting the administration to require developers to propose ways to carve out a public park somewhere on the site at least as big as the current court. \n Patrick Marvin, a spokesman for the state Department of Transportation, which is overseeing the land sale, notes the state is requiring prospective developers to guarantee the park remains public. It is also calling for other open space areas on the development site. \n But some in Chinatown want the state to require a larger park with more amenities. They also want guarantees that a temporary space will be carved out during construction so organized games can continue uninterrupted. And they worry not enough housing built on the property will be affordable to lower-wage Chinatown residents. \n The park is the latest battleground in the decades-long debate over gentrification in one of the nation's oldest and largest Chinatowns. The neighborhood, with narrow streets lined with independent storefronts and eateries, has withstood waves of redevelopment dating to the 1950s, when an interstate highway was cut through it. \n Russell Eng, who coaches teen volleyball at the park, named after his uncle, says it keeps the Chinese community connected even as more increasingly live in suburbs, some of which have sprouted their own satellite Chinatowns. \n \"Today's Chinatown is geographically wider than what it was when I growing up there,\" he said. \"Reggie Wong Memorial Park serves as the center of the universe for them.\" \n Ursula Liang, who made the 2014 documentary \"9-MAN: a Streetball Battle in the Heart of Chinatown,\" says Boston's predicament isn't unique. \n In her current hometown of New York, the Boston-area native says asphalt parks where nine-man is played are being converted into fields for soccer and other sports to draw new residents. \n Said Liang: \"What concerns me is that while most of these proposals tout things like economic growth and community improvement, ultimately the ideas that win out benefit politicians and businesspeople more than anyone else.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese volleyball players take on developers"}

{"date": "December 5, 2016", "text": "A man presumed to be a missing boater, whose unmanned boat was found Sunday adrift off North Kohala, is wanted by Hawaii County police. \n Derek Liu, whose Nissan truck remains at a Kawaihae campsite, was the subject of a CrimeStoppers bulletin on Friday. \n The 52-year-old Honokaa man is wanted for violating terms of bail. \n He is described as 5-foot-10, 165 pounds, with brown eyes and black hair. \n Liu has 28 prior convictions \u2014 mostly violations, petty misdemeanors and misdemeanors. He had three felony convictions: Possession of a prohibited firearm in 2010, a Class B felony; and two Class C felonies \u2014 drug promotion and auto theft \u2014 in 2002. \n The Hawaii County Fire Department and the Coast Guard will continue searching for missing boaters \u2014 Liu and a possible unidentified woman. \n Campers, where Liu's green pickup truck was found, said they saw a man and a woman in a Zodiac-type dinghy on Saturday, like the one found. \n Report of a possible second missing boater has neither been confirmed nor identified, fire officials said in a news release Sunday. \n A fisherman found the 12-foot inflatable boat about a mile offshore of Kohala Estates and towed it to the Kawaihae boat ramp. \n Hawaii County Fire Battalion Chief John Whitman said the fire department would resume its search Tuesday morning. \n Today, fire personnel performed searches along the coastline by helicopter, using divers and ground personnel, but found no trace of the missing boaters. \n The Coast Guard continued its search with a helicopter and the cutter Kittiwake. \n Liu's family said he was last seen Saturday afternoon at home before going fishing, the Fire Department said. \n Police ask anyone with information on Liu's whereabouts to call 935-3311 or call CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Missing Big Isle boater is wanted by police"}

