{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n David Clarke, Sheriff of Milwaukee County, Wis., speaks during the opening day of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland in July. A jury on today recommended criminal charges against seven Milwaukee County jail staffers in the dehydration death of an inmate who went without water for seven days. The jail is overseen by Clarke, but the inquest did not target him. \n MILWAUKEE >> A jury recommended criminal charges against seven Milwaukee County jail staffers in the dehydration death of an inmate who went without water for seven days. \n The jury's recommendation today came after a six-day inquest that included testimony from jail staff and evidence from county prosecutors. The jury found probable cause for \"abuse of a resident of a penal facility\" in the death of 38-year-old Terrill Thomas on April 24, 2016. \n The jurors recommended charges against two jail supervisors, Nancy Evans and Kashka Meadors, and five officers: James Ramsey-Guy, JorDon Johnson, Thomas Laine, Dominique Smith and John Weber. \n It's up to prosecutors whether to file charges. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said he had no timeline to decide, and that he could charge more people \u2014 or fewer. \n The six-person jury returned its recommendation just a few hours after morning testimony that the sheriff's office continued using water deprivation as a form of punishment even after Thomas' death. Prosecutors presented jurors with jail logs documenting two cases in which disobeying inmates had water to their cells turned off \u2014 both within a month of Thomas dying. One of the cases happened a week after Thomas' death and in both subsequent instances it wasn't clear when it was turned back on. \n \"This isn't the first time this happened. This is a pattern,\" Assistant District Attorney Kurt Bentley said. \n The jail is overseen by conservative firebrand Sheriff David Clarke, but the inquest did not target him. Clarke, who has been frequently mentioned as a possible Trump administration appointee, has declined to comment on Thomas' death but did issue a statement in March noting Thomas' criminal background. \n Clarke said in a statement posted to the sheriff's office Facebook page that he respects the legal process but would not comment further. \"There will be no speculation of what will happen until it happens.\" \n Thomas' death was one of four at the jail last year but the only one where charges are being considered. \n Gov. Scott Walker last week rejected an immigrant rights group's request to remove Clarke from office, saying he found reports of Thomas' death concerning but that the sheriff's fate is up to voters. \n Chisholm said he thought jurors were swayed by evidence that showed jail policies weren't followed and that Thomas had been left in poor conditions. \n \"I think it's just the clear lack of oversight over this entire process that really troubled them more than anything else,\" he said. \n Chisholm said he conducted an inquest because what happened was a \"major system failure\" and he wanted the public to have some input in his decision. \n Thomas was arrested April 14, 2016, for allegedly shooting a man in front of his parents' house and later firing a gun inside a casino. His family, which is suing the county over his death, has said he was having a mental breakdown at the time he was arrested. \n The evidence and testimony prosecutors presented showed several missteps from guards and their supervisors, including the failure to log that Thomas' water had been turned off. That action was taken because Thomas had stuffed a mattress in a toilet to flood the cell he was previously in. \n Meadors is accused of giving the order to shut off water, and Ramsey-Guy of carrying it out. Prosecutors suggested Evans had not cooperated fully with law enforcement investigating Thomas' death. The other officers had the most contact with Thomas, Chisholm said. \n Kimberly Perry, the mother of one of Thomas' three children, said it was at times difficult to be in court watching the proceedings. \n \"It was very hard and challenging because how could you do this to an individual? I mean, he wasn't perfect, but he still was an individual who had rights,\" said Perry, 39. \n During closing arguments, Chisholm told jurors Thomas' family had one question they wanted to ask the jail staffers who interacted with Thomas. \n \"Had Mr. Thomas been your son, had he been your brother, had he been a close friend, would this have happened?\" Chisholm said. \"I think we all know the answer to that.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Milwaukee County jury recommends dehydration death charges"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n LaToya Johnson looks at her daughter at their home Friday in San Diego. Johnson says her daughter was fondled in an elementary school bathroom by other students. It's one of thousands of cases student-on-student sex assault in K-12 AP found in a yearlong investigation. \n The children were confused, scared and hurt. In their own words, they did their best to convey what other students had done to them in the school restroom, the gym and the bus. What their families learned left them shaken and set up an unexpected, adversarial relationship with their school districts. \n Student-on-student sexual assaults rise significantly during middle-school years, an Associated Press analysis of federal crime data found. But even as early as kindergarten and first grade, children can be at risk: About 5 percent of all sexual attacks reported on school property in a recent two-year period happened to 5 and 6 year olds, according to the AP analysis. \n Little boys made up about 41 percent of the youngest victims \u2014 significantly higher than at other times in their school years. Among teens, boys comprised only about 10 percent of reported victims. \n Overall, the data showed children were almost always violated by someone their own age. Unwanted fondling was the most common type of assault; about 20 percent of the victims were subjected to rape, sodomy or other form of penetration. \n Most sexual assaults of children by other children happened at a private residence, but schools were the second-most common location, representing about 9 percent of the total incidents. \n \"The question for schools is: How do we prevent it, how can we address it, and how can we support our students who may be survivors?\" said Fatima Goss Graves, chief executive-elect of the National Women's Law Center, which won a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in 1999 that established schools' responsibilities for responding to peer-on-peer sexual assault. \n AP's analysis was based on the most recent two years of available data from the National Incident-Based Reporting System, which contains crime reports from about a third of the nation's law enforcement agencies. Some of the nation's largest cities are not represented in the voluntary reporting program, however, and the data does not reveal the outcome of cases. \n Here is a closer look at some of the littlest victims AP found: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Allentown School District \n Allentown, Pennsylvania, 2003-2004, 2013 \n After the first-grader came home from Jefferson Elementary School in 2013 and told his mother that his \"pee-pee hurt,\" she found him red, swollen and bloody. While washing his hands at a bathroom sink, he said, an older student had pulled down his pants, grabbed his penis and punched him in the face. The student warned, \"If you tell, I'm going to do this again,\" court records show. The district said it investigated and ultimately disputed the allegation, but paid a settlement to end the family's lawsuit. Just months before that boy's case, the district had settled a U.S. Justice Department investigation into similar incidents at another Allentown school. Justice accused the district of knowing a fifth-grade boy was allegedly sexually assaulting younger students in bathrooms at Central Elementary in 2003 and 2004, and failing to take enough action \u2014 or, in some cases, any action \u2014 to prevent it. The families of three first-grade boys came forward in a lawsuit against the district in 2006, and those allegations eventually spurred Justice to join the case. In all, seven boys said they were victimized. The district denied all the allegations, but settled the lawsuit in 2012 and agreed to court-enforced safety improvements. Since then, a judge has twice agreed to Justice requests to extend oversight of the district after the department cited unchanged policies, including failures to provide staff and student training. The district, which remains under monitoring until August, says it is making \"good-faith attempts to remedy every deficiency.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Gwinnett County Public Schools \n Suwanee, Georgia, 2016 \n The 5-year-old cried in his mother's car after school, saying he didn't want to be friends with a classmate anymore. He later confided to his stepsister what he'd been too scared to tell anyone else: A fellow kindergartner at Level Creek Elementary School had threatened to punch him in the face if he didn't pull down his pants, according to a police report filed by the boy's family. Frightened, the boy said he did as he was told and his classmate performed oral sex on him. The boy's parents contacted Suwanee police, who interviewed the boy and his family but then forwarded the case to school district police, saying they didn't have jurisdiction. A school resource officer later told the mother that \"due to the ages of the involved there are no criminal charges,\" according to a district police supervisor's email. The supervisor said the mother understood and did not want her son interviewed. A day later, after inquiries from a local reporter, the district issued a public statement saying the boy had been \"inappropriately touched\" but that his parents \"indicated they did not want to pursue prosecution.\" The parents disputed that in a local TV interview and said they saw school security footage that supported their son's account. The district, which disagreed about the footage, said it didn't have \"sufficient corroborating evidence to warrant further action in the absence of an interview of the alleged victim.\" The investigation remains open. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Monroe County Schools \n Peterstown, West Virginia, 2016 \n The 6-year-old stepped off the school bus on a cold January day with his coat open. A relative waiting to pick him up offered to fasten it. Instead, the kindergartener wanted help zipping and buttoning his pants, explaining that an older student had been playing a \"doctor\" game on him. In an interview with a child-abuse examiner, the boy said he had been forced into oral sex and fondled several times by the older student, then age 16. Police reviewed the bus's surveillance camera footage and corroborated at least one sexual assault against the boy, along with other suspicious behavior by the other student, according to his family's lawsuit. The district did not contest that in its legal response or that another child had provided a statement describing the older student's conduct. Younger and older bus riders were supposed to sit separately, but the driver failed to enforce that policy, the Monroe County district acknowledged. The student was expelled a year later, prosecuted as a juvenile and sentenced to a rehabilitation center, according to the family's suit. He had a disciplinary history in Monroe County and another district, including a suspension for \"indecent behavior.\" Monroe County knew about that record and that its buses were having safety problems. According to a 2013 superintendent's memo, there had been two allegations of \"inappropriate sexual touching\" of elementary students and three students were expelled for \"inappropriate sexual behavior.\" The memo said the superintendent told the transportation department to create seating charts for buses and keep boys and girls from each other \"to reduce the opportunity for sexual contact.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n San Diego Unified School District \n San Diego, California, 2013-2014 \n The 5-year-old kindergartener came home from Green Elementary school in May 2013 and told his parents about a \"gross thing\" that had happened in the school bathroom: A classmate had pulled down his pants, sucked his penis and demanded the boy reciprocate. The boy's parents alerted the principal, who later testified that he reported the incident to child protective services. But when they followed up with him before the start of the next school year, the principal acted as if he didn't know what they were talking about, according to a letter from the parents' attorney. The school district, on behalf of the principal, declined AP's requests for comment. A year later, an internal investigator was assigned to the case and eventually reported finding other school incidents of student-on-student sex assault, according to district records. The boy's case against the school district for negligence and violating Title IX ended with a $105,000 settlement, terms of which were kept confidential. In May 2014, a 7-year-old first-grader at the same school told her mother, LaToya Johnson, that three older girls had touched her vagina in a bathroom stall. The girl has vocal cord paralysis and couldn't scream for help, her mother said. Johnson, who spoke to AP publicly in hopes of bringing about change, later sued the school district and a proposed settlement agreement is pending. A U.S. Education Department investigation, triggered by the first case, resulted in the district agreeing to create guidelines for elementary school principals on how to handle students' sexual harassment and assault complaints. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Lincoln County School District \n Newport, Oregon, 2009-2010 \n For months, the parents of five first-grade students at Sam Case Elementary attributed their children's behavioral problems to the recent merger of two schools. One mother told AP her son had nightmares and soiled his pants. A second child protested daily, \"I don't want to go to school!\" Only later, the child's mother said, did she learn that her 6-year-old daughter had been groped in the classroom reading corner and threatened with death if she told anyone. State records show that another parent complained his son had witnessed a 6-year-old exposing himself on a school bus. School officials were first alerted in fall 2009 to a possible problem with the boy accused in both incidents when his family sought help in dealing with \"problems at home,\" including bed-wetting. The principal and staff members met later with the boy's parents to discuss \"inappropriate touching of other students,\" state records show. But no one from the school notified the state's child welfare office, law enforcement or any of the other children's parents. The parents of the five alleged victims, however, had pieced together their children's shared experiences and, in March 2010, one of them notified police. In April 2011, the principal and two teachers pleaded no contest to failure to report child abuse and were fined $648, court records show. The families later sued the district and settled in 2014 for $250,000. Three of the five children never returned to the school; one mother said her son remains in therapy seven years later and another mother told AP her child is \"scared to death of the world.\" The accused boy remained at the school. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kindergarteners among youngest schoolhouse assault victims"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maine Attorney General Janet Mills speaks to reporters near the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Augusta, Maine in 2010. \n AUGUSTA, Maine >> Republican Gov. Paul LePage is suing Democratic Attorney General Janet Mills for refusing to represent his administration's positions during a series of political disagreements that reached the boiling point over the president's immigration and travel orders. \n In a lawsuit the governor's office announced today, LePage said he's been forced to spend taxpayer money on outside counsel to represent the administration because Mills refuses to do so. \n \"This clear abuse of power prevents the chief executive from carrying out duties that in his good-faith judgment is in the best interest of the people of Maine,\" LePage said. \n His lawsuit, which his office said was filed today in Kennebec County Superior Court, seeks to force Mills to pay for his outside counsel, with no restrictions, if she declines to represent his positions. \n Mills said the lawsuit was \"frivolous\" and much ado about nothing. \n \"We're not some peon,\" she said. \"We are an independent constitutional office.\" \n She said her office has never denied LePage's ability to retain outside counsel and said the office simply said LePage's counsel should be licensed and insured. \n LePage and Mills have crossed swords before: Mills refused to represent the state when LePage tried to drop some 19- and 20-year-olds from welfare rolls and when he sued municipalities for helping immigrants who were in the country illegally. She also fined his administration for holding a closed-door meeting. \n But the dispute boiled over with Republican President Donald Trump's travel orders. \n LePage, who supports Trump's travel ban, decided he'd had enough when Mills publicly disagreed with Trump and then joined in an amicus brief opposing the administration's orders. \n The two executive orders by Trump targeted several Muslim-majority countries for restrictions on travel to the United States. The lawsuit states that LePage believes Trump's executive orders about immigration and travel are \"measured and appropriate.\" Trump says the measures are meant to keep the U.S. safe. \n In emails provided by the attorney general's office dating to February, LePage accused Mills of thwarting his executive authority and Mills referenced his \"misstatements, mischaracterizations and misinformed opinions.\" \n Mills, the first woman to serve as attorney general in Maine, drew a distinction between defending the state in a lawsuit and taking a discretionary position in another jurisdiction. \n \"If he were getting sued that'd be a different matter,\" she said in an interview. \"He wants to take a discretionary position in some litigation in another jurisdiction. And that's his prerogative. We said he could do that.\" \n But she said she's unaware of any precedent that says her office should pay for the executive branch's outside legal fees. LePage could have just signed onto a court brief, as he's done in the past, at no cost to taxpayers, she said. \n House Republican leader Ken Fredette said it appeared the relationship between the two \"has deteriorated to a point where the basic function of legal representation is not happening the way it's supposed to.\" \n Mills was confirmed in 2012, replacing a Republican attorney general, and she served a previous term as attorney general as well. A 1989 Maine Supreme Judicial Court decision found the attorney general has the power to decline to represent the executive branch in litigation, based on what's in the \"public interest\" as he or she sees fit. \n LePage told the attorney general's office he didn't want to see Mills' name on any brief that contradicts his support for the Trump immigration orders. He contends the disagreements have forced him to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars for legal advice. \n He noted that most states avoid such conflicts by holding public elections for attorney general or letting the governor appoint the attorney general. In Maine the attorney general is elected by the Legislature. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maine governor sues attorney general for not defending cases"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Daniel J. Moore, from left, Lisa Moore and Daniel E. Moore pose for a picture at their kitchen table in Newton Falls, Ohio, today. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg dined with the Moore family on Friday as part of a mission to visit all 50 states. \n NEWTON FALLS, Ohio >> An Ohio family that hosted Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg for dinner says he made it clear he wasn't planning to run for president in 2020. \n Zuckerberg dined Friday at the Moore family home in Newton Falls during his mission to visit all 50 states. His trips have fueled speculation about his political aspirations on social media and the \"Today\" show. \n The Moore family members are Democrats who voted for Republican Donald Trump for president. They say they talked to Zuckerberg about the decline of manufacturing and other challenges facing their town. \n Zuckerberg told Buzzfeed in January he wasn't planning to run for president when he announced his trip. A representative says his intention was to learn about the different U.S. communities that use Facebook. \n Zuckerberg visited a Wisconsin farm Sunday and posted photos of himself driving a tractor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook CEO dinner hosts say he's not running for presiden"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama waves as he walks on stage with first lady Michelle Obama and daughters Malia and Sasha at his election night party in Chicago in 2012. \n CHICAGO >> Former President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama will visit Chicago for a community meeting to discuss their planned library and museum. \n The Obama Foundation announced Monday the Obamas will host a round table discussion Wednesday to \"update the community\" on the progress of the Obama Presidential Center in Jackson Park on Chicago's South Side. The Obamas are also expected to hear from community members on their ideas for the library. \n New York-based Ralph Appelbaum Associates will head a team of several firms and individuals with expertise in media, lighting and acoustics in designing exhibits. \n The foundation has said almost half of the exhibition design work for the museum will be performed by minority- and women-owned businesses. \n The project is expected to cost hundreds of millions of dollars. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obamas to visit Chicago to discuss planned library, museum"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York City Police Department officers stand at the front entrance of Trump Tower in New York on Nov. 17. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> The new national budget contains $61 million to reimburse law enforcement agencies for protecting President Donald Trump and his family when they are at his private properties in New York City and Palm Beach County, Florida. \n The bill would cover expenses incurred at Trump Tower and the Mar-a-Lago resort since Election Day last November through this September. \n The New York Police Department estimates it spent $24 million to protect Trump Tower when the president-elect stayed there between Nov. 8 and the inauguration 73 days later. He has not returned since taking office, but first lady Melania Trump and their 11-year-old son Barron live there. The NYPD estimates daily expenses of about $140,000 when they are there without the president. \n Palm Beach County has spent about $4 million for Mar-a-Lago security. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Budget plan repays New York, Palm Beach for Trump security"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n Many people think of the mumps as merely a children's disease, and there's a real fear that folks won't take the warning seriously, but complications can be serious, including encephalitis, meningitis and deafness, a state health official said last week. \n The state Department of Health confirmed today two more cases of mumps in the islands, bringing the year's total to 16. \n Further reading \n The new tally is the highest number of cases recorded in at least a decade. \n Janice Okubo, DOH spokeswoman, said the two cases do not appear to be related to the two clusters of cases the Health Department reported Friday. In announcing the two clusters of cases, health officials said more people are likely to come down with the contagious disease in coming weeks. \n Okubo said one imported case of mumps was also confirmed this week, but that case is not included in the state total for Hawaii residents. \n Last year Hawaii had 10 cases of mumps. Before that, the most for any single year going back to 2007 was five. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Two more cases of mumps confirmed in Hawaii"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "A former Hawaii resident snagged a James Beard Award today, though no Hawaii restaurants or chefs were among the finalists. \n Nelson Daquip, Canlis restaurant's director of wine & spirits, left Alan Wong's in Hawaii 15 years ago to continue his food and beverage career in Seattle. \n Daquip was named a best new sommelier by Wine & Spirits Magazine in 2006, and was named the city's best sommelier by Seattle Magazine in 2008. \n Today he took the stage with Canlis' owners as they were presented the James Beard Award for Outstanding Wine Program. \n The Canlis brothers turned the microphone over to Daquip and he shared his thank-yous, ending his remarks, \"with gratitude and aloha, thank you all very much.\" \n ", "author": "By Erika Engle erika@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii native wins Beard Award"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "JAKE STRANG VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mattress and tents were set aside for attendees of the Fyre Festival on Friday. \n A $100 million lawsuit was filed against organizers of the inaugural Fyre Festival, a music festival in the Bahamas that was billed as a luxury experience only to quickly devolve into an island landscape of half-built tents, cheese sandwiches, and a distinct lack of musical talent. \n In a lawsuit filed today in Los Angeles federal court, Fyre Festival and its organizers were accused of fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and breach of contract. The plaintiff, attendee Daniel Jung, seeks class action status for the thousands of ticket-holders who flew to the remote venue. \n \"The festival's lack of adequate food, water, shelter, and medical care created a dangerous and panicked situation among attendees\u2014suddenly finding themselves stranded on a remote island without basic provisions\u2014that was closer to 'The Hunger Games' or 'Lord of the Flies' than Coachella,\" the complaint stated, referring to a similar festival held annually in California. The plaintiff alleged that the organizers knew the Fyre Festival was a \"serious danger\" to attendees in advance. \n The suit, filed by celebrity Hollywood attorney Mark Geragos, seeks $100 million in damages on behalf of a purported class of concertgoers. Jung's ticket to the Fyre Festival cost $2,000, according to the complaint. \n The event was hyped by ads featuring supermodels enjoying an island paradise and promising luxury unmatched by older name-brand music festivals. Attendees expected \"the culture experience of the decade,\" a music-filled escape in a tropical utopia of glitzy yachts and ornate villas. \n That's not what they received, according to festival attendees who said they arrived to a dismal city of disaster relief tents. Their baggage arrived piled in a shipping container, and the gourmet cuisine they expected turned out to be ham and cheese sandwiches and a side salad in a styrofoam tray. \n Organized by rapper Ja Rule, whose real name is Jeffrey Atkins, and business partner Billy McFarland, the Fyre Festival was meant to grow global brand awareness for Fyre Media, a talent booking startup the pair founded in 2015. McFarland is also the founder and chief executive of Magnises, a social club for rich millennials. \n The lawsuit alleges McFarland and Atkins warned musicians and celebrities not to attend the festival, but didn't warn attendees of the same. \"Defendants only 'cancelled' the event on the morning of the first day\u2014after thousands of attendees had already arrived and were stranded, without food, water, or shelter,\" according to the complaint. \n \"Fyre Festival and its promoters recklessly stranded thousands of consumers in a festival [of] horror, and cost them thousands of dollars on travel, lodging, and time off from work,\" Ben Meiselas, an attorney at Geragos and Geragos law firm, alleged in a statement. \n A representative for Fyre Festival didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. McFarland didn't immediately respond to a phone call requesting comment. \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Fyre Festival organizers face $100M lawsuit"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KAUAI POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Cody Safadago \n A 46-year-old man appeared in court on Kauai today, accused of killing a 19-year-old woman in a head-on crash last week while allegedly driving drunk in a stolen pickup and without a license. \n Kauai District Court Judge Michael Soong confirmed bail for Cody Safadago at $1 million. Kauai police said Safadago, who is originally from Washington state, has no known address and is believed to be living in Kalalau Valley. \n Safadago was being held today at Kauai Community Correctional Center and had a preliminary hearing set for Wednesday. \n He was charged in connection with Thursday night's crash with first-degree negligent homicide, auto theft, drunken driving, driving without a license, reckless driving, inattention to driving, resisting arrest, and failing to render aid. \n Police said Kayla Huddy-Lemn, of Kapaa, was killed in the crash on Kuhio Highway in Kapaa. \n Police said Safadago was driving a Nissan pickup that had been stolen from a home on Makaha Road in Kapaa moments before the crash. \n He crossed the centerline and struck Huddy-Lemn's oncoming Mazda sedan at about 10:45 p.m., police said. \n Safadago continued south-bound on the highway for about 500 feet after the crash and stopped near Kintaro Japanese Restaurant, police said. \n He then ran away, but was located near Wailua Shopping Plaza and arrested after a brief struggle with officers, police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged with killing Kauai teen in drunken driving crash"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n City Attorney Dennis Herrera, left, smiles while walking with San Francisco Supervisor Aaron Peskin, right, after announcing a settlement agreement on short term rentals during a news conference Monday, May 1, 2017, at City Hall in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> San Francisco and Airbnb reached a deal Monday in a lawsuit stemming from San Francisco's efforts to try to prevent the short-term rental website from including housing units that violate city rules restricting who can list properties and for how long. \n Critics complain Airbnb's business model encourages landlords to take already scarce rentals off the market. Supporters say they couldn't live in San Francisco without the extra money made in rentals. \n City officials responded by allowing owners and tenants to rent out their places for short periods, but under strict conditions aimed at protecting the city's housing supply. And they required residents to register their units to help officials monitor their compliance. \n Monday's settlement came in a lawsuit filed by Airbnb that sought to block a city ordinance that threatened the company with fines up to $1,000 for every booking it completed for a unit not registered with the city. \n Under the deal, residents will have to provide their registration number in order to list a rental on the website. \n The company will provide a monthly list of all San Francisco listings to the city, so officials can verify that units are registered. Airbnb will deactivate listings that the city says are invalid. \n \"This settlement protects our neighborhoods and will help prevent our precious housing stock from being illegally turned into hotels at the expense of evicted or displaced tenants,\" City Attorney Dennis Herrera said. \n Airbnb said in a statement that the agreement \"puts in place the systems and tools needed to help ensure our community is able to continue to share their homes.\" \n Airbnb \u2014 the world's largest short-stay online rental company \u2014 is based in San Francisco. \n The city requires residents who list units on the site to limit the length of stays to less than 30 nights at a time. Residents can rent out their units when not present there for a maximum of 90 nights in a year. \n Additionally, people can only register one unit and must live there for 9 months each year. \n The city argued that only 2,100 of the more than 8,000 San Francisco listings on Airbnb were registered, making enforcement of those requirements difficult. It sought to put teeth in the registration requirement by threatening Airbnb with fines and even criminal prosecution for completing transactions with unregistered units. \n Airbnb argued the city would force it to screen and remove listings because the company would not want listings for units that could not legally be booked. The company said that role would violate a 1996 federal law that prohibits internet companies from being held responsible for content posted by users. \n A federal judge in San Francisco rejected that argument, but said Airbnb might still be able to block the law on the grounds that the city does not have a way for it to quickly determine whether a unit is registered. \n U.S. District Judge James Donato in November told the city and Airbnb to work harder to resolve Airbnb's lawsuit. \n Chris Lehane, head of global policy and communications for Airbnb, said on a conference call with reporters that the settlement provides a simple registration system while allowing the city to make sure hosts are following the law. \n Under the deal, people will be able to register with the city directly through Airbnb. \n City officials said it will take four months to build the technology to allow that to happen. Residents currently must submit their registration application in person at a city office. \n Existing hosts will be phased in to prevent disruptions, but all of them must be registered by 2018, Herrera said. \n Airbnb has agreed to drop its lawsuit if the San Francisco Board of Supervisors endorses the settlement, Herrera's office said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Airbnb, San Francisco reach deal on rental registrations"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Immigrant rights activist Barbie Hurtado leads protesters chanting during a sit-in at the Texas Department of Insurance building in Austin, Texas. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> About 20 people are being charged with criminal trespassing after staging an hours-long sit-in at a state building to protest a Texas bill compelling local police to enforce federal immigration law. \n More than 100 protesters, many wearing T-shirts denouncing the proposal against \"sanctuary cities,\" marched Monday to the state Capitol, then to the nearby Department of Insurance building. \n They sat in the lobby, vowing to remain until Republican Gov. Greg Abbott rejects the bill, which hasn't yet cleared the Legislature. The governor has an office in the building but wasn't present. \n The protesters spent hours chanting and blocking entrances. \n Police ordered them to leave around 5 p.m. Most complied, though around 20 refused. \n They were issued trespassing citations, and attorneys arriving to help them weren't allowed inside the building. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Around 20 people charged after Texas 'sanctuary city' sit-in"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Rail construction in Kapolei area, near the Makakilo Quarry. \n Local rail officials released today their highly anticipated \"recovery plan.\" The 249-page report, which was due Sunday, leaves the main question of how to pay for the island's cash-strapped transit project unresolved, but it looks to assure federal officials that the latest cost estimates and management are sound. \n The report calls the original plan to build 20 miles of elevated concrete pathway, 21 stations, and a transit center at Pearl Highlands, the only \"viable Project alternative from a financial, ridership, and operationally practical perspective.\" \n It further pans the so-called \"Plan B,\" a less-expensive proposal to end the line near Aloha Tower and eliminate seven stations along the route. Such changes, the report states, would cut rail ridership by about 60 percent. That alternative plan would also face delays to assemble new environmental studies and deal with litigation, it added. \n This latest report generally holds consistent with the conclusions that the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation reached in its \"Interim Plan,\" which was released last fall and also pledged support for Plan A \u2014 building the full 20 miles to Ala Moana Center. \n It comes after state House and Senate negotiators agreed to a tentative deal last week to help pay for rail's approximately $3 billion shortfall by increasing the state hotel room tax to 12 percent. It also follows renewed debate over the best way forward for rail, with some advocating to stop the line at Middle Street, others pushing to bring rail to ground level for the last four miles into town \u2014 and others calling on the island's leaders to scrap the project altogether. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Rail officials unveil recovery plan"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police block the street as smoke pours into the air following a series of loud blasts were heard in Toronto. \n TORONTO >> Loud blasts echoed in Toronto's financial district today and smoke billowed from under a busy street, disrupting car traffic and subway service. \n Fire department officials said a fire in an underground vault holding transformers was to blame. The cause of the blaze was under investigation. \n Police Const. Allyson Douglas Cook said there were no indications of any terrorism link. \n Police cleared the normally busy King street in front of the Bank of Nova Scotia headquarters during rush hour. Subways bypassed King Station and streetcars were diverted. \n The area is where Toronto's five major banks are headquartered. \n No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Blasts, smoke in heart of Toronto financial district"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "The husband-and-wife team who started Maui Brewing Co. were recognized today as the most outstanding small business operators in the nation, and were congratulated in Washington, D.C., by Vice President Mike Pence. \n Garrett and Melanie Marrero received the award for Small Business Persons of the Year from the U.S. Small Business Administration a week after being selected as Hawaii's Small Business Persons of the year by the agency. \n Linda McMahon, SBA administrator, said in a statement that the Marreros achieved impressive growth with their company. \"Their innovative spirit, with assistance from the SBA and its lending and partners, created a thriving business and hundreds of jobs for their community,\" she said. \n Maui Brewing was established in 2005 as a small brewery and brewpub restaurant in Kahana with help of an SBA loan. A second location opened in Lahaina in 2007, and by 2013 they were producing more than 19,000 barrels of beer and revenue over $10 million annually. Last year, Maui Brewing opened an 18,000-square-foot restaurant in Waikiki and has more restaurants slated to open later this year, including one in Kailua. \n By the end of next year, Maui Brewing expects to employ about 700 people. \n \"Garrett and Melanie have shown impressive growth, expanding in size, sales and scope of their business,\" McMahon said. \n Pence, who met Garrett Marrero at the U.S. Institute of Peace not far from the White House, noted that 99.7 percent of all businesses in America are small businesses and that nearly half of all private-sector jobs in the country are at small businesses. \n \"The truth is that small businesses are the foundation of our communities and pillars of the American economy,\" he said, according to a written transcript from his office. \"I want to give congratulations to the national small business person of the year \u2014 the two persons of the year, Garrett and Melanie Marrero of the Maui Brewing Co. in Hawaii,\" he said. \n ", "author": "By Andrew Gomes agomes@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui Brewing Co. wins top SBA national honor, meets with Pence"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump suggested he was open to meeting Kim Jong Un, but hadn't repeated the line since taking office. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump opened the door today to a future meeting with North Korea's Kim Jong Un, offering unusual praise for the globally ostracized leader at a time of surging nuclear tensions. \n Although the White House played down near-term prospects for such a meeting, Trump's conciliatory comments marked a departure from his more unforgiving tone toward the North in recent days. It marked the latest fluctuation as Trump's administration struggles to articulate its policy for addressing the growing threat from North Korea's nuclear program. \n \"If it would be appropriate for me to meet with him, I would absolutely, I would be honored to do it,\" Trump told Bloomberg News. \n Clearly aware of the power of his declaration, he added: \"We have breaking news.\" \n As a presidential candidate, Trump suggested he was open to meeting Kim, but hadn't repeated the line since taking office. Fresh missile tests by the North and its progress toward developing a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States have made the isolated communist dictatorship one of America's top national security concerns. \n Deeming President Barack Obama's \"strategic patience\" with North Korea a total failure, Trump and his aides say they're taking a more aggressive approach, at times warning of potential military confrontation if the North doesn't change course. The U.S. has even raised the possibility of a pre-emptive strike if Pyongyang conducts another nuclear test. \n Yet on other occasions, Trump's administration has dangled carrots. It has spoken of restarting negotiations with the North and even suggested resuming food aid to North Korea once it starts dismantling its nuclear and missile programs. \n On one point, at least, Trump and his team have been consistently clear: A solution requires China, the North's biggest economic partner. Trump is hoping China can pressure the North into a peaceful denuclearization. The Obama administration unsuccessfully sought the same objective for years. \n Trump's suggestion of admiration for Kim, however, is something entirely new. \n He noted that Kim assumed office in his 20s and has held power despite efforts by \"a lot of people\" to take it away. \n \"So obviously, he's a pretty smart cookie,\" Trump told CBS' \"Face the Nation\" in an interview that aired Sunday. \n Tasked with explaining Trump's flattery, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said there would be no meeting with the secretive North Korean leader until circumstances were right and numerous conditions met. He said Kim should have to alter his government's behavior and \"show signs of good faith.\" \n \"Clearly, conditions are not there right now,\" Spicer said. \n But echoing Trump's gentler tone, Spicer said Kim had \"managed to lead a country forward\" from a young age. Spicer didn't mention that under Kim, North Korea's government remains strictly authoritarian and dissent isn't tolerated. Much of the country is impoverished and malnourished. \n Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who has urged a tough approach to North Korea, warned that Trump would be legitimizing Kim by granting a meeting to the leader of a brutal regime. \n \"The only time he should meet with him is to get the details of how North Korea will abandon their nuclear weapons program,\" McCain told reporters. \n Trump's musings about a potential meeting with Kim were reminiscent of Barack Obama's declaration during his 2008 campaign that he'd be willing to meet without pre-condition with the leaders of North Korea, Iran, Cuba and other nations long at odds with the U.S. Republicans and Obama's Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, criticized Obama for that statement. As president, Obama ultimately spoke by phone with Iran's leader and traveled to Cuba amid an historic detente with the island nation. \n The U.S. maintains no diplomatic relations with North Korea and the two countries are technically at war, as the 1950-1953 Korean conflict ended without a peace treaty. The North makes no secret of its intention to develop a nuclear weapons system capable of striking the U.S. mainland. In recent weeks, North Korea has conducted major military drills, test-fired missiles in violation of U.N. resolutions and taken preparatory steps toward a fifth nuclear test, steps that have fueled growing U.S. concerns and prompted Trump to send an aircraft carrier to the area. \n The president's latest comments on North Korea came as his CIA director, Mike Pompeo, was in South Korea, where tens of millions of people live within artillery range of the northern border. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson last week chaired a U.N. Security Council meeting and urged countries to ramp up sanctions and suspend diplomatic ties with the North to increase pressure. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "With unusual praise, Trump says he could meet Kim Jong Un"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue shook hands with Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee Chairman Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., after signing an interim rule designed to provide flexibility for school meals at Catoctin Elementary School in Leesburg, Va. today. \n LEESBURG, Va. >> Schools won't have to cut more salt from meals just yet and some will be able to serve kids fewer whole grains, under changes to federal nutrition standards announced today. \n The move by the Trump administration partially rolls back rules championed by former first lady Michelle Obama as part of her healthy eating initiative. \n As his first major action in office, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said the department will delay an upcoming requirement to lower the amount of sodium in meals while continuing to allow waivers for regulations that all grains on the lunch line must be 50 percent whole grain. \n Schools could also serve 1 percent flavored milk instead of the nonfat now required. \n \"If kids aren't eating the food, and it's ending up in the trash, they aren't getting any nutrition \u2014 thus undermining the intent of the program,\" said Perdue, who traveled to a school in Leesburg, Virginia, to make the announcement. \n Before he signed the proclamation, Perdue and Senate Agriculture Chairman Pat Roberts, R-Kansas, ate chicken nuggets, fruit and salad with children at Catoctin Elementary. Perdue said he doesn't see the changes as a rollback, but \"we're just slowing down the process.\" He praised Obama's nutrition efforts as first lady but said he wants the healthier meals to be more palatable. \n He said the department will work on long-term solutions to further tweak the rules. \n The changes reflect suggestions from the School Nutrition Association, which represents school nutrition directors and companies that sell food to schools. The group often battled with the Obama administration, which phased in the healthier school meal rules starting in 2012. \n The Obama administration rules set fat, sugar and sodium limits on foods in the lunch line and beyond. Schools have long been required to follow government nutrition rules if they accept federal reimbursements for free and reduced-price meals for low-income students, but these standards were stricter. Obama pushed the changes as part of her \"Let's Move\" campaign to combat childhood obesity. \n The Trump administration changes leave most of the Obama administration rules in place, including rules that students must take fruits and vegetables on the lunch line. Some schools have asked for changes to that policy, saying students often throw them away. \n But health advocates who have championed the rules are concerned about the freeze in sodium levels, in particular. School lunches for elementary school students are now required to have less than 1,230 mg of sodium, a change put in place in 2014. The changes would keep the meals at that level, delaying until at least 2020 a requirement to lower sodium to 935 mg. That requirement was scheduled to begin in the 2017-2018 school year. \n \"By forgoing the next phase of sodium reduction, the Trump Administration will be locking in dangerously high sodium levels in school lunch,\" said Margo Wootan, a lobbyist for the Center for Science in the Public Interest. \n Becky Domokos-Bays, the nutrition director for Loudon County, Va., including Catoctin Elementary, said she has been experimenting with the lower sodium levels and she's had a hard time adjusting some of the more popular foods she serves. Kids like her chicken noodle soup, she says, but rejected it when she lowered the sodium content because it was thinner and had less taste. \n As the healthier school meals have now been in place for five years, many schools and school children have gotten used to them. But nutrition directors like Domokos-Bays have said some parts of the law are still causing them trouble, such as finding tasty foods that are high in whole grains. In addition to the grits, nutrition directors have said they have a hard time finding whole grain pastas, biscuits and tortillas that kids will eat. \n Perdue, a former governor of Georgia, said some schools in the South have had problems with grits, because \"the whole grain variety has little black flakes in it\" and kids won't eat it. \n \"The school is compliant with the whole-grain requirements, but no one is eating the grits,\" Perdue said. \"That doesn't make any sense.\" \n Others don't want to see any changes to the healthier meals. Outside the school, Leesburg mayor Kelly Burk and about 20 others protested ahead of the announcement. One sign read: \"Sonny \u2014 Our children do not want big business soda, chips and fries!\" \n \"Some people don't like regulations, but these are important regulations that impact kids,\" Burk said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump administration relaxing Obama-era school lunch nutrition rules"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer said the White House is \"looking into\" ways to potentially change the nation's libel laws to make it easier to go after reporters whose stories they deem inaccurate. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House is \"looking into\" ways to potentially change the nation's libel laws to make it easier to go after reporters whose stories they deem inaccurate. \n That's according to President Trump's chief spokesman Sean Spicer, who says, \"that is something that is being looked into, substantively and then both logistically how it would happen.\" \n Trump had pledged during his campaign to \"open up\" the nation's libel laws \u2014 a process that could require a constitutional amendment or complete reversal of Supreme Court precedent. \n White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus told ABC on Sunday that the issue has been discussed \u2014 but cautioned that \"how that gets executed or whether that goes anywhere is a different story.\" \n Trump repeatedly threatened news outlets with lawsuits during his campaign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spicer: White House 'looking into' libel laws"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 28-year-old man after he allegedly lunged at another man with a knife in the Waikele area. \n At about 12:10 p.m. Sunday, police said the suspect wielded a knife and lunged at the victim, 50. It's unclear at this time what occurred prior to the suspect lunging the knife toward the victim. \n Police said the 50-year-old man ran away and called 911. No injuries were reported. \n Police arrested the 28-year-old man at the Waikele Premium Outlets on suspicion of first-degree terroristic threatening. \n The investigation is ongoing. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for terroristic threatening in Waikele"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "MAUNA KEA WEATHER CENTER \n A screenshot from the Subaru Telescope catwalk atop Mauna Kea this morning showed snow blanketing the ground. \n The entire state, especially Hawaii island, should be prepared for the possibility of thunderstorms today as rains continue to move southeast and away from the islands, the National Weather Service said. \n \"Obviously it's a lot different than yesterday but it's still a little unstable, with the chance of possible thunderstorms,\" said lead forecaster Derek Wroe. \n An \"unsettled weather pattern\" is expected to remain in place through tonight, the weather service said. \n Maui and Hawaii island are particularly vulnerable to rain today, giving way to more typical tradewind weather patterns by the middle of the week, the weather service said. A flash flood watch for Maui and the Big Island remains in effect through this afternoon. \n The summits of Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea should expect heavy snow today, but there was no official count of how much has landed so far, Wroe said. A winter storm warning remained in effect above the 11,000-foot mark, he said. \n The Mauna Kea Weather Center this morning said the road to the summit remained closed from the Visitor Information Station at the 9,200-foot level due to ice and snow. \n Sunday saw a record low temperature of \"a very chilly \u2026 rainy 61 degrees\" set at Honolulu Airport, beating the previous low temperature for the day of 63 degrees that was set in 1995, according to the weather service. \n Record rainfall also was recorded Sunday at Kahului, which saw 2.19 inches. That beat the previous record for the day of 1.24 inches that was recorded in 1954. \n Repair crews on Maui worked overnight and were expected to continue today to re-open South Kihei Road from Ohukai Road to Kaonolu Street, which was closed because of flooding. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Heavy snow expected atop Big Isle summits as rains soak larger islands"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks in the Kennedy Garden of the White House to the Independent Community Bankers Association. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today said he will explore the possibility of higher gasoline and diesel fuel taxes, suggesting an increase could pay for his ambitious infrastructure plan. \n \"It's something that I would certainly consider,\" Trump told Bloomberg News in an interview. \n The president indicated that the additional money would be directed toward highway construction and repair. That's been a problem area because fuel taxes have been unchanged since 1993 and created financial challenges for preserving the Highway Trust Fund. \n The federal government currently finances its trust fund with an 18.4 cents per gallon tax on gasoline and a 24.4 cents per gallon tax on diesel fuel, neither of which are adjusted for inflation so the revenues raised has effectively fallen over time. \n To keep a positive balance in the trust fund, lawmakers have injected an additional $143 billion into it since 2008, according to a report last year by the Congressional Budget Office. Highway-related tax revenue raised just $37.4 billion in fiscal 2015, meaning that maintenance has been deferred as potholes and traffic jams have worsened. \n It's a rare tax increase that enjoys support from the businesses most likely to bear the higher costs. \n The U.S. trucking industry \u2014 which shoulders roughly half the cost of the fuel taxes \u2014 would welcome an increase if it's dedicated to fixing infrastructure. The industry benefits because better roads reduce travel times, curb the frequency of vehicle repairs and improve roadway safety. \n \"The cost of doing nothing is more expensive than a higher fuel tax,\" said Chris Spears, president of the American Trucking Associations. \n By increasing fuel taxes by 35 cents a gallon and indexing them to inflation, the federal government would raise an additional $473.6 billion over the next decade, according to the staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said at today's news briefing that the president was only considering raising fuel taxes out of respect to requests from the trucking industry. \n \"He has an open mind,\" Spicer said. \n Raising fuel taxes has generally been opposed by Republican lawmakers at the state level. \n Asked if he'd rule out a gas tax increase, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, told reporters, \"In my view, yes.\" He added later, \"But we're going to have that discussion with the White House and we want to learn more about the president's ideas.\" \n A committee aide said later that Brady's answer reflected an assumption that infrastructure tax issues will be addressed separately by other House committees. \n Trump also told Bloomberg News that the personal and corporate income tax plan his administration outlined last week is just the starting point for negotiations with Congress. \n \"Everything is a starting point,\" the president said. \n Trump's proposed plan would slash the corporate tax rate to 15 percent and lower rates for individuals, likely increasing the deficit substantially if passed. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Trump says he's willing to consider raising gas tax"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Falcon 9 SpaceX rocket carrying a classified satellite for the National Reconnaissance Office lifted off from pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla. today. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> SpaceX launched a top-secret spy satellite for the U.S. government this morning and then successfully landed the booster for recycling. \n The unmanned Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from its NASA-leased pad at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. \n It was SpaceX's first mission for the National Reconnaissance Office. No details were divulged about the newly launched NRO satellite. Instead, SpaceX focused its webcast on the successful touchdown of the first-stage booster. \n The leftover booster \u2014 its job done \u2014 landed next door at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station several minutes after liftoff. Sonic booms rattled the area, serving as a morning wake-up call. Across the country, cheers erupted at SpaceX Mission Control at company headquarters in Hawthorne, California. \n SpaceX strives to return most of its boosters for reuse. The company's first recycled rocket flew last month. \n This was the fourth SpaceX booster landing at Cape Canaveral; even more have landed on ocean platforms. \n SpaceX founder and chief executive Elon Musk said via Twitter that both the launch and landing were good. But the upper-level wind at liftoff was \"unusually high.\" \n \"Tough call, as high altitude wind shear was at 98.6 percent of the theoretical load limit,\" he said in a tweet. Earlier in the morning, he noted about the wind, \"Worrying, but not a showstopper.\" \n Sunday's launch attempt was foiled at the last minute by a bad sensor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "SpaceX launches top-secret spy satellite for U.S. government"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demetrius Griffin, who was a guest at a Sunday poolside birthday party at which a gunman opened deadly fire, stood outside the San Diego complex, Monday, as he described what he saw. He said Peter Selis sat on a pool chair during most of the rampage, calmly shooting guests at the party. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A police officer stands outside the pool area at an apartment complex, today, where a deadly shooting occurred Sunday. \n SAN DIEGO >> A gunman despondent over a recent breakup opened fire at a poolside birthday party and phoned his ex-girlfriend as he kept shooting strangers, killing one woman and injuring six other partygoers before he was killed by officers, police said today. \n Peter Selis, 49, sat on a pool chair during most of the rampage, calmly shooting guests at the party with a .45-caliber handgun. The victims were black and Latino and Selis was white, but police don't think race played a factor. \n \"These victims were just in his vicinity when he committed this terrible tragedy,\" Chief Shelley Zimmerman said. \"What started as a celebration of a friend's birthday party turned into a tragedy of epic proportions.\" \n Witnesses said Selis was wearing a black coat and sitting alone during the party for a man's 50th birthday Sunday at an apartment complex near the University of California, San Diego. \n At one point the guest of honor invited the man to join the party. That's when Selis drew a handgun and shot the honoree in the torso, said Demetrius Griffin, a friend at the party. \n \"He didn't stand up. He sat the whole time. Even when he reloaded his magazine, he sat in his chair,\" said Griffin. \"It was very eerie, to say the least. He didn't stand up. He didn't say anything. He just opened fire.\" \n After shooting two people, Selis called his ex-girlfriend and said what he'd done and that police were there and then continued firing. \n \"It is apparent that Selis wanted his ex-girlfriend to listen in as he carried out his rampage,\" Zimmerman said. \n Selis shot four black women, two black men and one Latino man, police said. \n Two victims remained in critical condition, but were expected to survive, Zimmerman said. Another man was taken to the hospital after he broke his arm running away. \n Rikky Galiendes, 27, said he heard between eight to 10 gunshots around 6 p.m. and looked outside his sixth-story apartment in University City, a diverse neighborhood near the campus. He spotted a man bleeding and running near the pool below. \n Galiendes said he called out to ask if the man needed help when his roommate grabbed him, yanked him down and pointed toward a man sitting in a chair with a gun. \n \"When we looked over the balcony, he was just sitting down with a gun on his lap,\" Galiendes said. \"He was calm, you know. I mean from my perspective, the guy was ready to do whatever he was going to do. He shot at people having a good time and having a party.\" \n Galiendes and his roommate ran back inside and called police. \n A police helicopter arrived first, and the pilot reported seeing multiple victims on the ground and that Selis appeared to be reloading in the pool area, the police chief said. \n Three officers arrived and shot Selis after he pointed a large-caliber handgun at them, she said. \n Selis and one of the partygoers lived at the complex in the diverse community north of downtown San Diego. \n Selis, a father who worked as a mechanic at a Ford dealership, filed for federal bankruptcy protection in October 2015, listing $14,000 in assets and $108,000 in liabilities, according to court records. \n \"This is truly a horrific act of violence,\" San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer said at a news conference. \"Our entire city, all of our thoughts and prayers, all San Diegans' thoughts and prayers, are with the victims and their families tonight.\" \n Galiendes and his roommate stayed indoors until neighbors yelled that it was safe to come out. He said the scene was horrifying. \n \"As soon as I heard the gunshots, I had goosebumps and the whole thing was really emotionally draining \u2014 seeing blood everywhere, seeing bodies on the ground, hoping they survived, seeing bloody footsteps you know of people who ran away. There was just so much blood. It was so surreal.\" \n Galiendes, a student at UC San Diego, said he has lived in the complex since September. \n \"It was chilling,\" he said. \"La Jolla is known to be really safe, and this is a family neighborhood.\" \n Associated Press reporters Christopher Weber, Michael Balsamo and Brian Melley in Los Angeles contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Race not factor in San Diego pool party shooting, police say"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nancy Kohn, from the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston, holds a Steve Bannon mask as she walks around with a Donald Trump puppet during a \"Here to Stay\" M1 Coalition May Day Immigration rally in front of the Statehouse Monday, May 1, 2017, in Boston \n NEW YORK >> Thousands of people chanted, picketed and marched on cities across America today as May Day demonstrations raged against President Donald Trump's immigration policies. \n Protesters flooded streets in Chicago. They demanded \"Donald Trump has got to go!\" at the White House gates. And they sparked at least four arrests after creating a human chain to block a county building in Oakland, California, where demonstrators demanded that county law enforcement refuse to collaborate with federal immigration agents. \n Despite the California clash, the initial rounds of nationwide protests were largely peaceful as immigrants, union members and their allies staged a series of strikes, boycotts and marches to highlight the contributions of immigrants in the United States. \n \"It is sad to see that now being an immigrant is equivalent to almost being a criminal,\" said Mary Quezada, a 58-year-old North Carolina woman who joined those marching on Washington. \n She offered a pointed message to Trump: \"Stop bullying immigrants.\" \n The demonstrations on May Day, celebrated as International Workers' Day, follow similar actions worldwide in which protesters from the Philippines to Paris demanded better working conditions. But the widespread protests in the United States were aimed directly at the new Republican president, who has followed aggressive anti-immigrant rhetoric on the campaign trail with aggressive action in the White House. \n Trump, in his first 100 days, has intensified immigration enforcement, including executive orders for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and a ban on travelers from six predominantly Muslim countries. The government has arrested thousands of immigrants in the country illegally and threatened to withhold funding from jurisdictions that limit cooperation between local and federal immigration authorities. The travel ban and sanctuary cities order were temporarily halted by legal challenges. \n Trump has said his policies are meant to keep America safe. \n In Chicago, 28-year-old Brenda Burciaga was among thousands of people who marched through the streets to push back against the new administration. \n \"Everyone deserves dignity,\" said Burciaga, whose mother is set to be deported after living in the U.S. for about 20 years. \"I hope at least they listen. We are hardworking people.\" \n In cities large and small, the protests intensified throughout the day. \n Teachers working without contracts opened the day by picketing outside schools in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Activists in Phoenix petitioned state legislators to support immigrant families. And in a Los Angeles park, several thousand people waved American flags and signs reading \"love not hate.\" \n Selvin Martinez, an immigrant from Honduras with an American flag draped around his shoulders, took the day off from his job waxing casino floors to protest. \n \"We hope to get to be respected as people, because we are not animals, we are human beings,\" said Martinez, who moved to Los Angeles 14 years ago fleeing violence in his country. \n The White House did not respond to requests for a response to the May Day demonstrations. \n Several protesters, like 39-year-old Mario Quintero, outed themselves as being in the country illegally to help make their point. \n \"I'm an undocumented immigrant, so I suffer in my own experience with my family,\" said Quintero at a Lansing, Michigan, rally. \"That's why I am here, to support not only myself but my entire community.\" \n In Miami, Alberto and Maribel Resendiz closed their juice bar, losing an estimated revenue of $3,000, to join a rally. \n \"This is the day where people can see how much we contribute,\" said Alberto Resendiz, who previously worked as a migrant worker in fields as far away as Michigan. \"This country will crumble down without us.\" \n He added, \"We deserve a better treatment.\" \n While union members traditionally march on May 1 for workers' rights around the world, the day has become a rallying point for immigrants in the U.S. since massive demonstrations were held on the date in 2006 against a proposed immigration enforcement bill. \n In recent years, immigrant rights protests shrank as groups diverged and shifted their focus on voter registration and lobbying. Larger crowds returned this year, prompted by Trump's ascension, as immigrant groups join with Muslim organizations, women's advocates and black leaders to push back against the president. \n Immigrant advocates said they hope their message will reach Trump, congressional lawmakers and the public and provide a sense of unity and strength to those opposed to the administration's policies. Many said they hoped a show of strength would help persuade politicians to rethink their plans. \n Taxin reported from Los Angeles. AP writers Jessica Gresko in Washington, D.C., Kristen De Groot in Philadelphia, Adriana Gomez Licon in Miami, Sophia Tareen in Chicago, Deepti Hajela in New York, Sarah Rankin in Richmond, Virginia, and Lisa Adams in Charlotte, North Carolina, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Thousands of people in U.S. rally against Trump, for workers"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A person is treated by first responders after a deadly stabbing attack on University of Texas campus in Austin, Texas. \n AUSTIN, Texas >>A student with a large hunting knife stabbed at least four people on the University of Texas campus, killing one and seriously wounding the others before surrendering to police, authorities said. \n There was no immediate word about a motive. \n Student Rachel Prichett said she was standing in line at a food truck outside a gym today when she saw a man with a knife resembling a machete approach the person standing behind her. \n \"The guy was standing next to me,\" Prichett said. \"He grabbed him by the shoulder and shoved the knife in it. I just started running as fast as I could.\" \n Police identified the suspect as 21-year-old Kendrex J. White. \n University police Chief David Carter described the weapon as a \"Bowie-style\" hunting knife. He said the stabbings occurred within a one-block area as the attacker \"calmly walked around the plaza.\" \n Another student, Ray Arredondo, said he was walking to his car when a mass of students near the gym started running. \n \"They were just screaming, 'Run! Get out of here!'\" Arredondo said. \n One person died at the scene near the gym. The others were taken to the hospital. There were reports of additional victims with non-life-threatening injuries, according to tweets from Travis County Emergency Medical Services. \n The attacker did not resist when officers confronted him at gunpoint, Carter said. \n Lindsey Clark said she saw the suspect get tackled by police as he was running toward the entrance of Jester Hall, a complex of dormitories and classrooms. She described him as wearing a bandanna and gray sweatshirt and said he appeared quiet and subdued as police held him on the ground. \n \"You could see and hear people running and screaming: 'There he is!'\" before he was tackled by officers, Clark said. \n Carter said it would be \"premature\" to discuss the suspect's motive and \"what was going through his mind.\" \n Arredondo later saw what looked like CPR being performed on someone outside the front door of the gym. Another student was sitting on a bench being treated for cuts to the head or neck, he said. \n Authorities cordoned off the scene as a large contingent of state and local police, including officers in helicopters, swarmed the area. \n The University of Texas is blocks from downtown Austin and the Texas Capitol and is one of the nation's largest universities. \n White was an active member of the Black Health Professionals Organization student organization on campus, said Melody Adindu, the group's new president. She said White was passionate about his work and was \"very interactive and easygoing.\" \n Some of White's former classmates at Killeen High School, near the gates of the Fort Hood Army post in Central Texas, had similar recollections of him. \n \"He was a really smart guy in high school, he was always nice, had plenty of friends, and was in the International Baccalaureate program. I'm definitely surprised he would do this,\" Kay'Lynn Wilkerson told the Killeen Daily Herald. \n Ex-classmate Angela Bonilla called White \"the sweetest guy, laughing and having a good time with people\". \n Adindu and other students complained on social media it took too long for the campus officials to send a text alert of the attack. Texts to students showed a nearly 30-minute lag between the arrest and warning, even though city and county emergency offices were tweeting about the incident when they first responded. \n Carter said White was confronted and arrested within two minutes of the first call to police and the situation was immediately under control. The campus siren wasn't used because there was no need for a lockdown to keep people in place, he said. \n \"There was no ongoing threat. We had him in custody as soon as we arrived,\" Carter said. \n The attack occurred in the central campus, just a short walk from the administration building and the landmark clock tower that was the scene of a mass shooting in 1966. \n \"This breaks my heart that any of our students are touched by tragedy. They come here to learn, to look to the future,\" said university President Greg Fenves. \n The stabbings came only a few days after a 19-year-old man armed with a machete wounded two people at a university coffee shop in Lexington, Kentucky. \n In the April 28 attack, the assailant at Transylvania University asked about the political affiliations of people at the shop. He was arrested and charged with assault. The victims' wounds were not life-threatening, authorities said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Motive unclear for University of Texas stabbings"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Guadalupe Chavez, center, and others yell during a protest outside of the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services building in San Francisco, Monday, May 1, 2017. \n LOS ANGELES >> Thousands of people protested Monday in Los Angeles against President Donald Trump's immigration crackdown, and a handful of activists in San Francisco tried to block cars from entering and leaving the city's main federal immigration control building. \n Waving American flags and signs reading \"love not hate,\" the Los Angeles demonstrators used the May Day event usually aimed at promoting worker rights to express their ire against Trump's plans to restrict immigration. \n Honduran immigrant Selvin Marinez took the day off from his job waxing casino floors to protest, a U.S. flag draped over his shoulders. \n \"We hope to get to be respected as people, because we are not animals, we are human beings,\" said Martinez, who said he fled his country because of violence 14 years ago. \n Martinez, 30, said he has a U.S. work permit but fears immigration agents may still try to deport him. He worried that showing up to protest could draw attention to himself but felt it was important to do so. \n \"It makes you scared, but making our rights known is stronger than the fear,\" he said. \n Kathleen Takata, a retired consultant, had never marched on May Day before but felt compelled to do so against Trump's plans for a border wall on the U.S-Mexico border and travel ban against people from certain countries. \n \"I've been energized ever since the election to become a very active citizen,\" she said. \"I think for too long I took for granted the responsibilities and privileges of U.S. citizenship.\" \n Trump's efforts are opposed by many state and local leaders in heavily-Democratic California, which in recent years has adopted immigrant-friendly policies such as issuing driver's licenses regardless of immigration \n Elsewhere in California, four protesters in downtown Oakland were arrested for chaining themselves together to block the entrance to a county administration building to demand an end to what they called collaboration between county law enforcement and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. \n Alameda County Sheriff's Office spokesman Sgt. Ray Kelly contested the protesters' claims, saying the county's officers must cooperate with federal immigration agents who have federal warrants to execute. \n . \"There are no police officers in California that are involved in front-line immigration enforcement,\" he said. \"It's not our job or our mission to do the federal government's work. We have enough on our hands with violent crime and all these other community issues.\" \n Several hundred protesters gathered in San Francisco, and a handful staged a sit-down at the vehicle entrance for the immigration agency's building to try to prevent access. But no cars were seen entering or exiting. \n \"More and more workers are actually afraid to speak up, to access rights that they have whether or not they're documented, because of a lot of the fear mongering that's occurring that this building, ICE, represents and that's why we're here today,\" said Lucia Lin, a an organizer with the Chinese Progressive Association. \n Union members typically march globally on May 1 in support of workers' rights. The event in 2006 became a rallying point in the U.S. in support of immigrants when more than 1 million people marched against a proposed immigration enforcement bill. \n The demonstrations waned in subsequent years as groups took different approaches on immigration, including lobbying and voter registration. \n In San Francisco, immigrant rights groups have joined with Muslim organizations and women's advocates, said Roberto Hernandez, organizer for the city's May 1 Coalition. \n A similar coalition emerged in Los Angeles, said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, a spokesman for the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California groups rally against Trump immigration crackdown"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japan's helicopter carrier Izumo sailed in the waters off the Boso Peninsula, east of Tokyo, as it escorted a U.S. supply ship after departing Yokosuka port, south of Tokyo today. Japan's navy dispatched its largest destroyer reportedly tasked with escorting U.S. military ships off the Japanese coast, the first-time mission under new security legislation that allows Japan's military a greater role overseas, amid heightened tension on the Korean Peninsula. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A U.S. supply ship sailed in the waters off the Boso Peninsula, east of Tokyo, as it was escorted by Japanese destroyer Izumo today. \n SEOUL >> A contentious U.S. anti-missile system based in southeastern South Korea can now defend against North Korean missiles, a South Korean official said today. \n The Terminal High Altitude Defense system set up at a converted golf course in Seongju has \"early capability\" to respond to North Korea's nuclear and missile threat, Defense Ministry spokesman Moon Sang Gyun said. He didn't say when Washington and Seoul expected THAAD to be operating fully. \n The deployment has triggered anger from Seongju residents who fear North Korea may target their town and who worry about rumored health hazards linked to THAAD's powerful radar. \n People also debate whether the security benefits of THAAD would outweigh possible drawbacks if relations worsen with China, which sees the system as a threat, and they have been angered by President Donald Trump's statement that he would make South Korea pay $1 billion for the system. \n The THAAD battery had originally been scheduled to enter operation by the end of the year. When completed, it will consist of six truck-mounted launchers that can fire up to 48 interceptors toward incoming missiles detected by the system's x-band radar. \n Critics question whether the United States and Seoul's caretaker government are rushing to set up THAAD before an election May 9 that will bring a change in the government in Seoul, which became necessary after Park Geun-hye was impeached and ousted from the presidency in a corruption scandal. \n Front-runner Moon Jae-in, a liberal who calls for engagement with North Korea, has said he would reconsider THAAD if he becomes president. \n North Korea conducted another missile test on Saturday, which reportedly failed soon after launch, and its Foreign Ministry said Monday the country will speed up measures to bolster its nuclear program \"at the maximum pace.\" \n A statement circulated by North Korea's U.N. Mission says the government is ready to respond to any option taken by the United States. \n Associated Press writers Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Rod McGuirk in Canberra, Australia, contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul: THAAD can defend against North Korean missiles"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fox News co-president Bill Shine, right, leaves a New York restaurant with Rupert Murdoch, second from right, the executive chairman of 21st Century Fox. \n NEW YORK >> Fox News Channel said today that co-president Bill Shine is out, the latest high-level departure at a network beset with charges of harassment and discrimination that have already claimed founding CEO Roger Ailes, leading personality Bill O'Reilly and a top financial executive. \n Shine was not accused of any direct wrongdoing. But the longtime Ailes lieutenant was considered vulnerable because of claims that he looked the other way as charges of toxic workplace behavior piled up, with some believing that the network would never truly be able to move on without him and other Ailes loyalists. \n His leadership experience learned at Ailes' feet was considered invaluable for the top-rated cable network, and Shine had been named co-president with Jack Abernethy upon Ailes' departure. Abernethy, who has spent much of his time at Fox working with Fox-owned broadcast stations and not the news channel, remains. Fox also said that it was promoting two other executives, Suzanne Scott and Jay Wallace, into more prominent newsroom roles. \n In a memo to Fox News staffers, Rupert Murdoch, executive chairman of parent company 21st Century Fox, said \"sadly, Bill Shine resigned today. I know Bill was respected and liked by everybody at Fox News. We will all miss him.\" \n \"Fox News continues to break both viewing and revenue records, for which I thank you all,\" Murdoch wrote. \"I am sure we can do even better.\" \n When New York magazine wrote last week that Shine was possibly in danger, it prompted Fox's Sean Hannity to leap to his defense on Twitter. Shine began working at Fox with Hannity, whose show is the only remaining prime-time program of Fox's long-running powerhouse prime-time lineup following O'Reilly's firing and Megyn Kelly's departure to NBC News. \n If Shine was leaving, \"that's the total end of the FNC as we know it. Done,\" Hannity tweeted last week. He had no immediate reaction. \n Ailes and O'Reilly have denied the harassment allegations made against them. One of the women who accused Ailes, Julie Roginsky, also blamed Fox's management for trying to cover up for him in a complaint made to New York City's Human Rights Commission. \n She said that in a meeting in December, Shine told her he didn't believe the allegations against Ailes until recently. Her lawsuit alleges that Shine and other Fox executives \"kept Ailes's conduct secret and enabled it.\" \n A lawsuit that accuses Fox's fired former comptroller, Judith Slater, of racial discrimination, is now up to 13 plaintiffs. Slater denies the charges, but the lawyer who represents the people claiming discrimination has called for Fox to clean house of its management. \n Attorney Douglas Wigdor called Shine's departure \"long overdue.\" He's got his eye on more, specifically naming Fox's top lawyer, Dianne Brandi, as someone who looked the other way while Slater's behavior continued. Fox has denied the allegations against Brandi. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fox News co-president Bill Shine is out"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump said he wonders why issues \"could not have been worked out\" in order to prevent the secession of 11 Southern states and a war that lasted four years and killed more than 600,000 soldiers. \n NEW YORK >> President Donald Trump made puzzling claims about Andrew Jackson and the Civil War in an interview, suggesting he was uncertain about the origin of the conflict while claiming that Jackson was upset about a war that started 16 years after his death. \n Trump, who has at times shown a shaky grasp of U.S. history, said he wonders why issues \"could not have been worked out\" in order to prevent the secession of 11 Southern states and a war that lasted four years and killed more than 600,000 soldiers. \n \"People don't realize, you know, the Civil War, if you think about it, why?\" Trump said in an interview with The Washington Examiner, according to a transcript released Monday. \"People don't ask that question, but why was there the Civil War? Why could that one not have been worked out?\" \n Trump ruminated after lauding Jackson, the populist president whom he and his staff have cited as a role model. He suggested that if Jackson had been president \"a little later, you wouldn't have had the Civil War.\" \n \"He was really angry that he saw what was happening with regard to the Civil War. He said, 'There's no reason for this,'\" Trump continued. \n But Jackson died in 1845, and the Civil War didn't begin until 16 years later, in 1861. \n Jackson was a slave-holding plantation owner. Some historians do credit him with preserving the union when South Carolina threatened to secede in the 1830s over an individual state's ability to void federal tariffs. That controversy, though, was not about slavery, and the eventual compromise that preserved states' rights is viewed as a milestone on the way to the Civil War. \n The Civil War was decades in the making, stemming from disputes between the North and South about slavery and whether the union or states themselves had more power. The question over the expansion of slavery into new western territories simmered for decades and Southern leaders threatened secession if anti-slavery candidate Abraham Lincoln was elected in 1860. \n After Lincoln won without carrying a single Southern state, Southern leaders believed their rights were imperiled and seceded, forming the Confederate States of America. War erupted soon afterward as the North fought to keep the nation together. \n The White House did not immediately respond to a request for an explanation of Trump's reasoning. \n Trump, during an African-American history month event, seemed to imply that the 19th century abolitionist Frederick Douglass was still alive. Trump said in February that Douglass \"is an example of somebody who's done an amazing job and is getting recognized more and more, I notice.\" \n While justifying the need for a southern border wall, Trump said last week that human trafficking is \"a problem that's probably worse than any time in the history of this world,\" a claim that seemed to omit the African slave trade. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump makes puzzling claim about Andrew Jackson, Civil War"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "INDIANAPOLIS >> The Indiana Supreme Court is denying a request from an attorney who wanted his public records case against Vice President Mike Pence to be given a fresh look amid revelations that the former Republican governor used a private AOL email account to conduct state business. \n The court's ruling effectively ends the two-year effort by Indianapolis attorney William Groth, a Democrat, for documents and emails from Pence's tenure as governor, his lawyer Gregory Bowes said Monday. \n Groth initially sued after Pence refused to release a document attached to an email from Texas Republicans, which outlined a legal strategy for challenging then-President Barack Obama's executive order on immigration. \n A lower court sided with Pence, as did Indiana's Court of Appeals. That led Groth to appeal to the Indiana Supreme Court. \n But once Pence's use of a private AOL email account was revealed, Groth asked to have the case sent back to a lower court to see if additional emails had been withheld from him. \n The state's highest court denied both requests in a unanimous opinion issued Thursday. \n Pence took office as governor in 2012. During that time his administration repeatedly delayed or denied the release of records that could shed light on his tenure. \n Pence's efforts stand in stark contrast to the image he had previously sought to cultivate. He has long presented himself as a champion of a free press and the First Amendment \n A Pence spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indiana court ends lawyer's legal quest for Pence emails"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "Two men died in two separate crashes on the Big Island over the weekend. \n Shortly before 7:50 p.m. in Kealakekua Friday, police said a 1992 Mazda two-door convertible sedan operated by Robert Weeks, 48, of Hilo was traveling north on Highway 11 when he failed to negotiate a right curve near the 99-mile marker. \n The vehicle ran off the roadway and overturned into an embankment. Paramedics transported Weeks to Hilo Community Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 1:54 a.m. Saturday. \n Police said speed and inattention were involved. \n The second fatal crash involved a motorcycle and a sedan in Kailua-Kona. \n Police said Elvis Sheppard, 43, of Kailua-Kona was killed in the broadside collision. \n At about 7:30 p.m., a 2016 Honda motorcycle operated by Sheppard was traveling east on Hinalani Street when a 2006 Kia four-door sedan operated by a 61-year-old man also of Kailua-Kona, failed to yield the right of way to the motorcycle. \n Police said the sedan driver broadsided Sheppard who was making a left turn onto Hinalani Street from Kamanu Street. \n Paramedics transported Sheppard to Kona Community Hospital in critical condition. He succumbed to his injuries and died at 10:24 a.m. Saturday. \n Police said the 61-year-old driver was uninjured. \n Speed and inattention were factors in the crash. \n Weeks and Sheppard's deaths were the eighth and ninth traffic-related fatalities, respectively compared to 10 at the same time last year. Autopsies are expected to be conducted to determine the exact cause of deaths. \n The Hawaii Police Department's Traffic Enforcement Unit has initiated a negligent homicide investigation into the Kailua-Kona crash. Anyone who witnessed the collision is asked to call Officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646. \n Police are also asking for individuals who witnessed the Kealakekua crash to call Officer Christopher Kapua-Allison at 326-4646. \n Tipsters who have information on either case also may call CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify men who died in separate crashes on Big Isle"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dallas Police walked a neighborhood a block away from a shooting in Dallas today. Authorities said a Dallas paramedic was shot while responding to a shooting call. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dallas Police guarded an area of a neighborhood where a shooting took place in east Dallas today. Authorities said a Dallas paramedic was shot while responding to a shooting call. \n DALLAS >> A gunman opened fire on emergency responders treating a gunshot victim in a Dallas street today, critically injuring a paramedic and prompting police to lock down the area until the suspect \u2014 and another person \u2014 were found dead in a local home, authorities said. \n Police believe the shooting started as a dispute between the suspect and the gunshot victim, who were neighbors. A police officer who responded to the late-morning shooting in a largely residential area east of downtown was injured and treated at the scene. \n The gunman fled before holing up in a house where investigators believe he fatally shot another person before killing himself. A police robot found the two bodies after authorities barricaded entrances to the community for several hours to allow officers to scour the neighborhood, Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said during a news conference. \n Interim Police Chief David Pughes said police were still interviewing neighbors and witnesses late Monday, but he said officers on the scene were told \"it was just a simple dispute between two neighbors that escalated into a shooting.\" \n Pughes said responding officers found the paramedic and the civilian injured, and \"took fire from the suspect as they approached.\" A sergeant arrived as officers were still maintaining cover \u2014 because the shooter was still at large \u2014 and rushed in to pull the injured paramedic to safety. \n \"He went in alone and he pulled the paramedic out, placed him in his squad car and drove him to Baylor hospital,\" Pughes said. \"We believe \u2026 that as a result of those actions, that paramedic's life was saved.\" \n The paramedic underwent surgery Monday and was in critical but stable condition at Baylor University Medical Center, according to the mayor. Rawlings didn't give details of the paramedic's injuries, but said \"he is going to have to undergo extensive medical treatment to get him back up to par.\" \n The neighbor who was shot also was in intensive care, the mayor said, though other details haven't been released. \n No information was released about the second person found dead in the home, including whether the person knew the gunman or if either of them lived in the house. \n Dozens of police vehicles swarmed the mostly residential area after the shooting was reported near a local Fire Training Academy. Several people from a nearby neighborhood and some relatives of people who live in the barricaded area gathered at a nearby gas station to await updates from police. \n A 33-year-old woman waiting in the shade of a gas station across the street from a police barricade told The Associated Press that her mother lives in the neighborhood and saw SWAT teams arrive Monday. \n Brenda Salazar said she was headed to the area to visit her mother when she heard about the shooting on the radio. She called her mother, who told her she didn't hear any shooting but \"saw the SWAT guys and police setting up and going into the neighborhood.\" \n Salazar said her mother was OK and was watching the news, \"but this stuff happens here all the time.\" \n Texas Gov. Greg Abbott released a statement saying his prayers were going out to all of those affected. \n FBI agents and officers with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives also were in unmarked vehicles waiting at intersections in the neighborhood. Officials from the local fire department and parks department passed out water and Gatorade to officers blocking the roads. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dallas paramedic shot, suspect found dead with 2nd body"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "A 20-year-old man has been charged for allegedly robbing a 14-year-old boy in downtown Honolulu. \n Chad Kaanoi-Richardson was charged Saturday with second-degree robbery. His bail was set at $25,000. \n At about 3:40 p.m. Friday, police said a male suspect wielded a dangerous instrument, threatened the victim and stole property from him. His accomplice, identified as Richardson, assisted in the theft. \n Police said both the male suspect and Richardson then fled with the victim's property. \n Police were called and officers located Richardson near the Davis Pacific Center on Bishop Street and arrested him on suspicion of first-degree robbery. \n The other male suspect remains at large. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged in robbery of boy, 14, downtown"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From left to right: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Oct. 26, 2016, in Tokyo; U.S. President Donald Trump on April 29 in Washington. A U.S.-based human rights group said today that Trump should seek accountability and not offer to roll out the White House red carpet for Duterte. \n President Donald Trump underscored his eagerness to meet with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte despite international condemnation of the Asian leader's violent crackdown on drug addicts and dealers. \n \"The Philippines is very important to me strategically and militarily,\" Trump said today in an Oval Office interview with Bloomberg News, two days after he invited the Philippines leader to Washington. \"I look forward to meeting him. If he comes to the White House that's fine.\" \n A White House statement after the April 29 call said the two leaders discussed \"the fact that the Philippine government is fighting very hard to rid its country of drugs.\" Trump also committed to taking part in a summit with leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations near Manila in November. \n Duterte first gained global prominence as well as criticism for his aggressive and violent war on drugs as mayor of Davao City. Human rights groups say that, as president, his narcotics crackdown has led to more than 7,000 extrajudicial killings. \n \"He's been very very tough on that drug problem, but he has a massive drug problem,\" Trump said in the interview. \n Trump's invitation to Duterte was denounced by human rights advocates and Democratic lawmakers for overlooking the abuses. \n \"President Trump weakens American values when he fails to stand up for human rights,\" Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in a statement today. \"President Duterte has overseen the illegal killing of thousands of his own people in the Philippines. By welcoming Duterte to meet with him in the White House, Trump risks giving Duterte's actions \u2014 and his brutal human rights violations \u2014 an American stamp of approval.\" \n While the U.S.-Philippines relationship dates back to the Asian nation's role as a U.S. colony in the late 1800s \u2014 and includes a mutual defense treaty \u2014 those ties were strained last year as Duterte hurled insults toward Washington during and after his successful campaign for the presidency. At one point, he told then-President Barack Obama in a speech to \"go to hell\" for opposing his drugs war and announced a \"separation from the U.S.\" during a trip to Beijing. He also sought to buy more military equipment from Russia. \n \"Clearly he's a colorful guy,\" Obama said ahead of a September meeting between the two men which was eventually canceled. \n The Philippines leader, whose populist appeal and unconventional approach to politics has drawn comparisons with Trump, has since softened his tone as he seeks continued U.S. support for security and cooperation in the disputed South China Sea. \n \"Our relationship with the U.S. is strong and vibrant,\" Acting Foreign Affairs Secretary Enrique Manalo said in an interview last month. \"The key is not letting these rough patches affect the core of the relationship.\" \n In the interview today, Trump emphasized public support for Duterte despite the condemnations over the drug conflict. \n \"You know he's very popular in the Philippines,\" Trump said. \"He has a very high approval rating in the Philippines.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Trump defends White House invite to Philippines' Duterte"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "A 36-year-old man who died this weekend after a fight in Kalihi was identified today by the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office as Macky Veniegas, of Kalihi. \n The cause of his death was pending, the office said. \n Police said Emergency Medical Services personnel and firefighters responded to a report of an unconscious man at a Kalihi residence at about 12:10 a.m. Saturday. \n A witness at the scene reported Veniegas, who had been fighting with another man, was beaten before he lost consciousness, police said. \n Paramedics transported Veniegas to a hospital where he died shortly afterwards. \n On Sunday afternoon, police arrested a 30-year-old man on Kahanu Street in Kalihi in connection with Veniegas' death. The suspect was booked on suspicion of manslaughter and second-degree assault. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man who died following Kalihi fight identified"}

{"date": "May 1, 2017", "text": "Crews of Hawaiian Electric Co. are investigating the cause of a power outage that affected about 1,700 customers in Pearl City early today, according to spokeswoman Barbara Heckathorn. \n The outage was reported at about 4:25 a.m. and restored at about 5:47 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HECO investigating cause of Pearl City power outage"}

