{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "Police arrested today a 32-year-old Maunawili man who allegedly robbed a 29-year-old woman in Kailua. \n Police said the man used force to take property from the woman at 4:10 a.m. Wednesday. \n He was found, identified and arrested 3:45 p.m. on suspicion of second-degree robbery, first-degree unauthorized entry into a dwelling and abuse of a family or household member. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maunawili man arrested in robbery of Kailua woman"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "A 50-year-old man died in a two-vehicle collision in Pahoa Thursday night. \n His name has yet to be released pending notification of next of kin. \n Shortly before 7 p.m., police said a 2004 Ford pickup truck driven by a 74-year-old Pahoa woman was traveling toward Kalapana on Highway 130 with two passengers, according to the police department in a news release. \n The pickup truck driver was making a U-turn when it was struck by a 1998 Ford passenger van driven by a 30-year-old Pahoa man. The van was traveling toward Pahoa with two passengers at the time of the crash. \n Paramedics transported a 50-year-old man seated in the back seat of the pickup truck to Hilo Medical Center where he was pronounced dead. \n Another back-seat passenger of the pickup truck was also transported to the same hospital for her injuries and is listed in stable condition. \n Police said the pickup truck driver was treated for her injuries at the scene. \n A 7-year-old Pahoa girl who was in the front passenger seat of the van at the time of the crash was transported to the hospital and flown to Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in stable condition. \n Paramedics also transported the van's backseat passenger, a 65-year-old Pahoa woman, to the hospital where she was treated for her injuries. She is listed in stable condition. \n Police arrested the 30-year-old passenger van driver on suspicion of driving under the influence of an intoxicant, driving without a license and driving without insurance. \n In addition to alcohol, police said speed was a factor. Although it's unclear at this time whether speed was a factor on the part of the pickup truck or the passenger van. \n Police took the 30-year-old to Hilo Medical Center where he was treated for his injuries. He was released pending further investigation. \n Officers closed a section of the highway between Leilani Boulevard and Malama Street for several hours to investigate the fatal crash. Police reopened the roadway at approximately 4:30 a.m. today. \n A negligent homicide investigation is underway. Police said an autopsy will be conducted on the 50-year-old pickup truck passenger to determine the exact cause of death. \n Anyone who witnessed the collision is asked to call police officer Erhard Autrata at 961-8118 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest van driver after fatal crash in Pahoa"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / 2015 \n Kelii Akina \n  The man who thwarted an effort to hold an election for Native Hawaiians is the newest trustee of the public agency that provided $2.6 million for the failed self-governance vote. \n Kelii Akina was elected in November as an at-large Office of Hawaiian Affairs trustee, unseating Haunani Apoliona, who was a trustee since 1996. \n Akina's win came as a shock to some in the Native Hawaiian community who wonder if his views are consistent with the office's aim to improve Native Hawaiians' wellbeing. \n \"I'm a little concerned because of his rhetoric during the campaign,\" said Oz Stender, a Bishop Estate trustee in the 1990s and an Office of Hawaiian Affairs trustee from 2000 to 2014. \"The money that OHA gets to carry on its programs to better the lives of Hawaiians, he says should be used for everybody and not only Hawaiians.\" \n Akina's campaign slogan was \"OHA for everyone.\" His campaign material quoted from the 1840 Hawaiian Kingdom constitution: \"God hath made one blood of all nations to dwell on the earth, in unity and blessedness.\" \n Akina, a 1976 graduate of Kamehameha Schools, said his views on Hawaiian issues are often misunderstood. People interpreted his slogan in their own ways, he said, adding that he will protect \"foundational Hawaiian entitlements as secured by law,\" including Hawaiian Homelands and ceded lands trusts. \n He believes OHA's role in helping Hawaiians embrace self-determination should be limited. \n That was the premise of a lawsuit he and a group of Native Hawaiians and non-Hawaiians filed to stop an election for Native Hawaiians that was to select delegates for a constitutional convention. Their challenge reached the U.S. Supreme Court and prompted organizers to call off the election and send all candidates to the gathering. Lawyers for the plaintiffs withdrew the lawsuit in October. \n Akina said the lawsuit doesn't speak for his thoughts on self-determination for Native Hawaiians. \"So long as public funds are not being used, I encourage all fellow Native Hawaiians to take part as they choose in the process of self-determinism, a right \u2026 afforded them by the First Amendment of the Constitution,\" he said. \n Akina is mostly known for his role as president of the Grassroot Institute of Hawaii, a public policy think-tank. Before entering Kamehameha in the 7th grade, Akina started his education at Wahiawa Elementary, where his first-grade teacher thought he spoke too much Pidgin. His Chinese-Hawaiian mother put a stop to his Pidgin, yet he still easily slips into the language when talking to a fellow Pidgin speaker. \n \"It's part of our culture,\" he said, adding Pidgin allows Hawaii speakers to communicate with each other with a unique \"warmth.\" \n After graduating from Northwestern University, Akina spent the early '80s living on the Waianae Coast while doing educational outreach for Youth For Christ. \n He supports the controversial Thirty Meter Telescope project. \"Losing the TMT will harm Native Hawaiians,\" he said. \n As trustee, his first priority will be fiscal sustainability, he said. \n Even before he was sworn in as trustee, the Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs adopted a resolution expressing concern over Akina's position with Grassroot Institute. The resolution calls on him to resign from Grassroot Institute or decline the trusteeship to eliminate any perception of a conflict of interest. \n In a written response to the group, Akina said there's no conflict and that the OHA administration hasn't taken issue with it. \"The Grassroot board's decision to appoint me as president and to affirm my leadership of their policies going forward is an affirmation of their willingness to support the Hawaiian community in new ways,\" his letter said. \n The association is concerned because Grassroot Institute has \"taken a number of positions against what they call racial entitlements of Native Hawaiians,\" said the group's president, Annelle Amaral. \n \"The Grassroot Institute only opposes the unconstitutional use of public funds for discriminatory purposes but does not oppose the rights of individuals to pursue different visions of sovereignty,\" Akina said. \n Michelle Kauhane, president of the Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement, which supports federal recognition, said she wonders how much of his support came from the non-Hawaiian vote. A 2000 U.S. Supreme Court ruling allows all Hawaii voters\u2014 not just Native Hawaiians\u2014 to vote in OHA elections. \n \"I was surprised that he did win because it's not easy to beat the incumbent, in any race,\" she said. \n Akina's trusteeship may help unify other OHA board members, she said. \n Hawaiian sovereignty activist Mililani Trask seemed like an unlikely Akina ally: \"We crossed swords on many, many issues,\" she said. \n While not quite a team, they ran on similar platforms related to OHA's financial accountability and transparency, said Trask, who lost her trustee race. \n While Trask expects disagreements with him in the future, she said, \"I think we badly need change.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Hawaiian Affairs trustee foiled Native Hawaiian election"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Carolina Rep. Chris Corley. The legislator, who was indicted on allegations of beating his wife, should resign according to leaders of the South Carolina Legislature. \n COLUMBIA, S.C. >> A legislator indicted on allegations of beating his wife should resign, leaders of the South Carolina Legislature said Thursday, with one lawmaker calling it \"terrifying and horrific\" to hear children on a 911 call screaming for their daddy to stop. \n The comments come a day after Rep. Chris Corley was indicted on felony domestic violence charges and suspended from his House seat. \n State law requires an officeholder indicted on a felony to be suspended. Corley's wife told deputies he stopped hitting her on Dec. 26 only after noticing she was bleeding and hearing the screams of two of their three children, ages 2 and 8. \n Corley said his wife tried to punch him after accusing him of cheating, and the police report noted a scratch on his forehead. \n House Speaker Pro Tem Tommy Pope, a former solicitor, told reporters that \"in fairness to the system, it's not our place to call for him to resign.\" \n Senate Majority Leader Shane Massey disagreed. \n While Corley is innocent until proven guilty, \"there's a big difference between the criminal and political side,\" said Massey, a Republican. \"This is not OK. It's not OK to beat up your wife. \u2026 It's important that we're very clear to say it's not acceptable.\" \n Massey, whose district includes much of Corley's, said their Aiken County constituents deserve House representation, which they won't have while Corley faces charges that could net him 25 years in prison. \n Corley is charged with pointing a firearm and domestic violence of a high and aggravated nature, which alone is punishable by 20 years. The indictment accuses him of hitting his wife in the face, head and body with a closed fist and with a gun while in the presence of children. \n \"High and aggravated is a big deal, y'all,\" said Massey, an attorney. \"It doesn't get any higher than that unless you kill somebody.\" \n In a call to Aiken city police, no one talks to the operator but \"please stop\" can be heard repeatedly in audio released by the Aiken County Sheriff's Office. \"Just stop daddy. Just stop. \u2026 Daddy, why are you doing this?\" children say on the call. \n \"What I heard on that 911 call is just terrifying and horrific,\" said Mandy Powers Norrell, a Democrat. \n House Majority Leader Gary Simrill said if Corley doesn't resign, he could be expelled, a process that would start with a complaint to the House Ethics Committee. \n Corley, an attorney, has not returned calls to The Associated Press. His attorney declined to give reporters his name at last week's bond hearing. \n The 36-year-old Republican was easily re-elected to a second term in November with no opposition. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Carolina legislators: Rep. accused of beating his wife should resign"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smith Ranch-Highland employee April Frausto samples water for contamination at a monitoring well on the perimeter of the uranium mining zone 30 miles north of Douglas, Wyo. \n CHEYENNE, Wyo. >> Federal officials withdrew a proposed requirement for companies to clean up groundwater at uranium mines across the U.S. and will reconsider a rule that congressional Republicans criticized as too harsh on industry. \n The plan that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency put on hold Wednesday involves in-situ mining, in which water containing chemicals is used to dissolve uranium out of underground sandstone deposits. Water laden with uranium, a toxic element used for nuclear power and weapons, is then pumped to the surface. No digging or tunneling takes place. \n The metal occurs in the rock naturally but the process contaminates groundwater with uranium in concentrations much higher than natural levels. Mining companies take several measures to prevent tainted water from seeping out of the immediate mining area. \n Even so, underground leaks sometimes occur, though most of the mines are not near population centers. No in-situ uranium mine has contaminated a source of drinking water, the industry and its supporters assert. \n Along with setting new cleanup standards, the rule would have required companies to monitor their former mines potentially for decades. The requirement was set for implementation but now will be opened up for a six-month public comment period, with several changes. \n Those include allowing the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or states to determine certain cleanup standards on a site-specific basis. The EPA decided to resubmit the rule and seek additional public input after reviewing earlier comments, agency spokeswoman Monica Lee said. \n Wyoming's Republican U.S. senators, John Barrasso and Mike Enzi, praised the EPA's decision to reconsider, saying the rule was unnecessarily burdensome for the uranium industry. \n Wyoming has five active in-situ uranium mines and is the top uranium-producing state. Other mines are active in Nebraska and Texas. \n \"In-situ uranium recovery has been used in the United States for decades, providing valuable jobs to Wyoming and clean energy to the nation,\" Enzi said in a news release. \"I rarely say this about the EPA, but the agency made the right decision.\" \n Environmentalists and others say uranium-mining companies have yet to show they can fully clean up groundwater at a former in-situ mine. Clean groundwater should not be taken for granted, they say, especially in the arid and increasingly populated U.S. West. \n \"We are, of course, disappointed that this final rule didn't make it to a final stage,\" said Shannon Anderson with the Powder River Basin Resource Council. \"It was designed to address a very real and pressing problem regarding water protection at uranium mines.\" \n The EPA rule is scheduled for further consideration in President-elect Donald Trump's administration. \n In-situ uranium mining surged on record prices that preceded the 2011 Japanese tsunami and Fukushima nuclear disaster. Prices lately have sunk to decade lows, prompting layoffs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. delays cleanup rule at uranium mines amid GOP criticism"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "Route 190, also known as Mamalahoa Highway, in North Kona on the Big Island was re-opened late this afternoon after being closed due to multiple brush fires, the Hawaii island Police Department said. \n Police said at about 5:30 p.m. that the road, which had been closed from the 15 mile marker to the 29 mile marker, was now open. \n \"While the majority of the fires have been extinguished, motorists are asked to drive carefully as Hawaii Fire Department personnel are still working in the area,\" the police said. \n \"Anyone with information regarding suspicious activity relative to these brush fires are asked to call the Hawaii Police Department's dispatch center at 935-3311. It is unknown how long this road closure will be in effect as the Hawaii Fire Department crews address these brush fires,\" the news release said. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Big Island highway re-opened after brush fires"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An injured passenger is taken on a gurney by firefighters from Atlantic Terminal in the Brooklyn borough of New York after a Long Island Rail Road train hit a bumping block. \n NEW YORK >> A Long Island Rail Road train was traveling more than 10 mph when it crashed at the end of a platform as it pulled into a major transportation hub, injuring 100 people, a federal investigator said. \n National Transportation Safety Board investigator Ted Turpin said Thursday the speed limit in the terminal is 5 mph. \n The packed, rush-hour train crashed as it entered Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn on Wednesday morning, hurling passengers onto the floor and slamming them into each other. Many had been standing as they prepared to get off the train at the last stop. \n A U.S. official briefed on the investigation and who requested anonymity said the train had been traveling at allowable speeds as it approached the terminal, but in the last three minutes before the crash was speeding up and slowing down between 2 mph and 10 mph. \n The official requested anonymity because the official is not authorized to speak about the ongoing investigation. \n The train's 50-year-old engineer told investigators on Thursday he has no memory of the collision, said Turpin. He also told investigators he was not using a cell phone at the time. \n \"The engineer was unable to recall striking the end of the track,\" Turpin said. \"He does recall entering into the station and controlling the speed of the train. \n Turpin said the man has been an engineer with the LIRR since 2000 and has been working nights for 12 years. He said he's been on this particular route, which starts shortly after midnight, for the last year and had just come back from three days off. \n Results of drug test results are not known yet. \n The front of the slow-moving train hit a bumping block as it pulled into the terminal, left the tracks and smashed into a small structure, apparently a work area. A rail pierced the floor of a train car, authorities said. \n The bumper \"is designed only for very low speed,\" Turpin said, adding \"there's nothing that would cushion a train collision\" like Wednesday's. \n About 100 people were treated for minor injuries after the 8:30 a.m. crash. The most serious injury appeared to be a broken leg, Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio said. \n The terminal is beneath a shopping mall in downtown Brooklyn, next to the Barclays Center, home to Brooklyn Nets basketball, New York Islanders hockey and major concerts. \n A similar accident in nearby Hoboken, New Jersey, in September was much worse. There, a New Jersey Transit commuter train plowed off the end of a track, killing a woman standing in the station. Federal investigators are examining whether a more modern bumper or other barriers could have made a difference. \n The train in Wednesday's wreck originated in the Far Rockaway section of Queens and was carrying around 450 people, officials said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Train traveling twice speed limit when it crashed"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "Police are looking for two male suspects who allegedly robbed a bar in Chinatown Wednesday afternoon. \n At approximately 1:45 p.m., two men brandished a gun at Tiana's Bar Cafe & Karaoke at 60 N. Nimitz Highway and stole property and an undisclosed amount of money, Lt. Walter Ozeki of the Honolulu Police Department's Robbery Detail said. \n Four people who were at the bar at the time reported the robbery to police. \n The suspects, described as in their mid-40s, fled in a vehicle driven by a third suspect. No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police looking for gunmen who robbed Chinatown bar"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Chris Todd was born and raised in Hilo, where he earned his college degree in economics and political science from the University of Hawai'i at Hilo. \n Gov David Ige has tapped Chris Todd to replace the late Rep. Clift Tsuji in the state House of Representatives representing Hilo. \n Ige chose between three candidates forwarded to him by the Hawaii County Democratic Party. Other contenders included Moana Kelii and Stacy Higa. \n Todd was born and raised in Hilo and attended the University of Hawaii at Hilo where he earned a degree in economics and political science, according to a press release from the governor's office on Thursday announcing his appointment. He is a distribution manager for Hawaii Paper Products. \n He also teaches football at Hilo High School and his wife is a teacher at Kalanianaole Middle School. \n \"I am very grateful for this opportunity to serve my community,\" Todd said in a statement released by the governor's office. \"I look forward to the hard work ahead and will always keep an open door and mind.\" \n Tsuji, who had represented the district since 2004, passed away suddenly in November after suffering a heart attack. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Ige appoints Hilo native to fill vacant House seat"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Navy veteran Stephen Matthews, 55, sits for a photograph in the bedroom of a relatives home, in Warwick, R.I. Matthews said he received a voucher that would pay about two-thirds of his rent, but struggled to find an apartment in Rhode Island where he could afford the balance. \n PROVIDENCE, R.I. >> Pledges by President Barack Obama and a national nonprofit organization to end homelessness among veterans did not meet their goal. But advocates see improvement, and the head of the Department of Veterans Affairs said Thursday that \"we should be there\" within a couple of years. \n Homelessness among veterans has been effectively ended in Virginia, Connecticut and Delaware and in about 35 communities, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. But many veterans still sleep on the streets elsewhere. \n Still, as Obama's term ends, advocates call the national push a success because many veterans did get homes, and the ambitious goal created urgency. About two dozen nonprofits, government officials and homeless veterans in 17 states and Washington spoke with The Associated Press about the effectiveness of the effort and the challenges they faced. \n \"It has been the best kind of failure I've experienced,\" said Chris Ko, director of homeless initiatives for the United Way of Greater Los Angeles. \"It's black and white. Did we reach it? No. Did we succeed in the broader effort? Will we end veteran homelessness because of this national push? Yeah.\" \n The Obama administration set a goal in 2010 of ending homelessness among veterans in 2015, and first lady Michelle Obama challenged mayors nationwide to do so in 2014. Though the deadline passed without the goal being met, the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness says it won't rest until every community has reached the goal. \n The nonprofit Community Solutions also ran a campaign to end veteran homelessness by the end of 2015 and chronic homelessness one year later, called \"Zero: 2016.\" That work continues under a new name, \"Built for Zero.\" \n VA Secretary Robert McDonald called on his agency and its partners Thursday to house as many veterans as possible in 30 days, saying that homelessness typically increases after the holidays and that winter is a tough time. \n Obama's \"audacious\" goal galvanized people, McDonald told the AP in an interview. As outreach and data collection improved, he said, officials realized estimates were low. \n \"I think we're going to make a big dent this year, and I would say within a couple of years, we should be there,\" McDonald said. \n The number of homeless veterans nationwide is down 47 percent, or about 35,000 people, since 2010, but there are still roughly 40,000 more, HUD said in August. \n To get homeless veterans into permanent homes, the Obama administration used a program that was created in 2008 and combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services from the VA. \n Nearly 90,000 so-called HUD-VASH vouchers have been awarded, with $635 million appropriated for vouchers from 2008 to 2016. Many places were able to house most of their homeless veterans, but vouchers became harder to use as the housing market tightened. \n Some areas harbor enough resources to solve the problem, but they're spread across multiple agencies, making coordination difficult, Community Solutions said. Officials in communities that have effectively ended veteran homelessness, including Bergen County, New Jersey, and San Antonio, say the key was better coordination among government agencies and nonprofits. \n There has also been a national shift in how people who are the hardest to house, including addicts and the mentally ill, are helped. They used to have to get medical treatment, get sober or take other steps to qualify for housing. That wasn't working, HUD says, so now they get housing first, then are pointed toward help to confront root causes of their homelessness. \n New Mexico reduced its number of homeless veterans from roughly 1,000 in 2015 to about 115. \n \"The most important thing we've learned in the last couple of years is we can make veteran homelessness almost completely go away,\" said Hank Hughes at the New Mexico Coalition to End Homelessness. \n Hughes and others worry momentum will stall if President-elect Donald Trump cuts funding for social programs. Trump's team didn't respond to a request for comment for this article. He has said he wants to rein in government spending and reform the VA but didn't say much about homelessness during the campaign. \n Navy veteran Stephen Matthews, 55, lost his job as a parts clerk last year because of an injury and couldn't pay his rent in Warwick, Rhode Island. He and his wife lived in their car before his stepdaughter let them move in temporarily. \n Matthews received a voucher for about two-thirds of his rent, but he struggled to find an apartment where he could afford the balance. He finally got one in West Warwick in late December after six months of searching. \n \"It's too hard for the working class and less advantaged people to find safe and affordable housing,\" he said. \n Los Angeles voters approved a bond in November to raise $1.2 billion for up to 10,000 permanent units, and a refurbished building is opening in February in Jacksonville , Florida, as apartments for homeless veterans, but some plans to build more elsewhere have stalled because of local opposition. \n In Chicago, nearly 3,000 homeless veterans have been housed since January 2015, leaving slightly less than 650 awaiting housing, according to the nonprofit All Chicago. \n \"Would it have been great if everyone met their goal? Of course it would've,\" said Traci Strickland, who supervises homeless programs at a community mental health center in West Virginia. \"It was lofty, and to make the amount of headway that has been made in Charleston, West Virginia, and in cities across the country, that's huge. We didn't meet the goal for everybody, but we met the goal for a lot of people.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As Obama era closes, goal to end veteran homelessness unmet"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ELOY, Ariz. >> A naked woman stole a sheriff's department pickup truck today and led law enforcement officers on an estimated 70-mile high-speed chase on two Arizona highways before she was taken into custody, authorities said. \n The unidentified woman was disrobed, disoriented and claimed she had been sexually assaulted when a Maricopa County sheriff's deputy responded to a 9 a.m. call about a naked woman at a gas station in Gila Bend along Interstate 8, authorities said. \n The deputy put the pickup truck in park with the engine running as he tried to find the woman clothes in the gas station, authorities said. The woman then got into the vehicle and drove off. \n The deputy jumped on the truck's running board before being knocked off. He was treated at a hospital for injuries on his right side and released, sheriff's Chief Deputy Ben Henry said. \n The woman drove the stolen truck above 100 mph at times as she got onto Interstate 10 headed to Tucson, he said. \n Arizona Department of Public Safety troopers and law enforcement authorities from Pinal County and Eloy put spike strips on the road that shredded at least one of the vehicle's tires. The chase ended near Eloy when the woman sideswiped a car on the freeway and struck a median. \n The woman got out of the vehicle and wouldn't comply with orders, Henry said. Fearing that she might step into the roadway, authorities shot the woman in the legs with bean bags to subdue her before she was taken to a hospital for examination and evaluation. \n Sheriff's investigators planned to talk to the woman about the sexual assault allegation, but Henry said she faces numerous charges in the vehicle theft incident. \n The deputy had his body camera on when the incident began, and authorities have watched the gas station's surveillance video. \n \"He was just trying to get her clothed. You can see the concern,\" Henry said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Naked woman who stole deputy's truck in custody after chase"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ellen Degeneres speaks with singer and film producer Pharrell Williams during a taping of \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" at the Warner Bros. lot in Burbank, Calif. Williams appeared as scheduled on Thursday's show without fellow singer Kim Burrell, who was disinvited days earlier after she referred to gays and lesbians as perverted. \n NEW YORK >> Pharrell appeared as scheduled on Thursday's \"Ellen DeGeneres Show\" without fellow singer Kim Burrell. But the gospel star, who DeGeneres had disinvited days earlier, didn't go unmentioned. \n \"I didn't think that it was good of me to have her on the show to give her a platform,\" said DeGeneres, citing the church sermon in which Burrell referred to gays and lesbians as perverted. A tape of Burrell preaching that message had circulated online. \n DeGeneres, one of show business' most prominent lesbians, spoke of having suffered \"a lot of hate and prejudice and discrimination because of who I choose to love.\" She voiced surprise that Burrell, as an African-American woman, would engage in prejudice. \n \"The world is a beautiful place,\" Pharrell agreed. \"But it doesn't work without inclusion and empathy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeGeneres says her show is no place for anti-gay advocates"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump gave a videotaped deposition on Thursday, Jan. 5, 2017, for a lawsuit stemming from a clash with a celebrity restaurateur at his new Washington hotel. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump gave a videotaped deposition on Thursday for a lawsuit stemming from a clash with a celebrity restaurateur at his new Washington hotel. It was a rare legal proceeding for a president-elect or sitting president that highlights the legal woes that could follow Trump to the Oval Office. \n Trump sat for an hour at Trump Tower to give testimony in a lawsuit he filed against Jose Andres after the chef cancelled plans to open a Spanish-themed restaurant at a new Washington hotel. Andres pulled out after Trump, in declaring his candidacy for president, called some Mexican immigrants \"rapists\" and said some were bringing drugs and crime to the U.S. \n Trump sat for the interview between meetings about his Inauguration and search for top officials to fill his administration just two weeks before he takes office. \n The president-elect settled on a new director of national intelligence, selecting former Sen. Dan Coats, an Indiana Republican, according to a person briefed on the decision but not authorized to speak publicly about it. If confirmed, Coats will lead an agency the president-elect is eying for possible restructuring. Trump has been critical of the nation's intelligence agencies and has cast doubt about their conclusion that Russia was behind the hacking of last year's elections. \n A lawyer for the Trump Organization called the deposition routine and described the dispute with Andres as \"fairly straightforward.\" \n \"In short, the parties entered into a valid and legally binding lease, which the tenant breached by failing to perform its obligations, entitling the landlord to damages in the form of unpaid rent, cost of build out, lost profits and other expenses,\" attorney Alan Garten told The Associated Press. \n Garten said Trump was \"a great witness, as always.\" \n An attorney for Andres did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n Andres, a Spanish immigrant, backed out of the restaurant in Trump's hotel, located on Pennsylvania Avenue a few blocks from the White House, in July 2015. Andres said at the time that Trump's statements disparaging immigrants \"make it impossible for my company and I to move forward.\" More than half of his team is Hispanic, as are many of his restaurant guests, the chef said. \n Under the doctrine of immunity, presidents cannot be sued for actions they take in carrying out presidential duties. But anything outside that is open season. In its 1997 decision in the Paula Jones sexual harassment case against Bill Clinton, the Supreme Court ruled that presidents can be sued while in office for actions unrelated to official acts. \n Trump's sprawling business empire \u2014 and his own litigious nature \u2014 have generated scores of lawsuits over decades, some of which will continue after Trump takes office. \n The lawsuit isn't the only one stemming from the construction of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, which had its grand opening in October. \n Like Andres, celebrity chef Geoffrey Zakarian also backed out of plans to open a restaurant in the hotel in July 2015, saying then that Trump's statements about Mexican immigrants \"do not in any way align\" with his personal core values. A lawsuit against the Food Network's Iron Chef and \"Chopped\" judge followed and is ongoing. A spokeswoman for Trump hotels responded at the time that \"Zakarian's foolish decision will be his loss.\" \n Trump's troubles with the hotel may be growing. The Washington Post reported Wednesday that two Washington-area small businesses that worked on the hotel filed liens on the property saying they had not been fully paid for their work. \n Trump could also face trouble with Trump University, his now-defunct real estate school. \n The president-elect agreed in November to pay $25 million to settle two class-action lawsuits and one by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman that alleged the school misled and defrauded students. Trump admitted no wrongdoing and said that he was only settling to get the controversy behind him so he could focus on the presidency, but he could still get pulled back into the case. Former students represented in the suit could object to the settlement. \n The New York attorney general is also investigating a Trump charitable foundation following media reports that its spending went to benefit his campaign. Trump has said he is dissolving the foundation to focus on the presidency, but a spokeswoman for the attorney general's office says that can't be done until the investigation is complete. \n Clinton was the last sitting president to be deposed when he testified in 1998 as part of Jones' lawsuit. Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford and Ulysses S. Grant are the only other White House occupants to face a deposition. \n Coats, a conservative who spent 16 years in the Senate before retiring last year, would follow James Clapper, the current director of national intelligence. Clapper testified before a Senate committee on Thursday that Russia poses \"an existential threat to the United States,\" though Trump has repeatedly second-guessed the intelligence agencies' conclusions about Russia. \n On Friday, Clapper and the directors of the FBI and CIA are expected to present the president-elect their findings during a briefing at Trump Tower. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump gives deposition against celebrity chef"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "The state Judicial Selection Commission has forwarded the names of six nominees to Gov. David Ige for the Intermediate Court of Appeals. \n Ige will interview the nominees and select a replacement by Feb. 3 for a vacancy in the court with the Dec. 30 retirement of former Associate Judge Daniel R. Foley. \n Ige's appointment will be subject to senate confirmation. \n The commission submitted the following names to the governor on Jan. 4: \n >>Derrick H.M. Chan, Chief Judge of the First Circuit, State of Hawai'i \n >>David M. Forman, Director, Environmental Law Program, William S. Richardson School of Law, University of Hawai'i at M\u0101noa \n >>Keith K. Hiraoka, Attorney, partner, Roeca Luria Hiraoka LLC, and Ige's former campaign manager. \n >>Geoffrey K.S. Komeya, Attorney/shareholder, Cronin, Fried, Sekiya, Kekina & Fairbanks, Attorneys at Law, a Law Corporation \n >>Karen T. Nakasone, Circuit Judge, First Circuit, State of Hawai'i \n >>John M. Tonaki, Public Defender, State of Hawai'i \n \"I thank the Judicial Selection Commission for its hard work in screening and selecting qualified nominees for the Intermediate Court of Appeals. I have received the names and will be interviewing each nominee in addition to seeking public comment before making my decision,\" Ige said in a press release. \n Public comments on the nominees can be submitted on the governor's website at governor.hawaii.gov \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Panel submits six nominees to Ige for Court of Appeals"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Michelle Lodzinski is escorted from the courtroom after being sentenced to 30 years for the 1991 murder of her 5 year-old son Timothy Wiltsey, Thursday, Jan. 5, 2017, at Middlesex County Court in New Brunswick, N.J. \n NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. >> A Florida woman convicted of killing her 5-year-old son in New Jersey in 1991 was sentenced Thursday to 30 years in prison by a judge who accused her of repeatedly lying about his disappearance. \n Michelle Lodzinski, who has always maintained her innocence, declined to address the court before she was sentenced in Timothy Wiltsey's death. Her attorney had sought the least time under the sentencing guidelines, which called for 30 years to life in prison. \n \"I'm sure Timmy would not want to impose a life sentence on his mother,\" said Gerald Krovatin, Lodzinski's attorney. \n Prosecutor Christine Bevacqua objected and argued for no mercy. \"A mother who kills her child should spend the rest of her life in prison,\" Bevacqua said. \n Superior Court Judge Dennis Nieves said the 49-year-old Lodzinski will be \"old and gray\" when she is released from prison. He told her she had lied over and over about the disappearance and death of her son. The judge gave her 884 days of credit toward her sentence. \n Her lawyers are expected to appeal. \n Lodzinski said her son disappeared from a carnival in central New Jersey, then later claimed he was abducted. \n Lodzinski, who had been living in Port St. Lucie, Florida, and has two other children, has been held in New Jersey since her arrest in 2014. She was charged in 2014 after witnesses identified a blanket found near the boy's body nearly a year after he disappeared. \n She was long a prime suspect in Timothy's death, but investigators didn't believe they had enough evidence to convict her until they reopened the case several years ago and eventually found witnesses who could identify the blanket as having come from Lodzinski's apartment. \n That testimony was vital to the prosecution's case because no forensic evidence tied Lodzinski or the boy to the blanket or other items found near his remains 11 months after he disappeared. A cause of death couldn't be established because the skeleton was so deteriorated. \n During the trial, prosecutors also focused on Lodzinski's changing stories about Timothy's disappearance, which they argued demonstrated consciousness of guilt. They painted Lodzinski as a young, single mother \u2014 23 at the time of his disappearance \u2014 who struggled with jobs and relationships because of the boy and wanted to move on in life without him. \n They contended Lodzinski concocted a story about the boy disappearing from the carnival and told jurors no one who knew the boy saw him with her that night. \n Lodzinski's attorney produced witnesses who worked at the carnival who claimed they saw a boy who looked like Timothy, and he attempted to cast doubt on the reliability of the witnesses who testified about the blanket. \n Krovatin also put on the witness stand an ex-convict from Arizona who testified that a former associate confessed to killing a young boy under circumstances similar to Timothy's death. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mom sentenced to 30 years in 5-year-old son's 1991 death"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan spoke a day after a special House panel issued a report criticizing Planned Parenthood, which provides birth control, abortions and various women's health services, for its practices regarding providing tissue from aborted fetuses to researchers. \n WASHINGTON >> House Speaker Paul Ryan said Thursday that Republicans would slash federal dollars for Planned Parenthood as part of the GOP effort to repeal the health care law. \n Ryan spoke a day after a special House panel issued a report criticizing the organization, which provides birth control, abortions and various women's health services, for its practices regarding providing tissue from aborted fetuses to researchers. The Wisconsin lawmaker's comments, while expected, were the first official word that repeal legislation would also renew the congressional assault on the group. \n \"The Planned Parenthood legislation would be in our (repeal) bill,\" Ryan said. \n Last year's Obamacare repeal measure also contained the effort to defund the group, which receives government reimbursements from the Medicaid program for non-abortion health services to low-income women. It also receives reimbursements for contraception services from a different government account. \n The defunding measure would take away roughly $400 million in Medicaid money from the group in the year after enactment, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, and would result in roughly 400,000 women losing access to care. One factor is that being enrolled in Medicaid doesn't guarantee access to a doctor, so women denied Medicaid services from Planned Parenthood may not be able to find replacement care. \n \"Defunding Planned Parenthood is dangerous to people's health, it's unpopular, and it would leave people across the country without care,\" said Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards. \"They cannot afford to have basic reproductive health care attacked. Planned Parenthood has been here for 100 years and we're going to be here for 100 more.\" \n President-elect Donald Trump sent mixed signals during the campaign about the 100-year-old organization. He said \"millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood,\" but he also endorsed efforts to defund the group. Trump once described himself as \"very pro-choice,\" but now opposes abortion rights. \n Cutting off Planned Parenthood from taxpayer money is a long-sought dream of social conservatives, but it's a loser in the minds of some GOP strategists. Planned Parenthood is loathed by anti-abortion activists who are the backbone of the GOP coalition. Polls, however, show that the group is favorably viewed by a sizable majority of Americans \u2014 59 percent in a Gallup survey last year, including more than one-third of Republicans. \n The defunding effort could also complicate Obamacare repeal in the Senate, where at least one GOP member \u2014 Susan Collins of Maine \u2014 cited the defunding language in opposing the repeal effort in late 2015. Last year's elections thinned Republican ranks in the Senate to 52, so only a handful of GOP defections are possible if the repeal measure is going to pass. \n Asked Wednesday about party efforts to tie the effort to defund Planned Parenthood to Obamacare repeal, Collins said, \"that's of concern to me as well, but I don't want to prejudge what's in the \u2026 bill.\" \n Most GOP lawmakers have long opposed Planned Parenthood because many of its clinics provide abortions. Their antagonism intensified after anti-abortion activists released secretly recorded videos in 2015 showing Planned Parenthood officials discussing how they sometimes provide fetal tissue to researchers, which is legal if no profit is made. \n The House GOP report issued Wednesday accused the group of violating federal laws by altering abortion procedures to obtain fetal tissue, disclosing patients' private information to firms that procure the tissue and \"a general disinterest in clinical integrity.\" \n Planned Parenthood has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and did so again Wednesday. The group has strong support from Capitol Hill Democrats. \n A supporter of the defunding effort said it may not have much of an effect on the number of abortions performed in the country, but that federal dollars to Planned Parenthood indirectly support abortion. \n \"A lot of the ongoing support in the structural finances for Planned Parenthood goes to build the buildings, the infrastructure that provides abortion,\" said Sen. James Lankford, R-Okla. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ryan: GOP to 'defund' Planned Parenthood in Obamacare repeal"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN AIRLINES \n A Hawaiian Airlines Airbus A330. A man accused of biting a Hawaiian Airlines employee during a July flight from American Samoa to Hawaii is scheduled to be sentenced today for interfering with a flight crew. \n A man accused of biting a Hawaiian Airlines flight attendant must serve three years of probation for interfering with a flight crew. \n Aumoeualogo Agaaoa Togia pleaded guilty in September to interfering with a flight crew during a July flight from American Samoa to Hawaii. In exchange for the guilty plea, prosecutors agree to dismiss an assault charge. \n U.S. District Judge Leslie Kobayashi said at the sentencing today that Togia was severely intoxicated when he became violent. She said his behavior created terror and fear, but she concluded that it wasn't his typical behavior. \n Assistant U.S. Attorney Margaret Nammar said Togia bit a male flight attendant's hand. \n Togia apologized, saying his behavior was unwarranted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man gets probation for biting Hawaiian Airlines employee during flight"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "Big Island firefighters extinguished a fire that fully engulfed an abandoned home at the Hawaiian Ocean View Estate Subdivision. \n Firefighters responded to the fire at the single-story structure at the intersection of Koa Lane and Lei Parkway just after midnight today, said the Hawaii County Fire Department in a news release. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control about an hour later and extinguished it at approximately 2 a.m. No injuries were reported. \n The fire department said the structure was considered a \"total loss.\" Damage is estimated at $15,000. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle firefighters battle structure fire at Hawaiian Ocean View Estates"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump is planning to appoint former Indiana Sen. Dan Coats as Director of National Intelligence. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File) \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump has selected former Indiana Sen. Dan Coats to lead the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, a role that would thrust him into the center of the intelligence community that Trump has publicly challenged, a person with knowledge of the decision said Thursday. \n Coats served as a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee before retiring from Congress last year. If confirmed by the Senate, he would oversee the umbrella office created after 9/11 to improve coordination of U.S. spy and law enforcement agencies. \n The person with knowledge of Trump's decision was not authorized to discuss the pick publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n Since winning the election, Trump has repeatedly questioned intelligence officials' assessments that Russia interfered with the election on his behalf. On Friday, senior intelligence officials will brief Trump on the findings of a full report into the Russian hacking of Democratic groups. The report was ordered by President Barack Obama, who was briefed on the conclusions Thursday. \n Against that backdrop, Trump has been considering ways to restructure intelligence agencies to streamline operations and improve efficiency. Transition officials have been looking at changes at both ODNI and the CIA, but those plans are said not to be aimed at gutting the intelligence agencies or hampering their capabilities. \n The person said the discussions reflect the views of intelligence officials who have told Trump's team that there is room for streamlining within the multi-agency intelligence community. \n The Wall Street Journal first reported Wednesday night that Trump was considering changes at the intelligence agencies. Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer disputed the report Thursday morning. \n \"There is no truth to this idea of restructuring the intelligence community infrastructure. It is 100 percent false,\" Spicer said. \n The CIA declined to comment on the potential changes. Outgoing National Intelligence Director James Clapper told a Senate panel Thursday that his office has not been engaged in such discussions with the Trump transition team. He noted that lawmakers created his office. \n \"Congress, I think, gets a vote here,\" said Clapper, who was testifying on Russia's election interference. \n Trump's administration wouldn't be the first to initiate reforms in the intelligence community. \n A few years ago, CIA Director John Brennan ordered sweeping changes to the CIA to make its leaders more accountable and close intelligence gaps amid concern about the agency's limited insights into a series of major global developments. The aim was to break down barriers between the CIA's operations and analytical arms. \n Coats' nomination is likely to soothe those who fear Trump will significantly overhaul the intelligence community. The 73-year-old is a Capitol Hill veteran who served eight years in the House before moving to the Senate in 1989 to take Dan Quayle's place when he became vice president. He stayed in the Senate until 1998, then left to become a lobbyist. \n After a stint as ambassador to Germany under President George W. Bush, Coats joined the high-powered Washington firm of King & Spalding. He helped lead the company's government affairs division and lobbied for pharmaceutical, defense and energy companies. \n Coats, who earned $600,000 in his final 13 months at King & Spalding, downplayed his lobbying work when he returned to Indiana for a successful Senate comeback bid in 2010. He served one term and did not seek re-election last year. \n Coats was a harsh critic of Russia and pushed the Obama administration to harshly punish Moscow for its annexation of Crimea in 2014. When the White House levied sanctions, the Kremlin responded by banning several lawmakers, including Coats, from traveling to Russia. \n Trump has called for improving the relationship between the U.S. and Russia, and has also spoken favorably about Russian President Vladimir Putin. His refusal thus far to accept the intelligence community's assessment that Russia was meddling in the 2016 election has sparked concern among lawmakers in both parties. \n Intelligence agencies have concluded that there is no question that Russia was behind hacking of political computer systems \u2014 something they say could only have occurred with the approval of top Kremlin officials. That conclusion is detailed in the classified report Obama ordered up on Russia and other foreign influence in U.S. elections dating back to 2008. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump selects former Sen. Coats for top intelligence post"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Political commentator Tucker Carlson arrives for the 60th anniversary celebration of NBC's Meet the Press at the Newseum in Washington. \n NEW YORK >> Fox News Channel is giving Megyn Kelly's time slot to veteran pundit Tucker Carlson, doubling down on conservative opinion leaders in its prime-time lineup at the dawn of the Trump administration. \n The network also said on Thursday that Martha MacCallum will move into Carson's 7 p.m. time slot, at least temporarily. She will host a show called \"The First 100 Days\" to coincide with the beginning of Donald Trump's presidency. \n Carlson, who has hosted shows on CNN, MSNBC and PBS, replaced Greta Van Susteren, who left Fox in late summer. Since his start on Nov. 14, the average audience of 2.8 million viewers for \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" is up 23 percent compared to Van Susteren a year ago, the Nielsen company said. \n \"In less than two months, Tucker has taken cable news by storm with his spirited interviews and consistently strong performance,\" said Rupert Murdoch, executive chairman of Fox News and its parent company 21st Century Fox. \n Fox can argue that Carlson gives the network its best chance to maintain, or even build upon, Kelly's ratings. Kelly turned down a multi-million dollar offer to stay at Fox and announced this week she will leave for NBC News, where she will host a daytime weekday show and a once-a-week newsmagazine on Sunday nights. While the most recent campaign made her a star, her sharp questioning of Donald Trump during debates upset the candidate, his supporters, and many Fox viewers. \n Carlson's selection sends a political signal, said Jane Hall, a journalism professor at American University in Washington and a former panelist on a Fox media watch program. \n \"Their prime-time hosts are going to be aggressively conservative in the way that Donald Trump and his supporters have been,\" Hall said. \n Carlson, 47, will be sandwiched between Bill O'Reilly, who has long been the top-rated host in cable news, and Sean Hannity, who has been outspoken in his advocacy for Trump. \n He's no stranger to the pundit wars. He began his TV career at CNN, where his role as a \"Crossfire\" host memorably imploded in 2004 when comedian Jon Stewart questioned the show's value and the segment sunk into name-calling. Three months later, CNN got rid of \"Crossfire\" and Carlson. \n He surfaced at MSNBC for an early evening show. He joined Fox as a contributor in 2009 and founded the conservative web site The Daily Caller, where his involvement ended when he began the daily show at Fox. \n Perhaps the most memorable segment on \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" came when the host went toe-to-toe with Lauren Duca, a Teen Vogue writer brought on to discuss an incident where Ivanka Trump was approached by someone who objected to her dad's politics on a plane flight with her family. The segment spread widely online and Duca later said she received rape threats on Christmas Day. \n \"Tucker Carlson's brand is a toxic mix of blowhard condescension, partisan hackery and unbridled sexism,\" Duca said on Thursday. \"It only makes sense that he would excel at Fox.\" \n Television executive Rick Kaplan, who hired Carlson at both CNN and MSNBC, said he found Carlson easy to talk and listen to even when he disagreed with him politically. \n \"He's an exceptional, exceptional communicator,\" Kaplan said. \"He clearly has a partisan stripe, but he's kind of gentle reader. He's an honest broker, he's a fair guy. He's not a mean guy, so I find him extremely pleasing to watch.\" \n Carlson begins on Monday. MacCallum starts at 7 p.m. the following week, after Bret Baier fills in for a week. A former anchor at CNBC, the 52-year-old MacCallum has been with Fox since 2004 and currently co-hosts a two-hour news block with Bill Hemmer on weekday mornings. \n She will co-anchor Fox's inauguration coverage with Baier later this month, taking over a role that Kelly would have been expected to fill. \n Her evening show keyed to the beginning of the Trump administration is something of a tryout, though. Fox is not committing to what goes into the time slot after the first 100 days. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fox News says Tucker Carlson to take Megyn Kelly time slot"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Dae Han Moon stood with his attorney during his arraignment today in the shooting death of Steve Feliciano on Christmas night. \n A 20-year-old man pleaded not guilty to murder in connection with the deadly shooting at Ala Moana Center Christmas night. \n Dae Han Moon, 20, appeared at his arraignment at Circuit Court via closed-circuit video link this morning from the Oahu Community Correctional Center. His attorney, Alen Kaneshiro, entered a plea of not guilty on behalf of Moon. \n Moon turned himself in at the Honolulu Police Department's main headquarters Friday after an Oahu grand jury indicted him for second-degree murder in the shooting death of Steve \"Stevie\" Feliciano, 20. \n Circuit Judge Colette Garibaldi confirmed his bail at $2 million. His trial has been set for the week of March 6. \n The shooting occurred at about 7:30 p.m. on Dec. 25 on the fifth floor of Ala Moana Center's Ewa wing parking structure. Feliciano and some friends allegedly went there to get some marijuana from another person when Moon and his friends arrived in a vehicle. \n One of Moon's friends allegedly started a fight with Feliciano, sparking others to take part in the brawl. \n After the altercation, police said Moon returned to his car and retrieved a firearm. He allegedly struck Feliciano with the gun before he fired a gunshot into the back of his head. \n Feliciano was transported to Queen's Medical Center in critical condition and put on life support where he died three days later. \n At the time of the shooting, Moon was free on $30,000 bail on charges of auto theft and firearm possession relating to a Dec. 5 incident. \n William Kan, who was charged with first-degree hindering prosecution in connection with the shooting, also appeared in court today. His attorney entered a plea of not guilty on behalf of Kan. Police arrested Kan at his Punchbowl home Dec. 28 and released him after he posted $25,000 bail. \n Police are still looking for Lance Bermudez, 25, who is wanted for hindering prosecution. Police said Kan and Bermudez threatened a witness to the shooting. \n A $500,000 warrant has been issued for Bermudez' arrest. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspected gunman, accomplice enter pleas in fatal Ala Moana shooting"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Jahsiah Price-Brown appeared for his arraignment for a double stabbing in Ewa Beach on Dec. 23. He pleaded not guilty. \n A 24-year-old Ewa Beach man pleaded not guilty today in connection with the stabbing of his ex-girlfriend and her mother. \n Jahsiah Price-Brown appeared at Circuit Court this morning via closed circuit video link from the Oahu Community Correctional Center for his arraignment. Deputy public defender Edward Aquino entered a plea of not guilty on behalf of Price-Brown. An Oahu grand jury indicted Price-Brown last week for attempted murder. He remains in custody on $2 million bail. \n According to court documents and a deputy prosecutor, Price-Brown allegedly choked and punched his ex-girlfriend at his home and stabbed her in the chest on Dec. 23. \n Her mother entered the home after she heard her daughter call for help. Price-Brown's ex-girlfriend went to the kitchen and saw her mother in a struggle with Price-Brown. \n The woman jumped on and choked Price-Brown in an attempt to get him off her mother. \n Price-Brown then allegedly stabbed his ex-girlfriend's mother as she attempted to flee from the home. \n A neighbor, who said he saw the attack through a window, broke in through the front door and pulled the mother out of the house. He returned to the home when he allegedly saw Price-Brown stabbing the other woman as she was lying on the sofa. \n At some point, Price-Brown's ex-girlfriend calmed him down and took the knife from his hand before she staggered out of the home. \n Police recovered an 8-inch knife covered with blood just outside the front door. \n The two women were taken to Queen's Medical Center where they underwent surgery. Both suffered rib fractures during the stabbing. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Ewa Beach man pleads not guilty in stabbing of 2 women"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An image from a video that was broadcast live on Facebook and later posted on Vidme shows a frame in which a man, right, is assaulted in Chicago. The video shows the man with his mouth taped shut as a woman and other people cut off his shirt and hair with a knife, and someone pushes his head with his or her foot. \n Four black people were charged with hate crimes Thursday in connection with a video broadcast live on Facebook that showed a mentally disabled white man being beaten and taunted, threatened with a knife and forced to drink from a toilet. \n The assault went on for up to two days, until Chicago police found the victim \"in distress\" walking along a street, authorities said. \n The suspects, who are in custody, can be heard on the video using profanities against white people and President-elect Donald Trump. \n Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said authorities initially believed the man was singled out because he has \"special needs,\" not because he was white, although Guglielmi acknowledged the suspects made \"terrible racist statements.\" \n It's also possible that the suspects were trying to extort something from the victim's family, Guglielmi said. \n In addition to hate crimes, the four are charged with kidnapping, aggravated battery and aggravated unlawful restraint. Three were charged with burglary. \n The victim was a classmate of one of the attackers and initially went with that person voluntarily, police said. \n \"He's traumatized by the incident, and it's very tough to communicate with him at this point,\" police Cmdr. Kevin Duffin said. \n Excerpts of the video posted by Chicago media outlets show the victim with his mouth taped shut slumped in a corner as at least two assailants cut off his sweatshirt and others taunt him off camera. The video shows a wound on the top of the man's head, and one person pushes the man's head with his or her foot. A red band also appears to be around the victim's hands. \n Off-camera, people can be heard using the profanities. At least one woman is shown in the video. \n During the video, the victim does not appear to make any attempt to defend himself or to escape his attackers. \n He is a suburban Chicago resident described by Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson as having \"mental health challenges.\" \n Johnson described the video as \"sickening.\" \n \"It makes you wonder what would make individuals treat somebody like that,\" he said Wednesday at a news conference. \n The grandmother of a young woman associated with the video said the granddaughter she raised from infancy is \"not this person.\" \n \"I'm so upset, my head is about to bust open,\" said Priscilla Covington of Chicago. \"I don't know if someone influenced her \u2026 She had her ups and down. (She) was a good person. I'm so confused.\" \n The investigation began Monday after officers found a man \"in distress\" and \"in crisis\" walking on a street on the West Side, Capt. Steven Sasso said. \n The man was taken to a hospital, and it was later discovered that he had been reported missing from an unidentified suburb. \n At about the same time, police took several people into custody at a nearby address where they found signs of a struggle and property damage. Investigators determined that the missing man had been at the same address. \n Cook County prosecutors identified the suspects as Jordan Hill of suburban Carpentersville, Brittany Covington of Chicago and Tesfaye Cooper of Chicago, all 18. A fourth suspect was identified as 24-year-old Tanishia Covington, also of Chicago. \n The video emerged at a time when police dealings with Chicago's black community are being closely watched. Less than a year ago, the nation's third-largest police force was sharply criticized by a task force for using excessive force and honoring a code of silence. \n The department has also been the subject of a long civil-rights investigation by the Justice Department, which is expected to report its findings soon. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hate-crime charges filed in attack on mentally disabled man"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by the Carrie Stevenson, her daughter Estelle held a bag of peanut snacks in her pediatrician's office at age nine-months, in Columbus, Ohio. Most babies should start eating peanut-containing foods well before their first birthday, say guidelines released today that aim to protect high-risk tots and other youngsters, too, from developing the dangerous food allergy. \n WASHINGTON >> Most babies should start eating peanut-containing foods well before their first birthday, say guidelines released today that aim to protect high-risk tots and other youngsters, too, from developing the dangerous food allergy. \n The new guidelines from the National Institutes of Health mark a shift in dietary advice, based on landmark research that found early exposure dramatically lowers a baby's chances of becoming allergic. \n The recommendations spell out exactly how to introduce infants to peanut-based foods and when \u2014 for some, as early as 4 to 6 months of age \u2014 depending on whether they're at high, moderate or low risk of developing one of the most troublesome food allergies. \n \"We're on the cusp of hopefully being able to prevent a large number of cases of peanut allergy,\" said Dr. Matthew Greenhawt of the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, a member of the NIH-appointed panel that wrote the guidelines. \n Babies at high risk \u2014 because they have a severe form of the skin rash eczema or egg allergies \u2014 need a check-up before any peanut exposure, and might get their first taste in the doctor's office. \n For other tots, most parents can start adding peanut-containing foods to the diet much like they already introduced oatmeal or mushed peas. \n No, babies don't get whole peanuts or a big glob of peanut butter \u2014 those are choking hazards. Instead, the guidelines include options like watered-down peanut butter or easy-to-gum peanut-flavored \"puff\" snacks. \n \"It's an important step forward,\" said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of NIH's National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which appointed experts to turn the research findings into user-friendly guidelines. \"When you do desensitize them from an early age, you have a very positive effect.\" \n Peanut allergy is a growing problem, affecting about 2 percent of U.S. children who must avoid the wide array of peanut-containing foods or risk severe, even life-threatening, reactions. \n For years, pediatricians advised avoiding peanuts until age 3 for children thought to be at risk. But the delay didn't help, and that recommendation was dropped in 2008 \u2014 although parent wariness of peanuts persists. \n \"It's old news, wrong old news, to wait,\" said Dr. Scott Sicherer, who represented the American Academy of Pediatrics on the guidelines panel. \n Today's guidelines make that clear, urging parents and doctors to proactively introduce peanut-based foods early. \n \"Just because your uncle, aunt and sibling have an allergy, that's even more reason to give your baby the food now\" \u2014 even if they're already older than 6 months, added Sicherer, a pediatric allergist at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. \n In Columbus, Ohio, one doctor told Carrie Stevenson to avoid peanuts after her daughter was diagnosed with egg allergy. Then Stevenson found an allergy specialist who insisted that was the wrong advice \u2014 and offered baby Estelle a taste test of peanut butter in his office when she was 7 months old. \n \"I was really nervous,\" Stevenson recalled, unsure which doctor to believe. But, \"we didn't want her to have any more allergies.\" \n Now 18 months old, Estelle has eaten peanut butter or peanut-flavored puffs at least three times a week since then and so far seems healthy. Stevenson, pregnant again, plans early exposure for her next child, too. \n The guidelines recommend: \n \u2014All babies should try other solid foods before peanut-containing ones, to be sure they're developmentally ready. \n \u2014High-risk babies should have peanut-containing foods introduced as early as 4 to 6 months after a check-up to tell if they should have the first taste in the doctor's office, or if it's OK to try at home with a parent watching for any reactions. \n \u2014Moderate-risk babies have milder eczema, typically treated with over-the-counter creams. They should start peanut-based foods around 6 months, at home. \n \u2014Most babies are low-risk, and parents can introduce peanut-based foods along with other solids, usually around 6 months. \n \u2014Building tolerance requires making peanut-based foods part of the regular diet, about three times a week. \n What's the evidence? First, researchers noticed a tenfold higher rate of peanut allergy among Jewish children in Britain, who aren't fed peanut products during infancy, compared to those in Israel where peanut-based foods are common starting around age 7 months. \n Then in 2015, an NIH-funded study of 600 babies put that theory to the test, assigning them either to avoid or regularly eat age-appropriate peanut products. By age 5, only 2 percent of peanut eaters \u2014 and 11 percent of those at highest risk \u2014 had become allergic. Among peanut avoiders, 14 percent had become allergic, and 35 percent of those at highest risk. \n Whether the dietary change will spur a drop in U.S. peanut allergies depends on how many parents heed the new advice \u2014 and if a parent seems skeptical, the guidelines urge doctors to follow up. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Giving peanut-based foods to babies early prevents allergies"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "A 35-year-old Honolulu moped rider was taken to a hospital after he slammed into a utility pole in Kaimuki early today. \n At approximately 2:30 a.m., police said the man was traveling eastbound on Maunaloa Avenue in proximity to 8th Avenue when he lost control of his moped and veered into the westbound lane. \n He then crashed into a wooden utility pole and was thrown from his moped. \n Police said he was taken to an area hospital in critical condition. The man was not wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. \n Police said alcohol is a factor. Speed is not involved. \n Police closed lanes in both directions on Maunaloa Avenue between 7th and 8th avenues to investigate. Officers reopened the roadway at approximately 4:30 a.m. \n Police are continuing their investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man critically injured in moped crash in Kaimuki"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n National Intelligence Director James Clapper spoke on Capitol Hill in Washington in Feb. 2016. Clapper is among top U.S. intelligence officials set to testify today at a Senate hearing to be dominated by accusations of Russian meddled in the U.S. presidential election. \n WASHINGTON >> Brushing aside Donald Trump's dismissiveness, the nation's intelligence chief insisted Thursday that U.S. agencies are more confident than ever that Russia interfered in America's recent presidential election. And he called the former Cold War foe an \"existential threat\" to the nation. \n Did Russian hacking sway the results? Not likely, indicated James Clapper, the direction of national intelligence. \n Asked about the possible effect of the disclosure of private information stolen by hackers, Clapper said, \"The intelligence community can't gauge the impact it had on the choices the electorate made.\" But he also said Russian hacking \"did not change any vote tallies.\" \n Clapper's testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee was short on concrete evidence of Russian activities, but it raised the stakes in the intelligence community's standoff with Trump. Clapper indicated the agencies he leads would not back down in their assessment, even if that threatens a prolonged crisis of confidence with their next commander in chief. \n That puts the pressure back on Trump, who has raised the possibility of more positive relations with Russia and has repeatedly disparaged the U.S. intelligence agencies. He will be briefed Friday on the classified evidence concerning Russian interference. \n Shortly after Thursday's hearing, news leaked that Trump would soon name former Republican Sen. Dan Coats of Indiana to replace Clapper after the new president takes office. \n The intelligence agencies' classified report, which was shared with President Barack Obama on Thursday, identifies multiple motives for Russia's interference, Clapper said, but he did not provide details. \n In a joint report that roiled the presidential campaign last fall, the Homeland Security Department and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said the U.S. was confident about foreign meddling, including Russian government hacking of Democratic emails. \n \"We stand actually more resolutely on the strength of that statement,\" Clapper said Thursday. He declined to discuss whether Russia's interference was aimed at helping Trump win. \n An unclassified version of the report will be released next week, Clapper said. That version, expected to be a fraction of the length of the classified one, is not likely to answer all the questions about Russia's actions. Exactly how the U.S. monitors its adversaries in cyberspace is a closely guarded secret, since revealing such details could help foreign governments further obscure their activities. \n \"I think the public should know as much about this as possible,\" Clapper told the senators. \"And so we'll be as forthcoming as we can, but there are some sensitive and fragile sources and methods here.\" \n Clapper was less shy about declaring Russia \"an existential threat to the United States.\" That's strong rhetoric that harkens back to the Cold War between the U.S. and Soviet Union, language Obama has avoided. For his part, Trump has embraced the possibility of warmer U.S.-Russian ties. \n Republican John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate panel, pressed Clapper as to whether Russia's actions constituted an \"act of war.\" The intelligence director said that was \"a very heavy policy call,\" more appropriate for others in the government to decide. \n Obama announced sanctions against Russia late last year, a move Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said was akin to throwing a pebble. \n \"I'm ready to throw a rock,\" Graham said. \n The GOP is divided over how to deal with Russia. Once Trump takes office, he is certain to face opposition from Democrats as well as some in his own party regarding his posture toward Russia. \n Trump has criticized U.S. intelligence findings, even citing WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange's contention that Russia did not provide him with hacked Democratic emails. \n But in new tweets early Thursday, he backed away and blamed the \"dishonest media\" for portraying him as agreeing with Assange, whose organization has been under criminal investigation for its role in classified information leaks. \"The media lies to make it look like I am against 'Intelligence' when in fact I am a big fan!\" Trump wrote. \n In fact, Trump has been skeptical to the point of dismissive about the certainty of the assessment of Russian hacking, bringing up past failures, specifically intelligence reporting the presence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq in the lead-up to the war there. \n Trump has derided the intelligence community on Twitter, his comments widely reported by The Associated Press and other news organizations. \n Clapper said Thursday, \"I think there is an important distinction here between healthy skepticism, which policymakers \u2014 to include policymaker No. 1 \u2014 should always have for intelligence, but I think there's a difference between skepticism and disparagement.\" \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Obama is confident that the intelligence assessment on Russia is \"unvarnished.\" \n \"The president has insisted that the intelligence community should not hesitate to present to the president what could be considered bad news, because a whitewashed assessment doesn't serve anybody well,\" Earnest said. He added that anyone who consumes intelligence \"using rose-colored reading glasses is not going to be able to make good decisions.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. official says Russia undoubtedly meddled in election"}

{"date": "January 5, 2017", "text": "Dean Nishina is officially serving as the state consumer advocate. \n The Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs said today Nishina, who has been the acting executive director since September, was officially assigned the position at the Division of Consumer Advocacy Jan. 1. \n Nishina took on the role after former Consumer Advocate Jeff Ono returned to private practice. Nishina will oversee the division's protection of ratepayers in cases reviewed by the state Public Utilities Commission as well as other local and federal agencies. \n Nishina's service as Consumer Advocate comes as Hawaii's electric utility makes the initial steps to achieve the state's goal of 100 percent clean energy by 2045. \n \"I look forward to continuing to advocate on behalf of the state's consumers in this dynamic period,\" said Nishina. \"Hawaii's energy environment has seen significant changes over recent years.\" \n Nishina perviously served as the consumer advocate from December 2009 to January 2011. \n \"We are extremely pleased that Dean has agreed to return as the state's Consumer Advocate,\" said Catherine Awakuni Colon, director of the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs in a statement. \"He has been with the department for nearly twenty-five years, and has a wealth of experience in the area of public utilities.\"  \n Nishina has worked for the Division of Consumer Advocacy since 1992. Nishina has also worked as an audit and financial consulting senior for Arthur Andersen & Co, LLP. He received his undergraduate degree in economics and psychology from Northwestern University, and his master's degree in professional accountancy from DePaul University. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Acting state consumer advocate officially assumes role"}

