{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "Jamm Aquino / 2016 \n Committee members questioned Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell for hours today in what amounted to a very chilly reception for Caldwell's request for a 20-year extension for the Oahu excise tax surcharge, which provides most of the funding for the city's rail project. \n The House Finance Committee voted tonight to provide an additional $1.2 billion to financially bail out the Honolulu rail project, but Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell said that won't be enough to get the job done. \n Committee members questioned Caldwell for hours today in what amounted to a very chilly reception for Caldwell's request for a 20-year extension for the Oahu excise tax surcharge, which provides most of the funding for the city's rail project. \n In the end the committee gave tentative approval to a new draft of Senate Bill 1183 that would extend the excise surcharge by just two years \u2014 to 2029 \u2014 and would provide some other extra funding to the city by reducing the state's share of the excise surcharge from 10 percent down to 1 percent. \n Caldwell said discussions over the surcharge can continue, but \"we need about 10 years (extension). We got two.\" \n \"It's nowhere near what we need, obviously, and so so we'd have to make up the difference at the city level. And of course, where do you get that revenue from? It comes out of real property taxes,\" he said. \n Caldwell began the discussion with the critically important Finance Committee by apologizing for making his request for help to bail out the rail project, which is vastly over budget. But it didn't seem to help much. \n \"I understand how difficult this is for you, because I was here two years ago, and I want to say I apologize for putting you through this again, and I appreciate your patience and understanding, and hopefully your support to get this project built,\" Caldwell said. \n The mayor said he is asking lawmakers to extend the excise tax surcharge to at least 2047 to make \"absolutely certain\" the city will have the money it needs to complete the 20-mile rail system without returning to the legislature yet again. \"My goal is never to come back again. I'm not coming back again,\" Caldwell said. \n But state Rep. Matthew LoPresti, (D, Ewa Villages-Ocean Pointe-Ewa Beach) said \"I feel like I was lied to\" in 2015 when Caldwell last asked for an extension in the excise tax surcharge. \n The excise surcharge for rail was originally supposed to expire in 2022, but Caldwell asked the Legislature two years ago to extend the special tax to raise more money because the project was costing more than expected. \n Lawmakers agreed to extend the surcharge until 2027 with the understanding that the five-year extension they approved in 2015 would provide enough money to fund the entire 20-mile rail route. \n As it turned out, the five-year extension wasn't nearly enough to cover rail's ballooning cost. Estimates of the cost of the project have expanded from a projected $5.26 billion in 2014 to as much as $10 billion today, including interest. \n State Rep. Gene Ward, (R, Kalama Valley-Queen's Gate-Hawaii Kai) told city officials that the evolving estimates for the cost of rail raise critical \"trust issues\" because the voters would never have approved the project had they known it would eventually cost $10 billion. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Lawmakers OK $1.2B more for rail, but Caldwell says it's not enough"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n According to an Alaska Airlines schedule, Flight 892 departs at 4:10 p.m. Wednesday from Honolulu and normally takes about 5-1/2 hours to arrive in San Diego. \n Alaska Airlines Flight 892 returned to Honolulu International Airport Wednesday night due to an odor in the cabin, state transportation spokesman Tim Sakahara said. \n \"The plane landed safely. No passengers were injured,\" Sakahara said. \n Emergency Medical Services transported the crew members to a hospital in stable condition after they experienced nausea and headaches while aboard the plane, possibly from fumes. \n Sakahara said four flight crew members were transported to the hospital for evaluation at their request. \n Sakahara said no airport operations were affected. \n According to an Alaska Airlines schedule, Flight 892 departs at 4:10 p.m. Wednesday from Honolulu and normally takes about 5-1/2 hours to arrive in San Diego. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Alaska Airlines flight returns to Honolulu due to odor in cabin"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Donald Trump, right, and China's President Xi Jinping. \n WASHINGTON >> For years, cutting carbon emissions to stave off the worst impacts of climate change was routinely near the top of the agenda at talks between the leaders of the United States and China. \n Not anymore. \n As President Donald Trump hosts President Xi Jinping at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida this week, the world's two largest economies and carbon polluters are taking dramatically divergent paths on climate policy. \n The Chinese government recently canceled construction of more than 100 new coal-fired power plants and plans to invest at least $360 billion in green energy projects by 2020. It is a building boom expected to create an estimated 13 million jobs. China already leads the world in total installed solar and wind capacity. \n Trump, who has said global warming is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese to hurt the U.S. economy, signed an executive order last week that aims to roll back Obama-era policies regulating carbon emissions. He has pledged to reverse decades of decline in coal mining, which now accounts for fewer than 75,000 U.S. jobs. \n \"Clean energy is the next, largest global market,\" said Barbara Finamore, Asia director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a U.S.-based environmental group. \"The U.S. risks losing out.\" \n With Trump threatening to pull out of the Paris climate accord negotiated by the Obama administration, Xi is poised to become the world's foremost leader on climate change. Signed by nearly 200 nations, the 2014 agreement calls for holding global temperature increases to no more than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit in hopes of preventing devastating droughts, storms and sea level rise. \n Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, Xi called the Paris accord a \"hard-won achievement\" and urged signatories to \"stick to it.\" \n The White House declined to comment today on whether climate change will even be mentioned at Mar-a-Lago. U.S. officials are instead expected to focus on enlisting China's cooperation on curbing the North Korean nuclear threat. \n While China eclipsed the United States as the world's top carbon polluter more than a decade ago, it is also now outpacing the U.S. in transitioning to a cleaner energy portfolio. China is currently generating about 20 percent of its electricity from renewable sources, compared to about 13 percent in the U.S. \n China still burns more coal than any other nation, but its consumption of the dirtiest fossil fuel fell in 2016 for a third consecutive year. An analysis by Greenpeace of data from the Chinese National Energy Administration showed an expected corresponding decrease in China's carbon dioxide emissions of 1 percent in 2017, in what would be the fourth straight year of zero growth or a decline. \n That puts China on track to meet its 2030 target under the Paris accord as much as one decade early. \n \"Given the absolute lack of leadership from the Trump administration, China is seeing a stronger role both in its self-interest as a country threatened by the impacts of climate change, and also as a diplomatic opportunity in the vacuum left by Trump's retrograde position,\" said Lauri Myllyvirta, a senior coal campaigner for Greenpeace in Beijing. \n In China's capital, Trump's public statements doubting that human activity is the primary cause of global warming are greeted with a mixture of bemusement and worry. \n As China has burned gargantuan amounts of coal to accelerate the development of its economy, residents of its mega cities have had to deal with choking smog at levels not seen in the United States since passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970. \n \"In the past, some Chinese officials and ordinary people even believed that climate change was something created by developed countries to curb China's economic growth,\" said Teng Fei, a vice professor at Tsinghua University's Institute of Energy, Environment and Economy in Beijing. He said Trump's claim that climate change is a hoax might erode public support for taking action reducing the country's reliance on coal. \n Wang Ke, a professor at the School of Environment and Natural Resources at Renmin University in Beijing, agreed: \"Sometimes we joke that all our efforts are no use against one word from President Trump.\" \n Even as Trump suggests global warming is mostly made up, climate scientists predict the issue will someday arrive literally at his doorstep. \n Mar-a-Lago, the site of his summit with Xi, is located in one of the most vulnerable regions in the United States to sea level rise. Some streets in Palm Beach County already flood on sunny days during high tides, and recent studies predict Trump's prized resort will be underwater by the end of the century. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump boosts coal as China takes the lead on climate change"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo provided by the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office is Tiffany Li. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The front gate is shut in May 2016 at the mansion where Tiffany Li lived in Hillsborough, Calif. Li was arrested at the home on suspicion of killing Keith Green, the father of her two children. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> A California woman accused of killing the father of her two children is expected to be released from jail Thursday after posting an unprecedented $35 million bail raised by wealthy friends, family and business associates with ties to China. \n Tiffany Li, 31, is backed by a consortium of people tied to her mother who have raised $4 million cash and pledged $61 million in San Francisco Bay Area property. California courts require twice the bail amount if property is used instead of cash. \n Li's attorney Geoff Carr says Li and her mother were born in China, where the mother was financially successful in the construction industry. Carr says Li and her mother are naturalized U.S. citizens. \n Carr said all defendants except those accused of death penalty-eligible crimes are entitled to \"reasonable bail.\" \n The $35 million bail is the highest ever in San Mateo County's history, a county official said. \n San Mateo District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe said he's concerned Li is a flight risk and is disappointed the judge didn't set the bail even higher. His office asked for a $100 million bail. \n \"If convicted she faces the rest of her life in prison,\" Wagstaffe said. \"That's plenty enough incentive to flee back to her native China.\" \n Carr said he expects Tiffany Li to be freed Thursday pending her murder trial in September. Li will be required to turn over her passports, wear an electronic monitor and remain under house arrest. \n Li has pleaded not guilty to charges she directed her boyfriend and another man to kill Keith Green, 27, and dispose of his body last year. Prosecutors say she feared losing custody of her young children to Green. \n Green's body was found May 11 in Sonoma County, about 80 miles (128 kilometers) north of where he was supposed to meet Li. \n Li was arrested several days later in the multimillion-dollar home she shared with her children in Hillsborough, a suburb of mansions and large houses 20 miles (32 kilometers) south of San Francisco. The two men were also arrested in May and remained jailed without bail. Carr says their lawyers didn't ask for bail because they don't have the resources to post a multi-million dollar bail bond like Li did. \n Carr says the people who posted Li's bail believe she is innocent and will not flee. If she does go on the lam, the court can confiscate the property and cash. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Murder suspect raises unprecedented $35M bail via friends"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo, Mississippi County Sheriff Cory Hutcheson sits behind his desk at the Mississippi County Detention Center in Charleston, Mo. \n ST. LOUIS >> A southeast Missouri sheriff was charged today with assault for allegedly handcuffing a 77-year-old woman with enough force to cause her to have a heart attack. \n Mississippi County Sheriff Cory Hutcheson also is charged with several other crimes including forgery and robbery, Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley said in a news release. Hutcheson was arrested today by the Missouri State Highway Patrol and the FBI and was briefly jailed in nearby Cape Girardeau County before being released on $75,000 bond. \n Hutcheson does not have a listed phone number and it wasn't clear if he has an attorney. Sally Gammons, the jail administrator in Mississippi County, declined comment. County Coroner Terry Parker is serving as the acting sheriff and did not return phone messages seeking comment. \n Hutcheson, 33, was elected sheriff of the rural county about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of St. Louis after working for most of the past decade as a deputy and jail administrator. He defeated 12-year incumbent Sheriff Keith Moore in November and took office in January. \n It's not clear if the incidents that led to Hutcheson being charged happened before or after he became sheriff. Hawley did not say when they occurred in his news release, and his office did not respond to requests for information on the incident dates. \n The assault charge involves an incident in which Hutcheson allegedly handcuffed a 77-year-old woman over a civil dispute with one of Hutcheson's family members. Authorities also said he falsely accused the woman of kidnapping one of his relatives. Hawley's office said Hutcheson handcuffed the woman \"with enough force that she suffered a heart attack,\" requiring hospitalization for three days. \n Hutcheson also faces seven counts of forgery, seven counts of tampering with computer data and one count of first-degree robbery. \n Hutcheson told the Sikeston Standard Democrat in January he planned to lead by example. \n \"We're going to look into any report we get,\" he told the newspaper. \"We're going to pursue it. We're going to try to identify drug dealers, go out and bust them and get the drugs off the street.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Missouri sheriff charged with assault in woman's handcuffing"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ahmad Khan Rahimi, the man accused of setting off bombs in New Jersey and New York in September, injuring more than 30 people, is led into court in Elizabeth, N.J. in December. \n NEW YORK >> A man accused of setting off bombs in New Jersey and New York seven months ago, injuring dozens of people, asked a judge today to move his trial to Vermont to avoid the possibility potential jurors have been influenced by prejudicial publicity about the case. \n Lawyers for Ahmad Khan Rahimi, an Afghanistan-born U.S. citizen, said in court papers he would get a fairer trial in Burlington, Vermont. They said an expert analysis shows that media coverage of his case in Manhattan newspapers was twice as heavy as occurred in Washington, D.C., and five times as much as in Burlington publications. \n Rahimi, who lived with his family in Elizabeth, New Jersey, is charged with detonating a pipe bomb along a charity race in Seaside Park, New Jersey, and planting two pressure cooker bombs in Manhattan on Sept. 17. \n One device did not explode. The other one detonated in the Chelsea neighborhood, injuring 30 people. \n Rahimi, who has pleaded not guilty, is detained without bail. \n Defense lawyers say their analysis shows that about 90 percent of respondents to their survey were aware of Rahimi's case and that those who answered questions had a \"comparatively strong presumption of guilt.\" \n They said a high number of the respondents said they were in the Chelsea neighborhood at the time of the attacks or knew someone who was. \n The lawyers wrote that prejudicial information that reached some respondents included reports of a confession, a near singular focus on Rahimi, inflammatory information and demonization of Rahimi as a terrorist. \n They also cited numerous statements by the government and tweets by former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara about Rahimi and other aspects of his prosecution. \n Prosecutors declined to comment. \n Rahimi was hospitalized for weeks for treatment of wounds suffered in a police shootout during his Sept. 19 capture outside a bar in Linden, New Jersey. In New Jersey, he is charged with attempted murder for the gunbattle with five officers. \n His Manhattan federal trial is scheduled for October. \n Lawyers in terrorism cases over the past few decades in Manhattan have frequently asked judges for a change of venue. None has been granted. Typically, the judges assume the potential jury pool has heard of the event and questions possible jurors individually to ensure they can still be fair. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bomb suspect seeks change of venue, citing media coverage"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Howard Hinds, 26, was seen running from the Hawaii Community Correctional Center today. \n A prison inmate was caught while escaping on Hawaii island. \n Howard Hinds, 26, was seen running from the Hawaii Community Correctional Center at about 1:23 p.m. today, Big Island police said. \n Police patrol officers found Hinds hiding behind a residence on Omau Street, about 3/4 of a mile from the correctional center, police said. \n Hinds, also known as Manoa Kamau and Kaulana Hinds, was arrested at about 2:05 p.m. and returned to the jail. \n Police said an investigation is continuing into the incident. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Big Isle inmate quickly captured after escape, police say"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "PITTSBURG, Kan. >> An incoming high school principal has resigned in Kansas after student reporters investigated and raised questions about her credentials. \n The Pittsburg School Board accepted Amy Robertson's resignation on Tuesday, saying she felt the decision was \"in the best interest of the district \u2026 in light of the issues that arose.\" \n The main concern stemmed from her receiving her master's and doctoral degrees from Corllins University, an unaccredited, online school. Robertson said she received her degrees before the university lost accreditation. \n \"She was going to be the head of our school, and we wanted (to) be assured that she was qualified and had the proper credentials,\" Trina Paul, a student editor at Pittsburg High School's newspaper, The Booster Redux, told The Kansas City Star. \"We stumbled on some things that most might not consider legitimate credentials.\" \n Superintendent Destry Brown praised the student reporters, saying: \"I appreciate that our kids ask questions and don't just accept something because somebody told them.\" He told the Pittsburg Morning Sun they \"did a great job with the research they did.\" \n Robertson, who currently works with an education consulting firm in Dubai, said in an email to The Kansas City Star there was \"no issue\" when she received the degrees from Corllins in 1994 and 2010. She declined to comment on questions posed by the students about her credentials because, she said, \"their concerns are not based on facts.\" \n Corllins didn't immediately respond to an email message Wednesday from The Associated Press. \n An anonymously circulated letter also raised questions about Robertson's qualifications. Brown said questions were also being asked internally within his office, but that the students' public reporting \"probably speeded that process.\" \n Brown said the district, which doesn't typically ask for official transcripts until after a hiring decision has been made, will likely change its vetting process. \n Pittsburg journalism adviser Emily Smith said she was \"very proud\" of her students, adding: \"They were not out to get anyone to resign or to get anyone fired. They worked very hard to uncover the truth.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Principal resigns after students investigate her credentials"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jan Polanik had sued a cluster of franchises of the Dunkin' Donuts shops, saying he received a butter substitute on his bagels when he requested butter. \n BOSTON >> An attorney is defending a proposed settlement between a man and Dunkin' Donuts shops that could mean $500 for the lead plaintiff, free buttered baked goods for hundreds of other customers and a big payout for law firms that handled the class action case. \n Jan Polanik had sued a cluster of franchises of the Canton, Massachusetts-based doughnut and coffeehouse chain, saying he received a butter substitute on his bagels when he requested butter. \n The proposed settlement, filed in a state court, must still be approved by a judge. According to The Boston Globe, Polanik could receive $500 while about 1,400 other customers who made similar complaints would get up to three free buttered baked goods. The law firms, meanwhile, could get $90,000 in fees under the proposed settlement. \n Thomas Shapiro, the lead attorney for the plaintiffs, said it wasn't a profitable case for his firm. \n \"I can tell you we're losing money on this case,\" Shapiro said Wednesday. \"It's not that big a case in financial terms.\" \n Shapiro said if you added up the hours that went into the case and out-of-pocket expenses it would come out to a lot more than $90,000. \n The firm thought twice about even taking the case, he added. \n \"We felt that the principle involved was important enough and something should be done to correct the practice,\" he said. \n The parent company of Dunkin' Donuts has said that most of its Massachusetts locations offer both butter substitutes and the real thing. \n Customers requesting free buttered baked goods at the affected stores would not be required to show documentation that they had previously paid for items with a butter substitute, Shapiro said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deal in Dunkin' Donuts case could mean free buttered treats"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "DOVER, Del. >> An opening prayer reading from the Quran at the Delaware state Senate drew a sharp rebuke today from a Republican lawmaker, who said the Muslim holy book calls for the death of Americans. \n Two representatives from the Masjid Isa Ibn-e-Maryam mosque in Newark were invited to the session to deliver the prayer. \n Imam Tarek Ewis chanted a verse in Arabic before Naveed Baqir, executive director of the Delaware Council on Global and Muslim Affairs, read a prayer in English based on the Quranic verse. \n Republican Sens. Dave Lawson of Marydel and Colin Bonini of Dover walked out of the chamber before the prayer was given. \n Lawson then rose afterward to express his outrage. \n \"We heard from the Quran that advocates for our very demise. \u2026 I take great exception to that,\" he said. \n \"I fought for this country not to be damned by someone that comes in here and prays to their God for our demise,\" added Lawson, a Vietnam veteran. \"I think that's despicable.\" \n After the Senate finished its business, Democratic President Pro Tem David McBride of New Castle rose and took Lawson to task, saying he was personally offended that the Muslim guests would not feel welcomed. \n \"I have never been of the mind to censure the words of other members, but I also believe deeply that words have consequences,\" McBride said. \"To criticize the sacred prayer of another religion from the floor of the Senate strikes me as antithetical to everything we ought to stand for as lawmakers.\" \n \"I am personally offended that our guests from the Muslim community and anyone else here in the chamber today would feel anything less than welcomed with opened arms,\" McBride added. \"And for our guests today to be branded as anti-American ones when our First Amendment of our country's Constitution explicitly guarantees the freedom of religion is both ironic and deeply sad to me.\" \n The prayer, as recited in English, acknowledged that the U.S. is facing serious challenges, and that the world is in crisis. \n \"Give this assembly the courage that is necessary to lead our state towards a more just and peaceful state,\" Baqir said. \"Allow the members of this assembly to stand firm for justice as witnesses to you, even if it is against themselves or of their kin or anyone else without any discrimination or prejudice. \n \"Please allow them to control their hearts so that they can bring about and uphold the social justice in the laws that they make and so that they are always truthful witnesses. We acknowledge that you are the better protector of them, their kin, the rich and the poor, and that you are well acquainted with everything they do. Amen.\" \n Lawson was unapologetic afterward. \n \"You can't be a good American and a good Muslim,\" he said. \"They don't believe in our Constitution.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Delaware GOP lawmakers take exception to reading from Quran"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER STAFF / 2014 \n Hanauma Bay as seen from the access road that leads to the beach. \n A man and a woman were pronounced dead after being found separately in the water at Hanauma Bay late this afternoon. \n Both were in their 20s, according to Honolulu Emergency Medical Services. \n Ocean Safety found a male snorkeler about 200 yards from shore at about 5:22 p.m., according to Honolulu EMS. \n Lifeguards brought the man to shore, and he was pronounced dead, after efforts to revive him were unsuccessful. \n Shortly thereafter, fire officials were preparing to launch the search for another person, when lifeguards found a woman about 50 yards from shore. \n The woman was brought ashore, and she was pronounced dead at the scene, after efforts were unsuccessful to revive her. \n Honolulu Emergency Services said tonight that the incidents, along with the relationship between the two people, were under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "2 snorkelers found dead at Hanauma Bay"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Abdul-Hamid Alyousef, 29, holds his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria. Alyousef also lost his wife, two brothers, nephews and many other family members in the attack that claimed scores of his relatives. \n BEIRUT >> The father cradled his 9-month-old twins, Aya and Ahmed, each in an arm. He stroked their hair and choked back tears, mumbling, \"Say goodbye, baby, say goodbye\" to their lifeless bodies. \n Abdel Hameed Alyousef lost his two children, his wife and other relatives in the suspected chemical attack Tuesday in the northern Syrian town of Khan Sheikhoun that killed at least 72 people. In footage shared with The Associated Press, Alyousef sits in the front seat of a van with the twin, his eyes red as he asks his cousin Alaa to video his farewell to them. \n When the airstrike took place, \"I was right beside them and I carried them outside the house with their mother,\"Alyousef, a 29-year-old shopowner, told the AP. \"They were conscious at first, but 10 minutes later we could smell the odor.\" The twins and his wife, Dalal Ahmed, fell sick. \n He brought them to paramedics and, thinking they would be OK, went to look for the rest of his family. He found the bodies of two of his brothers, two nephews and a niece, as well as neighbors and friends. \"I couldn't save anyone, they're all dead now,\" he said. \n Only later was he told his children and wife had died. \n \"Abdel Hameed is in very bad shape,\" his cousin Alaa said. He's being treated for exposure to the toxin. \"But he's especially broken down over his massive loss.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A father bids farewell to twin babies after Syria attack"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The remains of an exhumed corpse leans against its grave before being taking away to a mass grave in the national cemetery in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Many bereaved Haitians go into a lifetime of debt to send off deceased relatives. \n PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti >> Aspasie Tanis lives hand-to-mouth on the edge of eviction in the best of times, scraping out a living selling packets of spaghetti and cookies outside her low-slung concrete shack in Haiti's capital. Now the death of her father by stroke threatens to send her into a lifetime of debt. \n The distraught single mother is frantically seeking loans from friends and pastors to pay for the cheapest funeral on offer. Hospital morgue officials say her father's body will be dumped in a pauper's grave unless her struggling family forks over a relative fortune of just over $1,000. \n \"I'll never be at peace if he isn't buried properly,\" Tanis said quietly after transferring her father's corpse to a cut-rate private morgue. \n Her anxiety is shared by many in Haiti, where two out of three people live on less than $2 per day and burying the dead is a predatory business. While funerals are costly in any number of countries, Haitian undertakers get away with charging rates that exceed what most citizens earn in a year. \n Along the capital's bustling Rue de l'Enterrement, established morticians and unlicensed freelancers engage in a daily bidding war for new customers while telling bereaved families that anything less than their set packages can be seen as a lack of respect for the dead. \n Teams of entrepreneurs, including videographers and brass bands who lead street processions, stand ready to rack up funeral bills with families who are frequently ill-equipped to pay for any of it. There are even mourners-for-hire for those who want the social prestige of a big sendoff. \n \"I can provide people to cry, roll on the ground, whatever you want,\" chuckled Joseph Jacques Simeon, director of the General Hospital's morgue department. He acknowledged to an Associated Press reporter that he gets a cut from the funeral packages families agree to when they arrive, shaken, at his office. \n A 2012 report by the Brazil-based Igarape Institute indicated that funeral costs in Haiti average about $5,000 per household and interest rates up to 150 percent were charged by moneylenders and morticians. \n \"In some cases we see poor families paying significantly more for mortician services than middle-class families because they are less informed about options and don't believe they have the room to negotiate the costs,\" said researcher Athena Kolbe, a co-author of the report. \n The bereaved Tanis, who used what little savings she had to try and keep her father alive, appeared highly vulnerable to influence. \n When Simeon insisted that the cheapest package was about $1,000, Tanis and her unemployed brother passively accepted add-on services like a funeral video and didn't press to find out how much another morgue would charge them while they sought cash for a funeral package. \n While many Haitians pool resources and seek funeral expenses from relatives living overseas, there's no shortage of grief-stricken families who sell possessions or take out high-interest-rate loans, in part due to deep traditions for open-casket funerals and social pressures to bury loved ones with a splash. \n \"This is particularly true for poorer people and for people in rural areas where social pressure is stronger,\" said Carine Roenen, director of Fonkoze Foundation, a non-profit working with Haiti's biggest microfinance institution. \n Pitchmen often start hustling as soon as word gets out there's been a death in a family. Fly-by-night hearse drivers, prying neighbors and even hospital physicians will bring bereaved families to undertakers, competing to claim a finder's fee of 10 percent that mortuaries dole out to intermediaries. \n Established funeral homes want authorities to rein in freelance morticians who cut into their business. But nothing has been accomplished by the state to tame the uncontrolled market, and licensed parlors reluctantly rent out their morgues and viewing rooms to get a piece of the barely cheaper packages offered by self-styled undertakers. \n \"This business has gotten crazy. More unlicensed people with nothing to offer get into it every single day,\" said Zenith Funeral Home and Morgue owner Marie Lamercie Louis Dorville, whose priciest package offers embalming, metal caskets, interment and other features costing over $7,000. The median cost of a funeral in the United States is $7,180, according to the most recent figures by the National Funeral Directors Association. \n Haitians are largely resistant to cremation due to religious and cultural traditions. \n Jean Pierre Mercelien, an 18-year-old who is learning how to upholster casket linings, is one of the latest recruits to Haiti's byzantine burial business. \n \"It's a good living because there will never stop being new customers,\" he said matter-of-factly in a yard with men building wooden caskets and decorating them with cushions and aluminum handles. \n Business is booming on Rue de l'Enterrement even though there's little space left in the crowded capital to entomb the dead. \n Such is the demand in the sprawling Cemetery of Port-au-Prince that families rent out space in a mausoleum for two or three years, enough time for a body to decay to a skeleton. After that, cemetery workers say they generally dump the bones in a vault or temporarily leave them scattered in a dilapidated corner to make room for the next paying customer. Few families come to collect the remains. \n A walk through the once beautiful landmark revealed ghoulish scenes of skeletons lying in opened caskets, ribs and vertebrae scattered inside sun-bleached suits with ties still knotted and dresses zipped up. A few bodies tossed on the ground by workers still had mummified skin on their skulls. \n On a recent afternoon, the air was thick with the emotional fallout of Haiti's uncontrolled funeral and burial business. One mourning family was stopped at the cemetery gates and told their funeral director neglected to pay to get a casket-carrying hearse inside. \n \"I paid the funeral home for a whole package! This is how they treat us? They embarrass us at the cemetery?\" raged mourner Franky Merzier. \n Sucking his teeth, he then pooled together $145 to get the beat-up rented hearse carrying his late cousin Gertrude to her temporary tomb. \n Associated Press reporter Evens Sanon contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Grieving Haitians go into lifetime of debt to fund funerals"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People lay flowers at a symbolic memorial at Technologicheskiy Institute subway station in St. Petersburg, Russia today. Investigators searched for possible accomplices of a 22-year-old native of the Central Asian country of Kyrgyzstan identified as the suicide bomber in the St. Petersburg subway, as residents came to grips with the first major terrorist attack in Russia's second-largest city since the Soviet collapse. \n ST. PETERSBURG, Russia >> As part of a sweeping hunt for any accomplices of the St. Petersburg suicide bomber, investigators Wednesday rounded up seven suspected Islamic State recruiters from the Central Asia region of the former Soviet Union but found no immediate evidence of their involvement in the subway attack. \n The Investigative Committee hasn't caught any associates of 22-year-old Akbarzhon Dzhalilov, a native of the Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan. The committee, Russia's top criminal investigation agency, said it's looking into the possibility that Dzhalilov, who carried out Monday's deadly attack, could have been linked to the militant group. \n The impoverished, predominantly Muslim countries in Central Asia are seen as fertile ground for Islamic extremists, and thousands of their residents are believed to have joined IS in Syria and Iraq. \n Meeting with the heads of security services from a regional alliance that includes most of Russia's Central Asian neighbors, President Vladimir Putin warned that terror threats still loom over the region. \n \"We see that, unfortunately, the situation is not improving,\" Putin said. \"The recent tragic events in St. Petersburg are the best confirmation of this. We know that each of our countries, practically every one, is a possible and potential target of terrorist attacks.\" \n In Wednesday's sweep in St. Petersburg, law enforcement agencies arrested seven Central Asian migrants who are suspected of acting as recruiters for the Islamic State and the al-Qaida's branch in Syria. \n The detainees were accused of seeking \"mostly immigrants from the republics of Central Asia to commit crimes of a terrorist nature and encourage them to get involved in the activities of terrorist organizations,\" the Investigative Committee said. \n Investigators were still checking their contacts, it added, but noted that as of now, \"there is no information about any links between the detainees and the perpetrator of the terror attack.\" \n The investigators also have searched Dzhalilov's home and found objects similar to those used in the subway bomb, it said. \n CCTV footage from outside his apartment building showed him leave home with a bag and a backpack on Monday. \n The explosion on a train running along a busy north-south subway line killed the attacker and 13 other people. Another 55 have remained hospitalized, and several of them are in critical condition, according to the Russian Health Ministry. \n Before blowing himself up, Dzhalilov left a second bomb, hidden in a bag, at another subway station. Police found and deactivated it, and Dzhalilov's DNA was found on the bag. \n At Dzhalilov's hometown of Osh in southern Kyrgyzstan, his schoolteacher described him as \"well brought up, calm and balanced.\" \n Fatima Saipjanova, who taught Dzhalilov at School-Gymnasium No. 26, said she never saw him get into any trouble. \"I do not believe that this boy could do something wrong,\" she said. \n Like many others from Central Asia, Dzhalilov moved to St. Petersburg with his parents and eventually got Russian citizenship. He worked at a car repair shop and a sushi bar, and stayed in the city when his family returned home. \n His parents arrived Wednesday in St. Petersburg for questioning after being interrogated by Kyrgyz security services. They identified his remains, according to the Investigative Committee. \n Churches across the city held prayers for victims killed in the attack, including Irina Medyantseva, a 50-year-old artist who was locally famous for the dolls she made and sold. Medyantseva was on the subway with one of her two daughters when the bomb went off. She apparently shielded her 28-year-old daughter, Alyona, who survived. \n \"Irina was a very fun, creative person, she was full of plans,\" Medyantseva's sister, Anna, recalled. \"She was a very good mom. She did a lot for her children.\" \n Anna attended one of the services, at St. Trinity Church, holding red tulips and a picture of her sister with a black ribbon tied to it. \n After the attack, several politicians have called for restoring capital punishment in Russia. But parliament speaker Vyacheslav Volodin dismissed the statements and upbraided the politicians, saying: \"One must not use a tragedy to promote oneself.\" \n Isachenkov reported from Moscow. Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police arrest 7 in wake of St. Petersburg subway bombing"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Giovanni Corpuz \n A 44-year-old Kauai man was sentenced to life in prison today for murdering his 88-year-old neighbor on New Year's Eve in 2013. \n Giovanni Corpuz, of Koloa, was sentenced by Fifth Circuit Judge Kathleen Watanabe before members of the victim's family. \n In January, Corpuz pleaded guilty to second-degree murder in the death of Amby Cruz, a retired Lihue Plantation mechanic from Omao. \n He admitted to shooting Cruz, who was found unresponsive at his home in the early morning hours of New Year's Day 2014. Autopsy results determined Cruz died from a single gunshot wound to the head.  \n Corpuz apparently was high on methamphetamine and had not slept for more than a week when he killed Cruz, a Kauai spokeswoman said. \n Corpuz fled after the shooting and was en route to the Philippines when the FBI caught him in Taipei with the help of the Taiwanese government in early 2014. He was later extradited to Hawaii. \n The Hawaii Paroling Authority will determine Corpuz's minimum sentence before he is eligible for parole. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kauai man sentenced for shooting his elderly neighbor"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo shows the flooded streets of the North Island town of Edgecumbe in New Zealand today. People used jet boats and tractors to help rescue about 2,000 residents after a river burst through a concrete levee, flooding hundreds of homes and businesses. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jet boats drive through the flooded streets of the North Island town of Edgecumbe in New Zealand today. People used jet boats and tractors to help rescue about 2,000 residents after a river burst through a concrete levee, flooding hundreds of homes and businesses. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo shows the flooded streets of the North Island town of Edgecumbe in New Zealand today. People used jet boats and tractors to help rescue about 2,000 residents after a river burst through a concrete levee, flooding hundreds of homes and businesses. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> People used jet boats and tractors to help rescue about 2,000 residents of a New Zealand town after a river burst through a concrete levee Thursday, flooding hundreds of homes and businesses. \n Local authorities declared a state of emergency after the levee failed in the town of Edgecumbe on the North Island. New Zealand has been drenched in recent days by the remnants of Cyclone Debbie, which flooded parts of Australia's east coast last week. \n Tony Bonne, the mayor of the Whakatane District Council, said the water was more than 1 meter (3.3 feet) deep in some homes and that one nearby river had reached an all-time record height. \n He said some leaking had occurred around the concrete levee on the Rangitaiki River before it failed. He said crews had worked to reinforce the structure and thought they had it secured when \"she just let go.\" \n \"Some people are in shock, of course, but many are accepting that this is something that's a part of nature which they have no control over,\" Bonne said. \"Most people in these small towns rally around each other and Edgecumbe is no different.\" \n Andy Best, a meteorologist with MetService, said a nearby weather monitoring station had recorded 191 millimeters (7.5 inches) of rain over the last couple of days, an amount that would typically fall over two months. He said the worst of the weather system had passed and the forecast was for improved weather in the coming days. \n The rains also affected the town of Kaikoura, where access roads were closed due to mudslides. Access to the town has been reduced since a powerful earthquake last November brought down hillsides and closed the main northbound route. \n Bonne said questions would come about how the water flow was managed from hydroelectric dams upstream on the Rangitaiki River before the levee failed. \n Local Government Minister Anne Tolley said she understood that the operators of the dams had released some water over the past few days in anticipation of the high rainfall, but she didn't have the technical expertise to know if they had done enough. \n She said authorities have set up two welfare centers where people from Edgecumbe can stay, and she didn't know when they would be able to return to their homes. \n \"The message is, it's not safe, your life could be at risk, don't go home,\" she said. \"And that's really hard.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hundreds evacuated from N.Z. town after levee fails"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n A surveillance image of two females from a group that used fraudulent traveler's checks in Honolulu from March 3 to 8. Police said one suspect, left, used the name Danielle Hoffman. The other used the name Jan Duncan. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n The two females shown in this surveillance image were part of a group of females who used fraudulent traveler's checks from March 3 to 8. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n This surveillance image shows an unknown female who was part of a group of females who used fraudulent traveler's checks in Honolulu from March 20 to 22. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n This image shows a suspect from a group of females who used fraudulent traveler's checks from March 20 to 22. The person in this image used the name Danaya Smith. \n Honolulu police are asking for the public's help in finding a group of females who used fraudulent traveler's checks last month. \n Police said three females used the fraudulent checks at multiple retail establishments from March 3 to 8. \n A second group of females used the same fradulent checks at different businesses from March 20 to 22. \n Police said two females in the first group used the names Danielle Hoffman and Jan Duncan. One suspect from the second group used the name Danaya Smith. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina", "title": "Police seek suspects issuing fake traveler's checks"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Astronaut Peggy Whitson, center, floats inside the Quest airlock of the International Space Station with Thomas Pesquet, left, and Shane Kimbrough before their spacewalk in January. Today, NASA announced that Whitson will remain on the ISS until September 2017. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> The world's oldest and most experienced spacewoman is getting three extra months in orbit. \n NASA announced Wednesday that astronaut Peggy Whitson will remain on the International Space Station until September. The 57-year-old astronaut arrived last November and was supposed to return to Earth in June. But under an agreement between NASA and the Russian Space Agency, she'll stay another three months and take advantage of an empty seat on a Soyuz capsule in the fall. \n This mission \u2014 her third \u2014 will now last close to 10 months. Scientists are eager to monitor any changes to her body, to add to the knowledge gained from retired astronaut Scott Kelly's recent one-year flight. \n The two men she flew up with in November \u2014 France's Thomas Pesquet and Russia's Oleg Novitskiy \u2014 will return in June without her. \n Whitson has already spent more time in space than any other woman, counting all her missions, and just last week set a record for the most spacewalks by a woman, with eight. \n This weekend, she'll take over as space station commander, her second time at the job. \n And on April 24, she'll set a new U.S. record for most accumulated time in space. That NASA record \u2014 534 days \u2014 is currently held by former space station resident Jeffrey Williams. \n Whitson welcomed Wednesday's news. \n \"I love being up here,\" she said in a statement. \"Living and working aboard the space station is where I feel like I make the greatest contribution, so I am constantly trying to squeeze every drop out of my time here. Having three more months to squeeze is just what I would wish for.\" \n NASA's space station program director, Kirk Shireman, said Whitson's skill and experience make her \"an incredible asset\" up there, and her extra time will be put to good use. \n There will be a return seat for Whitson in September because the Soyuz due to launch later this month will carry up one American and one Russian, one person fewer than usual. Russia is temporarily cutting back to two station residents. With Whitson's extended stay, the orbiting outpost will continue to have a full crew of six. \n Whitson, a biochemist who grew up on a farm in Iowa, became an astronaut in 1996. She served as NASA's chief astronaut from 2009 to 2012, the only woman to ever hold the job. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Veteran NASA spacewoman to set new record"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2016 \n California law enforcement officials objected today to Gov. Jerry Brown's proposed streamlining of the state's marijuana regulations, saying his plan could endanger public safety. Brown's administration released documents outlining proposed changes to square the state's new recreational pot law with its longstanding law on medical marijuana. \n LOS ANGELES >> California law enforcement officials objected Wednesday to Gov. Jerry Brown's proposed streamlining of the state's marijuana regulations, saying his plan could endanger public safety. \n Brown's administration released documents late Tuesday outlining proposed changes to square the state's new recreational pot law with its longstanding law on medical marijuana. \n But the California Police Chiefs Association representing all of the state's municipal police forces said the governor's proposal could turn traditionally small marijuana businesses into much larger ones controlling the entire supply chain from growing operations to retail sales. \n The proposed legislation to allow single businesses to hold multiple licenses to grow, distribute, manufacture and sell retail marijuana would be an opening for criminals to consolidate the booming industry, said association Ken Corney. \n \"The proposal favors big marijuana grows over the welfare of our communities,\" Corney said. \n The state's two laws took different approaches in many areas \u2014 including whether one entity could hold multiple licenses to grow, manufacture, distribute and sell in retail stores. The governor is seeking to \"harmonize\" those regulations. The proposal needs legislative approval. \n Medical marijuana providers are currently prohibited from holding both licenses but Brown proposes to lift that restriction after it becomes legal to sell recreational pot in California on Jan. 1. \n The head of California's newly established marijuana agency defended the governor's proposal. \n \"This proposed legislation helps build an effective statewide regulatory system for cannabis to achieve our goals of protecting public safety with clear and consistent rules that are not overly burdensome,\" said Lori Ajax, head of the Bureau of Cannabis Medical Regulation. \n She added: \"It harmonizes the many elements of the two main statutes governing medicinal and adult-use cannabis, while preserving the integrity and separation of those industries.\" \n The police chiefs and other law enforcement agencies supported legislative passage of medical marijuana rules last year but opposed Proposition 64, which legalized the recreational use of marijuana after voters approved it in November. \n The administration of Brown, a Democrat, has stressed that one regulatory framework is needed to avoid duplicating costs and confusing businesses in a marijuana economy expected to grow to $7 billion in annual sales annually after recreational sales become legal in California next year. \n Hezekiah Allen, head of the California Growers Association, also said his organization has concerns with the elimination of the multiple licenses prohibition. \n \"It could lead to mega-manufactures and mega-chain stores,\" Allen said. \n Allen said his organization is urging the governor to adopt a regulation that would temporarily ban a single business from owning more than three retail stores and having a farm larger than four acres (1.6 hectares), which Allen said may help to keep out big corporations. \n Representatives of the Los Angeles Cannabis Task Force, comprised of Southern California marijuana businesses, said they're still reviewing the plan. \n \"This takes us another step closer to a uniform industry and puts this state in a position to set the national standard,\" Avis Bulbulyan, president of the group, said in an email. \n California joined a growing number of states in legalizing recreational marijuana use for adults. \n The regulations and rules governing the emerging legal market will cover issues ranging from where and how plants can be grown to guidelines on tracking marijuana buds from the fields to retail stores. \n People 21 and over are allowed to possess up to one ounce of marijuana and grow six marijuana plants at home. \n Those changes must be approved by the state Legislature. \n Earlier this year, Brown proposed spending more than $50 million to establish programs to collect taxes and issue licenses while hiring dozens of workers to regulate the industry. \n Elias contributed to this report from San Francisco. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police object to California marijuana regulation revamp"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Crew members clean up fallen trees near Avia Riverside Apartments in Roswell, Ga., today. Severe weather toppled trees and power lines as dangerous storms battered the Deep South with heavy rain and hail as large as baseballs in spots. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fallen trees and a shattered sructure are shown in the Screamer community of Henry County, Ala., after a suspected tornado touched down in the county today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A damaged structure rests atop a pickup truck in the Screamer community of Henry County, Ala., after a suspected tornado touched down in the county today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pontoon boat sits in the front yard of a home in the Screamer community of Henry County, Ala., after a suspected tornado touched down in the county today. \n ATLANTA >> Severe storms raking the Southeast unleashed one large tornado and more than a half dozen apparent twisters Wednesday, toppling trees, roughing up South Carolina's 'peach capital' and raining out golfers warming up for the Masters. \n A powerful tornado toppled trees and downed power lines in rural Georgia and similar scenes played out in spots around Alabama and South Carolina amid drenching rain, high winds and scattered hail \u2014 some as big as baseballs. \n Forecasters said a wide area across much of the three states was under threat of powerful, long-lived tornadoes. \n The severe weather outbreak was the second to hit the South in less than a week, but no deaths or significant injuries were reported by Wednesday evening. Storms on Sunday and Monday killed five people, including a Mississippi woman who desperately called 911 from a car that plunged into a rain-swollen creek. \n Authorities in Johnston, South Carolina, a town of 2,300 that calls itself The Peach Capital of The World, reported a possible tornado there damaged about a dozen buildings. Crews couldn't immediately check nearby peach orchards but authorities said those were already severely damaged by a late March hard freeze. \n Johnston Mayor Terrence Cullbreath said he opened a local armory as a shelter and that lights were out and many streets were blocked by fallen trees. Thousands had lost power across the three states Wednesday, with utilities struggling to keep up. \n \"We need power back,\" Cullbreath said by phone. \"But there likely are more storms coming and they can't get the power back in bad weather.\" \n In southwest Georgia, a powerful tornado that touched down at midday traveled some distance on the ground in rural Stewart County, National Weather Service Meteorologist Keith Stellman said. It left downed power lines and trees on roads, said Sandra James, a sheriff's office dispatcher. \n Elsewhere, a suspected tornado touched down in southeastern Alabama, before crossing into Georgia, forecasters said. All told at least nine possible tornados had been reported across Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina as the day wore on with more reports likely as the storms continued into the evening. \n In Alabama, the storm hit an area dotted with vacation and full-time homes around Lake Eufaula, damaging some homes and knocking down power lines and trees, said official John Taylor, with the Henry County Emergency Management Agency. He also reported no deaths or injuries there. \n Tornadoes weren't the only threat Wednesday. The nation's Storm Prediction Center said winds were blowing at near 70 mph (110 kph) in some areas, downing trees in several states. \n Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley declared a state of emergency and deployed 50 National Guard soldiers. There also were multiple school closings in Alabama and many early dismissals in South Carolina. \n The Federal Aviation Administration temporarily halted flights to Atlanta's airport but those later resumed with arrival and departure delays. \n And as storms bore down on Augusta National, the venerable east Georgia club shut down for the second time this week as golfers tried to get in some practice before the start of the Masters tournament later this week. Officials cut short the final afternoon practice and ordered rain-bedraggled fans to leave the course. Augusta National also closed Monday because of heavy rains. \n In the east Alabama city of Oxford, convenience store manager Don Copeland was working up courage to go outside and look at his truck after a storm dumped so much grape-sized hail the ground turned white. \n \"It's a 2015. I just made a $550 payment this morning,\" Copeland said. \n The weather service said it had gotten reports of baseball-sized hail in the west Alabama town of Camden, but only small ice pellets fell at the McGraw-Webb Chevrolet Inc. \n \"Thank goodness we did not get that. We just had pea-sized hail, and two or three cars were damaged,\" said Evan Bohannon, who handles online sales for the dealership. \n In central Kentucky, Mike Callahan of the National Weather Service in Louisville said, some areas received large amounts of hail Wednesday evening \u2014 some of it several inches deep. The hydrologist also reported winds up to 72 mph (115 kph) in some areas. \n Kentucky State Police Trooper Joshua Lawson also said in an email that a mobile home in Kentucky's Henry County overturned with a family inside, but no one was injured amid the high winds. \n In Goodman, in southwest Missouri, an EF-2 tornado with wind speeds of up to 120 mph (193 kph) hit Tuesday night, damaging a fire station, elementary school and several other buildings, the National Weather Service said Wednesday. One person was taken to a hospital with a possible broken ankle, but no deaths or serious injuries were reported. The small town is about 30 miles south of Joplin, Missouri, where an EF-5 tornado killed 161 people in May 2011. \n Reeves contributed from Birmingham, Alabama. Associated Press Writer Jeffrey S. Collins contributed to this report from Columbia, South Carolina. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tornados and twisters, rain, hail around Southeast"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence and a few other White House officials made a new offer to conservative House Republicans late Monday on the GOP's failed health care bill, hoping to resuscitate a measure that crashed spectacularly less than two weeks ago. \n WASHINGTON >> The latest Republican health care idea could mean going back to a time when people with medical problems were charged much higher premiums for individual policies, experts say. \n The proposal to let states seek waivers from key requirements of the Obama-era health law failed to unite GOP lawmakers on Wednesday. Conservatives dialed up criticism of moderates standing in the way. A White House official said progress is being made and all sides are talking, but offered no timetable for a handshake that would allow stalled Republican legislation to advance. \n The new idea roughed out in negotiations between the White House and leaders of the conservative House Freedom Caucus would allow states to seek waivers of two requirements in the 2010 Affordable Care Act. One, known as community rating, forbids insurers from charging higher premiums on account of people's medical problems or pre-existing conditions. The other is the essential health benefits provision that spells out categories of benefits all insurance plans must cover. \n Conservatives who want the federal government out of health care argue that those provisions have driven up premiums and decreased choice. The idea is to put states back in charge of insurance rules, reasoning that that would increase the availability of plans with lower premiums, attractive to younger, healthier customers. \n But health care industry consultant Robert Laszewski said it would also open a \"back door\" to a system where the sick can get priced out of coverage. \n \"It's hard for me to believe that any state would take us back \u2026 when it comes to the protections that consumers have for pre-existing conditions,\" Laszewski said. \"There is no doubt that Obamacare as a system is not working very well, but nobody wants to go backward.\" \n Republicans say their bill includes a fallback option for people with health problems. It would create a $100-billion fund that states can use for a variety of purposes, including high-risk insurance pools where people with medical problems can get coverage. \n But Trish Riley, executive director of the National Academy for State Health Policy, said those didn't work well in the past. Patients tended to be very sick, and premiums were often too expensive. \n \"There would be real challenges for people with illnesses to get affordable coverage,\" Riley said. \"You will get guaranteed access to coverage, but you won't be able to afford it.\" Her nonpartisan organization offers policy advice to states. \n A former Obama administration insurance regulator said it's likely that the companies would press states to seek waivers under the latest Republican idea. That's because the broader GOP legislation would repeal unpopular ACA penalties on people who don't get covered, a move that insurers fear would let people postpone getting coverage until they are sick. \n \"Insurers are going to want some other filter to keep out people,\" said Karen Pollitz, an expert on individual health insurance, now with the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. \n Trump administration officials and leading GOP legislators said they are not giving up trying to find common ground between conservatives and moderates. A late Tuesday meeting at the Capitol involving Vice President Mike Pence and about two dozen lawmakers produced no agreement, but White House legislative affairs director Marc Short said there was progress because both sides were \"in the same room talking through the same issues.\" \n Democrats were dismissive. \"It's as if the president and Paul Ryan went to some of the Republicans and the Freedom Caucus and said: 'We can make this worse,'\" Rep. Jan Schakowsky of Illinois said. \"Now, let's remember that only 17 percent of the people in the United States approved of the last version.\" \n Ryan's office, however, seemed to be keeping arms-length from the negotiations. Congress leaves town in days for a two-week recess, when lawmakers could face antagonistic grilling from voters at town hall meetings and the entire GOP drive might lose momentum. \n Some conservatives said it might be good for lawmakers to go home and get an earful from constituents. Michael Needham, CEO of the advocacy group Heritage Action, accused House moderates of \"intransigence\" and said they \"clearly want to keep Obamacare in place.\" \n But a poll released earlier this week by the Kaiser Family Foundation offered reinforcement for lawmakers reluctant to forge ahead. It showed that 3 in 4 Americans want the Trump administration to make the law work. About 2 in 3 said they were glad the House GOP bill didn't pass last month. But people split evenly between wanting to keep or repeal the statute. \n The underlying House Republican bill would repeal much of the 2010 law. It would erase its tax fines for consumers who don't buy policies, reduce federal aid to help many pay premiums, and phase out a Medicaid expansion aimed at poor people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New GOP health care plan could raise premiums for the sick"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n YouTube CEO Susan Wojicki speaks during the introduction of YouTube TV at YouTube Space LA in February. Google's online package of about 40 television channels debuts today in the tech industry's latest bid to get cable-shunning millennials to pay for television. \n NEW YORK >> YouTube TV, Google's new streaming package of about 40 television channels, is the tech industry's latest bid to get cable-shunning millennials to pay for live TV over the internet. It offers intriguing advantages over rivals, but it remains hobbled by a limited channel selection. \n Don't confuse the YouTube service, which debuts Wednesday, with Netflix, Amazon Prime and other streaming offerings. Like similar efforts from Sony, Dish and AT&T's DirecTV , YouTube TV primarily aims to let you channel surf over the internet, not to stream from an online library of shows and movies. So these internet-cable services can offer live programming, especially sports. \n But they also come with some serious drawbacks. While these services are typically cheaper than traditional cable or satellite services, people haven't been signing up in droves. Google is targeting viewers who have never subscribed to cable or satellite TV and are just as happy to get all their video from the internet; getting them to cough up $35 a month could be a hard sell. \n Google aims to lure subscribers with more sophisticated program search, personalized recommendations and a more fully featured online DVR than rival services offer. But it faces many of the limitations its rivals have. \n YouTube TV, for instance, features staples such as ESPN and major broadcast networks, but lacks key networks such as PBS, CNN and Comedy Central. And it will initially be only available in a handful of major U.S. cities because media rights are still stuck in the 20th century . \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n WHAT YOU GET \u2026 AND WHAT YOU DON'T \n YouTube TV offers plenty of live sports, one of the chief reasons people stick with cable. Pick a team, and the service automatically records all the televised games it can find. Available channels include ESPN, Big Ten and sports networks from Comcast, Fox and CBS \u2014 but not Turner networks such as TBS and others that aired the bulk of March Madness. New York Mets fans won't get baseball games on SNY. \n YouTube also has the youth-oriented Freeform and CW networks; its rivals lack The CW. AMC is coming in a few weeks, so you'll have to wait to catch up on the just-ended season of \"The Walking Dead.\" \n Since most channel numbers and names are meaningless in a digital world, YouTube TV arranges live channels by topic, starting with broadcast networks, sports, youth-oriented channels, then everything else. Subscriptions are initially limited to New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and the San Francisco Bay Area \u2014 all locations where YouTube could get rights to local ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC stations. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n SEARCH PARTY \n As you'd expect from Google, search is one of YouTube's big selling points. Its rivals already offer search by shows and sometimes by actors; YouTube adds topical searches, such as \"aliens\" or \"road trips.\" \n Unfortunately, it's still a work in progress. A search for \"nerd comedy\" brings up \"The Big Bang Theory,\" but \"comedy about nerds\" does not. And a search for \"Modern Family episode on basketball\" doesn't bring up the episode titled \"Basketball.\" \n YouTube could also stand to take a cue from TiVo recorders and let you automatically record all programs featuring, say, Jennifer Lawrence, including her talk-show appearances. You can search for Jennifer Lawrence, but you need to go through the results and choose shows to record individually \u2014 too much work for a service that promises simplicity. \n One big plus: YouTube's unlimited DVR will store recordings for nine months, long enough for entire seasons of network shows. Sony's PlayStation Vue \u2014 the only similar service offering an unlimited online DVR \u2014 offers only 28 days of storage, nowhere near enough for binge-watching. \n YouTube TV works on phones, tablets and laptop browsers. Watching on an actual TV requires Google's Chromecast, an inexpensive streaming stick you control with your phone. (Early subscribers get one for free.) \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ABOUT YOUR PRIVACY \n This being Google, your viewing and search histories might be mined for targeted advertising. You can suspend tracking in the settings, though that will hinder personalized recommendations. (It's too early to tell if that's a loss or not, though some of the early recommendations have been spot on.) \n You can share your subscription with five friends or relatives in your household, with three simultaneous streams allowed. No need to share passwords; they sign in with their own Google accounts. Recordings and recommendations are kept separate, so your roommates can't make fun of you for bingeing \"The Real Housewives.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "YouTube TV has nifty features \u2013 and some drawbacks"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "GEORGE F. LEE / 2014 \n Ray L'Heureux has been CEO of Pacific Historic Parks since late 2015. He has been suspended while the group's board investigates allegations made in an anonymous letter. \n The CEO of a nonprofit organization that supports the National Park Service's operations in Pearl Harbor has been suspended while the group's board investigates allegations made in an anonymous letter. \n Pacific Historic Parks Board of Directors member and spokesman Jim Boersema said Wednesday Ray L'Heureux was placed on paid administrative leave last week. \n It wasn't clear what allegations were made in the letter, which was sent to board members. \n \"We have an obligation to look into things if somebody writes them. So we're doing what's required. And we'll treat Ray fairly,\" Boersema said. Most board members believe L'Heureux has been doing \"a pretty good job,\" he said. \n L'Heureux said he couldn't comment as it was a personnel issue, even though it involved him. \n L'Heureux has been CEO of Pacific Historic Parks since late 2015. He served in the Marine Corps for 30 years, including stints as a helicopter pilot and commander of Marine Helicopter Squadron One, which flies the president. Before joining Pacific Historic Parks, he was an executive with the Hawaii State Department of Education. \n Pacific Historic Parks runs a gift shop at the Pearl Harbor visitors' center and raises money to support the USS Arizona Memorial. The Park Service relies on funds from the nonprofit to help maintain the national landmark, which is visited by 1.8 million people each year. \n Pacific Historic Parks also supports public park and memorial sites on Molokai, Guam and Saipan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pearl Harbor nonprofit CEO placed on paid leave"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2016 \n Peter Boy's disappearance drew widespread attention in the years after he went missing, growing into a campaign that included posters and bumper stickers asking, \"So where's Peter?\" \n COURTESY PHOTO \n \"Peter Boy\" Kema Jr. was 6 years old when he disappeared 20 years ago. \n STAR-ADVERTISER FILE \n In 1996 and 1997, extended family members, most of them now dead, were concerned that the boy's father was abusing him. An arm injury was left untreated, festering and filling with puss until there was a hole so deep someone could put a finger inside it, Hawaii County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Ricky Damerville said last year. \n LEILA FUJIMORI / LFUJIMORI@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The Kemas' three children are shown. Sometime between May and June 1997, the couple's then 4-year-old daughter heard Jaylin Kema calling out for her husband and saw her trying to resuscitate the boy. The girl later saw her brother in a box, Hawaii County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Ricky Damerville said. \n LEILA FUJIMORI / LFUJIMORI@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Peter Kema, Sr., left, entered a guilty plea to manslaughter and hindering prosecution in a Hilo court today. \n HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Judge Greg Nakamura spoke to Peter Kema Sr. in Hilo Circuit Court today. Kema Sr. agreed to a 20-year prison sentence with a mandatory minimum of six years and eight months behind bars. \n HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Hawaii County deputy prosecutor Ricky Roy Damerville spoke in Hilo Circuit Court today, saying if Kema Sr. doesn't cooperate, prosecutors can ask for a 25-year term. \"This saga doesn't end until we find that body,\" he said. \n STAR-ADVERTISER FILE \n Peter Kema Sr. and his wife, Jaylin, have long been suspects in the boy's disappearance, but prosecutors said they didn't have enough evidence to charge them until last year, when a grand jury indicted the couple on murder charges. \n DARYL LEE / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Jaylin Kema pleaded guilty last year to manslaughter in the first official confirmation that the child was dead. In exchange for a one-year sentence with credit for time served, she agreed to waive her marital privilege and testify against her husband if he went to trial. She is scheduled to be sentenced May 30. \n HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Captain Randall Medeiros spoke to media after Peter Kema Sr. pled guilty today in Hilo Circuit Court. \n HILO>> The father of Peter \"Peter Boy\" Kema Jr. pleaded guilty to manslaughter and hindering prosecution in Hilo Circuit Court today, accepting a plea deal in the murder of his young son two decades ago and agreeing to reveal where the body is located. \n Peter Kema Sr. agreed to a 20-year prison sentence with a mandatory minimum of six years and eight months behind bars. \n He had been scheduled to face trial April 25 before Judge Greg Nakamura on one count of second-degree murder in the death of his then 6-year-old son, who disappeared in 1997. \n Peter Boy's disappearance drew widespread attention in the years after he went missing, growing into a campaign that included posters and bumper stickers asking, \"So where's Peter?\" \n Hawaii County Deputy Prosecutor Rick Damerville presented the deal at a hearing at 1 p.m. today before Naka\u00admura. \n The child's mother, Jaylin Kema, was also charged with second-\u00addegree murder in Peter Boy's death, but pleaded guilty in December to manslaughter in exchange for testimony against her husband. She also pleaded guilty to second-degree theft in a welfare fraud case. \n She agreed that the boy had suffered severe abuse; that she failed to get him medical treatment, probably out of fear of her husband; and that the boy died of septic shock. Jaylin Kema was also severely abused by her husband, the prosecutor told the court. She is scheduled to be sentenced May 30. \n Prosecutors say Jaylin Kema does not know where the body is. \n In 1997 Peter Kema told police that he brought his son to Oahu and gave him to an \"Auntie Rose Makuakane\" at Aala Park while looking for work. But police could neither find such a woman nor any evidence they had flown to Oahu from Hawaii island. \n The Kemas had three older children who survived the abuse. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Peter Boy's father pleads guilty to manslaughter in plea deal"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "A 41-year-old man has been charged for allegedly robbing a 44-year-old woman in Waianae. \n Somer K. Fuller, of no local address, was charged with first-degree robbery. His bail has been set at $50,000. \n At about 1:30 p.m. on Mar. 20, Fuller confronted the victim and demanded her property. When she refused, a struggle occurred between them when Fuller used physical force to take her property before he fled. \n On Monday afternoon, police said the victim spotted Fuller and called police. An officer arrested him in Nanakuli. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged in Waianae robbery"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII CRIMINAL JUSTICE DATA CENTER \n Jasy Lucio \n A 28-year-old man has been charged with sexually assaulting a 35-year-old woman and assaulting her friend when he tried to intervene, Honolulu police said. \n Jasy Lucio, of Kalihi, was charged Tuesday with two counts of first-degree sexual assault and two counts of third-degree assault. He is being held in lieu of $100,000 bail. \n The assault occurred on the lawn of the Agriculture Department building. \n The woman told police she was sexually assaulted by an unknown man at about 2:30 a.m. Monday. Police said Lucio also assaulted the woman's friend, a 61-year-old man, when the older man tried to help the victim. \n The victim was transported to Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children to be examined. \n Police arrested Lucio after spotting him hiding behind a large electrical box near a Makiki gas station on South Beretania Street. \n He has a criminal record of criminal trespassing, a misdemeanor. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi man sexually assaults woman, attacks her friend, police say"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "A bill creating a $10-a-month fee for residential curbside pickup was deferred indefinitely by the City Council Budget Committee today. \n All Council members sitting in on the meeting voiced concerns before the vote about Bill 29, instituting a curbside pickup fee estimated to net the city about $20 million annually. \n After the vote, Council Budget Chairman Joey Manahan said it's not likely the trash fee proposal will advance any further this year given the strong reservations of Council members. \n He noted that a proposal to raise the per-gallon \"fuel tax\" would also not move any further. That measure, Bill 11, was deferred at last month's committee meeting. \n Councilman Ikaika Anderson noted that trash pickup traditionally has been paid for out of general city funds as a basic service. If Mayor Kirk Caldwell's administration, which proposed the fee, believes additional money is needed to provide basic services it should ask for an increase in tax rates, Anderson said. But the administration should do so only after outlining specifically where the additional funds would go, Anderson said. \n A handful of Oahu residents also testified against the trash pickup fee. \n Kapolei resident Rich Levine said property taxes should pay for essential services, and that instituting a curbside trash fee was a \"slippery slope\" that could lead to fees for police or fire service. \n Manahan said after the meeting that he agrees with Anderson that raising property tax rates would be preferable to hiking fees. \n The committee did move out Bill 10, increasing the city's motor vehicle weight tax; Bill 12, increasing parking meter rates in Waikiki; Bill 35, increasing non-resident admission to Honolulu Zoo; and Bill 36, increasing golf course fees on non-residents only. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "City budget committee cans $10 monthly trash pickup fee"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "The U.S. Environmental Agency has settled a case with the Navy involving illegal cesspools at Pearl Harbor. \n The Navy has paid a $94,212 fine for violations of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act concerning three large cesspools. In response to the EPA, the Navy shut down the cesspools between 2016 to February and replaced them with wastewater treatment systems approved by the EPA. \n In a news release, Rear Adm. John Fuller, commander of the Navy Region Hawaii and Naval Surface Group Middle Pacific, said, \"Just recently, we closed legacy cesspools that predated joint-basing in order to comply with state law. Our Navy is not perfect, but we are committed to confronting what is not right or not in the nation's best interest. We are accountable for our actions, and we are committed to doing the right thing.\" \n The Pearl Harbor Naval Station and Hickam Air Force Base combined operations in 2010. Through an audit, the Navy later learned the Joint Base had nine large-capacity cesspools. \n In 2005, the federal government banned the use of large capacity cesspools that serve multiple dwellings. \n Cesspools discharge untreated raw sewage into the ground where harmful bacteria and chemicals can contaminate groundwater, streams and the ocean. The ban does not apply to single-family homes with cesspools. \n In 2012, the Navy closed six cesspools \"but failed to close the remaining three in a timely manner,\" the EPA said. The federal agency discovered the continued use of the three cesspools during inspections conducted in May 2013. The cesspools served approximately 160 personnel at the Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam munitions storage area, hangar and troop mobilization area. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "EPA settles with Navy over Pearl Harbor cesspools"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke during a news conference today with Jordan's King Abdullah II in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> His expression grave and his words emphatic, President Donald Trump declared today the deadly chemical attack in Syria had crossed \"many, many lines\" and abruptly changed his views of Syrian President Bashar Assad. But he refused to say what the U.S. might do in response. \n Trump issued no ultimatums in comments that were being scoured by world leaders for signs of how the new president would react to a global crisis. In a rare reversal of roles, Trump was more reserved than many of his top advisers \u2014 including his U.N. envoy who revived the hard-hitting rhetoric of Trump's political campaign and strongly hinted some U.S. action was coming. \n Trump himself was noncommittal. \n \"I'm not saying I'm doing anything one way or another, but I'm certainly not going to be telling you,\" he told reporters. \n He blamed the attack squarely on Assad's forces, though the embattled Syrian leader and his Russian backers denied it. He suggested that the assault that killed 72 people had diminished his former reluctance to plunge the U.S. further into the complex and dangerous turmoil in the Middle East. \n \"When you kill innocent children, innocent babies \u2014 babies, little babies \u2014 with a chemical gas that is so lethal, people were shocked to hear what gas it was, that crosses many, many lines,\" Trump said in the White House Rose Garden. U.S. officials said the gas was likely chlorine, with traces of a nerve agent like sarin. \n While continuing to fault predecessor Barack Obama for much of the current situation in Syria, he acknowledged that dealing with the crisis is now his own responsibility and vowed to \"carry it very proudly.\" \n Only days earlier multiple members of Trump's administration had said Assad's ouster was no longer a U.S. priority, drawing outrage from Assad critics in the U.S. and abroad. But Trump said Tuesday's attack \"had a big impact on me \u2014 big impact.\" \n \"My attitude towards Syria and Assad has changed very much,\" he said. \n Since the attack Tuesday in rebel-held territory in northern Syria, Trump has been under increasing pressure to explain whether the attack would bring a U.S. response. After all, Trump's first reaction was merely to blame Obama's \"weakness\" in earlier years for enabling Assad. \n Obama had put Assad on notice that using chemical weapons would cross a \"red line\" necessitating a U.S. response, but then failed to follow through, pulling back from planned airstrikes after Congress wouldn't vote to approve them. Trump and other critics have cited that as a key moment the U.S. lost much global credibility. \n \"I now have responsibility,\" Trump said. \"That responsibility could be made a lot easier if it was handled years ago.\" \n Yet he was adamant that he would not telegraph any potential U.S. military retaliation, saying anew that that was a mistake the Obama administration had repeatedly made. \n Standing alongside Jordan's King Abdullah II at a news conference, Trump appeared to adopt the first part of Obama's stance \u2014 that chemical weapons use is intolerable \u2014 while stopping short of saying what might come next. \n That left some Assad opponents wanting more. \n \"It's simply impossible to shame the Assad and (Russian President Vladimir) Putin regimes with words alone,\" said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. \n The strongest indication that the U.S. might act came at the United Nations, where U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley held up photos of the attack's victims in an emotional plea to the Security Council to intervene. \n \"When the United Nations consistently fails in its duty to act collectively, there are times in the life of states that we are compelled to take our own action,\" Haley declared. \n Though Trump didn't mention it, both Haley and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson have argued that Russia and Iran \u2014 Assad's two staunchest allies \u2014 must use their influence to prevent him from mounting further attacks. Haley accused Moscow of blocking Security Council action and closing its eyes to \"barbarity\" by ignoring previous chemical assaults. \n The most recent attack, in the town of Khan Sheikhoun, bore telltale signs of nerve agent exposure such as victims convulsing and foaming from the mouth. Videos showed volunteer medics using firehoses to wash chemicals from victims' bodies and lifeless children being piled in heaps. \n Early U.S. assessments show the attack most likely involved chlorine and traces of the nerve agent sarin, according to two U.S. officials, who weren't authorized to speak publicly about intelligence assessments and demanded anonymity. Use of sarin would be especially troubling because it would suggest Syria may have cheated on its previous deal to give up chemical weapons. \n After a 2013 attack, the U.S. and Russia brokered a deal in which Syria declared its chemical weapons arsenal and agreed to destroy it. Chlorine, which has legitimate uses as well, isn't banned except when used in a weapon. But nerve agents like sarin are banned in all circumstances. \n As Trump and other world leaders scrambled for a response, the U.S. was working to lock down details proving Assad's culpability. Russia's military, insisting Assad wasn't responsible, has said the chemicals were dispersed when a Syrian military strike hit a facility where the rebels were manufacturing weapons for use in Iraq. \n An American review of radar and other assessments showed Syrian aircraft flying in the area at the time of the attack, a U.S. official said. Russian and U.S. coalition aircraft were not there, the official said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Vivian Salama, Ken Thomas, Lolita C. Baldor and Bradley Klapper in Washington, Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow, and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump condemns Syria attack but cagey on U.S. response"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Icebergs were seen floating, last month, near the Grand Banks of Newfoundland in the North Atlantic Ocean. \n PROVIDENCE, R.I. >> More than 400 icebergs have drifted into the North Atlantic shipping lanes over the past week in an unusually large swarm for this early in the season, forcing vessels to slow to a crawl or take detours of hundreds of miles. \n Experts are attributing it to uncommonly strong counter-clockwise winds that are drawing the icebergs south, and perhaps also global warming, which is accelerating the process by which chunks of the Greenland ice sheet break off and float away. \n As of Monday, there were about 450 icebergs near the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, up from 37 a week earlier, according to the U.S. Coast Guard's International Ice Patrol in New London, Connecticut. Those kinds of numbers are usually not seen until late May or early June. The average for this time of year is about 80. \n In the waters close to where the Titanic went down in 1912, the icebergs are forcing ships to take precautions. \n Instead of cutting straight across the ocean, trans-Atlantic vessels are taking detours that can add around 400 miles to the trip. That's a day and a half of added travel time for many large cargo ships. \n Close to the Newfoundland coast, cargo ships owned by Oceanex are throttling way back to 3 or 4 knots as they make their way to their homeport in St. John's, which can add up to a day to the trip, said executive chairman, Capt. Sid Hynes. \n One ship was pulled out of service for repairs after hitting a chunk of ice, he said. \n \"It makes everything more expensive,\" Hynes said today. \"You're burning more fuel, it's taking a longer time, and it's hard on the equipment.\" He called it a \"very unusual year.\" \n Coast Guard Cmdr. Gabrielle McGrath, who leads the ice patrol, said she has never seen such a drastic increase in such a short time. Adding to the danger, three icebergs were discovered outside the boundaries of the area the Coast Guard had advised mariners to avoid, she said. \n McGrath is predicting a fourth consecutive \"extreme ice season\" with more than 600 icebergs in the shipping lanes. \n Most icebergs entering the North Atlantic have \"calved\" off the Greenland ice sheet. Michael Mann, director of the Earth System Science Center at Pennsylvania State University, said it is possible climate change is leading to more icebergs in the shipping lanes, but wind patterns are also important. \n In 2014, there were 1,546 icebergs in the shipping lanes \u2014 the sixth most severe season on record since 1900, according to the patrol. There were 1,165 icebergs in 2015 and 687 in 2016. \n The International Ice Patrol was formed after the sinking of the Titanic to monitor iceberg danger in the North Atlantic and warn ships. It conducts reconnaissance flights that are used to produce charts. \n In 104 years, no ship that has heeded the warnings has struck an iceberg, according to the ice patrol. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Unusually large swarm of icebergs drifts into shipping lanes"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / NOV. 2016 \n A water main break forced the closure of the Honolulu Zoo today. \n The Honolulu Zoo is expected to reopen Thursday during normal hours as crews repair a two-inch galvanized pipe that ruptured Tuesday afternoon. \n The break has been temporarily bypassed, said city spokesman Andrew Pereira. \n The rupture to the pipe was discovered Tuesday at approximately 4:30 p.m. when the zoo closed, prompting the city to close the zoo today. Multiple leaks were observed in the pipe located on the edge of the stage lawn. \n Crews turned off one of the main water lines, affecting public restrooms and concessions, according to Pereira. \n The zoo still has access to water from a separate pipe connection toward the back of the zoo. Water tubs were provided to zoo animals Tuesday night. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Honolulu Zoo to reopen Thursday as water main repairs continue"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke rose from a fighter jet crash, today, in Clinton, Md., near Joint Base Andrews. The military said the fighter jet pilot on a training mission ejected safely before the aircraft crashed. \n CLINTON, Md. >> A fighter pilot on a training mission ejected safely before the jet crashed today in a wooded area in a Washington suburb. Witnesses reported the sound of live ammunition. \n The District of Columbia Air National Guard F-16C went down about 200 yards behind a small subdivision of two-story brick homes in the middle-class suburban community of Clinton, about 3 miles (5 kilometers) southwest of Joint Base Andrews. \n The military planned a news conference this afternoon. \n About 20 homes in the area were evacuated as a precaution because of the possibility that the crash released hazardous materials, Prince George's County Fire and EMS spokesman Mark Brady said. Residents were later allowed to return home. \n No one on the ground was injured and the pilot was taken to a hospital in a military helicopter and was treated for minor injuries, he said. \n Crystal Hollingsworth lives nearby and said she heard a \"huge crash\" followed by the sound of \"live rounds.\" \n \"You knew something tragic was going on,\" she said, adding that she thought it might be a terrorist attack. \n The plane was carrying munitions, but there was no threat to public safety, according to a U.S. Air Force official. The official was not authorized to discuss the matter, and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n Crystal Hollingsworth's husband, Tony Hollingsworth, said the \"house shook\" and he also heard the sound of gunshots in the woods, something that \"sounded like a shootout.\" He said it lasted for \"10 to 15 minutes.\" \n He said he saw a big fireball in the woods and the pilot's red and white parachute. \n Crystal Hollingsworth said pieces of the plane fell in her neighbor's yard, damaging some of the home's siding. She said there were probably more than a dozen metal fragments, maybe about half an inch thick. Pieces from the crash ranged in size, some about the size of a TV remote or a book. She said one was marked \"confidential.\" Some of the debris was still burning when she saw it. \n Tyrone Wolridge and his wife said it felt like an earthquake and they saw a plume of smoke. \n \"We could feel it. The house shook so bad. Then we heard a boom,\" he said. \n Acting Fire Chief Ben Barksdale said pieces of the plane were burning when crews arrived and firefighters used water and foam to extinguish them. The fuselage of the plane and one wing were intact at the crash scene. The wreckage was spread around a radius of roughly 40 yards, but debris was also found in other areas, a possible sign that it came off before impact, Brady said. \n \"Very fortunate that we didn't have any lives lost today,\" Barksdale said. \n Brady said he tweeted pictures from the crash scene from his official account but then was asked by military police on the scene to delete those images. The military did not explain why it did not want the images to be published, he said. He deleted the images about 20 minutes after posting them. \n \"I simply was complying with the request from the military,\" he said. \n Associated Press writers Jessica Gresko, Sarah Brumfield and Lolita C. Baldor in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pilot ejects safely before F-16 crashes near D.C."}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "Emergency Medical Services transported a 62-year-old man to Queen's Medical Center this morning in serious condition after he was involved in a crash in the Zipper Lane in the Waipahu area. \n The crash happened at about 5:45 a.m. today on an eastbound lane of the H-1 freeway near the Manager's Drive overpass. Emergency Medical Services said the motorcyclist was alert when paramedics treated and transported him to the hospital. \n Police said a vehicle allegedly involved in the crash left the scene before officers arrived. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man seriously injured in Zipper Lane crash"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vorayuth \"Boss\" Yoovidhya, whose grandfather co-founded energy drink company Red Bull, walked to get in a car as he left a house in London today. Vorayuth earlier refused to answer questions about whether he will return to Thailand this month to meet with prosecutors over an alleged hit-and-run that killed a police officer almost five years ago. \n LONDON >> An heir to the Red Bull energy drink fortune has refused to answer questions about whether he will return to Thailand this month to meet with prosecutors over an alleged hit-and-run that killed a police officer almost five years ago. \n Vorayuth \"Boss\" Yoovidhya was silent today as The Associated Press asked about his plans. Standing outside a residence in an exclusive London neighborhood, he didn't say why he was in Britain or whether he would meet with prosecutors in Thailand April 27. \n Vorayuth, who is in his early 30s, fled the scene of the 2012 accident in his Ferrari after allegedly hitting the police officer, who was on motorcycle patrol. \n He has been ordered to face charges of hit-and-run and reckless driving in the officer's death. Police say Vorayuth disputes the reckless driving allegation, claiming the motorcycle officer swerved in front of him. \n He has not shown up for earlier meetings with prosecutors, but no arrest warrant has been issued. \n An AP inquiry last week revealed that Vorayuth has been living a jet-set lifestyle supported by his family's billions from the caffeine-powered energy drink brand co-founded by his grandfather. \n He has attended Formula One races in Red Bull VIP seats, gone snowboarding in Japan and been cruising in Venice, though it had been widely assumed that he was lying low. \n Many in Thailand and beyond reacted with anger to the report, which was based in part on social media postings from friends and family that also helped the AP determine where Vorayuth has been living while in London. \n \"In the pyramid of privilege, the boss stays on top,\" the Bangkok Post said in an opinion piece. \"In the food chain of injustice, the boss reminds us again, and again and again, who the boss is.\" \n Vorayuth's attorneys have not responded to repeated calls or to a faxed series of questions. They have contended that he has been treated unfairly. \n Since last week's AP story ran, Vorayuth's Facebook page was updated with a photo of him with a Red Bull race car and information that he was attending art school. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Red Bull heir stays mum on Thai fatal hit-and-run"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, left, walked on Capitol Hill, on March 23, in Washington. President Donald Trump removed Bannon from the National Security Council, reversing an earlier controversial decision to give Bannon access to the high-level meetings. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump has removed chief strategist Steve Bannon from the National Security Council, reversing an earlier, controversial decision to give Bannon access to the group's high-level meetings. \n A new memorandum about the council's composition was published today in the Federal Register. The memo no longer lists the chief strategist as a member of the Principals Committee, a group of high-ranking officials who meet to discuss pressing national security priorities. \n A senior White House official said today that Bannon was initially placed on the National Security Council after Trump's inauguration as a measure to ensure implementation of the president's vision, including efforts to downsize and streamline operations at the NSC. \n Bannon's addition to the NSC sparked criticism that it was inappropriate for the political adviser to play a role in national security matters. \n Trump's first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was heading the NSC at the time, but the official said Bannon's role had nothing to do with the troubles facing Flynn, who was asked to resign in early February for misleading the administration about his communications with Russian officials. \n A senior administration official said that Flynn reluctantly agreed to have Bannon join the NSC. The official said that Trump's chief of staff, Reince Priebus, and chief counsel Don McGahn rewrote the original NSC memo with Flynn to include Bannon. \n The official said the move reflected Trump's dwindling faith in his national security adviser and that Flynn's daily presentations to the president were seen as disorganized and not up to par. \n Flynn's replacement, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, was allowed to reorganize the NSC as he saw fit. McMaster immediately expressed a desire to run a less hierarchical organization and be more accessible to his staff. Lack of access to Flynn when he was in charge created widespread frustration, according to three current and former administration officials familiar with the changes. \n As a participant of the Principals Committee, Bannon would have had the authority to call a vote if the president's vision for the NSC was not being implemented. The committee, which includes top officials from various government agencies, meets regularly to address important policy issues. \n One of the officials said Bannon's removal from the NSC was not a reflection of any change in his standing as one of Trump's closest advisers. Bannon will maintain his security clearance as is standard for most top West Wing officials. \n Trump's White House is facing allegations that it funneled secret intelligence reports to a Republican congressman leading an investigation into his campaign's possible ties to Russian officials as well as Moscow's interference in the 2016 election. \n The New York Times last week identified two NSC officials as having helped House intelligence committee Chairman Devin Nunes view secret reports. A U.S. official confirmed to The Associated Press that Ezra Cohen-Watnick had access to those kinds of intelligence materials, but maintained he did not play a role in helping the California congressman gain access to the documents. The official pointed instead to the other official named in The New York Times report, Michael Ellis, a White House lawyer who previously worked for Nunes on the House committee. \n Senior administration officials said McMaster was out of town when these revelations occurred. \n The senior White House official would not comment on who was responsible for the changes, but said they were a reflection of the confidence the president has in McMaster and were not in response to the recent controversy linked to the NSC. \n All the officials spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to discuss the changes or other details that have not been formally announced. \n Tom Bossert, the assistant to the president for homeland security and counterterrorism, also had his role downgraded as part of the changes. The White House official said Bossert's change in status is simply a result of efforts to streamline the NSC. \n Bossert joined Trump's team having previously served as deputy homeland security adviser to President George W. Bush. \n The new memo also restores the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the principals committee. \n The national security council was formed in 1947 to advise the president on foreign, military and domestic policies related to the country's security and to enhance cooperation among departments on all such matters \n By law, the president, vice president, secretary of state, defense secretary \u2014 and, since 2007, the energy secretary \u2014 are members. Also by law, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the national intelligence director are advisers to the council. \n Rep. Adam Schiff, the senior Democrat on the House intelligence committee, called Bannon's departure from the NSC \"a positive step by Gen. McMaster to gain control over a body that was being politicized by Bannon's involvement.\" \n Associated Press White House Correspondent Julie Pace contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump removes Bannon from National Security Council"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "NEW YORK >> Barry Manilow tells People magazine that he hid being gay for decades because he thought he would be \"disappointing fans if they knew.\" \n The 73-year-old music legend married his longtime manager, Gary Kief, in a 2014 ceremony at their home in Palm Springs, California. Manilow tells the magazine's April 17 issue that keeping their romance out of the media was stressful. \n Manilow, who has a new album this month, \"This Is My Town: Songs of New York,\" said he has always tried to keep his personal and public lives separate. \"When I met Gary, that was even more of a reason to keep my life private.\" \n \"I'm glad he stayed,\" said the singer of such hits as \"Mandy\" and \"Can't Smile Without You.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Barry Manilow says he kept his sexuality secret for 'fans'"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man in Nogales, Ariz., talked to his daughter and her mother, on April 1, who are standing on the other side of the border fence in Nogales, Mexico. \n MCALLEN, Texas >> Just five people were eating dinner on a recent weeknight at a Texas church that is a stopping point for newly arrived immigrants on the U.S.-Mexico border. On a typical night last year, hundreds of immigrants might come through the church. \n Immigrants who are still coming say many people in their home countries are staying home amid fears about President Donald Trump's immigration rhetoric, putting off coming to the U.S. until they see how his policies play out. \n \"There are mothers who heard that Trump might change the law to remove parents and keep the children here,\" said Jose Gonzalez, a 29-year-old father of two from El Salvador. \"That stopped a lot of people.\" \n The first months of the new administration have seen a huge drop in the number of people being caught by agents on the U.S.-Mexico border, raising the possibility that a \"Trump effect\" is keeping migrants away. \n Fewer than 12,500 people were caught at the southern border in March, the lowest monthly figure in at least 17 years and the second straight month that border arrests dropped sharply. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, in testimony submitted to a Senate committee, called the decline \"no accident\" and credited Trump. \n But those working in shelters and experts on migration say it will take several more months to judge whether any drop-off is lasting, and that the numbers could surge again as quickly as they've fallen. \n Trump's vows to step up deportations and build his signature border wall were widely spread in Central America, according to three migrants who recently arrived in Texas and spoke to the Associated Press. Kelly also announced last month that authorities might start separating adults and children crossing the border, to deter families from trying to enter the U.S. \n For years, tens of thousands of migrants every month would cross the United States' southern border. Traffic has surged in recent years of people crossing into Texas from three Central American countries torn by gang violence and poverty: El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. \n Former President Barack Obama's administration also publicized deportations and tried to dissuade Central Americans from heading north, particularly during the 2014 surge of families and children traveling alone to cross the border. Officials took credit when border arrests fell during his tenure, only to see the numbers rise again. \n Some think the real \"Trump effect\" was pushing fearful people to move up their journeys and get to the U.S. before he took office. Border arrests in October, November and December increased by about a third compared to the same period in 2015, before falling this year. \n \"The election and the possibility that the wall, everything was going to happen, encouraged them to come now,\" said Sister Norma Pimentel, executive director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley, which operates the shelter at Sacred Heart Catholic Church in McAllen. \n Trump focused on the constant flow of migrants from the start of his campaign, when he denounced border crossers as criminals and rapists, and repeatedly promised to build a wall and step up deportations. His administration has started taking bids to build a wall and requested funding for more immigration judges and Border Patrol agents. \n Most agree Trump's statements affected migrant traffic. Four shelters along the Texas portion of the border, where most crossers enter the United States, say they've seen their numbers fall to a fraction of what they were seeing late last year. And La 72, a shelter near the Mexico-Guatemala border, saw its numbers in February and March fall by nearly half compared to the same months in 2016, suggesting that fewer people are leaving Central America. \n Traffickers that operate in cartel-dominated parts of Mexico, known as \"coyotes,\" were rumored to use the American election as a marketing tool. Rumors spread that if Democrat Hillary Clinton won, would-be migrants were told to make it to the U.S. ahead of the election to get a free pass to stay in the country. And if Trump won, they should rush north before he could build a border wall. \n Higher demand allowed the smugglers to charge more to get to the U.S. last year, according to Guadalupe Correa-Cabrera, a professor at the University of Texas-Rio Grande Valley. \n Experts say they want to see if migrant numbers stay low during the summer months, when migration generally rises. Those who have long worked with migrants predict that as long as parts of Central America remain in turmoil, people will try to head north \u2014 whether or not the U.S. builds a wall or separates immigrant parents and children. \n \"If things get worse in their countries, and the situation with gangs does not get better, we will see them come,\" Pimentel said. \n Gonzalez said he left El Salvador because he feared the gangs and the constant threat of being robbed or attacked. Relatives in the United States lent him $15,000 to hire a smuggler for him and his children, ages 10 and 8. They rode in buses and a trailer through Mexico before safely sneaking across the Rio Grande in a month-long journey. \n Sitting at Sacred Heart last month, Gonzalez and his children finished bowls of soup and waited for a bus to take them west toward relatives in California. \n He hoped that if even if he was deported, his children would be allowed to stay and go to school, while he tried to come back. \n \"You're conscious of taking that risk coming here,\" Gonzalez said. \"But it's a risk you take to make things better for your family.\" \n Associated Press writers Juan A. Lozano and Christopher Sherman contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Border turns quiet under Trump amid steep drop in arrests"}

{"date": "April 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supreme Court Justice nominee Neil Gorsuch testified on Capitol Hill, March 21, in Washington during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore. spoke on the floor of the Senate on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> A Democratic senator yielded the Senate floor today morning after talking through the night to highlight his party's opposition to President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee, Neil Gorsuch. \n But the theatrics from Oregon Sen. Jeff Merkley could not change the outcome, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his Republicans prepared to steamroll Senate rules in order to eliminate Democrats' ability to block Gorsuch with a filibuster. \n Merkley spoke through the night, for more than 15 hours, finally stopping midmorning today with a final plea to colleagues to oppose Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge from Denver. \n \"This is an extreme nominee from the far right who doesn't believe in the fundamental vision of 'We the People' and makes decision after decision through tortured, twisted, contrived arguments defined for the powerful over the people, and that is unacceptable,\" Merkley said. \n Following Merkley on the floor, McConnell ridiculed the opposition from Democrats. \n \"Democrats would filibuster Ruth Bader Ginsburg if President Donald Trump nominated her,\" McConnell said, naming one of the more liberal sitting justices. \"There is simply no principled reason to oppose this exceptional, exceptional Supreme Court nominee.\" \n The Senate is now pointed to a showdown Thursday, when Democrats will try to block Gorsuch's confirmation, but McConnell will then unilaterally change Senate rules to lower the threshold required to advance Supreme Court nominees from 60 votes to a simple majority in the 100-member Senate. \n Democrats blamed Republicans for pushing them to attempt a nearly unheard-of filibuster of a qualified Supreme Court pick. Forty-four Democrats intend to vote against proceeding to final confirmation on Gorsuch, which would be enough to block his nomination under the Senate's existing parliamentary rules that require 60 votes to advance a nomination. \n But McConnell and Republicans say the Democrats' obstruction leaves them with no choice. Asked Tuesday if he has the votes for the rules change, given misgivings voiced by many Republicans, McConnell answered simply, \"Yes.\" \n Democrats tried mightily to keep the focus on Republicans' plans to change Senate rules, rather than on their own plans to obstruct a nominee who would likely have gotten onto the court easily with no filibuster in earlier, less contentious political times. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said, \"Senator McConnell would have the world believe that his hands are tied. That the only option after Judge Gorsuch doesn't earn 60 votes is to break the rules, to change the rules. That could not be further from the truth.\" \n In fact, a Senate rules change does appear to be the lone route that Republicans have to put Gorsuch on the court. And despite claims from Schumer and others that Trump and Republicans could go back to the drawing board and come up with a more \"mainstream\" nominee, it seems unlikely that any nominee produced by Trump would win Democrats' approval. \n On Tuesday evening McConnell officially filed a \"cloture\" motion, the procedural step designed to end debate on a nomination and bring it to a final vote. That started the clock toward a showdown on Thursday, when Democrats are expected to try to block Gorsuch, at which point Republicans would respond by enacting the rules change. The change is known on Capitol Hill as the \"nuclear option\" because of the potential repercussions for the Senate and the court. \n For the Senate, it would mean that future Supreme Court nominees could get on the court without bipartisan support, potentially leading to a more ideologically polarized court. More immediately, Gorsuch's confirmation to fill the vacancy on the court created by Scalia's death would restore the conservative voting majority that existed before Scalia's death and could persist or grow for years to come. \n Lawmakers of both parties bemoaned the further erosion of their traditions of bipartisanship and consensus. Some were already predicting that they would end up eliminating the 60-vote requirement for legislation, as well as nominations. But McConnell pledged Tuesday that this would not happen on his watch. \n Gorsuch now counts 55 supporters in the Senate: the 52 Republicans including McConnell, along with three moderate Democrats from states that President Donald Trump won last November \u2014 Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Donnelly of Indiana. A fourth Senate Democrat, Michael Bennet from Gorsuch's home state of Colorado, has said he will not join in the filibuster against Gorsuch but has not said how he will vote on final passage. \n Gorsuch, 49, is a 10-year veteran of a federal appeals court in Denver, where he's compiled a highly conservative record that's led Democrats to complain that he too often sides with corporations without regard to the humanity of the plaintiffs before him. \n Associated Press writer Mary Clare Jalonick contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democrat ends all-night speech as Supreme Court clash nears"}

