{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A gas attendant waits by a pump at a gas station in Pyongyang, North Korea on Wednesday. Gas sales have been restricted in the North Korean capital for about a week with no official explanation, raising concerns over when the the situation will return to normal. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> An acute shortage of gasoline in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang that has sparked price hikes and hoarding is raising fears of potentially crippling pain at the pumps if things don't get better soon \u2014 and driving rumors that China is to blame. \n The shortage, which is extremely unusual if not unprecedented, began last week when signs went up at gas stations around the city informing customers that restrictions on sales would be put in place until further notice. With no indication as of Wednesday night of when the restrictions might be lifted \u2014 or why they have been imposed \u2014 drivers continue to scramble to fill up their tanks and whatever other containers they can find. \n Prices, meanwhile, have shot up. They had been fairly stable, typically at about 70-80 cents a kilogram, but on Wednesday at least one station was charging $1.40. Gasoline is sold by the kilogram in North Korean filling stations. One kilogram is roughly equivalent to one liter, so a gallon at the station costs about $5.30. \n China supplies most of energy-poor North Korea's fuel, and in lieu of official explanations, rumors are rife that Beijing is behind the shortage. The concerns are adding to a tense and uncertain mood on the Korean Peninsula since U.S. President Donald Trump assumed office with repeated calls for Beijing \u2014 Pyongyang's economic lifeline \u2014 to get tough on North Korea, which has responded with counterclaims Washington is pushing for a nuclear war. \n Though trade between North Korea and China appears to be solid, and possibly even growing, there are indications Beijing has been quietly tightening enforcement of some international sanctions aimed at getting Pyongyang to abandon its development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles. \n Limiting the oil supply has been openly discussed in Beijing as one option. Whether that is actually happening is unclear. \n David von Hippel, a senior associate with the Nautilus Institute who specializes in energy and environmental issues, said supplies of crude oil and oil products would drop markedly without Chinese imports. But he stressed other factors could just as well be involved. \n \"The shortages and price rises being seen may be due to a combination of factors, including both actual shortages of products, more products being routed to other users \u2014 specific ministries, key factories, or the military, for example \u2014 and, or, more product being placed into government storage facilities,\" he said in an email. \"I do not have a sense, at present, of which of these options, and in what combination, is the driver for the price rises and sales restrictions.\" \n But two days after the restrictions were announced, North Korea's state-run Korean Central News Agency carried an unusually acerbic, and even threatening, editorial denouncing \"a country around the DPRK,\" an obvious if not explicit reference to China. DPRK is short for North Korea's official name \u2014 the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. \n \"The DPRK's nuclear deterrence for self-defense \u2026 is by no means a bargaining chip for getting something,\" the commentary said, adding that if \"the country\" keeps applying economic sanctions \"while dancing to the tune of someone \u2026 it may be applauded by the enemies of the DPRK but it should get itself ready to face the catastrophic consequences in the relations with the DPRK.\" \n It is unclear whether the gas shortage has affected North Korea's military, state ministries and major projects, all of which get priority access to the state-controlled supply. But the North this month has staged a huge military parade, unveiled a sprawling high-rise residential district and on Tuesday conducted its biggest-ever live-fire air, land and sea military drill. It is also believed to be prepared to conduct what would be its sixth underground nuclear test. \n Several chains of gas stations are operated under different state-run enterprises \u2014 some, for example, are operated by Air Koryo, the national flagship airline \u2014 and prices can vary. \n North Korea gasoline customers usually purchase coupons at a cashier's booth to fill up. Leftover coupons can be used on later visits until their expiration date. A common amount for the coupons is 15 kilograms (19.65 liters or 5.2 U.S. gallons). \n The number of North Korean gas stations has grown steadily in recent years, mainly in Pyongyang, provincial capitals and along major highways. Pyongyang traffic has gotten significantly heavier since Kim Jong Un assumed power in late 2011. The greater number of cars, including swelling fleets of taxis, has been seen as an indication of greater economic activity. \n Many of the vehicles are used for business purposes, such as transporting people or goods. \n \"When I last visited in 2005, they were filling up our bus with gas rations from buckets,\" said Curtis Melvin, a researcher at the US-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University and a contributor to the 38 North website. \"Things have definitely changed.\" \n Melvin added that the growth of an actual domestic market for gasoline has made it possible to see when there is a problem, since prices are posted at the gas stations, making trends publicly trackable. There is also less rationing than in the past. \n If the apparent shortages are being caused by China, he said, the most likely explanation would be that less fuel is flowing across the border via pipeline. \n Such a slowdown or stoppage would have an immediate impact on prices and would take time to compensate for by ships, trucks or trains. The primary place for North Korea pipeline storage tanks in China is in the border city of Dandong. But it was also not clear if North Korean tankers were picking up as much fuel as usual. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rumors rife as gas restrictions in N. Korean capital drag on"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United Airlines is vowing to reduce, but not eliminate, overbooking \u2014 the selling of more tickets than there are seats on the plane. \n DALLAS >> United Airlines says it will raise the limit \u2014 to $10,000 \u2014 on payments to customers who give up seats on oversold flights and will increase training for employees as it deals with fallout from the video of a passenger being violently dragged from his seat. \n United is also vowing to reduce, but not eliminate, overbooking \u2014 the selling of more tickets than there are seats on the plane. \n The airline made the promises Thursday as it released a report detailing mistakes that led to the April 9 incident on a United Express plane in Chicago. \n United isn't saying whether ticket sales have dropped since the removal of a 69-year-old passenger by three airport security officers, but the airline's CEO admits it could be damaging. \n \"I breached public trust with this event and how we responded,\" Oscar Munoz told The Associated Press. \"People are upset, and I suspect that there are a lot of people potentially thinking of not flying us.\" \n To head off customer defections, United had already announced that it will no longer call police to remove passengers from overbooked flights, and will require airline crews traveling for work to check in sooner. On Thursday, it added several other new policies including: \n \u2014 Raising the limit on compensation to $10,000 for customers who give up their seats. That is a maximum \u2014 it's unclear how many, if any, passengers would see that much. The current limit is $1,350. Delta Air Lines earlier this month raised its limit to $9,950. \n \u2014 Sending displaced passengers or crew members to nearby airports, putting them on other airlines or arranging for car transportation to get them to their destinations. \n \u2014 Giving gate agents annual refresher training in dealing with oversold flights. Munoz said he also wants agents and flight attendants to get more help at de-escalating tense situations. \n For United, the timing of the viral video could hardly have been worse. The airline struggled badly after a 2010 merger with Continental, enduring several technology breakdowns that angered customers. In the past year, however, the airline has flown more on-time flights and lost fewer bags. It recently rolled out plans for expanding service this summer. \n Instead of being commended for those signs of progress, however, it has faced more than two weeks of withering criticism and mockery. David Dao, the passenger injured when he was yanked from his seat, is almost certain to file a lawsuit. \n Munoz apologized again and faulted his own initial response, in which he defended airline employees and called Dao belligerent. \n \"That first response was insensitive beyond belief,\" Munoz said. \"It did not represent how I felt,\" saying that he got \"caught up in facts and circumstances\" that weren't initially clear, instead of expressing his shock. \n In Thursday's report, United provided new details about the incident. It said Flight 3411 to Louisville, Kentucky, was oversold by one ticket, but a volunteer gave up his seat. After passengers boarded, four crew members of Republic Airline, which operates many United Express flights, showed up late after their Louisville-bound plane was delayed by a mechanical problem. \n United said it was a mistake to let the Republic crew board late, which required removing four paying passengers; calling officers when there was no safety or security issue; and not offering enough money to entice volunteers to give up their seats. \n \"We could have spent a lot of $10,000s and made that thing right,\" Munoz said. \n United said it will reduce but not end the overbooking of flights. Munoz said if airlines can't overbook flights there will be more empty seats and fares will rise. Delta CEO Ed Bastian called overselling flights \"a valid business process.\" \n Politicians in Washington and elsewhere have called for a ban on overselling flights. Some critics have said airlines should leave a few seats empty if they think they will be needed by crew members. \n \"This overbooking needs to be softened,\" Dao's attorney, Thomas Demetrio, told the AP. \"People really do believe when they buy their ticket they are good to go.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "United raising limit on payments to bumped flyers to $10K"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "SALEM, Mass. >> A Massachusetts city known for celebrating the occult is drawing attention after its mayor snapped a photo that appears to show a scowling face trapped in a streetlamp. \n Salem Mayor Kim Driscoll shared the photo on Twitter today. The Democrat asks if other people can see the face, which she calls \"eerie.\" \n Many on social media say it looks like a man's face, with a furrowed brow and parted lips. Some say they're spooked. Others say it should be no surprise in Salem. \n The city of 43,000 residents was home to the 1692 Salem Witch Trials, which led to the executions of 20 people. \n Salem's attractions include a witch museum, witchcraft shops and a Halloween party that claims to be America's biggest. \n The photo was taken outside a courthouse. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mayor calls ghostly face seen in Salem streetlamp 'eerie'"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Texas Rep. Rafael Anchia, D-Dallas, at podium, is surrounded by fellow lawmakers as he speaks against an anti-\"sanctuary cities\" bill that has already cleared the Texas Senate and seeks to jail sheriffs and other officials who refuse to help enforce federal immigration law today in Austin, Texas. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> Texas Republicans were poised today to take a big step toward banning \"sanctuary cities\" in their state, debating a bill through which police chiefs and sheriffs could even be jailed for not cooperating fully with federal immigration authorities. \n Although Democrats don't have the votes in the Republican-controlled Legislature to stop the bill from going to Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, who made such a ban a priority, they vowed to fight it at every step, promising hours of emotionally charged debate today before the Texas House votes. \n Under the bill, the state could withhold funding from local governments for acting as sanctuary cities, even as the Trump administration's efforts to do so nationally have hit roadblocks. Other Republican-controlled states have pushed for similar polices in recent years, just as more liberal ones have done the opposite. But Texas would be the first in which police chiefs and sheriffs could be jailed for not helping enforce immigration law. They could also lose their jobs. \n The bill is needed to \"keep the public safe and remove bad people from the street,\" said Rep. Charlie Geren of Fort Worth. \n \"The bill does not target or discriminate against illegal immigrants. This bill specifically targets criminals who happen to be here illegally,\" Geren said. \n The term \"sanctuary cities\" has no legal definition, but Republicans want local police to help federal authorities as part of a larger effort to crack down on criminal suspects who are in the U.S. illegally. \n The Texas House bill originally would have allowed local law enforcement officers to inquire about federal immigration status if someone is arrested. A version passed by the state Senate in March would also allow immigration inquiries of anyone who is detained, including during traffic stops. \n A tea party-backed amendment, approved 81-64 tonight, applies that same standard to the House version. A Democratic effort to keep it from including children was defeated. \n President Donald Trump is trying to withhold federal funding for sanctuary cities, but on Tuesday, a federal judge in California issued a preliminary injunction preventing him from doing so. \n Texas doesn't currently have any sanctuary cities, but that hasn't stopped Abbott and Republican legislative leaders from pushing aggressively for a ban. \n Sally Hernandez, the sheriff of Travis County, which includes liberal Austin, enraged conservatives by refusing to honor federal requests to hold suspects for possible deportation if the suspects weren't arrested for immigration offenses or serious crimes such as murder. But Hernandez softened her policy after Abbott cut funding to the county, saying decisions would be made on a case-by-case basis, and she's said she will conform to the state's ban if it becomes law. \n Fierce resistance has come from Texas Democrats and immigrants' rights organizations, as well as from some in law enforcement and top business lobbies. Opponents say it opens the door to discrimination and intimidation. Many sheriffs and police chiefs in heavily Democratic areas warn that it would make their jobs harder if immigrant communities \u2014 including crime victims and witnesses \u2014 become afraid of the police. \n \"This is a show me your papers law. This is what everybody's afraid of,\" said Rep. Cesar Blanco, a Democrat from the border city of El Paso. \n Though House Democrats don't have the votes to block the bill, they planned to file enough challenges to force hours of debate. \n \"I have seen the fear of children who worry their parents are going to be deported,\" said state Rep. Victoria Neave, of Dallas, who has staged a four-day fast to protest the bill. \n Abbott has made the issue one of his \"emergency\" items of the Texas legislative session, and Republicans have it on course to become state law regardless of what happens to Trump's federal order. \n House passage today wouldn't get it there yet. The state Senate previously passed a similar but different version and the two sides must compromise before sending a bill to Abbott. Similar efforts have collapsed in recent years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Texas poised to pass 'sanctuary city' ban with jail penalty"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters of single-payer health care march to the Capitol today in Sacramento, Calif. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> California lawmakers pushed forward today with a proposal that would substantially remake the health care system of the nation's most populous state by replacing insurance companies with government-funded health care for everyone. \n The idea known as single-payer health care has long been popular on the left and is getting a new look in California as President Donald Trump looks to replace former President Barack Obama's health care law. \n The proposal, promoted by the state's powerful nursing union and two Democratic senators, is a longshot. But supporters hope the time is right to persuade lawmakers in California, where Democrats like to push the boundaries of liberal public policy and are eager to stand up to the Republican president. \n \"It is time to say once and for all that health care is a right, not a privilege for those who can afford it,\" said Democratic Sen. Ricardo Lara of Bell Gardens, who wrote the bill along with Democratic Sen. Toni Atkins of San Diego. \n Hundreds of nurses clad in red rallied in support of the measure and marched to the state Capitol in Sacramento, packing the hallways before a Senate Health Committee hearing. They were joined by Democratic activists and supporters of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who advocated single-payer health care in his unsuccessful presidential campaign and has introduced federal legislation. \n Democrats on the panel voted to advance the measure. \n The measure would guarantee health coverage with no out-of-pocket costs for all California residents, including people living in the country illegally. \n Private insurers would be barred from covering the same services, essentially eliminating them from the marketplace. Instead, a new state agency would set prices and contract with health care providers such as doctors and hospitals and pay the bills for everyone. \n However, an essential question is unanswered: Where will the money come from? California health care expenditures last year totaled more than $367 billion, according to the Center for Health Policy Research at University of California, Los Angeles. \n The measure envisions using all public money spent on health care \u2014 from Medicare, Medicaid, federal public health funds and \"Obamacare\" subsidies. But it also would require significant tax increases on businesses, residents or both to replace billions of dollars in health care spending by employers and individuals while generating enough money to cover people who are currently uninsured. \n The California Nurses Association commissioned a study of the costs and potential funding methods that will be ready before the measure goes before the next committee later this year, spokesman Chuck Idelson said. \n Employers, business groups and health plans have mobilized in opposition, warning that the measure would require massive tax increases and force patients into lengthy waits to see a doctor. \n They say the state should stay focused on implementing Obama's health care law, which is credited with significantly reducing the ranks of California's uninsured. \n \"California can't afford a single-payer health care system,\" said Charles Bacchi, president and CEO of the California Association of Health Plans. \"It's going to reduce the quality of care. We think it will restrict access to care, and it will be incredibly disruptive to all the Californians who currently get health care coverage through their employer.\" \n The idea faces significant hurdles. \n The bill, SB562, would affect everyone \u2014 not just the roughly 8 percent of Californians without insurance \u2014 including people on Medicare and private, employer-sponsored insurance, plans that are generally well-liked. \n Two-thirds of the Assembly and Senate also must approve the tax increases required to fund it. \n And even if it were to clear the Legislature and be signed by Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, it would need cooperation from Trump's administration to waive rules about federal Medicare and Medicaid dollars. \n The idea to increase the government's role in health care comes as Trump and congressional Republicans look to reduce it. The conservative House Freedom Caucus today announced its support for a newly revised GOP health care bill, a month after its opposition forced Republican leaders to pull the legislation. \n California lawmakers have considered single-payer health care several times before. The Legislature approved a single-payer bill in 2007 but it was vetoed by then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. \n More recently, Vermont abandoned an attempt to create a single-payer system when cost estimates came in high. Colorado voters last year rejected a ballot measure that would have created the system. \n \"By having everything in one pool, you're going to decrease administrative costs, and you're also going to get away from a system where so many different players in the system are there only because of greed, because they want to make money off of people's health care needs,\" said Thorild Urdal, a nurse in Oakland who is originally from Norway, which has government-funded health care. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Plan to give health care to every Californian moves forward"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "NORTH HIGHLANDS, Calif. >> Police say a man beat an 86-year-old woman to death in an apparently random attack as she walked around a high school track in Northern California. \n Sacramento County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Tony Turnbull says the woman and a 61-year-old companion, who was only slightly injured, were walking on the track at Highlands High School in North Highlands when they were targeted early today by a short man wearing sweats who appeared to be in his mid-30s. \n The man punched and kicked the two women, as another person at the track called police. \n When officers arrived, the older woman was already dead, and the suspect had fled. Officers searched the neighborhood, but could not find the man. \n Authorities have not released the names of the two women. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman, 86, beaten to death in random California attack"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 13, 2016 photo shows Maxine Yeakle, a Boca Raton High School student, displays a T-shirt that got her dismissed from school in Boca Raton, Fla. \n RICHMOND, Va. >> A Tennessee sheriff accused of deleting atheists' comments on a county Facebook page, a school chief who dismissed a teacher who stepped on the American flag in class, and the U.S. Senate for a bill targeting speech on college campuses are among the winners of the Jefferson Muzzles \u2014 satiric awards bestowed annually by a free-speech group. \n The Charlottesville, Virginia-based Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of Free Expression on Thursday announced its eight winners of its 25th edition of the Muzzles, a dubious honor given to those deemed egregious offenders of free expression. \n The winners will receive T-shirts bearing an image of Jefferson, the nation's third president and an ardent free-speech advocate, with a black rectangle over his face. The awards are announced each year on or around the April 13 birthday of Jefferson. \n Past winners have included White House administrations, the Defense Department and giant corporations. But the center's director, Josh Wheeler, said it's important to also honor less well-known offenses because the award \"challenges the assumption held by many that, because of the First Amendment, attempts at censorship are few in the United States.\" \n \"In fact, such acts occur every day,\" his statement added. Each year, the group considers hundreds of nominations before whittling down to the winners. \n Bradley County, Tennessee, Sheriff Eric Watson won after being accused of deleting comments by atheists and blocking atheist commentators from an official county Facebook post about the Easter holiday. The county admitted no wrongdoing but agreed to pay $41,000 to settle a lawsuit filed by a national atheist organization. \n \"Sheriff Watson should have known better than to censor comments from the Facebook page because they reflected beliefs different from his own,\" the center said. \n A sheriff's office spokesman didn't respond to a request for comment by The Associated Press. But Watson previously denied violating the plaintiffs' rights and said the settlement was a business decision made by the county. \n School superintendent Frank Till in North Carolina's Cumberland County won for suspending and ultimately letting go a teacher who stepped on an American flag to illustrate First Amendment protections. The teacher was suspended for 10 days, transferred to a warehouse job and later didn't get his contract renewed. \n \"The irony of disciplining a teacher for teaching a lesson on free speech\" deserves the Muzzle, the group said. \n Till declined comment to AP through a district spokeswoman, but said previously that stepping on the U.S. flag was \"inappropriate in our schools\" and had violated policy. \n As for the U.S. Senate, it won for unanimously passing a bill in December targeting speech on college campuses. The bill would change the definition of prohibited \"anti-Semitism\" to one that is so broad the center says it essentially would apply to any speech critical of Israel or its policies. An identical bill has been introduced in the House. \n This year's other winners are: \n \u2014 The Illinois state government, because the General Assembly passed, former Gov. Pat Quinn signed, and the state's attorney general defended what the center called an \"unconstitutional restriction\" on medical marijuana dispensaries donating to political candidates. Last month, a federal judge ruled the ban violated the businesses' First Amendment rights. \n \u2014 The California Legislature and Gov. Jerry Brown for passing a law banning online employment databases from listing the ages of actors and actresses \u2014 a move against age discrimination that the free speech group called \"well-meaning\" but found had disregarded First Amendment principles. \n \u2014 The Collier County School District in Florida for a policy requiring students who elect not to stand for the national anthem to first obtain parental consent. \n \u2014 The administration of Boca Raton Community High School in Florida for giving a student the choice of removing her anti-Hillary Clinton T-shirt that said \"Hillary for Prison 2016\" or serving an in-school suspension. \n \u2014 The Los Angeles Community College District and the administration of Pierce College for not allowing a student to hand out Spanish-language copies of the U.S. Constitution outside of the college's tiny designated \"free-speech zone.\" \n The top nominees are typically sent letters informing them of their consideration. Wheeler said no one has responded this year. \n \"Nobody likes to think of themselves as a censor,\" Wheeler said. \"But when push comes to shove, it's often very difficult to defend free speech\" because it means you must defend people whose views you disagree with, he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jefferson Muzzle 'awards' take aim at free-speech offenders"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 29, 2015 file photo, a Turkish Air Force warplane rises in the sky after taking off from Incirlik Air Base, in Adana, southern Turkey. \n WASHINGTON >> Turkey gave coalition forces about 20 minutes notice before launching airstrikes on Kurdish troops in Syria this week, potentially putting American forces in the region at risk, U.S. officials said today. \n Air Force Col. John Dorrian said Turkey's warning to the coalition's air operations center described a large area and wasn't specific enough about timing and location to ensure the safety of the American forces. Dorrian, spokesman for the U.S. operations against Islamic State militants in Iraq and Syria, said the U.S. troops were about six miles, or 10 kilometers, from the strikes. \n Dorrian said Turkey gave the U.S. less than an hour's notice, and declined to be more specific. But a senior U.S. official said it was about 20 minutes. The official was not authorized to discuss the details publicly, so spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The Turkish attacks killed at least 20 Syrian Kurdish fighters in the People's Protection Units, or YPG. Another 18 were wounded, according to the group. The U.S. considers the YPG one of the most effective rebel groups fighting IS in Syria. \n Strikes in northern Iraq killed five members of the Iraqi Kurdish militia known as the peshmerga, another partner in the anti-IS coalition. \n Turkey considers the YPG part of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, which is a terrorist organization. Turkey has said the strikes were conducted to prevent infiltration of Kurdish rebels, weapons, ammunition and explosives from Syria and northern Iraq into Turkey. \n Speaking to reporters at the Pentagon, Dorrian said the U.S. is concerned that Turkey didn't coordinate the strikes with the U.S.-led coalition against the Islamic State group. \n \"We let the Turks know that the amount of time that was being provided for the strikes was inadequate for us to assure safety of our forces on the ground,\" said Dorrian. \n There have been other incidents when Turkey has conducted strikes, often with similar notice, and the U.S. will make sure to detail where American forces are within the potential strike zone so they are not hurt. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.: Turkey gave about 20 minutes notice before Syria strikes"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis., accompanied by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., center, and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., leaves a news conference after a GOP caucus meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House and congressional Democrats today defused a tense standoff over payments for the working poor under the health care law, keeping a massive government spending bill on track just days ahead of a shutdown deadline. \n President Donald Trump today backed away from a threat to immediately withhold payments to help people with modest incomes with out-of-pocket medical expenses under Democrat Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act. \n The dispute with Democrats, especially House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, threatened to hold up the $1 trillion-plus spending bill. A temporary funding bill expires Friday at midnight, and GOP leaders late today unveiled another short-term spending bill to prevent a government shutdown this weekend \u2014 Trump's 100th day in office. \n The weeks-long sniping over the health care issue had snagged the talks, which have progressed steadily for weeks and gained momentum earlier this week after Trump dropped demands for immediate money for building his long-promised border wall. \n \"Our major concerns in these negotiations have been about funding for the wall and uncertainty about the \u2026 payments crucial to the stability of the marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act,\" Pelosi said in a statement. \"We've now made progress on both of these fronts.\" \n Partisan disagreements over the environment, abortion and GOP efforts to reverse Obama-era financial regulations continue to dog the negotiations, but both the administration and many congressional Democrats were hopeful of sealing an agreement relatively soon. \n The massive spending measure, which would wrap together 11 unfinished spending bills into a single omnibus bill, represents the first real bipartisan legislation of Trump's presidency. \n Democratic votes are needed to pass the measure over tea party opposition in the House and to provide enough support to clear a filibuster hurdle in the Senate, which has led negotiators to strip away controversial policy riders and ignore an $18 billion roster of unpopular spending cuts submitted by White House budget director Mick Mulvaney. \n The irony is that even though Republicans have voted numerous times to gut Obamacare, many are opposed to cutting off the cost-sharing payments right away, which could cause the Affordable Care Act's insurance marketplaces to abruptly collapse. \n At issue is the $175 billion the government is paying to reimburse health insurers over a decade to reduce deductibles and co-payments for lower-income people. In a lawsuit, the House argued that Congress never specifically appropriated that money, and a federal judge agreed that the administration exceeded its constitutional authority by spending it anyway. The Obama administration appealed, but after Trump won the election last year the case was put on hold. \n The outlines of a potential agreement remained fuzzy, but congressional aides familiar with the talks said Trump would emerge with border security funding that's unrelated to the wall and a $15 billion down payment for the military on top of $578 billion in already-negotiated Pentagon funding. Democrats won funding for medical research, Pell Grants and foreign aid. \n But negotiators rejected Trump's demands for $1 billion to begin construction of his promised wall along the length of the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, a high-profile loss on the very week Trump's White House sought to rack up accomplishments before his administration hits the 100-day mark on Saturday. \n The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private negotiations. \n The White House and House Republican are also hoping to show progress in their troubled effort to repeal and replace Obama's health law. The hard-right House Freedom Caucus endorsed a newly revised GOP health care bill, seeking to put the measure back on track after the group's opposition helped derail it a month ago. \n But neither the spending bill nor the health care measure are likely to receive votes prior to the symbolic 100-day mark. Instead, Trump's wins on Capitol Hill have been limited to about a dozen measures repealing 11th hour regulations issued by Obama and the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch. \n The spending measure also appeared likely to extend health benefits for more than 22,000 retired miners and widows whose medical coverage is set to expire Sunday. A permanent fix to the long-festering miners' health issue, costing $1.3 billion over 10 years, was a priority for Democrats like Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, along with Republicans representing parts of Appalachia, such as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. \n Mulvaney sparred with Pelosi over the phone on Tuesday evening over health care and in a series of public statements on Wednesday. Ultimately, Pelosi turned to White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus to obtain assurances that the administration would continue to provide the payments. \n Pelosi had demanded that the cost-sharing payments be guaranteed through an add-on to the must-pass spending bill. Republicans refused, in part because adding the issue to the spending bill would have simply been too toxic for conservatives already uncomfortable with having to vote for it. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dispute over health payments defused, spending bill on track"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eric Frein is led away by Pennsylvania State Police Troopers at the Pike County Courthouse on January 2015 after his preliminary hearing in Milford, Pa. \n MILFORD, Pa. >> A bell tolled the fate of a gunman after a jury today condemned him to die for shooting two Pennsylvania troopers at their barracks in a late-night ambush, killing one and leaving a second with devastating injuries. \n Eric Frein, 33, was sentenced by a jury to death by lethal injection a week after his conviction on charges including murder of a law enforcement officer and terrorism. \n \"Jurors have delivered full justice in this case and issued the penalty that is so richly deserved by Eric Frein,\" said District Attorney Ray Tonkin. \n Prosecutors said Frein was hoping to start an uprising against the government when he opened fire with a rifle on the Blooming Grove barracks in the Pocono Mountains in 2014. Cpl. Bryon Dickson II, a Marine veteran and married father of two, was killed in the late-night ambush, and Trooper Alex Douglass was critically wounded. \n Frein showed no emotion as the decision was read, while someone on the police side of the gallery shouted \"Yes!\" Douglass, who has endured 18 surgeries and might lose his lower leg, couldn't stop smiling. \n Defense lawyer Bill Ruzzo told reporters he was disappointed by the sentence, and surprised the jury failed to find a single mitigating circumstance that would point to a life sentence. \n Col. Tyree Blocker, the state police commissioner, thanked the jury for delivering justice. \n \"Cpl. Dickson will always remain in the hearts of all members of the Pennsylvania State Police, forever,\" he said outside the courthouse. \n Following a tradition that dates to the 19th century, Pike County's sheriff rang the bell atop the courthouse eight times, heralding that Frein had received a death sentence. The bell last tolled for a condemned inmate in the 1980s. \n Frein led police on a 48-day manhunt in the Poconos before U.S. marshals caught him at an abandoned airplane hangar. \n He did not take the witness stand in his own defense, nor did he ask the jury to spare his life in the penalty phase. His lawyers had argued for a sentence of life in prison without parole, presenting evidence he'd grown up in a dysfunctional home. His father told the jurors he had failed his son, and his mother said, \"I want my son to be saved.\" \n Prosecutors portrayed Frein as a remorseless killer who randomly attacked in hopes of fomenting rebellion. \n Frein kept a journal in which he coolly described shooting Dickson twice and watching him fall \"still and quiet.\" And in a letter to his parents, written while he was on the run but never sent, he complained about lost liberties, spoke of revolution and said, \"The time seems right for a spark to ignite a fire in the hearts of men.\" \n Frein showed \"wickedness of heart\" when he \"made a choice to pull that cold trigger again, again, again and again,\" Tonkin said in his closing argument today. \n The sentencing caps a saga that began Sept. 12, 2014, when Frein hid in the woods across the street from the barracks and targeted Dickson as he was leaving work. He then shot Douglass, who had come to the aid of his mortally wounded comrade. \n Police linked Frein to the ambush after a man walking his dog discovered his partly submerged SUV three days after the ambush in a swamp a few miles from the shooting scene. Inside, investigators found shell casings matching those found at the barracks and Frein's driver's license. \n The discovery sparked a manhunt that involved 1,000 law enforcement officials and spanned more than 300 square miles, rattling communities throughout the Poconos. \n His lawyers did not contest his guilt, focusing their efforts on trying to save his life during the penalty phase of the trial. \n The defense told jurors that Frein grew up with an angry, domineering and abusive father who imparted his anti-government and anti-police views to him. Lawyers asked the jury to consider Frein's relationship with his dad, Eugene Michael \"Mike\" Frein, a mitigating circumstance as it weighed a sentence of life or death. \n Tonkin ridiculed the effort to cast Frein's father as a villain, saying Frein's lawyers were trying to \"deflect from the murderer over there and put Eugene Frein on trial.\" \n Dickson's widow, meanwhile, gave emotional testimony about how she and her two young sons have struggled since his murder, and Douglass, the injured trooper, described suffering from a range of health problems since Frein shot him through both hips. \n Though the gunman faces a bleak existence on death row, he likely won't face execution for decades, if ever. Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf has imposed a moratorium on the death penalty, and Pennsylvania's last execution took place in 1999. The state has executed only three people since the U.S. Supreme Court restored the death penalty in 1976. \n Frein's lawyers have promised to tie up his case in appeals. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury sentences ambush killer to death in Pennsylvania"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated file photo provided by RR Auction shows a portion of a diary written in 1945 by a young John F. Kennedy during his brief stint as a journalist after World War II. \n BOSTON >> A diary kept by a young John F. Kennedy during his brief stint as a journalist after World War II in which he reflected on Hitler and the weakness of the United Nations sold for more than $700,000 today. \n Boston-based RR Auction said the diary sold for $718,750, far exceeding the pre-sale estimate of $200,000. Joseph Alsop, a JFK collector from Beverly, outbid one other live and six telephone bidders in a packed house for the 61-page diary. Alsop, 71, plans to add it to his personal collection, auction officials said. \n The diary is mostly typed but includes 12 handwritten pages. It was written in 1945 when the 28-year-old Kennedy was a correspondent for Hearst newspapers and traveled through a devastated Europe. \n Executive Vice President Bobby Livingston said the auction was thrilling, with bidders from around the country vying for the personal observations of the man who'd become president. \n \"My expectations were exceeded, but I'm not surprised because it's such a significant and historic manuscript,\" Livingston said. \n The diary's new owner is the nephew of Joseph Alsop V and the son of Stewart Alsop, two brothers and influential columnists during the Kennedy presidency. \n \"I'm happy to own it,\" said Alsop, who was 16 when he met Kennedy at his uncle's home in 1960. \"I think it's a wonderful object and a tribute to Kennedy's development as an individual. He displays a remarkable degree of insight into world affairs at a very young age.\" \n Kennedy gave the diary to Deirdre Henderson, a research assistant in his campaign office in the late 1950s who now lives in the Boston area. \n In the diary, Kennedy reflected on his time in a gutted Berlin and even saw Hitler's bunker, speculating that he was not killed. He wrote that Hitler \"had in him the stuff of which legends are made.\" But Henderson said in an interview last month that should not be misinterpreted as sympathy for the German dictator. \n \"He said that in reference to the mystery surrounding him and not the evil he represented,\" Henderson said. \n Kennedy expressed doubt about the effectiveness of the fledgling United Nations, questioning whether it \"will prove effective in the sense of its elaborate mechanics being frequently employed or vitally decisive in deterring war or peace.\" \n Henderson said she put the diary up for sale so it can be properly preserved, and she's confident the winning bidder will respect her wish. She said she wanted the sale to coincide with the 100th anniversary of Kennedy's birth this year. \n \"I'm more than pleased with the outcome,\" Henderson said. \"I think it was the right price at the right time.\" \n Kennedy, the 35th U.S. president, served from January 1961 until he was assassinated in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "JFK diary written in post-WWII Europe sells for $718,000"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n Pop stars will give budding artists a chance to perform a cover of one of their songs in a new YouTube music competition series. \n NEW YORK >> YouTube is launching a new music competition series for emerging artists featuring Backstreet Boys, Demi Lovato and Jason Derulo. \n Ryan Seacrest Productions and Endemol Shine North America announced today that \"Best.Cover.Ever\" will debut on YouTube later this year. \n Ludacris will host the series, where pop stars will give budding artists a chance to perform a cover of one of their songs. The winner will perform a duet version of the song with the star, which will debut on YouTube. \n Fans can submit videos through May 19 for the first phase. The songs include Backstreet Boys' \"As Long As You Love Me,\" Lovato's \"Confident\" and Derulo's \"Trumpets.\" \n Additional artist-participants will be announced at a later date. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "YouTube announces music competition series"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump and his family, daughter Ivanka Trump, her husband senior adviser Jared Kushner and their children Arabella Kushner and Joseph Kushner walk out of the Oval Office of the White House in Washington on March 3. \n WASHINGTON >> Not since John F. Kennedy appointed his brother Bobby to be attorney general and his brother-in-law as director of the Peace Corps has a president leaned so heavily on his family. \n Even Donald Trump's 5-year-old granddaughter Arabella has pitched in. \n As the administration nears its 100-day mark, Trump has established a White House operation with such an unusual commingling of blood, business and government that it has surprised even his own family. \n Ivanka Trump, who once said she'd stick to the role of daughter, now has a West Wing office and the title of assistant to the president after she discovered that \"having one foot in and one foot out wouldn't work.\" Her effort to walk a fine line has not always been easy. During an appearance Tuesday at a women's empowerment conference in Germany, she drew hisses and groans as she defended her father's track record. \n Her husband Jared Kushner is a senior adviser to the president with a bulging and growing portfolio that includes everything from brokering Mideast peace to restructuring the federal government. \n And there was the president's son Eric, in the unofficial role of spokesman, declaring his father would stand up to North Korea's provocations. In an interview, at the White House Easter egg roll no less, saying on behalf of the president: \"You don't want there to be death and destruction and turmoil around the world but, again, you have to have massive backbone when it comes to dealing with awful, awful dictators.\" \n Another Trump son, Don Jr., enhanced his profile during the campaign and early months of his father's presidency to such an extent that there is speculation he'll make his own run for office. And he's leaving that door open, saying the New York governor's seat could be a tempting destination at some point. \n The president's wife, Melania, meanwhile, has been a largely distant presence so far, remaining in New York for the most part while their 11-year-old son Barron finishes out the school year. But she is gradually spending more time in Washington and did give her husband a gentle nudge to put his hand on his heart during the playing of the national anthem at the Easter egg roll. \n Little Arabella chimed in to the Trump team effort by charming Chinese President Xi Jinping by singing a tune in Mandarin during the leaders' recent meeting at Mar-a-Lago. \n There are both pros and cons in staffing up from within one's own family, as Trump is learning. \n The family dynamic has added extra intrigue to the jockeying between rival power centers that is typical in the early days of any White House. The more moderate contingent led by Kushner and Ivanka Trump appears to be ascendant in recent days over those allied with senior strategist Steve Bannon, the former media executive and radio host who's a favorite of conservatives. \n Princeton historian Julian Zelizer says family members may be able to give a president a tough assessment that other staff members would shrink from providing, but they also can become \"so enmeshed in the identity of their family and protecting their father that they can't give honest advice or can't even see problems as they emerge.\" \n Ivanka Trump has been criticized for not speaking out more forcefully when she disagrees with her father. But that doesn't necessarily mean she's not making her views heard. \n \"I would say not to conflate lack of public denouncement with silence,\" she said earlier this month. \n During her appearance this week in Berlin, she said she's still \"rather unfamiliar\" with her new role as first daughter and presidential adviser but hopes to bring advice and feedback \"back to both my father and the president \u2014 and hopefully that will bring about incremental, positive change.\" \n Her husband, meanwhile, has traveled to Iraq with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and has been advising the president on relations with the Middle East, Canada and Mexico. \n The extent of Ivanka Trump's sway with her father is suggested by Eric Trump's recent comment that she likely weighed in before the president decided to bomb Syria in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack. Eric Trump told London's Daily Telegraph: \"She has influence. I'm sure she said, 'Listen, this is horrible stuff.'\" \n The blurry line between the Trump family's business interests and its government connections is another unusual complication of this presidency. Even with sons Don Jr. and Eric tasked with running the Trump businesses while Kushner and Ivanka Trump tend to government affairs, the continuing public-private overlap has generated lots of questions about conflicts of interest. \n The separation between business and government is \"totally artificial,\" says Zelizer. \n Eric Trump's admission to Forbes magazine in February that \"nepotism is kind of a factor of life\" in the Trump family didn't help dispel the impression of an insider's clan, although he stressed that \"if we didn't do a good job, if we weren't competent, believe me, we wouldn't be in this spot.\" \n For all the questions about Trump's reliance on family, some see it as a net positive. \n The value of having a son or daughter on the inside \"is honesty and love,\" says former George H.W. Bush administration staffer Doug Wead, author of books on presidential children and the 2016 campaign. \"They care if your shirt-tail is hanging out. If your hair is messed up, they'll tell you. When everybody else is trying to hide from you, they're going to let you know.\" \n The power \u2014 and peril \u2014 of Kushner's place in Trump World is hinted at by Washington graybeard Henry Kissinger in a write-up for Time's list of 100 most influential people. Kissinger said Kushner's broad education and business background \"should help him make a success of his daunting role flying close to the sun.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "All in the Family: Trump mixes family, governing, business"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman is rescued from a downtown Toronto crane early today. Some streets in the downtown core were closed as dozens of construction workers and commuters gazed skyward to watch police and firefighters try to rescue the woman who got stuck atop the tall construction crane. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police escort a woman who was rescued from a downtown Toronto crane early today. Some streets in the downtown core were closed as dozens of construction workers and commuters gazed skyward to watch police and firefighters try to rescue the woman who got stuck atop a tall construction crane. \n TORONTO >> A woman who was stuck on the top part of a construction crane in downtown Toronto for hours was rescued today after being strapped to a rappelling firefighter and lowered to the ground. \n The woman had been perched on a gently swaying large pulley device for at least four hours and was clinging to a steel cable when a rescuer reached her. \n Toronto Fire Chief Matthew Pegg said his crew had never seen an incident like this before. \n \"It's an outstanding success,\" Pegg said of the operation. \"We train for this, although we've never seen one like this before.\" \n He added, \"She was brought down safely, she didn't appear to be in any distress. This was a very technical, very complex rescue.\" \n Pegg said crews were called to the scene at a construction site at about 4 a.m. A rescue worker began climbing up the crane around 6 a.m. and rappelled down to the woman on the pulley device around 8 a.m., Pegg said. \n The firefighter then carefully strapped himself to the woman and the pair were slowly lowered to the ground about half an hour later. \n Streets in the area were blocked off and bystanders packed nearby sidewalks to watch the dramatic operation unfold. Cheers erupted from the crowd as the firefighter successfully landed on the ground with the woman. \n The woman, believed to be in her 20s, was then handcuffed by police and handed over to paramedics. \n Toronto police said the woman faces a mischief charge. \n Fire crews said there was no immediate indication of why the woman climbed onto the crane in the middle of the night. \n They believe she climbed up the crane, crawled out to the end of it, and slid down a cable to the large pulley device. \n \"She has to tell me how she did it because she has to be our new training officer for high-angle (rescue) because it's impressive,\" said Rob Wonfor, who rappelled down the towering machinery with her. \n \"It was hard enough for me to go up with ropes and harnesses and she free-climbed that.\" \n The 22-year veteran of the fire service said he didn't ask her for an explanation during the rescue because they needed to stay focused. But he noted the woman didn't seem frightened and was \"very calm.\" \n \"She was a brave girl, she helped me when I got there,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Canadian firefighters rescue woman from crane in Toronto"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / APRIL 14 \n Protesters hold up signs outside a courthouse where a federal judge heard arguments in the first lawsuit challenging President Trump's executive order to withhold funding from communities that limit cooperation with immigration authorities in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> President Donald Trump is lashing out at a judge's ruling blocking his attempt to strip funds from \"sanctuary cities\" that don't cooperate with U.S. immigration authorities, calling it \"ridiculous\" and vowing to go to the U.S. Supreme Court.  \n It was the third Trump executive order on immigration to be thwarted by the federal courts. \n Here is a look at Tuesday's ruling and what lies ahead: \n WHAT DID THE FEDERAL JUDGE SAY ABOUT THE SANCTUARY CITIES ORDER?  \n U.S. District Judge William Orrick in San Francisco said the president has no authority to attach new conditions of his own to spending that was approved by Congress. \n The judge further ruled that Trump's order threatened a wide swath of funding \u2014 not the relatively small amount the Justice Department claimed \u2014 and that the government cannot cut off funding if there is no clear connection between the money and the policy at issue. \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions said late today the president was well within his power to issue the executive order and the DOJ would continue to fight the cases in court. It was not clear, however, whether he planned to appeal Orrick's ruling. \n WHAT COULD TRUMP DO NEXT?  \n Trump could appeal to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. But that was the court that blocked the president's first travel ban against seven Muslim countries. Eighteen of the 25 active judges on the court were appointed by Democrats. Trump has said he wants to go to the U.S. Supreme Court, which would have the final say if it decided to take up the case. \n Trump could also revise his executive order to explicitly tie it to the three relatively modest Justice Department and Homeland Security grants that the administration argued were at stake. \n Orrick said his ruling does not affect the administration's ability to enforce existing conditions on federal grants. \n WHAT ELSE COULD THE ADMINISTRATION DO?  \n Trump could push Congress to pass a law giving him clear authority to revoke certain funding, said Margo Schlanger, a University of Michigan law professor and former head of civil rights at Homeland Security during the Obama administration. \n But Schlanger said whatever action is taken may not survive court scrutiny if it's seen as unduly coercive. \n \"Suppose you said you can't have any money at all unless you participate fully in immigration arrests,\" she said. \"That would be so big it would be coercive.\" \n Additionally, for the law to survive, there must be a connection between the money at stake and the immigration policy the president is seeking to enforce, Schlanger said. \n It is not clear how close that link has to be, but Trump presumably would not be allowed to withdraw funding for, say, highway construction to force a city to stop protecting immigrants from deportation. \n WHAT OTHER CHALLENGES LIE AHEAD FOR THE SANCTUARY CITIES ORDER?  \n Orrick ruled on two cases brought by the city of San Francisco and California's Santa Clara County. Seattle and two cities in Massachusetts, Lawrence and Chelsea, have also sued. \n WHAT WAS THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S STAND ON FUNDING FOR SANCTUARY CITIES?  \n Last year, the Justice Department notified recipients of criminal justice grants that they must obey a federal law that says local governments cannot forbid their employees from cooperating with U.S. immigration authorities. \n Recipients were reminded that that they could face penalties, such as the loss of grants, for not complying. \n An inspector general's memo from last year said authorities were unaware of any legal action taken by the Obama administration to compel states or local governments to cooperate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "What could be next for Trump's sanctuary cities order"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "Pope Francis salutes at the end of his weekly general audience in St. Peter square at the Vatican today. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis is warning the powerful to act humbly or risk ruin, using the first-ever papal TED talk to urge the world to show more solidarity with the poor and the weak. \n Francis delivered a videotaped talk to a TED conference in Vancouver on \"The Future You.\" TED, short for Technology, Entertainment and Design, organizes conferences around the world aiming to spread ideas through short talks. \n The Vatican released the video today. In it, Francis outlined his vision of the interconnectedness of humanity, saying that with age he has grown increasingly convinced that \"none of us is an island.\" \n \"Please allow me to say it loud and clear: The more powerful you are, the more your actions will have an impact on people, the more you are called to be humble,\" he said. \"If you don't, your power will ruin you, and you will ruin others.\" \n He cited a saying from his native Argentina about the effects of drinking gin on an empty stomach: \"You feel dizzy, you get drunk, you lose your balance and you will end up hurting yourself and those around you if you don't connect your power with humility and tenderness.\" \n Francis pleaded for greater solidarity in political, economic and scientific endeavors. \n \"How wonderful would it be, while we discover faraway planets, to rediscover the needs of the brothers and sisters orbiting around us,\" he said. \"How wonderful would it be if solidarity \u2014 this beautiful and sometimes inconvenient word \u2014 were not simply reduced to social work and became instead the default attitude in political, economic and scientific choices.\" \n Francis' participation in the TED conference marked a new era for the Vatican's communications operation, which has increasingly sought to get the pope's message out via social media and nontraditional news sources. \n The reaction in Rome was positive. \n \"These days, communications and the Ted Talks are very powerful,\" Bob Livingstone, a tourist from Brisbane, Australia said after Francis' Wednesday general audience in St. Peter's Square. \"Every politician does (it) and he is a politician for the church.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope warns powerful to act humbly or risk ruin in TED talk"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n President Trump complained that the government over the years has forced states and schools to comply with \"federal whims.\" He said the order will help restore local control over education. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump signed an executive order today that aims to reduce the federal government's role in K-12 education. \n Trump is giving Education Secretary Betsy DeVos just short of a year \u2014 300 days \u2014 to identify areas where Washington has overstepped its legal authority in education, and modify and repeal regulations and guidance from her department, if necessary. A report will be returned to the White House and eventually made public, officials said. \n Trump complained that the government over the years has forced states and schools to comply with \"federal whims.\" He said the order will help restore local control over education. \n \"We know that local communities do it best and know it best,\" Trump said, surrounded by governors, members of Congress and teachers. \"The time has come to empower parents and teachers to make the decisions that help their students achieve success.\" \n Republicans have long chafed at federal government involvement in education, asserting that states and local governments, school boards and parents are best positioned to decide what students learn. Antipathy toward the Education Department ramped up under Trump's predecessor, President Barack Obama, who offered states billions of dollars of federal money to help improve their schools in exchange for adopting certain academic standards. \n DeVos said time has shown that \"one-size fits all policies and mandates from Washington simply don't work.\" \n But Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, the nation's second-largest teachers' union, said the review was unnecessary because a bipartisan education law enacted in late 2015 had already shifted power from the federal government to states. \n \"This is a case of been there, done that,\" Weingarten said. She stressed that the law also contains key civil rights provisions that the federal government is obligated to uphold. \n The Center for Education Reform, which advocates for charter schools, said Trump's executive order will promote innovation and freedom. \n \"Conducting such a review is part and parcel of ensuring that education innovation and opportunity are able to take root throughout our various education sectors,\" the organization said in a statement. \"The connection between freedom and excellence is no secret.\" \n Later today, Trump honored teachers as he welcomed the National Teacher of the Year and state-level winners to the Oval Office. \n \"There is nothing more important than being a teacher,\" he said. \n Trump promised during the campaign to give state and local governments more control over education. \n The executive order is one of several the president is signing this week as he seeks to notch accomplishments by Saturday, his 100th day in office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Order seeks to limit federal role in K-12 education"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United Airlines planes are parked at their gates in 2015 as another plane, top, taxis past them at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston. \n LONDON >> United Airlines is reviewing its handling of a giant showcase rabbit that died after being shipped across the Atlantic from Britain on one of its flights, the latest in a growing list of customer complaints. \n Distraught breeder Annette Edwards told The Associated Press by phone today that a veterinarian had checked Simon \u2014 a 10-month-old, 3-foot-long continental rabbit \u2014 shortly before the animal was placed on a United flight from London's Heathrow Airport to Chicago's O'Hare. \n Edwards said Simon is the offspring of Darius, which the Guinness World Records lists as the world's longest rabbit at 4 feet 3 inches. \n \"Simon had his vet check just before getting on the plane,\" she said from Worcestershire in central England. \"He was fit as a fiddle.\" \n United spokesman Charles Hobart said the rabbit was moving around in its crate and appeared healthy when taken off the plane in O'Hare, waiting to be put on another flight to Kansas City. About a half-hour later, at the company-run pet facility, Simon seemed to be sleeping. Shortly after that, a pet facility employee opened the cage and found the rabbit dead. He says the airline is reviewing its handling of the animal. \n \"We won't know the cause of death, because we offered to perform a necropsy free of charge \u2014 that's standard procedure \u2014 but the customer didn't want us to perform a necropsy, and we understand,\" he said. \n Hobart said the airline offered compensation to the breeder but would not disclose the amount. \n Bryan Bergdale, a farmland investment manager, said he bought the rabbit for his boss, who had hoped to show it at the Iowa State Fair. He had driven from the Des Moines area to Kansas City and was nearing the airport last Thursday when United called with the bad news. At first, he didn't believe it. \n \"We'd built a pen and had toys all ready. It's sort of a sad deal,\" he said. \n Bergdale, 29, said he'd tracked down the breeder and bought the rabbit for his boss, Steve Bruere, who owns a farm real estate company in the Des Moines suburb of Clive. Bergdale said the rabbit cost $530 and the shipping was $1,800. \n Bergdale said the United representative didn't say anything about compensating him for the loss. \n \"We're still in the mourning process,\" he said. \"We're not quite sure what we're going to do.\" \n United had the second-highest level of animal deaths and injuries of any U.S. airline last year, or 2.11 per 10,000 animals transported, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation. Only Hawaiian Airlines was worse at 3.99, the result of three deaths among the 7,518 animals it transported. \n United transported 109,149 animals last year, second only to Alaska Airlines with 112,281. United reported nine deaths and 14 injuries, the highest figures for each category among U.S. carriers. Alaska reported two deaths and one injury. \n United said it works to protect the safety of animals through its PetSafe program, which is staffed 24 hours a day and allows pet owners to track their animals from point of origin to destination. \n \"Travel can be stressful for animals,\" Hobart said, adding that the carrier has plenty of tips for those who do decide to ship their animals. \n United is already working to repair its battered image after a passenger who refused to give up his seat on an overbooked flight was forcibly dragged from a plane at O'Hare Airport. \n Airport security officers removed David Dao, a 69-year-old from Kentucky, from the United Express flight. Images of his bloodied face were widely circulated on social media, forcing United CEO Oscar Munoz to apologize. Munoz was widely faulted for his early responses to the situation. He first blamed Dao but later apologized repeatedly for United's handling of the situation. \n Two weeks earlier, United was criticized after a gate agent stopped two young girls from boarding a flight because they were wearing leggings. The airline said leggings violate the dress code of the United Pass program, a benefit for employees and their dependents. \n The airline said last week that Munoz would not automatically become chairman of the carrier's parent company, United Continental Holdings, next year as originally planned. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Death of giant British rabbit adds to United Airlines' woes"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n The VA said in a statement today that the hiring restrictions were needed to \"streamline VA's corporate structure and administrative positions.\" While President Trump's budget blueprint calls for a 6 percent increase in VA funding, the memo indicated that the government's second-largest agency was no different from other departments that needed to improve. \n WASHINGTON >> Despite the lifting of a federal hiring freeze, the Department of Veterans Affairs is leaving thousands of positions unfilled, citing the need for a leaner VA as it develops a longer-term plan to allow more veterans to seek medical care in the private sector. \n The order by VA Secretary David Shulkin is described in an internal April 14 memorandum obtained by The Associated Press. The VA indicated it would proceed with filling open positions previously exempted under the hiring freeze. Noting that the White House had ordered all departments to be leaner and \"more accountable,\" the VA indicated that more than 4,000 jobs would still be left vacant unless they were specially approved \"position by position\" by top VA leadership as addressing an \"absolute critical need.\" \n These positions include roughly 4,000 in the VA's health arm and 200 in benefits, plus more than 400 information technology positions and over a 100 human resource positions, according to VA data provided to the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee earlier this month. Government auditors have previously faulted the department for recent shortages in IT and HR, which it said had hurt its ability to recruit and hire key staff department-wide. \n Major veterans organizations also worry this could be a sign of future tightening at the VA, coming after the department had previously warned it would need \"hiring surges\" to address a rapidly growing disability backlog. The groups have cautioned against any \"privatization\" efforts at the VA that could expand private care for veterans while reducing investment in the VA itself. \n \"It seems to be a reversal of what they have been saying, and it's disappointing,\" said Garry Augustine, executive director of Disabled American Veterans' Washington headquarters. \n Carlos Fuentes, legislative director of Veterans of Foreign Wars, said his group was concerned the VA would overlook positions that didn't directly affect health care, such as staffing of its suicide prevention hotline. \n The VA said in a statement today that the hiring restrictions were needed to \"streamline VA's corporate structure and administrative positions.\" \n While President Donald Trump's budget blueprint calls for a 6 percent increase in VA funding, the memo indicated that the government's second-largest agency with nearly 370,000 employees was no different from other departments that needed to improve \"efficiency, effectiveness and accountability.\" It left open the possibility of \"near-term\" and \"long-term workforce reductions.\" Shulkin is also putting together a broader proposal by fall to expand the VA's Choice program of private-sector care. \n \"This memo lifts the federal hiring freeze. However, this does not mean business as usual for hiring,\" stated VA chief of staff Vivieca Wright Simpson. She said VA leadership aimed to proceed in the coming months with \"deliberative hiring strategies\" as it seeks to build \"a future VA of Choice.\" \n The memo comes as the Trump administration seeks to highlight accomplishment and accountability at the VA. During the 2016 campaign, Trump repeatedly criticized the VA as \"the most corrupt\" and pledged to expand private care. \n Trump planned to sign an executive order Thursday at the VA to create a new Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection. The head of the office will report directly to the secretary to help VA officials identify \"barriers\" that impede the reassignment of employees who are no longer deemed fit to work at the department in the service of veterans, Shulkin said at a White House briefing. \n Existing employees will staff the office. Shulkin said he didn't have an exact figure on what the office would cost. \n Shulkin also has signaled, without naming specific locations, that underutilized VA facilities will have to close. \"There are some parts of the country where facilities are sitting empty, and there is no sense in keeping them empty,\" he has said. \n The Republican-led House last month approved legislation to make it easier for the VA to fire, suspend or demote employees for poor performance or bad conduct. But the measure has been slow to move in the Senate after Democrats and unions cast it as an attack on workers' rights. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "VA limiting new hiring as it aims to widen private care"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CNN MONEY \n President Trump can withdraw from NAFTA \u2014 but he has to give six months' notice. And it is unclear what would happen next. The law Congress passed to enact the trade pact might remain in place, forcing Trump to wrangle with lawmakers and raising questions about the president's authority to raise tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is considering a draft executive order to withdraw the U.S. from the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada \u2014 though administration officials caution it's just one of a number of options currently being discussed by the president and his staff. \n Senior White House officials have been discussing steps that can be taken to start the process of renegotiating or withdrawing from NAFTA before the end of President Donald Trump's first 100 days in office, according to a person familiar with the president's thinking. Trump railed against the decades-old trade deal during his campaign, describing it as a \"disaster.\" \n But the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss internal deliberations, said a number of options remain on the table, and discussions are ongoing about the best way to proceed. \n White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to comment on the order, which was first reported by Politico. \n \"The president has made addressing the problems of NAFTA a priority throughout the campaign, and once the president makes a decision about how he wants to address that, we'll let you know,\" he said. \n The administration appears to be divided over how and when to proceed, as they balance a newfound cautiousness with the desire to rack up accomplishments before Trump's 100th day on the job. \n Some are gunning for Trump to sign a draft order this week, while others are weighing the complications surrounding withdrawing from or renegotiating the deal without Congress fully onboard. The debate played out in the press today as some outlets quoted officials insisting the signing was imminent, while other officials dismissed the reports as \"just a rumor.\" \n \"My practice is to comment on things we've actually done or are doing as opposed to commenting on rumors,\" Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told reporters at an unrelated White House briefing tonight. \n Trump can withdraw from NAFTA \u2014 but he has to give six months' notice. And it is unclear what would happen next. The law Congress passed to enact the trade pact might remain in place, forcing Trump to wrangle with lawmakers and raising questions about the president's authority to raise tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports. \n And while an executive order could direct the United States Trade Representative or others to look into steps needed to renegotiate or withdraw, the same could be accomplished with a simple phone call, making an order largely symbolic. \n The discussion comes days after the administration announced it would slap hefty tariffs on softwood lumber being imported from Canada. Trump has also been railing against changes in Canadian milk product pricing that he says are hurting the American dairy industry. \n Trump told The Associated Press in an interview last week that he plans to either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA, which he and other critics blame for wiping out U.S. manufacturing jobs because it allowed companies to move factories to Mexico to take advantage of low-wage labor. \n \"I am very upset with NAFTA. I think NAFTA has been a catastrophic trade deal for the United States, trading agreement for the United States. It hurts us with Canada, and it hurts us with Mexico,\" he said. \n Another senior White House official declined to comment on \"rumors\" of specific actions. But that official said NAFTA has been a top priority for the president since day one and the administration has been working on addressing the issues since the president took office. That person also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration's thinking. \n The Trump administration last month submitted a vague set of guidelines to Congress for renegotiating NAFTA, disappointing those who were expecting Trump to demand a major overhaul. \n In an eight-page draft letter to Congress, acting U.S. Trade Representative Stephen Vaughn wrote that the administration intended to start talking with Mexico and Canada about making changes to the pact, which took effect in 1994. \n The letter spelled out few details and stuck with broad principles. But it appeared to keep much of the existing agreement in place, including private tribunals that allow companies to challenge national laws on the grounds that they inhibit trade \u2014 a provision that critics say allows companies to get around environmental and labor laws. \n Reports today of the possible move drew objections from some in Congress, including Sen. John McCain of Arizona. \n \"Withdrawing from #NAFTA would be a disaster for #Arizona jobs & economy,\" he tweeted. \"POTUS shouldn't abandon this vital trade agreement.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump considers action on NAFTA ahead of 100-day mark"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this April 28, 1993 photo provided by the San Diego Natural History Museum, a bulldozer refills the Cerutti Mastodon site in San Diego, Calif., after the excavation and salvage of fossils. \n NEW YORK >> A startling new report asserts that the first known Americans arrived much, much earlier than scientists thought \u2014 more than 100,000 years ago \u2014\u2014 and maybe they were Neanderthals. \n If true, the finding would far surpass the widely accepted date of about 15,000 years ago. \n Researchers say a site in Southern California shows evidence of humanlike behavior from about 130,000 years ago, when bones and teeth of an elephantlike mastodon were evidently smashed with rocks. \n The earlier date means the bone-smashers were not necessarily members of our own species, Homo sapiens. The researchers speculate that these early Californians could have instead been species known only from fossils in Europe, Africa and Asia: Neanderthals, a little-known group called Denisovans, or another human forerunner named Homo erectus. \n \"The very honest answer is, we don't know,\" said Steven Holen, lead author of the paper and director of the nonprofit Center for American Paleolithic Research in Hot Springs, South Dakota. No remains of any individuals were found. \n Whoever they were, they could have arrived by land or sea. They might have come from Asia via the Beringea land bridge that used to connect Siberia to Alaska, or maybe come across by watercraft along the Beringea coast or across open water to North America, before turning southward to California, Holen said in a telephone interview. \n Holen and others present their evidence in a paper released today by the journal Nature . Not surprisingly, the report was met by skepticism from other experts who don't think there is enough proof. \n The research dates back to the winter of 1992-3. The site was unearthed during a routine dig by researchers during a freeway expansion project in San Diego. Analysis of the find was delayed to assemble the right expertise, said Tom Demere, curator of paleontology at the San Diego Natural History Museum, another author of the paper. \n The Nature analysis focuses on remains from a single mastodon, and five stones found nearby. The mastodon's bones and teeth were evidently placed on two stones used as anvils and smashed with three stone hammers, to get at nutritious marrow and create raw material for tools. \n Patterns of damage on the limb bones looked like what happened in experiments when elephant bones were smashed with rocks. And the bones and stones were found in two areas, each roughly centered on what's thought to be an anvil. \n The stones measured about 8 inches to 12 inches long and weighed up to 32 pounds. They weren't hand-crafted tools, Demere said. The users evidently found them and brought them to the site. \n The excavation also found a mastodon tusk in a vertical position, extending down into older layers, which may indicate it had been jammed into the ground as a marker or to create a platform, Demere said. \n The fate of the visitors is not clear. Maybe they died out without leaving any descendants, he said. \n Experts not connected with the study provided a range of reactions. \n \"If the results stand up to further scrutiny, this does indeed change everything we thought we knew,\" said Chris Stringer of the Natural History Museum in London. Neanderthals and Denisovans are the most likely identities of the visitors, he said. Denisovans, more closely related to Neanderthals than to us, are known from fossils found in a Siberian cave. \n But \"many of us will want to see supporting evidence of this ancient occupation from other sites, before we abandon the conventional model of a first arrival by modern humans within the last 15,000 years,\" he wrote in an email. \n Erella Hovers of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University in Tempe, who wrote a commentary accompanying the work, said in an email that the archaeological interpretation seemed convincing. Some other experts said the age estimate appears sound. \n But some were skeptical that the rocks were really used as tools. Vance Holliday of the University of Arizona in Tucson said the paper shows the bones could have been broken the way the authors assert, but they haven't demonstrated that's the only way. \n Richard Potts of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, said he doesn't reject the paper's claims outright, but he finds the evidence \"not yet solid.\" For one thing, the dig turned up no basic stone cutting tools or evidence of butchery or the use of fire, as one might expect from Homo sapiens or our close evolutionary relatives. \n The lead author, Holen, told reporters Tuesday that he and co-authors were ready for such criticism. \n \"We expected skepticism because of the extremely old age of this site,\" he said. \"I think we made a very good case.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French centrist presidential election candidate Emmanuel Macron, center, makes his way at the Whirlpool home appliance factory today in Amiens, northern France. \n Emmanuel Macron avoided a pitfall on his path to the French presidency, largely quieting an angry crowd of factory workers who'd been fired up a couple of hours earlier by his rival Marine Le Pen. \n The scene in front of the gates of the Whirlpool appliance plant at Amiens in northern France, Macron's hometown, had the makings of a media ambush, and it ignited what's likely to be a combative closing stretch of the campaign. The centrist frontrunner was there to meet union officials at the factory, which is slated to close \u2014 a difficult but apparently routine event. Instead, it became a media circus when Le Pen unexpectedly showed up. \n The populist leader, who accuses France's mainstream politicians of selling out to globalization, posed for photos with workers on the picket line. She blasted Macron for showing \"contempt\" for their plight by holding his talks behind closed doors. Footage rapidly spread across social media. \n Less than two hours later, Macron, the 39-year old defender of free trade and the European Union, rejigged his plans and arrived at the factory himself, to be greeted by burning tires and some shouts of \"Marine President.\" But Macron didn't budge. For an hour and twenty minutes, he absorbed much of the anger and taunts, vowed to tell the truth about what was possible, and slammed Le Pen for demagoguery. \"When she tells you the solution is to turn back globalization, she's lying,\" he said. \n 'HE TRIED' \n Some in the crowd continued to jeer at Macron for a while, but by the time he left there was no booing. He shook hands with all the workers. At least one of them had been convinced. \n \"When he arrived I was not happy to see him \u2014 he came because she came,\" said Celia Blagny, a 20-year-old factory employee. \"But he spoke to us. I'm not sure he can truly help us. But he tried.\" Blagny said she's no fan of Le Pen, but her views of Macron changed after the encounter: \"He was quiet and honest.\" She said she may now try to persuade her mother \"to go for Macron instead of staying home.\" \n The showdown in the medium-sized industrial town, a scene of battles in both world wars, encapsulates the fight over free trade and European cooperation that's central to the election. Macron says he's defending the bulwarks of France's prosperity over half a century, while Le Pen argues that they're no longer working for most French people. \n For Macron, the stakes were high. The political novice and former banker is tipped by polls to win the May 7 runoff handily, by as much as 20 percentage points. But he stumbled at the start of the two-week, head-to-head contest that followed last weekend's first round of voting. \n 'LIKE AN ELITIST' \n Macron held a celebratory dinner in Paris for campaign staff, which played perfectly into Le Pen's effort to paint him as an out-of-touch member of the country's privileged ruling caste. Today's scene at the factory had the potential to reinforce that branding. \n \"Le Pen knows the only shot she has at winning is making Macron look like an elitist,\" said Antonio Barroso, an analyst at Teneo Research in London. \"The irony is she may have handed him the perfect counter-punch and he looks set to dominate the news cycle.\" \n Amiens is part of the Hauts de France region, which has an unemployment rate of about 12 percent, the highest in the country. Le Pen scored almost a third of the vote there in the first round, while Macron tied for second place with far-left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon. \n Macron stuck to his free-trade positions during his tour of the region, repeatedly citing a nearby Procter & Gamble factory that exports 90 percent of its output. \"If Madame Le Pen is elected, this company closes. And I can mention dozens like it,\" he said. \n Le Pen's charge that Macron is too cozy with the bosses did resonate with some of the Amiens crowd. \"Macron is the worst of free-market politics,\" said Clement Pons, a 32-year-old unemployed man. \"He's a globalist who will kill the working class. He makes me want to throw up.\" \n There may be more confrontational scenes in the coming days, as Le Pen seeks to overturn her poll deficit. \"War Declared\" was Liberation newspaper's Thursday headline. \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Macron holds his own after walking into Le Pen's media ambush"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Far-right French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is greeted by workers outside a whirlpool home appliance factory in Amiens, France, today. While her centrist presidential opponent Macron was meeting with union leaders from the Whirlpool plant in northern France, Le Pen popped up outside the factory itself, amid its workers and declared herself the candidate of France's workers. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French centrist presidential election candidate Emmanuel Macron, center, talks to workers at the Whirlpool home appliance factory, today in Amiens, northern France. Far-right French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has earlier upstaged Macron as she made a surprise campaign stop to the plant. \n AMIENS, France >> Far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen turned an appliance factory into a battleground today for France's blue-collar vote, upstaging rival Emmanuel Macron with a surprise campaign stop at the plant threatened with closure. \n Further reading \n Chaotic scenes followed as Macron, a pro-European Union centrist, sought to wrestle back the initiative by making his own, impromptu stop at the Whirlpool clothes-dryer plant in Amiens, spending over an hour in Le Pen's wake trying to reason with angry employees who asked why the former finance minister hadn't come there earlier. \n The remarkable drama, broadcast live on French news channels, transformed the plant in northern France into a symbol of the diametrically opposed campaigns of Le Pen and Macron before their May 7 runoff election. \n As Macron met elsewhere with the workers' union leaders, Le Pen displayed her political guile by grabbing the spotlight and popping up outside the factory itself. Surrounded by employees in bright-yellow hazard vests, she declared herself the workers' candidate and vowed that if elected, she would not let the factory close. \n \"We'll get you out of here,\" Le Pen said as she hugged a woman in the crowd outside the plant, its fences decorated with workers' banners. \"I am the candidate of workers, the candidate of the French who don't want their jobs taken away.\" \n Her wily campaign maneuver stole Macron's thunder and put him on the defensive. It prompted him to make his own trip to the factory a few hours later \u2014 which quickly looked like he had fallen into a trap set by Le Pen. Live TV coverage of his visit looked chaotic and potentially damaging, with people whistling, booing and chanting \"Marine, president!\" in the background. \n \"Why didn't you come before?\" one woman asked. \n \"Save our jobs, Monsieur Macron!\" yelled a man. \n But Macron, appearing in a suit and tie amid the workers, held his ground. Where Le Pen's visit was short \u2014 with a few selfies, hugs, kisses and a quick speech to the cameras \u2014 Macron spent over an hour patiently, and at times passionately, explaining in often-heated exchanges that as president, he wouldn't be able to stop companies from laying off workers. The back and forth was shown live on Macron's Facebook page, signaling a desire not to let Le Pen hog the limelight. \n \"I won't lie to you,\" he said. \"There is no miracle recipe.\" \n The contrasting images of Le Pen smiling with workers and Macron debating them spoke to her political experience and laid bare their contrasting styles. \n The 48-year-old populist is fighting her second presidential campaign after coming in third in 2012, while the 39-year-old former investment banker is waging his first, having never held elected office. \n Le Pen hit Macron close to home with her politicking: He was born in Amiens. \n Needing millions more votes to beat Macron in the runoff, Le Pen hammered home her arguments that more French jobs would be lost abroad under Macron's more economically liberal program. \n \"I'm here, in my place, exactly where I should be, in the midst of Whirlpool's employees, these employees who are resisting this wild globalization, this shameful economic model,\" Le Pen said. \n In a dig at Macron's meeting with union leaders, she added: \"I'm not eating little cakes with a few representatives who, in reality, represent only themselves.\" \n During an evening political rally in nearby Arras, Macron tried to reverse the unflattering image he gave in the afternoon. He vehemently attacked Le Pen, saying she \"stirs up hatred, lies, speaks about fears in order to use them, but gives no answers.\" \n While Le Pen presents herself as an anti-establishment candidate, Macron claimed on the contrary that she is \"the heiress of this system. She was born in a party castle, even if she claims to be from the people.\" \n He also criticized Le Pen for proposing that the French state take a share in the plant if needed. He dismissed such an idea, saying in an interview with BFM TV channel that \"the mission of a state is not to produce clothes dryers.\" \n In Arras, Macron also tried to appeal to left-wing voters and non-voters. \n \"Faced with this threat, facing those who hate the Republic and create disorder and hatred, choose a camp,\" he said. \"I need your vote. Your vote is not a blank check.\" \n Even before Le Pen's surprise appearance at the plant, Macron's intervention in the Whirlpool factory's future, in a region where Le Pen got more votes in Sunday's first-round balloting, was fraught with risk. He had to tread a fine line between defending his program to tackle France's chronic unemployment without falling into the trap of making campaign promises that he may struggle to keep. \n Because production at the Whirlpool plant is due to stop next year and move to Poland, the workers' plight is a prickly issue for Macron as he campaigns on a pro-EU platform. \n Le Pen seized on Whirlpool as a sign of the EU's ills, calling it \"the symbol of this odious globalization, which leads to plants moving abroad, destroying thousands of jobs.\" \n Macron insisted he did the right thing by meeting with union leaders before going the factory itself. \n \"If you don't speak to employees' representatives and engage in direct democracy, using invective or false promises, you don't solve any of the country's problems,\" he said. \n He shot down Le Pen's plans to re-establish French borders \u2014 part of her program calling for \"French-first\" economic and social protectionism. \n \"The closure of borders is a promise made of lies,\" Macron said. \n The Amiens factory joins a list of threatened plants that have become symbolic of job losses in French presidential campaigns. \n In the 2012 race, Socialist Francois Hollande traveled to a threatened steel plant in eastern France's rust belt in a similar pursuit of blue-collar votes. Union leaders later felt betrayed when the Hayange plant's blast furnaces were mothballed in a deal that Hollande's government struck with steel giant ArcelorMittal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Le Pen upstages Macron in battle for blue-collar votes"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This file aerial photograph taken March 2013 shows the Rio Grande Gorge, looking north from the Taos Gorge Bridge, which is now part of the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument near Taos, N.M. \n SANTA FE, N.M. >> President Donald's Trumps executive order to review the designation of national monuments on federal lands could scuttle an unapproved land swap with the state of New Mexico designed to generate more local income for education, the state's land commissioner said today. \n New Mexico Land Commissioner Aubrey Dunn said Trump's order may hinder negotiations to transfer 65 square miles (165 square kilometers) of state land holdings into the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument in Northern New Mexico. In exchange, New Mexico would receive scattered BLM property elsewhere that can generate lease revenue for the state. \n The possible trade also involves state holdings in the BLM's Sabinoso Wilderness Area in northeastern New Mexico. \n Dunn says the land swaps could expand recreational opportunities, while generating additional annual state revenues from grazing to go toward education. \n \"We're talking $50,000 \u2014 that could be a teaching position, that could be instructional materials,\" Dunn said. Additional income might come from other commercial development of natural resources, he said. \n BLM Spokeswoman Donna Hummel confirmed the agency has been in discussions with the State Land Office on the land transfer described by Dunn, without yet initiating an agreement that would go through a public approval process. \n Trump directed his interior secretary to review the designation of dozens of national monuments on federal lands, describing \"a massive federal land grab\" by previous administrations. The order covers several dozen monuments designated since 1996. \n President Barack Obama designated the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument on the outskirts of Taos by proclamation in 2013. \n Dunn said he fears the land exchange could be delayed beyond the end of his four-year term at the end of 2018, when any successor could reject the plan. Dunn has yet to declare whether he will run for re-election as land commissioner. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump order could scuttle New Mexico land swap"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lucas St. Clair, son of Burt's Bees founder Roxanne Quimby, poses on land in August 2015 proposed for a national park in Penobscot County, Maine. Mount Katahdin, the state's highest peak, can be seen in the background as a rainstorm passes through Baxter State Park. St. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> The Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument created by Democratic former President Barack Obama doesn't comprise enough land to trigger an automatic review under an executive order signed today by Republican President Donald Trump. \n But it could be scrutinized nonetheless if the interior secretary determines the federal land designation on 87,500 acres was made \"without adequate public outreach and coordination with relevant stakeholders.\" \n Trump accused the previous administration of turning a 1906 law that lets the president protect federal land into a \"massive federal land grab.\" \n Republican Maine Gov. Paul LePage, who previously called Obama's creation of Katahdin Woods and Waters a \"terrible decision,\" joined several members of Congress in watching the president formally sign the executive order that triggers the review of dozens of federal monument designations. \n Such land is generally off limits to timber harvesting, mining and pipelines and commercial development. Many national parks, including Maine's Acadia National Park and the Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona, started with monument status. \n But there was confusion because the order applied to land exceeding 100,000 acres and the smaller Maine monument was left off a Trump administration list of 24 larger monuments targeted for review. \n The Maine land designation still could be reviewed, however, if Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke finds local residents were left out of the process. \n \"The secretary has not yet made a determination on any monument but he is very interested in listening to the concerns of the people most affected,\" said Interior Department spokeswoman Heather Swift. \n LePage took to Twitter today to make his thoughts on the matter clear. \n \"Local referendums, county commissioners, Legislature voted against Katahdin Woods,\" he tweeted. \"Didn't have adequate public outreach.\" \n Obama created the Maine monument last summer on privately donated land east of Baxter State Park, home to Mount Katahdin, Maine's tallest mountain. \n Regardless of the outcome of Trump's review, it's unclear if the president can undo such a land designation. The Antiquities Act doesn't give the president power to dissolve a monument designation by a previous president. So far, no president has ever taken such a step. \n In northern Maine, critics fear federal ownership could stymie economic development in the Katahdin region. But supporters are hoping for an economic boost from the people visiting the region to see the land. \n In the Katahdin region, local officials were left to wonder about what happens next. Millinocket Town Council Chairman Michael Madore said he'd be discussing the matter with fellow councilors Thursday. \n \"I find the latest development in the debate whether to overturn the monument disturbing because of the uncertainty,\" he said. \n The land east of Baxter State Park was bought by Burt's Bees co-founder Roxanne Quimby, whose foundation donated it to the federal government. \n Her son, Lucas St. Clair, urged the governor this week to pay a visit to the land before declaring it to be unworthy of federal protection. \n Peter Steele, the governor's communications director, said LePage knows the area because he used to work in the forest products industry. \n \"The governor knows the back ways and logging roads of the Maine forest better than the state troopers who used to patrol Aroostook, Penobscot and Piscataquis counties,\" Steele said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Presidential order creates confusion about Maine monument"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks at the Interior Department in Washington, today, before signing an Antiquities Executive Order. The president is asking for a review of the designation of tens of millions of acres of land as \"national monuments.\" \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump signed an executive order today directing his interior secretary to review the designation of dozens of national monuments on federal lands, calling the protection efforts \"a massive federal land grab\" by previous administrations. \n Further reading \n It was yet another executive action from a president trying to rack up accomplishments before his first 100 days in office, with Saturday marking that milestone. And it could upend protections put in place in Utah and other states under a 1906 law that authorizes the president to declare federal lands as monuments and restrict their use. \n During a signing ceremony at the Interior Department, Trump said the order would end \"another egregious abuse of federal power\" and \"give that power back to the states and to the people where it belongs.\" \n Trump accused the Obama administration of using the Antiquities Act to \"unilaterally put millions of acres of land and water under strict federal control\" \u2014 a practice Trump derided as \"a massive federal land grab.\" \n \"Somewhere along the way the Act has become a tool of political advocacy rather than public interest,\" Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said. \"And it's easy to see why designations in some cases are viewed negatively by those local communities that are impacted the most.\" \n In December, shortly before leaving office, President Barack Obama infuriated Utah Republicans by creating the Bears Ears National Monument on more than 1 million acres of land that's sacred to Native Americans and home to tens of thousands of archaeological sites, including ancient cliff dwellings. \n Republicans in the state asked Trump to take the unusual step of reversing Obama's decision. They said the designation will stymie growth by closing the area to new commercial and energy development. The Antiquities Act does not give the president explicit power to undo a designation and no president has ever taken such a step. \n Trump's order was one of a handful he intended to sign this week in a flurry of developments before his 100th day in office. The president has used executive orders aggressively over the past three months; as a candidate, Trump railed against Obama's use of this power. \n Today's order will cover several dozen monuments across the country designated since 1996. They total 100,000 acres or more and include the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument and Bear Ears, both in Utah. \n Zinke was directed to produce an interim report in 45 days and make a recommendation on Bears Ears, and then issue a final report within 120 days. \n Zinke said that over the past 20 years, the designation of tens of millions of acres as national monuments have limited the lands' use for farming, timber harvesting, mining and oil and gas exploration, and other commercial purposes. \n While designations have done \"a great service to the public,\" Zinke said the \"local community affected should have a voice.\" \n Some, including Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, have hailed the order as the end of \"land grabs\" by presidents dating to Bill Clinton. \n But Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., said that if Trump truly wants to make America great again, he should use the law to protect and conserve America's public lands. In New Mexico, Obama's designation of Rio Grande del Norte National Monument and Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument have preserved important lands while boosting the economy, Heinrich said, and that story has repeated across the country. \n \"If this sweeping review is an excuse to cut out the public and scale back protections, I think this president is going to find a very resistant public,\" Heinrich said. \n Members of a coalition of five Western tribes that pushed for the Bears Ears National Monument said they're outraged the administration will review a decision they say was already carefully vetted by the Obama administration, including a multi-day visit last summer by then-Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. \n Davis Filfred, the Navajo Nation representative on the coalition, said it would be heart-breaking if the review leads to an attempt to strip the monument of designation. \n \"Once it's designated, it's designated. He should just honor our past leaders and those who were before him,\" Filfred said. \"He's disregarding the Native Americans, the first people of this nation. This is sacred land.\" \n Filfred said he and the coalition won't stand by idly if Zinke tries to undo the designation. \"He's going to be in for a fight. We're not going to let this down easy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump: national monuments a 'massive federal land grab'"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "LITTLE ROCK, Ark. >> Arkansas' aggressive effort to execute condemned inmates is set to conclude Thursday after the state Supreme Court refused to halt the execution of a man who killed a former deputy prison warden following an escape. \n Further reading \n Kenneth Williams, 38, was sentenced to death for killing Cecil Boren after escaping from the Cummins Unit prison in a barrel of hog slop. Williams was initially serving a life term for killing a university cheerleader whose family he taunted when jurors spared his life. \n Unless a court intervenes, Williams will die in the same prison from where he escaped in 1999. \n Arkansas had scheduled eight executions over an 11-day period before one of its lethal injection drugs expires at the end of April, the most in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. \n If Williams is put to death, the state will have carried out four of the eight it scheduled, including the nation's first double execution since 2000 on Monday night. The first of those two, Jack Jones, has stirred the most controversy after lawyers claimed there had been problems with the lethal injection. \n The second execution was temporarily delayed while lawyers argued over what witnesses had seen after Jones received an injection of the sedative midazolam. \n In an emergency hearing by telephone, Jeff Rosenzweig, a lawyer for death row inmates, told a federal judge that Jones' mouth moved several times when he should have been unconscious. Jones' spiritual adviser described it as \"a sort of gurgling.\" An observer from the state attorney general's office said it was \"snoring; deep, deep sleep.\" \n One minute after the conference call ended, U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker allowed the second execution, of Marcel Williams, to proceed. He was dead 71 minutes later. \n \"Based upon what the court has learned from the eyewitnesses in regard to the execution, the court finds no support for a claim and an allegation that the execution appeared to be torturous and inhumane,\" Baker said in a transcript of the hearing released today. \n Also today, the Arkansas Supreme Court rejected a request to halt the execution of Kenneth Williams set for Thursday. He had escaped from the Cummins Unit\u2014 where the execution chamber is located in another part of the facility\u2014less than three weeks into a life prison term for killing University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff cheerleader Dominique Hurd in 1998. At the conclusion of that trial, he had taunted the young woman's family by turning to them after the sentence was announced and saying \"You thought I was going to die, didn't you?\" \n He hid in a 500-gallon barrel of hog slop being ferried from the prison kitchen to a feeding bay, and sneaked along a tree line until reaching Boren's house. He killed Boren, stole guns and Boren's truck and then drove away to Missouri. There, he crashed into a water-delivery truck, killing the driver. While in prison, he confessed to killing another person in 1998. \n At the time of Boren's death, investigators said it did not appear Boren was targeted because of his former employment by the Arkansas Department of Correction. \n Today a top official with the European Union \u2014 which opposes capital punishment \u2014 urged Gov. Asa Hutchinson to cancel the Thursday execution. EU Ambassador to the U.S. David O'Sullivan said the letter was \"an urgent humanitarian appeal\" on Williams' behalf. \n \"The EU recognises the serious nature of the crimes involved, and wishes to express its sincere sympathies to the surviving families and friends of the victims,\" the letter said. \"However, the European Union does not believe that their loss will be mitigated by the death of Mr. Williams.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arkansas' set to conclude executions with 4th on Thursday"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated file photo provided by the Arkansas Department of Correction shows death-row inmate Kenneth Williams. \n SPRINGFIELD, Mo. >> Family members of a man whose death was caused by Arkansas condemned killer Kenneth Williams said they've forgiven him \u2014 and bought plane tickets so the condemned man's daughter and granddaughter could visit before his scheduled execution Thursday. \n Further reading \n Michael Greenwood was killed in a 1999 traffic wreck with Williams, who had escaped from prison, where he was serving a life sentence for killing a cheerleader. Williams faces execution Thursday for killing another man, Cecil Boren, while on the run. \n Michael Greenwood's daughter, Kayla Greenwood, told the Springfield News-Leader that she learned a few days ago that Williams has a 21-year-old daughter, Jasmine, whom he hasn't seen for 17 years and a 3-year-old granddaughter he's never met. Greenwood said her mother bought plane tickets for Williams' daughter and granddaughter to fly from Washington state to Arkansas so they could see Williams today, a day before his execution. \n \"I told him we forgive him and where I stood on it,\" said Greenwood, who sent a message to Williams through his attorney. \"When he found out that we are bringing his daughter and granddaughter to see him and that my mom and dad bought the tickets, he was crying to the attorney.\" \n Members of Greenwood's family had urged clemency for Williams. But family members of Boren, whose killing led to Williams' death sentence, told the Arkansas Parole Board that the execution should go forward. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Family buys plane tickets for condemned inmate's daughter"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Troy Worden, left, president of the Young Republicans and their attorney Harmeet Dhillon, right, talk with the media during a press conference held by the Berkeley College Republicans in Sproul Plaza on the University of California, Berkeley campus in Berkeley, Calif., today. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> Ann Coulter said today that she was forced to cancel her speaking event Thursday at the University of California, Berkeley amid concerns of violence but might still \"swing by to say hello\" to all her supporters. \n Police and university officials said they were bracing for possible trouble whether Coulter comes to campus or not, citing intelligence and online chatter by groups threatening to instigate violence. \n In emails to The Associated Press, Coulter confirmed that her planned speech on illegal immigration, followed by a question-answer session, was canceled. But she remained coy about what she might do instead. \n \"I'm not speaking. But I'm going to be near there, so I might swing by to say hello to my supporters who have flown in from all around the country,\" Coulter said in an email. \"I thought I might stroll around the graveyard of the First Amendment.\" \n Officials at UC Berkeley said last week they feared renewed violence on campus if Coulter followed through with plans to speak. They cited \"very specific intelligence\" of threats that could endanger Coulter and students, as Berkeley becomes a platform for extremist protesters on both sides of the political spectrum. \n Efforts by the university to cancel or delay the event dealt a blow to Berkeley's image as a bastion of tolerance and free speech. \n Chancellor Nicholas B. Dirks sent a letter to the campus today saying the university is committed to defending free speech but also to protecting its students. \n \"This is a university, not a battlefield,\" Dirks said in the letter. \"The university has two non-negotiable commitments, one to Free Speech the other to the safety of our campus community.\" \n Berkeley's reputation as one of the country's most liberal universities, in one of America's most liberal cities, has made it a flashpoint for the nation's political divisions in the era of Donald Trump. \n Earlier this month, a bloody brawl broke out in downtown Berkeley at a pro-Trump protest that featured speeches by members of the white nationalist right. They clashed with a group of Trump critics who called themselves anti-fascists. \n Similar violent clashes also erupted at the same site, a public park, on March 4. \n In February, violent protesters forced the cancellation of a speech by right-wing writer Milo Yiannopoulos, who like Coulter was invited by campus Republicans. \n The Berkeley College Republicans and the Young America's Foundation, a conservative group that had helped book Coulter's campus speaking events, both pulled their support Tuesday citing fears of violence. They blamed the university for failing to ensure protection of conservative speakers. \n \"Berkeley College Republicans do not want to endanger people's lives so because of the university's unwillingness to do their job we are forced to cancel the event,\" Troy Worden, president of the campus Republicans, said today. \n Coulter echoed the blame on Twitter: \"I'm very sad about Berkeley's cancellation, but my sadness is greater than that. It's a dark day for free speech in America.\" \n Capt. Alex Yao of the Berkley campus police force said police presence will be strong Thursday. \n \"You will see a high number of highly visible law enforcement. We're going to have a very, very low tolerance for any violence,\" he told a news conference. He said Berkeley police had reached out to local and state police forces \"to let them know we might be calling for assistance.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Coulter's Berkeley speech canceled, police prep for violence"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image taken with a slow shutter speed and provided by the U.S. Air Force, an unarmed Minuteman 3 intercontinental ballistic missile launches during an operational test early today from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. The target of the test was in the Pacific Ocean. (Senior Airman Ian Dudley/U.S. Air Force via AP) \n VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. >> An unarmed Minuteman 3 intercontinental ballistic missile was launched from California early today in a test of the weapon system that is part of the U.S. nuclear force. \n The missile blasted off from a silo at 12:03 a.m. (Pacific time) from Vandenberg Air Force Base and delivered a single re-entry vehicle to a target about 4,200 miles away at Kwajalein Atoll in the Pacific Ocean, the Air Force Global Strike Command said. (Kwajalein, part of the Marshall Islands, is about 2,500 miles southwest of Hawaii.) \n The launch command was issued via an air launch control system aboard a Navy E-6 Mercury jet. \n \"Tonight's launch was an important demonstration of our nation's nuclear deterrent capability,\" Col. John Moss, commander of Vandenberg's 30th Space Wing, said in a statement. \"Test launches like this one are vital to validating the effectiveness and readiness of our operational nuclear systems, so it is critical that they are successful.\" \n Operational tests of Minuteman 3 missiles are conducted regularly but the timing of today's launch amid U.S. tensions with North Korea over its nuclear and missile programs drew criticism from the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, which has advocated against nuclear weapons for more than 30 years. \n \"When it comes to missile testing, the U.S. is operating with a clear double standard: It views its own tests as justified and useful, while it views the tests of North Korea as threatening and destabilizing,\" David Krieger, president of the organization, said in a statement on its website Monday. \n \"What is needed is diplomacy rather than military provocations. Threats, whether in the form of tweets, nuclear-capable aircraft carrier groups, or nuclear-capable missile launches, only increase the dangers to us all,\" he said. \n President Donald Trump has in recent weeks sent an aircraft carrier and other Navy vessels into the region in a show of force to deter North Korea, which on Tuesday conducted large-scale, live-fire artillery drills.  \n The most recent previous Minuteman 3 launch was in early February. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. test-fires unarmed missile from Calif. to Kwajalein"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NISSAN \n The 2014 Nissan Leaf. \n Nissan North America has extended its $10,000 rebate on the all-electric Nissan Leaf car in Hawaii. \n Hawaiian Electric Co. announced today Nissan extended the rebate to June 30 for electric utility customers on Oahu, Hawaii Island and in Maui County. Nissan and HECO originally announced the promotion on Jan. 25. Under the first offer, customers had to have deposits down by the end of March and the car had to be delivered in April to qualify. \n The $10,000 discount off the Leaf's sticker price, when combined with federal tax incentives, resulted in some customers being able to save up to $17,500 on 2016-2017 Nissan Leafs. The tax credit varies for EV owners dependent on how much they pay in taxes. An EV owner can't spread the tax credit over multiple years and it is not refundable. \n The manufacturer's suggested retail price for the 2017 Nissan Leaf is $30,680. \n HECO said customers should take their electric utility bill and the promotional flyer at hawaiianelectric.com/nissanleaf to participating Nissan dealers. HECO said the deal will run as long as supplies last. \n Nissan is paying for the rebate, not electric customers, according to HECO. The utility's only responsibility is to notify customers of the deal. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Nissan Leaf $10,000 discount extended to end of June"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n An Oahu grand jury today indicted Jeremy J. Henderson, 42, in connection with the death of a 29-year-old woman at a Waikiki hotel. \n An Oahu grand jury has indicted a 42-year-old man in connection with the death of a 29-year-old woman at a Waikiki hotel. \n Jeremy J. Henderson of California was indicted today for second-degree murder in Ashley A. Brandeberry's death. His bail is set at $1 million. \n Police and Emergency Medical Services responded to a defibrillator call at the Hilton Waikiki Beach Hotel shortly after 4:15 a.m. Friday. \n When they arrived at Room 1210, police said Henderson opened the door and led them to Brandeberry who was lying motionless on the floor, according to a court document. \n Henderson told police he just met Brandeberry at a karaoke bar and that they returned to his hotel room and started kissing. Henderson said it didn't go any further than that and that Brandeberry said she wanted to go to sleep. \n When he woke up, police said Henderson checked on her and noticed she wasn't breathing. \n According to a court document, Henderson gave another police officer a different account. He said he and Brandeberry started \"getting it on\" in his hotel room. Henderson told police \"she said she likes to get choked and strangled while she gets it on.\" \n Brandeberry was pronounced dead at 5:03 a.m. Bruise marks and \"ligature type marks\" were discovered on Brandeberry's neck. \n Prosecutors today said she was strangled and that a belt was found inside the hotel room. \n Police said a woman next door to Henderson's room said she overheard banging noises and a man and woman arguing for about 20 minutes. \n Brandeberry was scheduled to appear at Honolulu District Court on May 16 for a prostitution charge. \n Star-Advertiser reporter Nelson Daranciang contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Grand jury indicts California man in death of woman at Waikiki hotel"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by the Blanchester Police Department, an officer walks near a shed owned by Dennis Dunn, who was arrested today on a charge of kidnapping in Blanchester, Ohio. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the Clinton County Sheriff's Office shows Dennis Dunn, who was arrested today on a charge of kidnapping. A woman's cries for help from Dunn's shed led to her rescue from a pit in the shed, where police in Ohio said she was being held captive. \n BLANCHESTER, Ohio >> A man with mental health problems kidnapped a neighbor and kept her trapped in a small grave-like pit in his backyard shed, where her cries for help alerted other people living nearby and led to her rescue, police said. \n Police in Blanchester, about 40 miles northeast of Cincinnati, said the owner of the shed, Dennis Dunn, was arrested on Wednesday and was taken to a hospital. They said Dunn has a history of mental health issues. \n The woman was treated at a hospital and was released. \n The woman was reported missing at about 2 a.m. today, and neighbors called police at about 4 a.m. after hearing cries from the shed behind Dunn's house, police said. \n \"So at 4 in the morning an officer shows up and goes back to the shed and finds her in the shed, in a pit that was dug in the floor of the shed with wood over top of it,\" police Chief Scott Reinbolt told the Wilmington News Journal. \n Officers said the hole, described as \"tight quarters\" and about 40 inches deep and 24 inches wide, was covered with a wooden board that had heavy objects on top of it, preventing the woman from getting out. They didn't say how long the pit was. \n Dunn couldn't be reached for comment while in custody at the hospital. It couldn't immediately be determined whether he had an attorney who could comment on the accusations against him. \n Dunn was charged earlier this month with misdemeanor counts of disorderly conduct and possession of marijuana. Police said he had repeatedly called them to his home because he heard voices or thought people were trying to get in. Officers checked the home each time but found no one around it. \n Neighbors, on one night, reported Dunn in the yard with a pistol in his hand, and he was taken to a hospital for a psychiatric revaluation and later was released, Reinbolt said. \n Court records show Dunn is scheduled for a hearing on the earlier misdemeanor charges in Clinton County Municipal Court in May. \n A neighbor, Emily Noe, told the News Journal she couldn't imagine Dunn doing this. She said she knew him for about five years after meeting through mutual friends. \n \"He has played with my kids. I've had him over at my house for cookouts,\" she said. \"Not in a million years could I see him do this.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Captive woman found crying in pit in neighbor's shed in Ohio"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., second from right, boarded a bus on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, headed to the White House with other Senators to get a briefing on North Korea. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo distributed today by the North Korean government shows what was said to be a \"Combined Fire Demonstration\" held to celebrate the 85th anniversary of the North Korean army, in North Korea. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration hosted senators for an extraordinary White House briefing today at a perilous moment with North Korea, marked by the unpredictable nation's nuclear threats and stern talk of military action, if necessary, from the United States. \n All 100 senators were invited and transported in buses for the unprecedented, classified briefing. President Donald Trump's secretary of state, defense secretary, top general and national intelligence director were to outline for them the North's escalating nuclear capabilities and U.S. response options, officials said. The briefing team was to meet later with House members in the Capitol. \n The unusual sessions don't necessarily presage the use of force along one of the world's most heavily militarized frontiers, and some lawmakers questioned whether the cross-Washington procession was largely show, with Trump expected to drop in on the Eisenhower Executive Office Building gathering of lawmakers. \n But it certainly reflected the increased American alarm over North Korea's progress in developing a nuclear-tipped missile that could strike the U.S. mainland. And the recent flurry of military activity on and around the divided Korean Peninsula has put the world at high alert. \n Tensions have escalated since Trump took office three months ago, determined to halt Pyongyang's nuclear and missile advances. \n In the past two weeks, Trump has ordered high-powered U.S. military vessels, including an aircraft carrier, to the region in a show of force to deter North Korea from more nuclear and missile tests. The North on Tuesday conducted large-scale, live-fire artillery drills, witnessed by national leader Kim Jong Un, as a reminder of its conventional threat to U.S.-allied South Korea. \n And today, South Korea started installing key parts of a contentious U.S. missile defense system against North Korean missiles that also has sparked Chinese and Russian concerns. \n America's Pacific forces commander, Adm. Harry Harris Jr., told Congress today the system would be operational within days. He said any North Korean missile fired at U.S. forces would be destroyed. \n \"If it flies, it will die,\" Harris said. \n The Trump administration has said all options, including a military strike, are on the table. However, a U.S. pre-emptive attack isn't likely, according to American officials. Instead, they've said the administration's strategy focuses on increasing pressure on North Korea with the help of its main trading partner, China. \n Sen. Ben Cardin, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's top-ranking Democrat, said he was hoping to hear the Trump administration's game plan today. \n The U.S. needs a strategy to change North Korea's economic and security calculus for it to freeze and ultimately eliminate its nuclear and missile programs, he said, adding: There's no \"pretty military solution.\" \n U.S. officials said today's briefings will center on three key issues: intelligence about the North's capabilities; U.S. response options, including military ones; and how to get China and other countries to enforce existing economic sanctions on Pyongyang, along with ideas for new penalties. The officials weren't authorized to speak publicly about plans for the closed-door briefings and requested anonymity. \n \"China is the key to this,\" Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said. \"The purpose of this briefing is to tell us the situation and the intelligence we have and what (are) the options we have.\" \n Testifying before the House Armed Services Committee, Harris said he expects North Korea, under Kim's autocratic rule, to soon be able to develop a long-range missile capable of striking the United States, despite some spectacular failures in its ballistic missile program. \"One of these days soon, he will succeed,\" Harris said. \n North Korea routinely accuses the United States of readying for an invasion, and threatens pre-emptive strikes to stop the U.S. \n North Korea's U.N. mission today said it would react to \"a total war\" with the U.S. with nuclear war. It said it would win in a \"death-defying struggle against the U.S. imperialists.\" \n A targeted U.S. attack to take out North Korea's nuclear weapons program could spark a wider war on the Korean peninsula, lawmakers and experts have warned. Harris said the U.S. has \"a lot of pre-emptive options,\" but he declined to provide specifics in an open setting. \n China has been urging restraint by both Pyongyang and Washington. In Berlin, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said today that North Korea must suspend its nuclear activities, but \"on the other side, the large-scale military maneuvers in Korean waters should be halted.\" \n China opposes the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or THAAD, being installed in South Korea. The U.S. says it will only target North Korean missiles, but China and Russia see the system's powerful radars as a security threat. \n In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said THAAD would upset the \"strategic balance\" in the region. He said China will take \"necessary measures to defend our own interests.\" \n Associated Press writers Hyung-jin Kim and Kim Tong-Hyung in Seoul; Chris Bodeen in Beijing; Richard Lardner, Matthew Lee and Lolita C. Baldor in Washington, and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House briefs Senate amid scary moment with North Korea"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "Maui police arrested two male suspects in connection with an armed robbery that occurred at a beauty supply store in Kahului. \n At about 10:34 a.m. Tuesday, police said employees at CosmoProf located at 180 East Wakea Avenue reported being robbed at gunpoint by two males. \n The suspects clad in hoods tied up the employees and stole cash and property before they fled in a truck. \n No injuries were reported. \n Police said the suspects were arrested sometime after the robbery Tuesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest 2 men suspected in Maui armed robbery"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "Hawaii island firefighters extinguished a fire at a studio apartment in Hilo. \n Shortly before 4:15 a.m. today, firefighters responded to a fire at 271 Haili St. When they arrived, firefighters observed light smoke emerging from the eaves on one side of the multi-unit apartment complex, according to the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n Smoke filled the apartment and flames were observed in the center of the studio. \n Firefighters extinguished the blaze at 4:30 a.m. No injuries were reported. \n The fire department said the damage estimate to the structure was considered \"nominal.\" The cause of the fire is under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters extinguish fire at Hilo apartment"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin took a question in the briefing room of the White House in Washington, today, where he discussed President Donald Trump tax proposals. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump \"has no intention\" of releasing his taxes returns to the public, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said today, asserting Americans have \"plenty of information\" about the president's financial matters. \n For decades, presidents have released their tax returns. But Trump has so far refused, suggesting he would share the tax documents only after the Internal Revenue Service completes an \"audit\" of them. He's never disclosed proof of an audit. \n Mnuchin appeared to close the door completely today. \n \"The president has no intention. The president has released plenty of information and I think has given more financial disclosure than anybody else. I think the American population has plenty of information,\" he said, inaccurately characterizing the president's disclosures. \n The comment came as the secretary briefed reporters on the president's new proposal to overhaul taxes. Democrats have sought to use the tax debate to pressure Trump to release his returns, arguing the information is necessary to evaluate how Trump's tax proposals would affect his personal wealth and his business' bottom line. \n Mnuchin declined to comment on how Trump would benefit from his proposals. He and other administration officials left the room as reporters shouted questions about how the plan would affect the Trump family. \n Trump, a billionaire, owns a global real estate, marketing and property management company, which at the start of his presidency he placed in a trust that he can revoke at any time. His daughter and son-in-law, White House advisers, are also holding onto significant business assets. And Trump's adult sons run his Trump Organization. \n Trump officials have offered varying explanations for why the president does not disclose his returns. \n White House senior counselor Kellyanne Conway said in a television interview in January that the fact that he won the election without putting out the information shows that \"people didn't care\" about it. \n Trump's sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr. have made similar points in various interviews. \n There's evidence the president has been thinking about the issue in recent weeks. He asked his friend and Las Vegas business partner Phil Ruffin, a fellow billionaire, whether he should put out the returns, Ruffin said. \n \"I advised him not to,\" Ruffin said. \"It's a waste of time, and he'll spend years explaining them and never get to accomplishing any of his goals.\" \n Ruffin said he told the president that Democrats would hire \"armies of accountants\" to pore over the documents and \"make an issue out of any and everything.\" \n Even with Mnuchin's seemingly definitive answer, the issue of Trump's tax returns isn't likely to go away. Democrats have threatened to hold up his tax proposals until they see the returns. \n Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., called Trump's tax plan \"unprincipled\" \u2014 and one that \"will result in cuts for the one percent, conflicts for the president, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people.\" \n Democrats also have been pushing for a vote on a bill that would require the president and all major-party nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or the Federal Election Commission. \n The Democrats have initiated a petition process that would lead to a House vote if they can get a majority of lawmakers to sign it \u2014 an unlikely prospect, but one that gives Democrats a chance to highlight which Republicans declined to help with their effort. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mnuchin: Trump has 'no intention' of releasing tax returns"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 15-year-old girl after she allegedly fled from police after officers arrested her on suspicion of theft in downtown Honolulu. \n At about 7:20 p.m. Tuesday, police said the suspect was in police custody when she managed to flee on foot from the police vehicle. \n Police chased her and apprehended her about a minute later. In addition to theft, the 15-year-old girl was arrested on resisting arrest and criminal contempt of court. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police chase down girl, 15, who escaped after arrest downtown"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JAN. 2012 \n The Board of Education today announced Linda Chen and Christina Kishimoto as the top candidates to replace schools Superintendent Kathryn Matayoshi. \n Two mainland schools chiefs are in the running to become the next superintendent of Hawaii's public school system. \n The Board of Education announced Linda Chen and Christina Kishimoto as the top candidates for the position at a meeting this morning. Neither candidate was in attendance. \n Chen served as the chief academic officer for Baltimore City Public Schools in Maryland, and as deputy chief academic officer for Boston Public Schools. She is also a former assistant superintendent of schools for the Philadelphia school district. \n Chen holds a doctorate in education from the Urban Education Leadership Program, a master's degree in educational leadership, and a master's degree in curriculum and teaching, all from Columbia University's Teachers College. \n Kishimoto, meanwhile, is superintendent of Gilbert Public Schools in Arizona, and previously served as superintendent of Hartford Public Schools in Connecticut. She also holds a doctorate in educational leadership from Columbia University's Teachers College as well as a master's degree in public affairs from the University of Connecticut. \n The BOE's search committee \u2014 made up of board Chairman Lance Mizumoto and board members Patricia Bergin and Kenneth Uemura \u2014 is recommending the two finalists to the full board, but no action will be taken today. The board is expected to interview the finalists at a meeting scheduled for May 11 and make a decision. \n The finalists were selected from an initial candidate pool of 92 applicants \u2014 75 from the mainland and 17 Hawaii candidates. The list was narrowed to eight semi-finalists with the help of executive search firm Ray & Associates. The board's search committee interviewed the eight candidates and provided video recordings of the interviews to its advisory group of stakeholders. \n \"This is the most important decision we, as a board, make. We were lucky to have had a number of candidates to choose from,\" Mizumoto said. \n The selected candidate will replace schools Superintendent Kathryn Matayoshi, whose term ends June 30. \n The job opening was posted in mid-March, citing a salary \"in the range of $240,000,\" to oversee Hawaii's statewide school district of 256 schools, 180,000 students and 22,000 permanent employees. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Search for Hawaii public schools leader down to 2 finalists"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Moina Shaiq held a sign, Jan. 25, at a rally outside of City Hall in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> For the third time in two months, a federal judge has knocked down an immigration order by President Donald Trump and used Trump's own language against him. \n In a ruling on Tuesday, U.S. District Judge William Orrick quoted Trump to support his decision to block the president's order to withhold funding from \"sanctuary cities\" that do not cooperate with U.S. immigration officials. \n Trump called the sanctuary cities order a \"weapon\" against communities that disagree with his preferred immigration policy, Orrick said. The judge also cited a February interview in which he said the president threatened to cut off funding to California, saying the state \"in many ways is out of control.\" \n The first comment was evidence that the administration intended the executive order to apply broadly to all sorts of federal funding, and not a relatively small pot of grant money as the Department of Justice had argued, the judge said. \n The second statement showed the two California governments that sued to block the order \u2014 San Francisco and Santa Clara County \u2014 had good reason to believe they would be targeted, Orrick said. \n Orrick's ruling was another immigration policy setback for the administration as it approaches its 100th day in office later this month. The sanctuary city order was among a flurry of immigration measures Trump signed in January, including a ban on travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries and a directive calling for a wall on the Mexican border. \n Trump reacted to the decision on Twitter on Wednesday morning, calling the decision \"ridiculous\" and saying he would take his fight to the highest court, tweeting: \"See you in the Supreme Court.\" \n Trump tweeted: \"First the Ninth Circuit rules against the ban & now it hits again on sanctuary cities-both ridiculous rulings.\" \n Trump tweeted that the 9th circuit has \"a terrible record of being overturned (close to 80 percent).\" \n He said, \"They used to call this 'judge shopping!' Messy system.\" That was apparently a reference to the 9th circuit's liberal reputation and rulings that have often irked conservatives.\" \n Trump's words were also cited by federal judges in Maryland and Hawaii, who last month blocked his revised ban on new visas for people from six Muslim-majority countries. U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson in Hawaii and U.S. District Judge Theodore Chuang in Maryland said comments by Trump supported the allegation that the ban was aimed at Muslims. \n Orrick's preliminary injunction against the sanctuary cities order will stay in place while the lawsuits by San Francisco and Santa Clara work their way through court. \n The government hasn't cut off any money yet or declared any communities sanctuary cities. But the Justice Department sent letters last week advising communities to prove they are in compliance. California was informed it could lose $18.2 million. \n Orrick said Trump cannot set new conditions on spending approved by Congress. \n Even if the president could do so, those conditions would have to be clearly related to the funds at issue and not coercive, as the executive order appeared to be, Orrick said. \n White House chief of staff Reince Priebus described the ruling as another example of the \"9th Circuit going bananas.\" \n The administration has often criticized the 9th circuit. Orrick does not sit on that court but his district is in the territory of the appeals court, which has ruled against one version of Trump's travel ban. \n \"The idea that an agency can't put in some reasonable restriction on how some of these moneys are spent is something that will be overturned eventually, and we will win at the Supreme Court level at some point,\" Priebus said. \n The Trump administration says sanctuary cities allow dangerous criminals back on the street and that the order is needed to keep the country safe. San Francisco and other sanctuary cities say turning local police into immigration officers erodes the trust that is needed to get people to report crime. \n San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera praised the ruling and said the president was \"forced to back down.\" \n \"This is why we have courts \u2014 to halt the overreach of a president and an attorney general who either don't understand the Constitution or chose to ignore it,\" Herrera said in a statement. \n Associated Press writers Sadie Gurman and Julie Bykowicz in Washington contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge cites Trump's words in blocking 'sanctuary city' order"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / FEB. 2016 \n Ethan Ferguson appeared in a Hilo courtroom in Feb. 2016 to answer a charge that he had sexually assaulted a teenager in January. The former Department of Land and Natural Resources enforcement officer was sentenced Monday to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. \n HILO >> A former Department of Land and Natural Resources enforcement officer has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. \n The victim testified during trial that on Jan. 1, 2016, Ferguson was on duty and in uniform when he took a pipe of marijuana away from her on a beach in Hilo. He then led her to a secluded area and gave her the options of giving him \"money, drugs or sex\" to not be arrested, she said. \n Ferguson denied the allegations, saying she kissed him twice and he kissed her back the second time. \n A Honolulu Police Department criminologist testified DNA matching Ferguson's was found in the victim's shorts. \n Ferguson, who was fired for misconduct by the Honolulu Police Department before being hired as a DLNR enforcement officer in 2013, was placed on paid administrative leave until his conviction in February. He will have to register as a sex offender. \n DLNR said in a March 6 statement that Ferguson had been terminated from his job and the department \"has no further comment on this matter.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former DLNR officer sentenced to 10 years for sexual assault"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke at the Interior Department in Washington today. The president proposed dramatically reducing the taxes paid by corporations big and small in an overhaul his administration said will spur economic growth and bring jobs and prosperity to the middle class. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, joined by National Economic Director Gary Cohn, spoke in the briefing room of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Internal Revenue Service headquarters building in Washington, as seen in April 2014. President Donald Trump's plan to provide massive tax breaks to corporations faces big challenges as Washington struggles with mounting debt and the populist president tries to make good on promises to bring jobs and prosperity to the middle class. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump proposed dramatic cuts in corporate and personal taxes today in an overhaul his administration asserts will spur national economic growth and bring jobs and prosperity to America's middle class. But his ambitious plan is alarming lawmakers who worry it will balloon federal deficits. \n The plan would reduce investment and estate taxes, helping the wealthy. But administration officials said several other tax breaks that help well-to-do taxpayers would be eliminated and the plan would largely help the middle class. \n The White House has yet to spell out how much of a hole the tax cuts could create in the federal budget, maintaining that the resulting economic growth would eliminate the risk of a soaring government deficit\u2014 if not actually cause the red ink to diminish. \n The outlined changes to the tax code are the most concrete guidance so far on Trump's vision for spurring job growth and fulfilling his promise to help workers who have been left behind by an increasingly globalized economy. \n \"He understands that there are a lot people who work hard and feel like they're not getting ahead,\" said Gary Cohn, director of the White House National Economic Council. \"I would never, ever bet against this president. He will get this done for the American people.\" \n Still, the proposal leaves a series of open questions that could affect its impact on taxpayers and the economy. \n The administration wants to reduce the number of tax brackets to three from seven, but it has yet to determine the income levels for people who would be put in each bracket. It also has yet to spell out how the plan would stop wealthier Americans from exploiting a lower corporate tax rate to reduce how much they pay. And the White House has downplayed the threat that the tax cuts could cause the deficit to surge, possibly eroding support for the plan among lawmakers in Trump's own Republican Party. \n Cohn said Trump and his administration recognize they have to be \"good stewards\" of the federal budget. But the plan as it currently stands could cause the federal deficit to climb, unless it sparks a massive and lasting wave of growth that most economists say is unlikely. \n Administration officials intend to hash out additional details with members of the House and Senate in the coming weeks for what would be the first massive rewrite of the U.S. tax code since 1986. \n \"We know this is difficult,\" Cohn said. \"We know what we're asking for is a big bite.\" \n As Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin explained it in an interview, the plan would reduce the number of personal income tax brackets to three from seven: rates of 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent. It would double the standard deduction for married couples to $24,000, while keeping deductions for charitable giving and mortgage interest payments. The administration plans to provide tax relief for families with child care expenses, too, although the specifics have yet to be included. \n On the other hand, the proposal would trim other deductions utilized by wealthier Americans. These would include deductions for state and local tax payments, a change that could alienate support from lawmakers in states such as California and New York with higher state taxes. \n \"It's not the federal government's job to be subsidizing the states,\" Mnuchin said. \n The administration has emphasized that the plan is focused on simplifying the tax code and helping middle-class Americans. The median U.S. household income is slightly above $50,000 annually. \n Still, the proposal could reduce the tax burden for the wealthy by substantial amounts, including by eliminating the catch-all alternative minimum tax, which takes an additional bite out of high-income taxpayers. \n It would also repeal the estate tax and the 3.8 percent tax on investment income from President Barack Obama's health care law. The proposal has yet to be vetted for its precise impact on top earners, as several details are still being determined. \n On the corporate side, the top marginal tax rate would fall from 35 percent to 15 percent. Small businesses that account for their owners' personal incomes would see their top tax rate go from 39.6 percent to the proposed corporate tax rate of 15 percent. Mnuchin said the change for small business owners \u2014 a group that under the current definition could include doctors, lawyers and even major real estate companies \u2014 would be done in a way that would ensure wealthier Americans could not exploit the change to pay less than intentioned in taxes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump proposes massive cuts in corporate, personal taxes"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "Hawaii island firefighters responded to two separate brush fires in Kau. \n Shortly before 2 p.m. Tuesday, firefighters responded to a brush fire in a remote area off Kaalaiki Road. The fire scorched about a quarter-acre. The Hawaii County Fire Department said after firefighters brought the fire under control, they observed a second fire about a mile away in a remote gulch located above a macadamia nut tree orchard. \n Firefighters brought the second fire under control at 2:20 p.m. and extinguished it at 3:45 p.m. \n Battalion Chief Matthias Kusch said the cause of both fires is suspicious. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters extinguish 'suspicious' brush fires in Kau"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image made available by NASA in April 2017 shows a still from the short film \"Cassini's Grand Finale,\" with the spacecraft diving between Saturn and the planet's innermost ring. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> NASA's Cassini spacecraft has ventured into the never-before-explored region between Saturn and its rings. \n But flight controllers won't know how everything went until Thursday when they are back in touch with the craft. \n Cassini was out of radio contact with Earth early Wednesday as it became the first spacecraft to enter the gap between Saturn and its rings. That's because its big dish antenna was maneuvered face forward to protect science instruments from potentially damaging ring particles. \n If Cassini survives this first round, it will make 21 more crossings before its demise in September. \n Launched in 1997, Cassini has been orbiting Saturn since 2004. Because the fuel tank is practically empty, NASA decided on one last dangerous, but science-rich adventure. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spacecraft flies between Saturn and rings in historic 1st"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Abdel Hameed Alyousef, 29, held his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria on April 4. France's foreign minister says chemical analysis of samples taken from a deadly sarin gas attack in Syria shows that the nerve agent used \"bears the signature\" of President Bashar Assad's government and shows it was responsible. \n PARIS >> France said today that the chemical analysis of samples taken from a deadly sarin gas attack in Syria earlier this month \"bears the signature\" of President Bashar Assad's government and shows it was responsible. \n Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said France came to this conclusion after comparing samples from a 2013 sarin attack in Syria that matched the new ones. The findings came in a six-page report published today. \n Russia, a close ally of Assad, promptly denounced the French report, saying the samples and the fact the nerve agent was used are not enough to prove who was behind it. Assad has repeatedly denied that his forces used chemical weapons and claimed that myriad evidence of a poison gas attack is made up. \n But Ayrault said France knows \"from sure sources\" that \"the manufacturing process of the sarin that was sampled is typical of the method developed in Syrian laboratories.\" \n \"This method bears the signature of the regime and that is what allows us to establish its responsibility in this attack,\" he added, saying that France is working to bring those behind the \"criminal\" atrocities to international justice. \n France's Foreign Ministry said blood samples were taken from a victim in Syria on the day of the April 4 attack in the opposition-held town of Khan Sheikhoun, which killed more than 80 people. \n Environmental samples, the French ministry said, show the weapons were made \"according to the same production process as the one used in the sarin attack perpetrated by the Syrian regime in Saraqeb\" on April 29, 2013. \n Ayrault said French intelligence showed that only Syrian government forces could have launched such an attack \u2014 by a bomber taking off from the Shayrat air base, which was later targeted in a retaliatory U.S. missile strike. \n France's presidency said the country's intelligence services presented evidence showing the Syrian government \"still holds chemical warfare agents, in violation of the commitments to eliminate them that it took in 2013.\" It said that information will be made public, without offering details. \n It's thought that Assad's government still has a stockpile of tons of chemical weapons, despite saying it had handed over all of them. \n Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia's position on the attack is \"unchanged,\" and that \"that the only way to establish the truth about what happened\u2026 is an impartial international investigation.\" \n Russia has previously called for an international probe, and Peskov expressed regret that the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, or OPCW, has turned down the Syrian government's offers to visit the site of the attack and investigate. \n The French minister's comments came as the OPCW, which is investigating the April 4 attack, held a ceremony in The Hague marking the 20th anniversary of the Chemical Weapons Convention. \n In a video message to the ceremony, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the organization's progress over two decades seeking to eliminate chemical weapons is now under threat. \n \"In the Middle East, belligerents are breaking the norm against chemical weapons,\" he said. \"The recent attack in Syria was a horrific reminder of the stakes. There can be no impunity for these crimes.\" \n The United States has also blamed Assad's government for the April 4 attack. The Trump administration ordered the cruise missile attack on the air base and issued sanctions on 271 people linked to the Syrian agency said to be responsible for producing non-conventional weapons. Syria has strongly denied the accusations. \n Earlier today, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the U.S. strike damaged the prospects of a political settlement for the war-torn country. \n Lavrov told a security conference in Moscow the U.S. response \"pushes the prospect for a wide international front on terror even further away.\" \n He also dismissed claims that international experts cannot visit the site in Khan Sheikhoun because of security precautions and criticized the OPCW for failing to go there. Lavrov says claims that the experts were warned by a U.N. body against traveling to the location because it's unsafe are \"lies,\" adding that Moscow went back to the U.N. and found out that there was no such warning. \n Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Russia had to boost security measures at its air base in Syria after the U.S. strike at the Syrian base. Russia has been waging an air campaign since 2015 to help Assad's forces in the civil war. \n In other developments, U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish forces asked for the U.S.-led coalition to provide air cover over northern Syria, to protect them from Turkish and Syrian government air raids. \n A series of Turkish airstrikes on Tuesday killed 20 Syrian Kurdish fighters in attacks that Ankara said targeted Kurdish rebel positions in Syria and Iraq. \n Syrian Kurdish officials escorted an American officer to some of the sites targeted in the attack, drawing large crowds who followed them around, according to photos and video from the scene. Redur Khalil, the spokesman for the Syrian Kurdish People's Protection Units, or YPG, confirmed the visit to The Associated Press. \n The YPG form the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces, the U.S.'s main partner in the battle against the Islamic State group in northern Syria. NATO member Turkey considers the YPG an extension of an insurgency within its own borders. The SDF includes Arab fighters as well. \n The Syrian Foreign Ministry condemned the airstrikes. The SDF and the Syrian government have largely avoided confrontations with each other over the course of the Syrian civil war. No Syrian government forces were targeted in the attack. \n Associated Press writers Mike Corder in The Hague, Netherlands, and Philip Issa in Beirut contributed to this report.  \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Analysis shows Syrian government behind sarin attack, France says"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 26, 2004 file photo, the USS Mahan, a guided-missile destroyer, moves up the Hudson River in New York during Fleet Week. A U.S. Navy guided-missile destroyer fired a warning flare toward an Iranian Revolutionary Guard vessel coming near it in the Persian Gulf, an American official said Wednesday, the latest tense naval encounter between the two countries. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> A U.S. Navy guided-missile destroyer fired a warning flare toward an Iranian Revolutionary Guard vessel coming near it in the Persian Gulf, an American official said on Wednesday, the latest tense naval encounter between the two countries. \n The incident happened Monday as the vessel attempted to draw closer to the USS Mahan despite the destroyer trying to turn away from it, said Lt. Ian McConnaughey, a spokesman for the Bahrain-based 5th Fleet. \n The \"Mahan made several attempts to contact the Iranian vessel by bridge-to-bridge radio, issuing warning messages and twice sounding the internationally recognized danger signal of five short blasts with the ship's whistle, as well as deploying a flare to determine the Iranian vessel's intentions,\" McConnaughey said in a statement to The Associated Press. \n The Iranian vessel came within 1,000 meters (1,100 yards) of the Mahan during the incident, the lieutenant said. The vessel later turned and sailed away. \n Iranian authorities did not immediately report the incident on Wednesday. \n The U.S. and Iran routinely have tense encounters in the Persian Gulf and the nearby Strait of Hormuz, through which a third of all oil traded by sea passes. Iran views the American presence as a provocation and its paramilitary Revolutionary Guard shadows U.S. Navy ships in the Gulf, occasionally firing missiles or rockets nearby. \n Since the nuclear deal with world powers, the hard-line Revolutionary Guard has stepped up its encounters with the Americans. The Navy recorded 35 instances of what it describes as \"unsafe and/or unprofessional\" interactions with Iranians forces in 2016, compared to 23 in 2015. With Monday's event, there have been seven so far in 2017, McConnaughey said. \n Of the incidents last year, the worst involved Iranian forces capturing 10 U.S. sailors and holding them overnight. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Navy fires warning flare at Iran vessel in Persian Gulf"}

{"date": "April 26, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Pacific Command Commander Adm. Harry Harris Jr. testified on Capitol in Washington, today, before a House Armed Services Committee hearing on North Korea. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean army's multiple launch rocket systems fired rockets during South Korea-U.S. joint military live-fire drills at Seungjin Fire Training Field in Pocheon, South Korea, near the border with North Korea, Wednesday. \n The head of U.S. Pacific Command told Congress today that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un \"is clearly in a position to threaten Hawaii today,\" adding that a defensive radar for the islands is coming and installing intercontinental ballistic missile interceptors here is being discussed. \n \"I think that the defense of Hawaii radar is coming. I think the interceptors piece is something that is yet to be determined. But I believe we should certainly look at it,\" Adm. Harry Harris said at a House Armed Services Committee hearing today in Washington. \n Harris made some of the comments at the hearing in response to questions from U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, who said she just returned to Washington after holding a series of town hall meetings across the state. \n The North Korean ICBM threat to Hawaii \"was a constant question and theme that came up,\" Gabbard said, asking Harris to characterize the threat level. \n \"I am concerned about it,\" Harris said. \"I believe that our ballistic missile (defense) architecture is sufficient to protect Hawaii today. But it can be overwhelmed.\" \n Hawaii is theoretically protected by ground-based interceptors in Alaska and California that would be launched to intercept North Korean ICBMs over the Pacific. \n The decision would have to be made on \"which ones to take out or not,\" Harris said. He added that, \"I think that we would be better served, my personal opinion is that we would be better served with a defensive Hawaii radar and interceptors in Hawaii. I know that is being discussed.\" \n The type of interceptors to potentially place in Hawaii \"is the next level of detail,\" Harris said. \n With tensions in the Korean peninsula high, President Donald Trump today is holding an extraordinary White House briefing for senators on the situation. Also today, South Korea started installing key parts of a contentious U.S. defense system against missiles from North Korea. \n Harris told Congress that any North Korean missile fired at U.S. forces would be destroyed. \"If it flies, it will die,\" he said. \n South Korea's trumpeting of progress in setting up the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or THAAD, comes as high-powered U.S. military vessels converge on the Korean Peninsula and as a combative North Korea signals possible nuclear and missile testing. Harris said the THAAD would be operational within days. \n North Korea conducted live-fire artillery drills on Tuesday, the 85th anniversary of the founding of its million-person Korean People's Army. On the same day, a U.S. guided-missile submarine docked in South Korea. The USS Carl Vinson aircraft supercarrier also is headed toward the peninsula for an exercise with South Korea. China, which is urging restraint on all sides, called for the U.S. to halt the maneuvers. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By William Cole", "title": "Missile defense for Hawaii needs to be stronger, Harris tells Congress"}

