{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2009 \n Passengers in an inflatable raft move away from an Airbus 320 US Airways aircraft that has gone down in the Hudson River in New York. Accident investigators say they object to their portrayal in a new movie based on the \"Miracle on the Hudson\" river ditching of airliner seven years ago after striking geese. \n WASHINGTON >> Losing thrust in both engines but still managing to land an airliner full of people in the Hudson River without the loss of a single life is plenty dramatic. But the drama in 'Sully,' the movie about the \"Miracle on the Hudson\" ditching of U.S. Airways Flight 1549, doesn't stop there. \n And that's a problem, say the former government accident investigators involved in the real-life investigation into the 2009 accident. The public, as well as pilots and others in the aviation industry, who see the movie may get the wrong impression that investigators were trying to smear the pilot, Chesley \"Sully\" Sullenberger, they said. \n \"We're not the KGB. We're not the Gestapo,\" said Robert Benzon, who led the National Transportation Safety Board's investigation. \"We're the guys with the white hats on.\" \n The film, scheduled for release in theaters on Friday, portrays investigators as more like prosecutors looking for any excuse to blame Sullenberger for the mishap. \n Could the plane have made it back to LaGuardia Airport if Sullenberger, portrayed by actor Tom Hanks, had turned it around? Did the thrust in both engines quit after the plane struck a flock of geese or was there still some power in one? Was the US Airways captain's performance affected by other factors? When was his last alcoholic drink? Was he having problems at home? \n It's true that those questions were asked, and many more, over the course of the 18-month investigation, but that's just part of NTSB's meticulous investigation process that is intended to find all possible flaws that contribute to a crash, investigators said. That way the board can make safety recommendations to the government, industry, labor unions, aircraft makers and others in an effort to prevent future accidents. Thirty-five safety recommendations were ultimately issued as a result of the Flight 1549 investigation. \n Investigators recalled Sullenberger and co-pilot Jeff Skiles, portrayed by actor Aaron Eckhart, as comfortable and cooperative. Pilot union officials representing them were present during all the interviews and at later public forums. \n \"These guys were already national heroes,\" said Benzon, who is now retired. \"We weren't out to embarrass anybody at all.\" \n But that's not how it comes across in the film, directed by Clint Eastwood. \n \"Until I read the script, I didn't know the investigative board was trying to paint the picture that he (Sullenberger) had done the wrong thing. They were kind of railroading him into 'it was his fault,'\" Eastwood said in a publicity video for the Warner Bros. film. \n Hanks told The Associated Press in an interview that a draft script included the names of real-life NTSB officials, but Sullenberger \u2014 who is an adviser on the film \u2014 requested they be taken out. \n \"He said, 'These are people who are not prosecutors. They are doing a very important job, and if, for editorial purposes, we want to make it more of a prosecutorial process, it ain't fair to them,' \" said Hanks. \"That's an easy thing to change.\" \n Malcolm Brenner, a human factors expert who was among the investigators who interviewed Sullenberger the day after the ditching, said he recalls being extraordinarily impressed at the time with both pilots and how well they worked together in the midst of the crisis. He said he's also been impressed since then with how Sullenberger has used his fame to promote aviation safety. \n \"I think there is a real integrity there,\" said Brenner, now an aviation consultant. \"I happen to be a big fan of the man.\" \n Tom Haueter, who was the NTSB's head of major accident investigations at the time and is now a consultant, said he fears the movie will discourage pilots and others from fully cooperating with the board in the future. \n \"There is a very good chance,\" said Haueter, \"that there is a segment of the population that will take this as proof of government incompetence and it will make things worse.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Real-life investigators object to portrayal in 'Sully' movie"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "A 9-year-old boy was in serious condition tonight after he was hit by a vehicle in Laie, according to city Emergency Medical Services. \n The accident happened about 6:35 p.m. at Anemoku Street and Kamehameha Highway. \n Paramedics treated the boy who was taken in serious condition to a trauma hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Boy, 9, seriously injured by vehicle in Laie"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Banning Ranch, including what remains of an oil-extraction operation, on what is believed to be the biggest piece of privately-owned vacant land on Southern California's coast in Newport Beach. \n NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. >> A California panel has overwhelmingly rejected a plan to build nearly 900 upscale homes and a hotel on a valuable stretch of Southern California coastline that has long been the site of oil drilling and now provides habitat for endangered and threatened wildlife. \n After a 13-hour meeting with hundreds of speakers, the California Coastal Commission voted 9-to-1 late Wednesday night against the proposed project on the 401 acre-site in upscale Newport Beach. \n The property known as Banning Ranch is considered the largest tract of privately held coastal land that could be developed south of Los Angeles. \n Many commissioners said they were voting no because the developers said they wouldn't move forward with the plan as it stood even if it was approved because it was too limiting, and the gap between the two sides was unbridgeable. \n \"We are just too far apart on this,\" said Commissioner Mary Shallenberger, who made the motion to reject the project. \n It was not clear, even to the commissioners themselves, what the next steps for the land would be. \n Hundreds weighed in on the proposal by Newport Banning Ranch to build 895 homes, a 75-room hotel and retail complex on the tract inhabited by burrowing owls and other wildlife. Many of the homes would have sweeping ocean views and sell for more than $1 million, according to the developers. \n In a sometimes heated meeting, opponents of the project carried signs with pictures of the owls and urged the state panel to preserve the shrub-covered land as open space. \n The burrowing birds dominated the discussion among both public and commissioners, and sometimes the topic brought laughter. \n Referring to the owl's mythology as a wise creature and the dangers humans posed to them, Jonna Engel of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife said \"they are not wise about cars.\" \n Staff members for the commission recommended developers shrink the plan and confine building to 20 acres to protect habitat for the owl, which lives in holes dug by ground squirrels and is considered a bird of special concern in California. \n Linda Mendenhall, who lives near the property, said she's tired of the traffic and congestion in Orange County and relishes the wide open views and animals she has enjoyed seeing from her home for nearly three decades. \n \"We just don't think they need to build another small city,\" she said. \n Jack Ainsworth, the commission's acting executive director, said the proposed development was one of the most important issues the panel has faced in the past four decades. \n \"It is critically important to get it right, because we may not get a second chance here and significant coastal resources are at stake,\" he told commissioners. \n The plan would have preserved roughly 80 percent of the land as open space, but environmentalists wanted even a larger chunk protected, saying the property is home to species including the threatened California gnatcatcher \u2014 a small, blue-gray songbird \u2014 and a rare vernal pool system that fills with rainwater where endangered San Diego fairy shrimp are known to thrive. \n Newport Banning Ranch \u2014 a partnership involving Aera Energy, Cherokee Investment Partners and Brooks Street \u2014 argued that developing about 70 acres would help raise as much as $40 million for restoration following years of oil drilling and give the public access to walking trails and educational programs on the coast. \n But Michael Mohler, senior project manager for Newport Banning Ranch, said the limitations suggested by the commission's staff were unrealistic and would thwart the project. \n \"We're proposing to restore the entire site for a beneficial ecosystem for all species, as I said earlier, including man,\" he said. \n Dozens of people also attended the meeting wearing T-shirts backing the project, which would limit oil drilling to 15 acres. If the homes are not approved, developers say they'll continue drilling on the site. \n Environmental advocates contend the oil mess should be cleaned up regardless of whether homes are constructed. While some oil wells still operate, many have been abandoned and old, rusty pipes are strewn across the land overlooking the Pacific Ocean. \n Elected officials from nearby cities also disputed whether the plan would help, or hurt, their crowded suburban neighborhoods. Newport Beach Mayor Diane Dixon supported the project. \n \"The Newport Banning oil field is not an environmental gem. It is a brown field,\" Dixon said. \"It would be tragic if we let this historic opportunity slip away.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California panel rejects major coastal development"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks with 'Today' show co-anchor Matt Lauer at the NBC Commander-In-Chief Forum held at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, New York, today. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Leveling unusually harsh criticism against the military, Republican Donald Trump said tonight that America's generals have been \"reduced to rubble\" under President Barack Obama and suggested he would fire some of them if he wins the presidency in November. \n Trump's comments came during a televised national security forum where he and Democratic rival Hillary Clinton each fielded 30 minutes of questions about their experience and judgment to be commander in chief. While the candidates never appeared on stage together, their back-to-back sessions served as a preview of sorts for their upcoming debates. \n By virtue of a coin flip, Clinton took the stage first and quickly found herself responding at length to questions about her years in government. She reiterated that she had made mistakes in relying on a personal email account and private server as secretary of state and in voting for the 2003 invasion of Iraq as a senator. But she defended her support for U.S. military intervention to help oust a dictator in Libya, despite the chaotic aftermath. \n \"I'm asking to be judged on the totality of my record,\" said Clinton, who grew visibly irritated at times with the repeated focus on her past actions. \n Clinton, who has cast Trump as dangerously ill-prepared to be commander in chief, tried to center the discussion on her foreign policy proposals should she win in November. She vowed to not send American ground troops into Iraq or Syria to fight the Islamic State group. And she pledged to hold weekly Oval Office meetings with representatives from the Pentagon and Department of Veterans Affairs to stay abreast of health care for veterans. \n Trump did little to counter the criticism that he lacks detailed policy proposals, particularly regarding the Islamic State. He both insisted he has a private blueprint for defeating the extremist group and that he would demand a plan from military leaders within 30 days of taking office. \n Asked to square his request for military options with his harsh criticism of the current crop of generals, Trump said simply: \"They'll probably be different generals.\" \n Trump renewed his praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin for having \"great control over his country.\" He stood by a previous comment that appeared to blame military sexual assaults on men and women serving together, but added he would not seek to remove women from the military. And for the first time, he opened the door to granting legal status to people living in the U.S. illegally who join the military. \n \"I think that when you serve in the armed forces, that's a very special situation,\" Trump said. \"And I could see myself working that out.\" \n As a businessman with no substantial national security experience, Trump was vague about how he is preparing for the enormous array of complex issues that would land on his desk as commander in chief. He cited his team of military advisers, but also said he has \"a common sense\" that will help him make decisions on foreign policy. \n With just two months until Election Day, national security has emerged as a centerpiece issue in the White House race. Both candidates believe they have the upper hand, with Clinton contrasting her experience with Trump's unpredictability and the Republican arguing that Americans worried about their safety will be left with more of the same if they elect Obama's former secretary of state. \n While GOP candidates are often seen by voters as having an advantage on military and national security issues, Trump is far from a traditional Republican. He has no military experience and has repeatedly criticized the skill of the armed forces. \n A flood of Republican national security experts have instead chosen to back Clinton, helping bolster her case that Trump is broadly unacceptable. Earlier Wednesday, former Defense Secretary William Cohen joined the list of GOP officials supporting Clinton. \n Ahead of the forum, Trump rolled out a new plan to boost military spending by tens of billions of dollars, including major increases in the number of active troops, fighter planes, ships and submarines. \n His address earlier in the day also included plans to eliminate deep spending cuts known as the \"sequester\" that were enacted when Congress failed to reach a budget compromise in 2011. Republicans and Democrats voted for the automatic, across-the board cuts that affected both military and domestic programs, though the White House has long pressed Congress to lift the spending limits. \n Trump expressed support for the sequester in interviews in 2013 \u2014 even describing them as too small \u2014 but seemed to suggest at the time that military spending should be exempt. \n A senior adviser said ahead of the speech that Trump would make sure the additional spending was fully paid for but did not explain how. \n The United States currently spends more than $600 billion a year on the military, more than the next seven countries combined. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump: U.S. generals 'reduced to rubble,' he'd replace some"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "A 51-year-old woman was in serious condition this afternoon after an apparent shark attack in waters off Makaha Beach, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n The woman was about 300 yards offshore when the attack occurred at about 2:30 p.m., leaving her with bites to the shoulder and arm, according to the report. Lifeguards put the injured woman on a rescue board and brought her to shore. Surfers in the water assisted lifeguards. \n No further information at this time on the type of shark. \n On the beach, paramedics took over with advanced life support and transported the woman in serious condition to a trauma center. \n Lifeguards have posted shark warning signs and have cleared the water. The signs will stay up overnight and the beach will be reassessed Thursday morning. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman, 51, injured in shark attack in waters off Makaha Beach"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Straub Medical Center nurse Janelle Carroll administered a Hepatitis A vaccine to Brian Murdock on Friday. An additional Hep A vaccine booster is required six months later is effective for about 25 years. \n The state Department of Health says it has recorded 11 new cases of hepatitis A in Hawaii over the past week, up nearly 5 percent from last week. \n This brings the total number of cases from the current outbreak to 252. \n The department said today all of those sickened are adults. Sixty-six have been hospitalized. \n Health officials traced the outbreak to frozen scallops served raw by a popular sushi chain on Oahu and Kauai. U.S. Food and Drug Administration tests later found hepatitis A in the scallops, which were imported from the Philippines. \n The Genki Sushi chain closed 10 restaurants on Oahu and one on Kauai and began disinfecting them after the discovery. \n ", "author": "The Associated Press", "title": "Health department reports 11 new hepatitis A cases"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "Hawaii island police said today they are investigating a possible drowning in the Puna district. \n At 4 p.m. Tuesday, police received a report of an unresponsive woman who had been snorkeling at Pohoiki Beach. \n When police arrived at the scene, lifeguards and Fire Department rescue personnel were attempting cardio-pulmonary resuscitation on the woman. Attempts to resuscitate the victim at the scene were unsuccessful, police said. \n The identity of the victim is being withheld pending notification of her family. \n Police have initiated a coroner's inquest investigation and have ordered an autopsy to determine the exact cause of death. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Snorkeler apparently drowns off Hawaii island beach"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "A 23-year-old man was stabbed multiple times this afternoon at an Aiea house, according to city Emergency Medical Services. \n Paramedics treated the man at a Moanalua Road address about 1:15 p.m. and transported him in serious condition to a hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man, 23, stabbed multiple times at Aiea house"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "An 11-year-old boy was reported in critical condition Wednesday after his bicycle was struck by a large truck in Kalihi, according to police and city Emergency Medical Services. \n The accident occurred about 1:40 p.m. at Waiakamilo Road and North King Street, EMS said. \n Police said the boy was crossing Waiakamilo Road in the south crosswalk when he was struck by the truck, which was turning onto southbound Waiakamilo Road from eastbound North King Street. \n Paramedics treated the boy and transported him to a hospital in critical condition. \n Honolulu police closed southbound lanes of Waiakamilo Road at King Street as they investigated the accident just before 2 p.m. \n All lanes were reopened just before 5 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Boy listed in critical condition after bicycle struck by large truck in Kalihi"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester against the late strongman Ferdinand Marcos shouts slogans near Marcos supporters as they hold a rally outside the Philippine Supreme Court in Manila, Philippines to coincide with the oral arguments following petitions filed by various civil society groups opposing the hero's burial of Marcos at the Heroes Cemetery Wednesday. \n MANILA >> The Philippine Supreme Court on Wednesday extended its temporary ban on the burial of late dictator Ferdinand Marcos at a heroes' cemetery after a hearing at which some justices questioned whether President Rodrigo Duterte abused his executive power and violated laws by allowing the entombment, which is opposed by the Marcos regime's human rights victims. \n The court gave both sides 20 days to submit statements before making a ruling. An earlier court order temporarily halted the burial until Sept. 12 while the cases were being heard. \n Solictor General Jose Calida defended Duterte's directive, saying it is within the president's power and a political issue that the court should not rule on. He said Marcos as a former president and war veteran who was not dishonorably discharged from the military is qualified to be buried at the military-run cemetery. \n Burying a dictator accused of massive rights violations and corruption at the Heroes' Cemetery has long been an emotional and divisive issue in the Philippines, where Marcos was ousted by a \"people power\" revolt in 1986. He flew to Hawaii, where he lived with his wife and children in exile until he died in 1989. His body was flown back to his hometown in 1993, where it has been displayed in a glass coffin. But his family wants his remains transferred to the Heroes' Cemetery. \n During Wednesday's hearing, about 200 supporters of the late dictator picketed outside the court, some carrying a streamer that said \"Bury the dead, follow the law.\" Another group of activists opposing the burial held up a banner that said \"Marcos is no hero!\" and chanted \"Marcos, Hitler, Dictator, Puppet!\" \n Calida said the cemetery is not reserved for heroes, saying its name is a misnomer because there is no standard defining who is a hero. Burying Marcos there would not confer him the title of hero, he added. \n He said the court should give Duterte latitude to exercise his political discretion and carry out his campaign promise to bury Marcos there for what he said would be national healing. \n Chief Justice Lourdes Sereno pointed out that there is no such thing as untrammeled executive prerogative. She also said public funds cannot be used to fulfill a political promise. \n Calida said Duterte's campaign promise has become a policy to promote national healing. \n \"In light of executive, legislative and judicial pronouncements that characterize President Marcos as a dictator, plunderer, human rights violator, can you explain how his burial in the Heroes' Cemetery can further the policy to hold and keep the cemetery sacred and hallow or with people to be esteemed?\" Justice Alfredo Caguioa asked. \n Calida said those descriptions were used for Marcos as a president and not as a military officer. \n The head of the National Historical Commission of the Philippines also testified on a study by the commission that showed Marcos' military record from World War II was fraught with myths and lies, including about receiving U.S. medals. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story has been corrected to fix spelling of justice's name to Caguioa instead of Caguiao. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine government defends decision on hero burial for Marcos"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "DARYL LEE / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n Hawaii County police investigate the scene of an officer-involved shooting at the drive-through window of the McDonald's restaurant in the Puainako Center on Feb. 5. \n HILO >> Authorities say all officers involved in the four fatal shootings of men by police on the Big Island this year are back on active duty as investigations into the deaths wrap up. \n The names of the officers won't be disclosed unless they are charged in the shootings, which occurred in Hilo and Puna. \n Starting next July, officer-involved shootings will be reviewed by an independent board administered by the state attorney general's office as part of a new law approved this year. \n \"The intent of this bill is to make certain people have trust in the investigatory process and they feel that nothing's being covered up or swept under the rug,\" said Sen. Vice President Will Espero, a co-sponsor of the legislation. \n The nine-member board will consist of a deputy attorney general, a former prosecutor or deputy prosecutor from each county, a retired state judge, a former police chief, deputy chief or sheriff, and two community members without law enforcement or criminal justice experience. The governor will appoint one of the community members, while all others will be appointed by the attorney general. \n The board will review investigations of officer-involved deaths involving all four county police departments, state sheriffs and other law enforcers, including Department of Land and Natural Resources officers and Department of Transportation harbor police. \n Espero said this year's shootings on the Big Island point to a need for the kind of investigations that the board will conduct starting next year. \n Barawis was shot and killed by officers Feb. 5 in a McDonald's drive-thru. Police say he was armed and drove toward officers, who opened fire in response. Barawis was wanted along with Yanagawa in connection with a Jan. 31 shooting that critically injured a Kona man. Yanagawa was killed four days after Barawis in a shootout with officers in a Wal-Mart parking lot. \n Police say Rapoza was fatally shot June 6 by an officer while armed with a knife. A dog that was with him was also shot. \n Medeiros was shot and killed July 22 after police say he pointed a handgun and an officer. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Information from: Hawaii Tribune-Herald, http://www.hawaiitribune-herald.com/ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Officers involved in fatal Big Island shootings back on duty"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Iiwi bird, as seen above \u2014 an endemic Hawaiian honeycreeper \u2014 is found on all of the main Hawaiian Islands. A new study predicts climate change will accelerate the rate of extinctions of Hawaiian honeycreepers. \n Native forest birds on Kauai are rapidly dying off and facing the threat of extinction as climate change heats up their habitat and allows mosquito-borne diseases to thrive, according to a study released today. \n Higher temperatures caused by global warming increase the spread of diseases such as avian malaria in wooded areas once cool enough to keep them under control, the research says. The findings are an early warning for forest birds on other islands and other species worldwide that rely on rapidly disappearing habitat, according to the study published in the journal Science Advances. \n Most of Hawaii's forest birds are restricted to forests in high elevations where disease has been seasonal or absent. A sharp increase in disease has occurred over a 15-year period in the upper-elevation forests of Kauai's Alakai Plateau, a highly eroded crater of an extinct volcano, the study said. \n \"If native species linearly decline at a rate similar to or greater than that of the past decade, then multiple extinctions are likely in the next decade,\" it warns. \n Two Hawaiian honeycreeper species \u2014 akikiki and akekee \u2014 are endangered. A petition is asking for the iiwi to be listed as endangered, too, said co-author Lisa Crampton, a wildlife ecologist and conservation biologist who is also coordinator for the Kauai Forest Bird Recovery Project. \n The authors used long-term survey data collected by state and federal biologists to document the decline of Kauai's native forest birds, along with surveys tallying the prevalence of avian diseases. Some co-authors went into the forests to count birds, while others analyzed the data, Crampton said. \n The scientists found an increase in mosquitoes in the birds' habitat, along with warmer temperatures in the area. Those are some of the correlations that led them to believe climate change is accelerating diseases, Crampton said. \n While global warming is a \"prime suspect\" for the precipitous decline in the birds, other factors such as non-native plants and animals are contributing to the problem, the study said. \n The authors describe climate change as a \"tipping point\" for the sensitive birds. \n The study is a \"signal that we need to do something about global warming and mosquitoes,\" said Sam Ohu Gon, senior scientist and cultural adviser for the Nature Conservancy of Hawaii, which was not part of the study. \n It's only a matter of time before mosquito-borne diseases become commonplace in Hawaii, he said. \n There are also cultural reasons to care about the study, he said, explaining that Native Hawaiians view birds, plants and animals as ancestors. \n Crampton notes that feathers adorned regalia of ancient Hawaiian chiefs. \n \"If we lose these forest birds, we lose our connection to our past,\" she said, adding that they are also integral to Hawaii's watersheds. \n \"Even though the situation is dire, it's not too late,\" she said. \"It's not hopeless.\" \n State, federal and nonprofit agencies are moving to control rodents that prey on nests and fence off habitats to invasive animals such as pigs and goats, among other actions requiring public support, Crampton said. \n In addition, individuals' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint will go a long way. \n \"Everything we can do to slow down the rate of climate change is going to help the birds,\" she said. \n Online: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Climate change blamed for collapse of Hawaiian forest birds"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "The state is seeking applicants to serve on the University of Hawaii Board of Regents for multiyear terms that would begin July 1. \n The UH Regents Candidate Advisory Council, a screening committee prescribed by state law, is accepting applications and nominations through Oct. 28 for three seats on the voluntary 15-member board: one at-large seat and one each representing Honolulu and Kauai counties. The appointments would be for five-year terms. \n The terms of regents Benjamin Kudo (at-large seat), Simeon Acoba (Honolulu) and David Iha (Kauai) expire next summer. \n Nominations and applications also are being accepted until Sept. 30 for an immediate interim appointment to serve out the remainder of Big Island regent Barry Mizuno's term. Mizuno, who has resigned, had been appointed to serve through mid-2018. \n Candidates for the Honolulu, Hawaii County and Kauai seats must reside in the geographic area they represent. \n As the governing board of the 10-campus UH system, the Board of Regents \"formulates policy and exercises control over the university \u2026 (and) has exclusive jurisdiction over the internal structure, management and operation of the university,\" according to UH's website. \n Voters in 2006 passed a constitutional amendment creating the candidate advisory council to present the governor with pools of qualified candidates. Previously, the governor had sole discretion over nominations to the board. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Applicants sought for seats on UH board of Regents"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "The city will cut down seven diseased and overly tall coconut palms on the grounds of Honolulu Hale this week. \n The City's Department of Facility Maintenance has contracted Imua Landscaping, Inc. for $5,037.50 to remove three trees on King Street and four on the Punchbowl Street side of the building. The palms will be replaced at a later date. \n A licensed arborist recently inspected all coconut palms for stability and structural integrity and reported that the seven trees are overly tall, matured, and are leaning toward into the roadway, and recommended that they be removed for safety reasons. \n In late 2014, a coconut palm on the Punchbowl Street side of Honolulu Hale fell. No property damage or injuries occurred from the incident. Twenty-six palms will remain after removing the seven trees. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City to remove precarious palms at Honolulu Hale"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Homeless advocate Mike Davis, of Knowing Me Ministries, left, and concerned neighbor Gus Kroll and his daughter Flannery, walked through a homeless camp, on Aug. 10, that was swept by police in Portland's southeast Lents neighborhood in Oregon. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Deitra Schmer, standing, and her grandchildren Adrian Atkinson, left, Andrea Brown, middle, and Jordan Otey, listened as friend Terry Daniel talked about the planned police sweep of the homeless encampment where Schmer lives along the Springwater Corridor in Portland, Ore. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Deitra Schmer watched as her granddaughter, Andrea Brown, brushed her hair and grandson Adrian Atkinson, right, looked on in Schmer's tent in a homeless encampment along the Springwater Corridor bike and pedestrian trail in Portland, Ore. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n \"Mohawk\" Craig Alexenko sat on top of refuse cleared out of a homeless encampment along the Springwater Corridor during a Sept. 1 police sweep in southeast Portland, Ore. The city of Portland has declared a \"homeless emergency\" as skyrocketing rents, an affordable housing shortage and a lack of shelter beds has led to encampments all across the city, including the one where Alexenko has been living. \n PORTLAND, Ore. \u00bb There have always been homeless people in Portland, but last summer Michelle Cardinal noticed a change outside her office doors. \n Almost overnight, it seemed, tents popped up in the park that runs like a green carpet past the offices of her national advertising business. She saw assaults, drug deals and prostitution. Every morning, she said, she cleaned human feces off the doorstep and picked up used needles. \n \"It started in June and by July it was full-blown. The park was mobbed,\" she said. \"We've got a problem here and the question is how we're going to deal with it.\" \n The city is booming, and the homeless are more visible than ever before. Skyrocketing rents, cripplingly low vacancy rates and a severe shortage of affordable housing are forcing Portland to re-examine its live-and-let-live attitude in a place where residents have long been tolerant of everything but intolerance. \n And in a city where the mayor says \"unhoused\" instead of homeless and where tent camps have names like Dignity Village and Right 2 Dream Too instead of Skid Row and The Jungle, residents are wondering if Portland needs to rethink its strategy as a permanent solution seems ever-more elusive. \n \"The city doesn't have a coherent approach to \u2026 really enforcing any type of rules about where people can camp,\" said Chris Trejbal, who lives near a homeless camp called Hazelnut Grove. \n \"It's been a disaster. There's no leadership.\" \n The issue peaked this year when Portland declared a homeless state of emergency and Mayor Charlie Hales made it legal to sleep on city streets. \n At the same time, Portland welcomed 1,000 new residents a month and the average rent has increased about $100 a month. The metropolitan area needs 24,000 more affordable housing units; vacancy rates are some of the lowest in the nation. \n \"It's white hot, people want to move here and live here, as well they should. It's an amazing city, but our zoning and our planning process is really behind the curve in terms of providing flexible and affordable living arrangements,\" said Mayor-Elect Ted Wheeler. \"It has not caught up with the new reality.\" \n Part of that reality is the nearly 1,900 unsheltered people who camp from Portland's downtown core to its rapidly gentrifying neighborhoods to the forested areas along the urban fringe. A one-night count last year found the overall number of homeless people hasn't increased significantly, but the number of chronically homeless has risen steadily to make up about half of the total population. \n Portland has earmarked $250 million for affordable housing and has a $250 million housing bond on the November ballot. \n The city has also joined forces with Multnomah County to tackle the crisis head-on with $43 million in funding; leaders in a new coalition want to cut homelessness by half in three years. \n Yet there is a potent belief that the city isn't doing enough because homelessness suddenly seems everywhere. \n There aren't enough short-term beds while Portland works at long-term solutions. When one camp is shut down, another pops up. \n After letting up to 500 homeless people live for months along a 21-mile bike trail in southeast Portland, the city cracked down and last week uprooted a network of tents, some of them stuffed with armchairs and couches. \n Neighbor LaDawna Booze had called police repeatedly to report drug use, theft and excessive noise there. \n \"I haven't been out in my own yard in a few years. I feel like I'm watched everywhere,\" she said. \"It's changed my life.\" \n Booze isn't alone. The issue was a constant in this spring's mayoral campaign and it dominates the local news. Since June, 5,000 people have called a hotline to complain about homeless camps, according to The Oregonian/OregonLive. \n Hales, who dropped out of the race for re-election, has struggled to find a common ground between upset business leaders and homeowners and homeless advocates, who feel the city is shuttling the homeless around with no plan. \n He was sued after announcing his \"safe sleep\" policy, but the city was sued again last month after commissioners voted to proceed with plans to turn a vacant industrial warehouse into a 400-bed homeless shelter. \n Suggestions to house the unsheltered in a mothballed jail have been slammed for symbolically criminalizing homelessness but a state land use board killed a plan last week to move a city-sanctioned tent village to industrial land. \n \"You're damned if you do and you're damned if you don't so you'd better 'do,' because no good deed goes unpunished when it comes to homelessness,\" said Hales, who ended the 'safe sleep' policy after six months. \n Those on the streets are craving answers as the cold and rain of a Portland winter approach. \n Deitra Schmer moved into an RV when the city swept the Springwater Corridor. She has nowhere else to go and says she couldn't keep her job as a certified nursing assistant because she had no stability. \n \"You can't move every 10 days or every three days and keep your job. It just doesn't work,\" she said. \"Not to have to worry about where I'm going to lay my head \u2014 that's my biggest issue.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Portland homeless crisis sows dissent in tolerant city"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated jail booking photo provided by the North Las Vegas Police Department shows Alonso Perez, 25. Police say Perez, who also uses the name Alfonso Perez, is a homicide suspect who escaped from custody at a police detective bureau while awaiting questioning about the Aug. 27 shooting death of a 31-year-old man at a McDonald's restaurant. \n LAS VEGAS \u00bb A Nevada homicide suspect who became the focus of a four-day manhunt after breaking his handcuffs and escaping from a police interview room was recaptured in Las Vegas, less than a mile from where authorities found a work truck he's believed to have stolen to get away, police said today. \n Alonso Perez surrendered when police and FBI fugitive-hunters found him about 8 p.m. Tuesday in an apartment several miles east of downtown Las Vegas, North Las Vegas police Officer Aaron Patty said. \n There wasn't a standoff, Patty said. He said he didn't know if Perez had a weapon when he was arrested or if there were other people in the residence at the time. \n Perez, 25, who also uses the name Alfonso Perez, had been sought since Friday, when police said he broke a set of handcuffs and fled from a police office in North Las Vegas. \n A Ford F-250 work truck that police said was stolen from a nearby parking lot was later found about 9 miles away. \n Perez was held overnight at the Clark County jail in Las Vegas pending court appearances Thursday on use of a firearm, assault and domestic battery charges in a separate case, according to court records. It wasn't immediately clear if he had a lawyer. \n Patty said murder and other charges are expected to be filed against Perez today. \n Perez has been identified by police as the suspect in the Aug. 27 shooting death of Mohammed Robinson outside a McDonald's restaurant in North Las Vegas. \n Witnesses have said the fatal argument began with angry words about Robinson not holding a door open for a woman. \n On Friday, police say Perez was alone in a detective office interview room when he broke the hinge of his handcuffs and escaped with one cuff attached to a table and one cuff still on his right wrist. \n Patty said a departmental investigation has begun. \n \"Now we can focus on preventing this from happening again,\" he said. \n The escape was the second reported this year from a police station in the Las Vegas area. \n In April, Ivan Mayoral-Lizarraga fled from a Las Vegas police substation during questioning in a stolen vehicle investigation. \n He was arrested about two weeks later, and pleaded guilty to felony home invasion, assault with a weapon and escape charges. Mayoral-Lizarraga is serving two-to-five years in state prison. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Escaped slaying suspect recaptured in Vegas after 4-day hunt"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. spoke during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The House will vote as early as next week on a conservative effort to impeach IRS chief John Koskinen. But congressional GOP leaders still must decide how to avert a federal shutdown and finance federal efforts to contain the Zika virus, even as the approaching elections pressure them to avoid riling voters. \n After House Republicans met privately today for the first time since Congress returned from summer recess, leaders said GOP lawmakers would meet again next week to discuss their next steps on Koskinen's impeachment. They said a House vote would come sometime after that. \n Conservatives have pushed for Koskinen's removal since last year, saying he's impeded their investigation of how the IRS treated tea party groups several years ago \u2014 before he led the agency. Others worry that with the effort certain to fail in the Senate should it get that far, it needlessly risks making the GOP look too partisan just before voters go to the polls. \n \"Members are going to vote the way they want to vote on this,\" House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., told reporters. But he added, \"You have members on both sides of this.\" \n The impeachment drive has prompted little enthusiasm among GOP leaders and is solidly opposed by Democrats. Even if the House votes to impeach Koskinen \u2014 the equivalent of formally charging him with a crime \u2014 the move is certain to go nowhere in the Senate, which has final say on removing an official from office. \n A resolution introduced by conservatives accuses Koskinen of not cooperating with congressional subpoenas for documents and making false statements to Congress about destroyed emails in the probe. Koskinen has said the charges are without substance. \n Republican leaders hope to resolve that and other issues and send Congress home by September's end so lawmakers can campaign. \n In a post-summer fixture for Congress, Republicans and Democrats remain divided over federal expenditures. Lawmakers have a long way to go to complete spending legislation to keep agencies functioning after Sept. 30. \n With zero chance of completing all 12 spending bills by then, the key questions are how many weeks a temporary spending package will last, and whether the GOP can garner enough votes for such a measure without triggering a government shutdown sure to enrage voters. \n Many conservatives want to provide temporary spending into early next year, instead of extending it only into December. They don't want to let a post-election, lame-duck session of Congress make the year's spending decisions because they say retiring lawmakers who no longer must face voters are more inclined to accept wasteful spending. \n President Barack Obama and Senate Democrat oppose that idea. Even House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., has said he wants to keep negotiating into the fall on full-year spending measures. \n \"I'm sure we'll have a successful outcome to make sure just that the trains are running on time,\" Ryan told hometown radio host Stan Milam of AM 1380 in Janesville, Wisconsin, on Tuesday. \n Some conservatives said today they might support a short-term spending bill into December in exchange for language blocking money to resettle Syrian refugees in the United States, language opposed by most Democrats. \n Late Tuesday, the Senate used its first vote since returning to recess to highlight that partisan battling over financing the battle against Zika remains as bitter as ever. \n For the third time this year, Senate Democrats blocked a Republican measure to battle the virus. A 52-46 vote to advance the money fell short of the 60 votes needed as Democrats opposed provisions blocking Zika prevention and treatment money from going to Planned Parenthood clinics in Puerto Rico. \n Republicans called that a shaky excuse compared to the threat of the mosquito-carried Zika virus. No. 3 Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York said the GOP was using the bill \"to assuage the hard right.\" \n There have been dozens of Zika cases in the political battleground state of Florida. Tuesday's vote could prod Republicans to attach Zika money to temporary spending legislation. \n Part of the spending fight is over the Pentagon. Republicans want to use emergency war funds to artificially increase the basic defense budget by $16 billion next year. \n The Obama administration and its Democratic allies oppose the idea, saying if Republicans want more money for defense, domestic programs will have to receive an equal boost. Senate Democrats also blocked that measure from advancing Tuesday. \n AP Congressional Correspondent Erica Werner contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House vote on impeaching IRS chief possible next week"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama waved to the media as he arrived for the gala dinner of ASEAN leaders and its Dialogue Partners in the ongoing 28th and 29th ASEAN Summits and other related summits at the National Convention Center Wednesday, in Vientiane, Laos. \n VIENTIANE, Laos \u00bb President Barack Obama and Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte met informally on Wednesday in a holding room before attending a gala dinner at a regional summit, Philippine officials said. \n The brief meeting took a little sting out of the soured relations caused by Duterte's intemperate language in referring to Obama earlier this week. That had caused Obama to cancel a formal meeting scheduled for Tuesday. \n Philippine Foreign Secretary Pefecto Yasay told The Associated Press that the leaders had met. \n \"They met at the holding room and they were the last persons to leave the holding room. I can't say how long they met. It all springs from the fact the relationship between the Philippines and the United States is firm, very strong. The basis for this relationship is historical and both leaders realize this. And I'm very happy that it happened.\" \n Obama and Duterte are in the Laotian capital along with other regional leaders for the summit. All of them made their way through the holding room before heading to the banquet hall. \n According to a White House official who would not be named discussing the private meeting: Obama had a brief discussion with Duterte before the ASEAN Gala Dinner in the leaders' holding space. The exchange consisted of pleasantries between the two. \n On Monday, hours before arriving in Laos, Duterte told Philippine reporters he wouldn't accept questions from Obama about extrajudicial killings that have occurred during his crackdown on suspected drug dealers and users. More than 2,000 people have been killed in the crackdown since he took office on June 30. \n \"I do not have any master except the Filipino people, nobody but nobody. You must be respectful. Do not just throw questions. Putang ina, I will swear at you in that forum,\" Duterte said, using the Tagalog phrase for \"son of a bitch.\" \n On Tuesday, Duterte expressed regret over the remarks, but the damage was done. \n A Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs spokesman, Charles Joe, also said Obama and Duterte met in the holding room. He said it was a mutually agreed meeting, but that he had no details of what was discussed. \n Obama and Duterte entered the dinner venue separately, and were seated far apart and did not interact with each other during the dinner that lasted an hour and 20 minutes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama, Duterte meet despite Filipino leader's crude language"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "CARROLLTON, Ga. \u00bb The latest on a deadly plane crash in western Georgia (all times local): \n 12:20 p.m. \n Federal officials say the midair collision of two small aircraft caused a deadly plane crash in western Georgia. \n The Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that two single-engine planes collided over the West Georgia Regional Airport. The crash happened just before 11 a.m. Wednesday in Carroll County, about 45 miles west of Atlanta. \n The FAA says it's investigating the crash. \n 11:50 a.m.  \n A fire official says three people are dead following a plane crash near a small airport in western Georgia. \n WSB-TV reports Bud Benefield, a deputy fire chief for Carroll County, confirmed the crash happened today near West Georgia Regional Airport. The county is located about 45 miles west of Atlanta. \n Benefield did not immediately return phone and email messages from The Associated Press. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 dead after 2 planes collide near Atlanta"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Edmund (Fred) Hyun \n Gov. David Ige has appointed Edmund (Fred) Hyun to be the interim chair of the Hawaii Paroling Authority. \n Hyun, who replaces Bert Matsuoka, began his four-year term on Aug. 1. His appointment is subject to Senate approval. \n Hyun attended the University Lab Schools. He graduated from the University of Hawaii at Manoa with a bachelor's in psychology and a master's degree in social work. \n Hyun enlisted in the Hawaii Air National Guard and retired in 1993. \n Hyun was also employed by the Hawaii Youth Correctional Facility and started the first halfway house for committed wards. He served in a variety of positions at the Oahu Community Correctional Center from 1980 until his retirement from the Department of Public Safety in 2013. He then worked at Akal Security (Pacific Region) for four years. In 2009, Fred was hired by the Honolulu Liquor Commission as the contract administrative services officer and later as special projects coordinator. \n Currently, Fred sits on the Holomua Puuhonua Committee as well as the Corrections Population Management Commission. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Ige appoints paroling authority interim chief"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "The city will pay tribute to to the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks Sunday. \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell will join first responders at 5 p.m. in front of the Honolulu Police Department headquarters to begin the Mayor's Remembrance Walk. \n The procession will be led by a police motorcycle formation, color guard, and the Celtic Pipes and Drums of Hawaii, followed by fire, Emergency Services and Emergency Management departments, city officials and other dignitaries. \n The Remembrance Walk will proceed Ewa on Beretania Street, makai on Alapai and South streets to Honolulu Fire Department headquarters at South and Queen streets. \n Following the Fire Department ceremony, the procession will then continue Ewa on Queen Street, and mauka on Punchbowl Street to Honolulu Hale, where the walk culminates with a ceremony at the Eternal Flame at which the Rev. Rheo Ofalsa of Roman Catholic Diocese of Honolulu and Caldwell will speak. The ceremony includes music by the Royal Hawaiian Band, an oli by Kaipo Leopoldino, a hula performance and the traditional playing of \"taps.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City to commemorate 9/11"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE \n Jeremy Ward \n Big Island police are seeking the public's help in finding escapee Jeremy Ward, who failed to return from a furlough pass on Aug. 27. \n Ward, 39, is a community custody inmate in the work furlough program with pass privileges. Community custody is the lowest classification status. \n Ward left the Hale Nani Correctional Facility in Panaewa outside of Hilo at 8 a.m. Aug. 27 and was scheduled to return by 8 p.m. \n Ward is 5 feet 5 inches tall and and weighs 135 pounds. He has brown hair and brown eyes. \n He has a red heart tattoo with the name \"Tanya\" on the left side of his chest, tribal-style tattoos on his left lower arm, the word \"FEATHER\" on the back of his left upper arm and other assorted tattoos on his right arm, his back, and the back of his left hand. \n Police ask anyone with information on his whereabouts to call the police department's non-emergency line at 935-3311. \n Ward was serving time for second-degree theft, bail jumping and promoting prison contraband. His next parole hearing was scheduled for November. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle police seek work furlough escapee"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama was given flowers as he arrived on Air Force One at the Luang Prabang International Airport, in Luang Prabang, Laos, Wednesday, en route to Wat Xieng Thong Buddhist Temple in Luang Prabang, Laos. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama drank from a fresh coconut along the banks of the Mekong River in the Luang Prabang, Laos on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama paused in the Ho Raj Rod, or Carriage House, as he toured the Wat Xieng Thong Buddhist Temple in Luang Prabang, Laos on Wednesday. \n LUANG PRABANG, Laos \u00bb President Barack Obama ventured Wednesday to a remote mountain town in Laos to tour a centuries-old Buddhist temple, gently chiding Americans to resist turning a blind eye to the world outside their borders. \n Obama used a visit to the northern city of Luang Prabang to push back against an America-centric world view promulgated by Republican Donald Trump. Questioned by young Southeast Asians, Obama said the U.S. could be a great force for good but has been constrained by the tendency to look inward. \n \"If you are the United States, sometimes you can feel lazy and think, you know, 'we're so big, we don't really have to know anything about other people,'\" Obama said. \"That's part of what I'm trying to change.\" \n Though he didn't mention Trump by name, Obama appeared to counter the isolationist approach epitomized by the Republican presidential nominee's \"America first\" rallying cry. An ardent opponent of Obama's efforts to boost global trade, Trump has questioned the U.S. alliance with NATO and vowed to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico. \n So when an Indonesian woman asked Obama about American multiculturalism and the edict \"e pluribus unum\" \u2014 out of many, one \u2014 Obama seized the chance to explain that when times are tough and people feel stressed \"they turn on others who don't look like them.\" He said that's why it's critical for the U.S. to promote principles that rise above any individual religion, nationality or race. \n \"Not everybody in America agrees with me on this, by the way,\" Obama said. After a moment's hesitation, he added: \"I'll leave it at that.\" \n Throughout his visit to Laos, Obama has lamented that most Americans know little about the country or the devastating secret nine-year war the U.S. waged here half a century ago. He sought to use his presence and the spotlight that follows him to bring attention to an unfamiliar corner of the world. \n In Luang Prabang, he showcased a rich cultural and religious heritage. A UNESCO World Heritage List site along the Mekong River, the city was a hub for the Buddhist faith during the Lan Xang kingdom starting in the 14th century. \n Obama's first stop was Wat Xieng Thong, a 16th century complex of ornate gold buildings known as the \"Temple of the Golden City.\" He removed his shoes before entering the carriage house, where he examined a line of golden statues. \n \"It's gorgeous,\" Obama said. \n Greeting the temple monks, Obama posed for a group photo with about 20 boys in bright orange robes after being informed they weren't supposed to shake hands. He bought gifts for daughters Sasha and Malia at an open-air shop and sipped from a coconut. \n On this first visit by a sitting American president, Obama has placed a particular emphasis on trying to heal wounds inflicted by the war the U.S. waged here as part of the Vietnam War. \n Obama paid tribute to survivors maimed by some of the 80 million unexploded bombs America dropped on Laos during the war. Vowing the U.S. will do more to help finally remove them, he touted his administration's move to double spending on ordnance cleanup to roughly $90 million over three years. \n \"For the last four decades, Laotians have continued to live under the shadow of war,\" Obama said as he toured a rehabilitation center in the capital of Vientiane that cares for bomb survivors. \"The war did not end when the bombs stopped falling.\" \n Some 20,000 people have been killed or wounded since the war ended, Obama said after viewing displays of small rusted grenades and photos of a child missing a foot. He insisted those were \"not just statistics,\" but reminders of the heavy toll inflicted by war. \n \"I'm inspired by you,\" Obama told Thoummy Silamphan, a survivor who uses a prosthetic after losing a hand to one of the bombs. \n The president did not come to Laos to apologize. Instead, he said he hoped the strengthened partnership on bomb clearing could mark a \"decisive step forward\" between the U.S. and this landlocked communist nation. \n The visit also served as a capstone to his effort to bolster relations with Southeast Asian countries long overlooked by the United States. The outreach is a core element of Obama's attempt to shift U.S. diplomatic and military resources away from the Middle East and to Asia to counter China in the region and ensure a U.S. foothold in growing markets. \n Associated Press writers Daniel Malloy in Luang Prabang and Kevin Freking and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Showcasing Lao culture, Obama pushes back on U.S. isolationism"}

{"date": "September 7, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/YURI KAGEYAMA \n Former Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi speaks during a press conference at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan in Tokyo Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2016. Koizumi is raising money for the hundreds of American sailors who say they got sick from radiation after taking part in disaster relief for the 2011 tsunami that set off the Fukushima nuclear catastrophe. \n TOKYO \u00bb Several hundred American service personnel who say they became sick from radiation after participating in relief operations for the 2011 tsunami that set off the Fukushima nuclear disaster are now getting high-profile support in Japan. \n Junichiro Koizumi, prime minister from 2001 to 2006, told reporters Wednesday he has set up a special fund to collect private donations for the former service members, with the goal of collecting $1 million by the end of next March, mainly to help with medical bills. \n \"I felt I had to do something to help those who worked so hard for Japan,\" he said at the Foreign Correspondents Club of Japan. \"Maybe this isn't enough, but it will express our gratitude, that Japan is thankful.\" \n Koizumi, 74, one of Japan's most popular prime ministers in recent decades, was in San Diego in May to meet with 10 of the former service members, who have joined a class-action lawsuit against Tokyo Electric Power Co., or TEPCO, the utility that operates the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant. \n The lawsuit, filed in 2012, is ongoing, and a California judge has ruled it will proceed. More Navy personnel and Marines are joining the suit, now numbering about 400, according to Koizumi. Some 70,000 Americans took part in Operation Tomodachi, or Friend, flying in aid from an aircraft carrier and other warships off the coast of northeastern Japan. \n Since then, some servicemen and women have become sick with cancers, leukemia, thyroid ailments, brain tumors and other diseases, and they blame radiation. The ships to which they were assigned were in an area of the ocean in the direction of the radioactive plumes spewed from the Fukushima plant. \n Aircraft carriers routinely use drinking water from the ocean, which the lawsuit says was contaminated with radiation, and service members showered in and ate food cooked in such water. Some Navy personnel also flew on helicopters to the disaster zone. \n TEPCO denies any link between the illnesses and radiation, saying the radiation levels are too low. \n Koizumi acknowledged he is not a medical expert, but said he had \"common sense.\" He questioned why so many healthy young men and women were suddenly sick with symptoms often associated with radiation exposure, such as nosebleeds. \n The U.S. command has said it was not told immediately about the reactor meltdowns at Fukushima. \n The lawsuit alleges that TEPCO withheld key information and caused the Americans to be sent in harm's way. \n Seven of those who joined the lawsuit have already died. \n Koizumi has already raised $400,000 by charging people $100 to attend his lectures, with help from Pritzker Prize-winning Japanese architect Tadao Ando. \n Koizumi said he had been a proponent of nuclear power while prime minister, but living through the Fukushima disaster taught him that what experts said about atomic power being safe, cheap and clean was \"all lies.\" \n Even after the nuclear accidents at Three Mile Island in the United States and Chernobyl in Ukraine, the experts insisted that Japan's nuclear plants were different, he recalled. \n \"I became ashamed how I had believed such lies,\" Koizumi said. \"They said Japan was safe. And that simply was not true.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan's ex-leader backs sick U.S. sailors who blame radiation"}

