{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police responded to New York's Metropolitan Opera, which halted a performance after someone sprinkled an unknown powder into the orchestra pit, today. \n NEW YORK >> A powdery substance a man sprinkled into the orchestra pit at New York's Metropolitan Opera may have been an opera lover's ashes, police said today. \n The freakish incident during an afternoon performance of Rossini's \"Guillaume Tell\" forced Met officials to cancel the rest of the show as well as an evening performance of a second opera. \n John Miller, the New York Police Department's deputy commissioner in charge of intelligence and counterterrorism, said several audience members said a man told them he was there to sprinkle the ashes of a friend, his mentor in the opera. \n Miller said the man was in front of the first row of seats when he sprinkled the powder into the orchestra pit during the second intermission when most of the musicians were not present. \n He said the powder will be tested, but the possibility that it was in fact human ashes \"is certainly an area that we are pursuing.\" \n Police know who the man is and are reaching out to him, Miller said, adding that the man does not live in New York. \n Miller said the disposal of ashes at an opera house may violate city codes but, \"I don't believe at this point that we see any criminal intent here.\" \n Met General Manager Peter Gelb said, \"We appreciate opera lovers coming to the Met. We hope that they will not bring their ashes with them.\" \n Police initially said one person at the opera house requested medical attention. Miller said no one was injured. \n The Met canceled Saturday night's performance of \"L'Italiana in Algeri,\" another Rossini opera, because of the investigation. \n Audience members at \"Guillaume Tell\" described confusion as the intermission went on longer than usual. \n A Met representative at first announced that a technical issue was causing the delay, then returned a few minutes later to announce that the fourth act would not be performed. The audience was told to go home. \n \"Everybody kind of slowly walked out,\" said Dylan Hayden of Toronto. \"As we were exiting the building, I noticed the counterterrorism unit going into the building.\" \n Hayden, who was seated in the 11th row back, added, \"The idea that they said that it was a technical error, when I was maybe 15 feet away from a potential dangerous substance, that kind of irks me a little bit. But at no point did I feel an actual threat.\" \n Micaela Baranello, a musicologist at Smith College in Massachusetts, said some audience members booed when the cancellation was announced and one man chanted, \"I want my money back, I want my money back.\" \n Gelb said people who had Saturday tickets to either opera should call the Met and make arrangements to see a later performance. \n Baranello, who spoke by phone from a train headed back to Massachusetts, said that's not so easy for opera fans who don't live in New York. \"It's too bad because most of the best music in 'Guillaume Tell' is in Act 4, in my opinion,\" she said. \n \"Guillaume Tell,\" Rossini's opera about folk hero William Tell, had not been performed at the Met in more than 80 years before this season. The opera's overture is known to many Americans as the theme music to the 1950s TV show \"The Lone Ranger.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Powder sprinkled into opera pit may have been human ashes"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "Investigators were not able to speak to the injured homeowner to determine what actions were being taken when the explosion and fire occured. The fire has been classified as accidental and was related to the homeowner's use of the propane fed barbecue grill on the 2nd floor outdoor lanai. \n The man was on the lanai and near the barbecue grill when the propane gas ignited and injured the homeowner. The man's tenant heard the gas explosion and rushed to his aid. The tenant used a fire extinguisher to combat the fire but flames were still seen coming from the portable propane tank. It was the propane gas that ignited. The propane tank did not rupture. \n _____ \n A 73-year-old Maui man was in critical condition today after a propane barbecue grill he was using apparently exploded. \n The homeowner was using the grill on the lanai when something exploded and started a fire at about 1:20 p.m., said Maui Fire Department spokesman Edward Taomoto. \n A tenant on the property used a fire extinguisher to slow down the fire and brought the homeowner out to the lawn. The homeowner used a garden hose to keep the fire from spreading to the roof. \n Taomoto said the homeowner sustained burns to his arms and face and was taken in critical condition to Maui Memorial Medical Center. \n Firefighters responding to the fire on Malina Place in Maui Meadows knocked down the flames shortly after arriving and contained the fire to the lanai, Taomoto said. The fire was extinguished at 4:35 p.m. \n A cause and a damage estimate were under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui man in critical condition after propane tank explosion"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This still image taken from undated video, posted online by the communications arm of Ahrar al-Sham militant group, purports to show a dead Syrian soldier, in an Assad neighborhood of Aleppo, Syria. \n BEIRUT >> Syrian government forces launched a counteroffensive Saturday under the cover of airstrikes in an attempt to regain control of areas they had lost to insurgents the day before in the northern city of Aleppo, activists and state media said. \n Meanwhile, insurgents launched a fresh offensive on the city, a day after embarking on a broad ground attack aimed at breaking a weeks-long government siege on the eastern rebel-held neighborhoods of Syria's largest city. \n The insurgents were able to capture much of the western neighborhood of Assad where much of Saturday's fighting was concentrated, according to the Syrian army and the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. \n The Observatory said the new offensive by Syrian troops and their allies went under the cover of Russian and Syrian airstrikes but government forces did not succeed in regaining control of areas they lost. The group said the fighting and airstrikes are mostly on Aleppo's western and southern edges. \n The Syrian army command said troops and their allies are pounding insurgent positions with artillery shells and rockets adding that \"all kinds of weapons\" are being used in the fighting in the Assad neighborhood. \n The Aleppo Media Center, an activist collective, reported airstrikes and artillery shelling of areas near Aleppo. The AMC and another activist collective, the Local Coordination Committees, said rebels entered the village of Minian west of Aleppo Saturday afternoon after intense fighting with government forces. \n Later Saturday, the rebels said they launched an attack on the Zahraa neighborhood in western Aleppo to try and capture it from government forces. The attack began with a massive explosion that struck government positions on the front line, said Yasser al-Yousef of the Nour el-Din el-Zinki group, a main faction in Aleppo. \n A reporter inside the city for the Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen TV channel confirmed that the rebels have attacked the Zahraa neighborhood. As he spoke from the roof of a building, sounds of heavy exchange of gunfire could be heard in the background. \n The Syrian army said troops were repelling the attack on Zahraa. It said the offensive began when the insurgents detonated a vehicle and shelled the area. \n The Observatory said the fighting was continuing intensely after sunset, saying that government forces detonated explosives and bombs they planted earlier in the area in an attempt to repel the offensive on Zahraa. \n Syrian state media said rebels shelled government-held western neighborhoods of Aleppo on Saturday morning wounding at least 10 people, including a young girl. \n Rebel shelling of Aleppo on Friday killed 15 and wounded more than 100. \n On Friday, insurgents including members of Fatah al-Sham and the ultraconservative Ajnad al-Sham and Ahrar al-Sham militias took advantage of cloudy and rainy weather to attack government positions. On Saturday the weather was better, according to residents. \n \"There are ongoing clashes,\" said opposition activist Baraa al-Halaby by telephone from besieged east Aleppo, adding that the fighting is far from them but explosions could be clearly heard in the city. \n The Observatory said that since Friday some 30 troops and members of Lebanon's Hezbollah group were killed in the Aleppo fighting. \n East Aleppo has been subjected to a ferocious campaign of aerial attacks by Russian and Syrian government warplanes, and hundreds of people have been killed in recent weeks, according to opposition activists and trapped residents. \n The new offensive by insurgents is the second attempt to break the government's siege of Aleppo's opposition-held eastern districts, where the U.N. estimates 275,000 people are trapped. \n U.N. Special Envoy Staffan De Mistura has estimated 8,000 of them are rebel fighters, and no more than 900 of them affiliated with Fatah al-Sham. Syrian and Russian officials have said that no cease fire is possible as long as Fatah al-Sham remains allied and intertwined with other rebel forces. \n Aleppo is the current focal point of the war. President Bashar Assad has said he is determined to retake the country's largest city and former commercial capital. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Albert Aji in Damascus, Syria contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syrian airstrikes on Aleppo amid intense clashes"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Iraqi Federal Police officers entered a compound in the town of Shura, some 30 kilometers south of Mosul, Iraq, today. \n SHURA, Iraq >> State-sanctioned Shiite militias joined Iraq's Mosul offensive on Saturday with a pre-dawn assault to the west, where they hope to complete the encirclement of the Islamic State-held city and sever supply lines from neighboring Syria. \n Other Iraqi forces aided by U.S.-led airstrikes and heavy artillery meanwhile drove IS from the town of Shura, south of Mosul, where the militants had rounded up civilians to be used as human shields. \n The twin thrusts come nearly two weeks into the offensive to retake Iraq's second largest city, but most of the fighting is still taking place in towns and villages far from its outskirts, and the entire operation is expected to take weeks, if not months. \n The involvement of the Iranian-backed Shiite militias has raised concerns that the battle for Mosul, a Sunni-majority city, could aggravate sectarian tensions. Rights groups have accused the militias of abuses against civilians in other Sunni areas retaken from IS, accusations the militia leaders deny. \n The umbrella group for the militias, known as the Popular Mobilization Units, says they will not enter Mosul itself and will instead focus on retaking Tal Afar, a town to the west that had a Shiite majority before it fell to IS in 2014. \n Ahmed al-Assadi, a spokesman for the group, told reporters in Baghdad that the militias had retaken 10 villages since the start of the pre-dawn operation. But there was likely still some fighting underway, and he said forces were removing explosive booby-traps left by IS to slow their advance. \n Jaafar al-Husseini, a spokesman for the Hezbollah Brigades, said his group and the other militias had advanced 4 miles (7 kilometers) toward Tal Afar and used anti-tank missiles to destroy three suicide car bombs that were heading toward them. \n He said the U.S.-led coalition, which is providing airstrikes and ground support to the Iraqi military and Kurdish forces known as the peshmerga, is not playing any role in the Shiite militias' advance. He said Iranian advisers and Iraqi aircraft were helping them. \n Many of the militias were originally formed after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion to battle American forces and Sunni insurgents. They were mobilized again and endorsed by the state when IS swept through northern and central Iraq in 2014. \n Iraqi troops approaching Mosul from the south advanced into Shura after a wave of U.S.-led airstrikes and artillery shelling against militant positions inside the town. Commanders said most of the IS fighters withdrew earlier this week with civilians, but that U.S. airstrikes had disrupted the forced march, allowing some civilians to escape. \n \"After all this shelling, I don't think we will face much resistance,\" Iraqi army Maj. Gen. Najim al-Jabouri said as the advance got underway. \"This is easy, because there are no civilians left,\" he added. \n But hours later, a few families who had hunkered down during the fighting emerged. The government has urged people to remain in their homes, fearing a mass exodus from Mosul, which is still home to more than 1 million people. \n By the afternoon, Brig. Gen. Firas Bashar said his forces were clearing explosives and searching for IS fighters in Shura. The sound of artillery still echoed in the distance. \n In Baghdad, meanwhile, an IS suicide bomber targeting an aid station for Shiite pilgrims killed at least seven people and wounded more than 20, police and hospital officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to brief reporters. \n The Sunni extremist group often target Iraq's Shiite majority, which it views as apostates deserving of death. \n The Mosul offensive involves more than 25,000 soldiers, Federal Police, Kurdish fighters, Sunni tribesmen and the Shiite militias. \n Iraqi forces moving toward the city from several directions have made uneven progress since the offensive began Oct. 17. They are 4 miles (6 kilometers) from the edge of Mosul on the eastern front, where Iraq's special forces are leading the charge. But progress has been slower in the south, with Iraqi forces still 20 miles (35 kilometers) from the city. \n The U.N. human rights office said Friday that IS has rounded up tens of thousands of civilians in and around Mosul to use as human shields, and has massacred more than 200 Iraqis in recent days, mainly former members of the security forces. \n The militants have carried out mass killings of perceived opponents in the past and boasted about them in grisly photos and videos circulated online. The group is now believed to be cracking down on anyone who could rise up against it, focusing on men with military training or past links to the security forces. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Shiite militias join the battle as Iraqis push toward Mosul"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "Young Laysan albatross born on Oahu return to the island fairly often as youngsters, new research shows. \n The conventional wisdom was that the birds stay at sea until they are ready to breed. \n Husband-and-wife team Eric VanderWerf and Lindsay Young of Pacific Rim Conservation, a Honolulu-based nonprofit research firm, spent 14 years banding 477 Oahu albatrosses as chicks and monitoring what became of them. Their findings appeared last week in the journal The Condor: Ornithological Applications. \n They found that 2 percent of the birds first returned to the colony as 1-year-olds, 7 percent as 2-year-olds, and 17 percentas 3-year-olds. That means that the youngsters, or \"pre-breeders,\" make up 44 percent of the Oahu population, predominantly at Keana Point. \n Once they made it through their first year after fledging, the annual survival of these young birds was estimated at about 97 percent, the researchers found. \n One threat to albatross populations is the mosquito-borne avian pox virus. \n \"Although albatrosses and many other seabirds have strong immunity to avian pox virus, this disease has a negative long-term effect on their survival and chance of obtaining a mate,\" VanderWerf said in a release. \"As more albatrosses relocate to higher islands like Oahu in response to sea level rise, where mosquitoes are more prevalent, this disease, and perhaps others, will become a more important threat to the species, so we need to understand more about it and how to prevent its transmission.\" \n Oregon State University's Robert Suryan, a seabird ecologist who was not involved in the study, said it \"provides novel insight into early life stage demographics of a long-lived seabird from the long-term study of a small and highly tractable colony.\" \n The average age of the birds' first return to the natal colony was about 4 years and three months. \n The total size of the Laysan albatross population on Oahu in 2015 was 555 birds, consisting of 270 active breeders, 231 prebreeders, and 54 others that likely skipped breeding that year. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "New research offers insight into behavior of young albatross on Oahu"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke at a rally today in Phoenix. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump is accusing the Justice Department of doing everything it can to protect his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. \n Trump is pointing to a disagreement between the DOJ and the FBI over its handling of a new batch of emails discovered pertaining to the investigation of Clinton's use of a private email server as secretary of state. \n Justice Department officials cautioned FBI director James Comey against sending a letter to Congress informing them of the new emails, asserting that it was inconsistent with department policy intended to avoid the appearance of prosecutorial influence in elections. \n But Trump tells a rally crowd in Phoenix, \"The Department of Justice is trying their hardest to protect the criminal activity of Hillary Clinton.\" \n He asks, \"What's happened to the Justice Department?\" and says this is what he means when he says that the \"system is rigged.\" \n Trump is also repeating his claim that the development represents the biggest political scandal since Watergate. \n He says, \"It's everybody's deepest hope that justice, at last, will be beautifully delivered.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says Justice Department trying to help Clinton"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The family of Joughin, who investigators say was abducted and killed by a neighbor with a hidden past, wants Ohio lawmakers to follow the lead of at least seven other states that track all sorts of violent offenders. \n TOLEDO, Ohio >> \n In the desperate hours after a University of Toledo student disappeared while bicycling this summer, her friends scanned the state's list of sex offenders and started knocking on doors. But their search didn't lead them down the road to an ex-con who had spent time in prison for abducting another woman \u2014 because he had never been convicted of a sex crime. \n Now the family of Sierah Joughin, who investigators say was abducted and killed by a neighbor with a hidden past, wants Ohio lawmakers to follow the lead of at least seven other states that track all sorts of violent offenders. \n \"If you're trying to get back in society and you're trying to be a productive member of society, you have to own what you did,\" said Joughin's mother, Sheila Vaculik. \"You're there for a reason, and you put yourself there for a reason.\" \n The emotional pull of crimes that spawned sex offender registries in the 1990s has brought about these more publicly accessible lists that keep tabs on a wider range of offenders \u2014 from murderers to meth users \u2014 once they're out of prison. A nationwide review by The Associated Press found that such registries have grown over the past decade and that more proposals are being considered. \n Backers say helping people know more about their neighbors will make them safer. Yet studies have shown offender registries do little to reduce crime. \n Anti-domestic violence groups in states that have considered expanded registries suggest that money spent to maintain them would be better used on programs to stop violence before it happens. Keeping sex offender lists updated alone costs well over $1 million each year for many states, a price partially covered by fees offenders must pay. \n Some researchers contend the lists, searchable online, can prevent offenders from finding jobs and homes, making it more likely they'll offend again. \n \"When someone comes out of prison, we want them to be successful,\" said Alissa Ackerman, a criminal justice professor at the University of Washington. \"We want them to be part of society. Putting people on registries like this makes it next to impossible to do.\" \n Vincent Brumley, who was released from an Illinois prison in 2015 after serving 27 years for his role with two others who kidnapped and killed a man, said few employers will give him a chance after he tells them of his past and they learn he's on the state's registry. \n \"That's all they see me as,\" he said. \"They don't know what I was convicted of, or if I was guilty. I did my time. Why hold me back?\" \n Some registries track only people convicted of murder or violent crimes against children. Montana first expanded its list to add non-sex offenders in 1995 and now includes those convicted of murder, aggravated assault, assault with a weapon, and arson. \n Indiana, Illinois, Kansas, Oklahoma and Virginia require at least some violent offenders to register, while Florida has a list for \"habitual offenders\" convicted of felonies that aren't sex crimes. \n The online registry in Kansas logs 1,600 views each day and generates a steady stream of tips, mostly involving sex and drug offenders, said John Gaunt, who oversees it for the Kansas Bureau of Investigation. \n The laws force offenders to keep their whereabouts updated for anywhere from 10 years to life, depending on the severity of the crime. \n Ohio lawmakers looking into the idea have not settled on a plan and say they want to make sure law enforcement backs it. \n Pennsylvania and Texas are among states that have debated establishing a domestic violence registry within the past few years. \n A few registries go beyond violent crimes. Illinois, Tennessee and Minnesota have them for meth-related crimes, while Ohio has one for people convicted of drunken driving at least five times. \n \"In this day and age, you can't have enough information about people coming into your lives,\" said New York state Sen. Michael Nozzolio, who was unsuccessful in several attempts to establish a violent offender registry. \n The increasing number of offender registries can be traced to a basic need to control threats around us, said Molly Wilson, a law professor at St. Louis University. \n \"The data doesn't bear it out that the registries make people safer, but it does make them happier,\" she said. \n In a 2013 paper for the Louisiana Law Review, Wilson cited studies showing that registries seemed to have little effect on reported rapes or whether a convicted person commits crimes again. \n She cited a 1995 study that found no significant difference between the recidivism rates for sex offenders who were required to register and those who weren't. Another study looked at 10 states and found registration and notification laws seemed to have no predictable effect on the incidence of rape: six of the states saw no change in rape rates, three showed a decrease in rapes and one saw an increase. \n Even Brumley, the Illinois ex-convict, said he can understand why states would want a registry for serial child molesters or other repeat violent offenders. \n \"I'd want to know who's around my kids,\" said Brumley, who lives in Naperville, a Chicago suburb. \n Prosecutors plan to pursue the death penalty against James Worley, the ex-con who has pleaded not guilty to killing Joughin, 20, and is scheduled to go on trial next year. He and his attorneys have declined to comment. \n Vaculik doubts a registry would have saved her daughter, but thinks it might protect someone else and remove some of the fear her neighbors now have in their everyday lives. \n \"That's not how I want to live,\" she said. \"But I do want to be informed.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tracking violent ex-cons: Registries grow, but do they work?"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Despite thousands of mailed notices and warnings of grave danger, since June 2016, Honda is still struggling to fix 300,000 cars with super-dangerous Takata air bag inflators inside their steering wheels. Nelson says Honda should do more. \"No responsible automaker should be so slow in repairing defective vehicles where there's up to a 50 percent chance a driver could be killed or seriously injured if an air bag deploys,\" he said in a statement. \n DETROIT >> Owners of more than 300,000 Hondas have yet to get their air bags repaired, despite warnings from the automaker and regulators that the inflators have an extremely high chance of rupturing and causing injury or even death. \n Last week authorities said one of those air bags, equipped with an inflator made by Takata Corp., ruptured and killed a California woman, adding urgency to the search for the noncompliant vehicles. \n About 69 million Takata inflators have been recalled due to possible rupture. In June, government regulators said testing showed that inflators in 313,000 older Hondas and Acuras had as high as a 50 percent chance of rupturing in a crash. The regulators told owners of the cars to stop driving them and get them repaired. But four months later, only 13,000 of the cars have been repaired. \n Takata uses ammonium nitrate to create an explosion to inflate air bags. But the chemical can deteriorate when exposed to heat and humidity and blow apart a metal canister, spewing shrapnel. The inflators have killed as many as 16 people worldwide and injured more than 100. The death of the California woman, Delia Robles, was the 11th tied to Takata inflators in the U.S. \n Honda says it has mailed letters, placed Facebook ads, made telephone calls, and in some instances has visited owners. But the results point out that major holes remain in the U.S. safety recall system because owners can be hard to find, particularly when it comes to used cars that have changed hands multiple times. And some owners refuse to get repairs done no matter how many times they are notified. \n Safety advocates have called for laws banning the sale of any vehicle until recall repairs are made, or a national requirement that recalls be done before license plates can be renewed. But so far, there are few such requirements. \n Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Florida, says Honda should do more. \"No responsible automaker should be so slow in repairing defective vehicles where there's up to a 50 percent chance a driver could be killed or seriously injured if an air bag deploys,\" he said in a statement last week. \n But Honda says it's doing all it can. \"It's not for lack of unprecedented effort to try to reach these owners,\" company spokesman Chris Martin said. Honda will pick up cars and drop off a loaner, says Martin, who adds that Honda has parts ready to repair all the dangerous cars. \n Karl Brauer, executive publisher of Autotrader.com, says it's hard for automakers to find owners of low-cost cars that are 10 or 15 years old, because many owners are young and move frequently or are immigrants who may have language barriers. Many cars have had four or more owners, making them harder to find. \n But because these cars are so dangerous, Brauer says it's time to either go to everyone's home or take all 300,000 off the road. \n NHTSA doesn't have legal authority to order those steps, spokesman Bryan Thomas said. The agency knows that traditional ways of contacting owners haven't been successful, and it's working with Honda on new methods, he said without offering specifics. \n NHTSA is seeking a rule requiring automakers to notify owners by e-mail and text message, measure that some automakers already take voluntarily. \n Thomas said Honda has told the agency that many of the 300,000 cars have been scrapped, but the agency wants proof. \n Robles, 50, of Corona, California, was killed Sept. 30 when her 2001 Honda Civic was hit head-on by a left-turning pickup truck as she was on her way to get a flu shot. \n Honda's Martin says she bought the car in mid-2015, likely from a small used-car dealer who purchased it two weeks earlier at an auction, which only dealers normally attend. While most automakers require new-car dealers to fix used cars subject to a recall, independent dealers don't have to. \n Honda mailed Robles multiple notices using an address from California registration data, Martin says. The car was first recalled in 2008, and since then, Honda has sent the four registered owners 20 letters, he says. \n There's no way for Honda to verify if Robles received the letters. Her son, Jose Contreras, said Friday that she never mentioned them to him. \n Martin says it's not practical for Honda to visit all the owners with super-dangerous inflators. But he and other Honda employees have gone to some homes. \n Last summer in Torrance, California, Martin spotted a 2002 Acura TL with a dangerous air bag parked on a city street. He left business cards and even a personal letter on the windshield, but heard nothing. So he went to the owner's nearby home. She didn't speak English well and had her son speak to Martin. They set up an appointment for later this week to get the inflator replaced. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Despite warnings, extremely dangerous air bags not repaired"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The energy-generating tiles are their first product as a combined company, though the contentious deal is not yet finalized. Tesla proposed buying SolarCity in June in an all-stock deal worth around $2.45 billion. Shareholders are expected to vote on the deal on Nov. 17, 2016. \n Further broadening its reach beyond electric cars, Tesla Motors says it's going to sell solar roof tiles that are customizable and meant to look like a traditional roof. The energy-generating tiles would be a joint product with SolarCity, although the two companies have yet to complete a proposed merger. \n The glass tiles, which come in four styles (for example, Tuscan Glass Tile), contain photovoltaic cells that Tesla says are invisible from the street. They're meant to power a home when integrated with Tesla's Powerwall, energy storage units for homes that are mounted on the wall or kept on the ground. The new version of Powerwall costs $5,500 but there was no price announced for the tiles at an unveiling Friday night . \n Tesla Chairman and CEO Elon Musk reasons that many of the people who want to drive electric vehicles have an inherent interest in setting up cleaner energy systems in their homes and offices. He has estimated that one-fourth of Tesla owners currently have solar energy panels. \n \"The whole purpose of Tesla is to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy,\" Musk said at the event. He said the future he wants consists of the solar roof, energy storage and electric cars. \"It's an obvious three-part solution.\" \n In June, Tesla proposed buying SolarCity, the largest home solar-panel installer in the U.S., in an all-stock deal worth around $2.45 billion. Shareholders are expected to vote on the deal on Nov. 17. \n The merger is controversial. Musk is also chairman of SolarCity, which is run by his cousins. Neither company has achieved sustained profitability, and both are operating in markets where demand is uncertain. Plug-in electric vehicles make up less than 1 percent of U.S. sales, and less than 1 percent of U.S. electricity generation comes from solar power, according to government data. \n Earlier this month, Goldman Sachs downgraded Palo Alto, California-based Tesla's shares from \"buy\" to \"neutral\" and lowered its price target, saying the potential merger could delay the release of Tesla's next vehicle, the Model 3. The $35,000 car, which is critical for Tesla if it wants to become a mass-market car maker, is due out at the end of next year. \n Some shareholders have even sued, claiming that the merger is an attempt by Musk to use one company to bail out another. Musk owns 26.5 percent of Tesla and 22 percent of SolarCity. \n But Musk has called the deal a \"no brainer.\" He says SolarCity's installation network and Tesla's global stores could provide customers with a one-stop shop for sustainable energy and transportation. If the deal goes through, San Mateo, California-based SolarCity will adopt Tesla's name and sell its solar panels alongside Tesla's power-storing batteries, which it has been marketing to homes and businesses since last year. \n Earlier this week, during a conference call to discuss Tesla's third-quarter earnings, Musk said he's confident SolarCity would be cash-neutral or even a cash contributor in the fourth quarter if the companies merge. Tesla reported a $22 million profit in the third quarter; it was the company's first quarterly profit in three years. SolarCity lost $250 million in the second quarter. It reports third-quarter earnings in November. Tesla is scheduled to provide additional financial details about the merger on Nov. 1. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Electric-car maker Tesla plans to sell solar roof tiles too"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Huma Abedin, a longtime aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton is at the center of a renewed FBI email investigation testified under oath four months ago she never deleted old emails, despite promising in 2013 not to take sensitive files when she left the State Department. \n WASHINGTON >> The longtime Hillary Clinton aide at the center of a renewed FBI email investigation testified under oath four months ago she never deleted old emails, while promising in 2013 not to take sensitive files when she left the State Department. \n FBI Director James Comey notified Congress on Friday, less than two weeks before the election, that the emails had led agents to re-examine whether classified information was mishandled. That had been the focus of the bureau's earlier criminal inquiry into the former secretary of state's use of a private email server, which Comey said in July didn't warrant charges. \n The newly discovered emails were on a device seized during a sexting investigation of disgraced former New York congressman, Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of Huma Abedin, one of Clinton's closest aides. \n Abedin's testimony in a recent civil lawsuit about State Department records may help explain why agents found emails that Comey said \"appear to be pertinent\" and would be reviewed \"to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation.\" \n Abedin told lawyers in June in a deposition that, like millions of internet users who don't manage their inboxes, she simply never deleted old emails, either at work with Clinton or at home with Weiner. \n \"I didn't have a practice of managing my mailbox other than leaving what was in there sitting in there,\" Abedin said. \"I didn't go into my emails and delete State.gov emails. They just lived on my computer. That was my practice for all my email accounts. I didn't have a particular form of organizing them. I had a few folders, but they were not deleted. They all stayed in whatever device I was using at the time or whatever desktop I was on at the time.\" \n Abedin, vice chairwoman of Clinton's presidential campaign, and Weiner separated this year after Weiner was caught in 2011, 2013 and again this year sending numerous woman sexually explicit text messages and photographs of himself undressed. Federal authorities in New York and North Carolina are investigating online communications between Weiner and a 15-year-old girl. \n Abedin's testimony in the civil suit was complicated by a routine State Department document she signed under penalty of perjury in February 2013. She promised she would \"turn over all classified or administratively controlled documents and materials\" before she left her government job, and promised that she was not retaining copies, \"including any diaries, memorandums of conversation or other documents of a personal nature.\" The document required her to give back all \"unclassified documents and papers relating to the official business of the government acquired by me while in the employ of the department.\" \n Comey's announcement Friday \u2014 just months after deciding that anyone's use of Clinton's private email server didn't rise to criminal charges for mishandling or removal of classified information \u2014 upended the presidential campaigns in their final stretch before the Nov. 8 voter. \n Clinton urged the FBI to \"explain this issue in question, whatever it is, without any delay.\" Even within the Justice Department, officials advised Comey not to make the announcement. \n Upon learning of Comey's plans to send the letter to Congress, Justice Department officials told FBI officials that was not a good idea and cautioned against it, according to a government official familiar with the discussions. The official was not authorized to publicly discuss the private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The official said the Justice Department had warned the FBI that the letter was inconsistent with department policy intended to avoid the appearance of prosecutorial influence in elections. \n The position is laid out in a 2012 memo from then-Deputy Attorney General James Cole. It said prosecutors may never select the timing of criminal charges or investigative actions in a way that can be seen as affecting an election or giving a benefit or disadvantage to a candidate. \n The memo says that although the department has a strong interest in prosecuting election-related crimes, such as those involving campaign finance and patronage, employees must remain committed to fairness and political neutrality. \"Simply put, politics must play no role in the decisions of federal investigators or prosecutors regarding any investigations or criminal charges,\" the memo states. \n Comey told FBI employees later Friday he wanted to avoid creating \"a misleading impression,\" but believed he was obligated. \n \"We don't ordinarily tell Congress about ongoing investigations, but here I feel an obligation to do so given that I testified repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was completed.\" Comey wrote in a letter to staff. \"I also think it would be misleading to the American people were we not to supplement the record.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Found emails? Clinton aide didn't delete old messages"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton waves as she boards her campaign plane at Westchester County Airport in White Plains, N.Y., Saturday, Oct. 29, 2016, to travel to Florida. \n WASHINGTON >> Hillary Clinton's campaign lashed out at the FBI on Saturday, saying there was no indication that a cache of recently discovered emails under review by the agency was connected to the Democratic nominee. Barnstorming the West, Republican rival Donald Trump pounced on the reignited email controversy. \n Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta told reporters FBI Director James Comey's letter to Congress about the new emails was \"long on innuendo\" and \"short on facts.\" \n \"There's no evidence of wrongdoing,\" he said. \"No charge of wrongdoing. No indication this is even about Hillary.\" \n But on that latter point, Comey in fact said the new trove was \"pertinent\" to the Clinton email investigation, without explaining how. \n A government official told The Associated Press on Saturday that the Justice Department had advised the FBI against telling Congress about the new developments in the Clinton investigation because of the potential fallout so close to the election. The official was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter and discussed it on condition of anonymity. \n Justice officials concluded the letter would be inconsistent with department policy that directs against investigative actions that could be seen as affecting an election or helping a particular candidate, the official said. \n Landing with a thud, the email issue again threatened to undermine an advantage built by Clinton, the Democratic nominee, over Trump and raised the possibility that the Republican might be able to seize momentum during the final days before the Nov. 8 election. \n Trump told a crowd in Golden, Colorado, on Saturday that the FBI's review of Clinton email practices raises \"everybody's deepest hope that justice, as last, can be properly delivered.\" His crowd cheered Clinton's email woes, which Trump has taken to calling the biggest political scandal since Watergate. \n Trump also had battleground Arizona on his plate Saturday. Early voting has been underway for weeks and Clinton, who was campaigning Saturday in Florida, has led in preference polls, both nationally and in key swing states. \n The FBI is looking into whether there was classified information on a device belonging to Anthony Weiner, the disgraced ex-congressman who is separated from longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin. Comey, in his letter to Congress on Friday, said the FBI had recently come upon new emails while pursuing an unrelated case and was reviewing whether they were classified. \n The announcement raised more questions than answers and generated criticism that Comey was injecting a significant development too close to an election. Yet the FBI director also faced the prospect of intense scrutiny if voters learned that he had been sitting on a major development until after the election. \n Podesta and campaign manager Robby Mook spoke to reporters in a conference call, following Clinton's hastily arranged news conference on Friday night in a high school choir room in Des Moines, Iowa. In it, she said \"the American people deserve to get the full and complete facts immediately. The director himself has said he doesn't know whether the emails referenced in his letter are significant or not.\" \n But long-term, the development all but ensured that, even should Clinton win the White House, she and several of her closest aides would celebrate a victory under a cloud of investigation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump pounces on Clinton email woes as her team jabs FBI"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Thursday, Oct. 27, 2016 photo, residents work on a skeleton representation as part of the Day of the Dead festivities in Mexico City. The capital city will hold its first Day of the Dead parade Saturday, complete with floats, giant skeleton marionettes and over 1,000 actors, dancers and acrobats in costumes. \n MEXICO CITY >> Hollywood movies, zombie shows, Halloween and even politics are fast changing Mexico's Day of the Dead celebrations, which traditionally consisted of quiet family gatherings at the graves of their departed loved ones bringing them music, drink and conversation. \n Mexico's capital was holding its first Day of the Dead parade Saturday, complete with floats, giant skeleton marionettes and more than 1,000 actors, dancers and acrobats in costumes. Lourdes Berho, CEO of the government's Mexico Tourism Board, said 135,000 people were expected to attend. \n But that impressive spectacle has never been a part of traditional Day of the Dead celebrations. \n The idea was born out of the imagination of a scriptwriter for last year's James Bond movie \"Spectre.\" In the film, whose opening scenes were shot in Mexico City, Bond chases a villain through crowds of revelers in what resembled a parade of people in skeleton outfits and floats. \n It's a bit of a feedback loop: Just as Hollywood dreamed up a Mexican spectacle to open the film, once millions had seen the movie, Mexico had to dream up a celebration to match it. \n \"When this movie hit the big screen and was seen by millions and millions of people in 67 countries, that started to create expectations that we would have something,\" said Berho, \"We knew that this was going to generate a desire on the part of people here, in Mexicans and among tourists, to come and participate in a celebration, a big parade.\" \n Mexico City authorities even promised that some of the props used in the movie would appear in the parade. The government board sponsoring the march called it part of \"a new, multi-faceted campaign to bring tourists to Mexico during the annual Day of the Dead holiday.\" \n Add to this the increasing popularity of \"Zombie Walks\" around Day of the Dead, and the scads of Halloween witches, ghouls, ghosts and cobweb decorations sold in Mexico City street markets, and some see a fundamental change in the traditional Mexican holiday. \n Johanna Angel, an arts and communication professor at Mexico's IberoAmerican University, said the influences flow both north and south. She noted that U.S. Halloween celebrations are now including more Mexican-inspired \"candy skull\" costumes and people dressed up as \"Catrinas,\" modelled on a satirical 19th century Mexican engraving of a skeleton in a fancy dress and a big hat. \n \"I think there has been a change, influenced by Hollywood,\" Angel said. \"The foreign imports are what most influence the ways we celebrate the Day of the Dead here.\" \n Traditionally, on the Nov. 1-2 holiday, Mexicans set up altars with photographs of the dead and plates of their favorite foods in their homes. They gather at their loved ones' gravesides to drink, sing and talk to the dead. \n In some towns, families leave a trail of orange marigold petals in a path to their doorway so the spirits of the dead can find their way home. Some light bonfires for the same purpose, sitting around the fire and warming themselves with cups of boiled-fruit punch to ward off the autumn chill. \n These days, many cities set up massive, flower-strewn altars to the dead and hold public events like parades, mass bicycle events and fashion shows in which people dress up in \"Catrina\" disguises. \n Some say the changes don't conflict with the roots of the holiday, which they say will continue. \n Samuel Soriano, a 35-year-old insurance executive, decorates his Mexico City home Halloween-style (think giant spider webs and inflatable tombstones) and each year hands out candy to about 100 trick-or-treaters. But in his dining room, he has a more traditional Dia de los Muertos shrine with portraits of departed loved ones, candles, decorative skulls and marigolds. \n \"We decorate for the sheer pleasure of it, and to see the smiles on children's faces,\" Soriano said. \"We also celebrate Day of the Dead \u2026 There's no reason to see it as a contradiction.\" \n On a recent \"Zombie Walk\" \u2014 in which hundreds paraded through Mexico City in corpse disguises one week before the Day of the Dead \u2014 most participants said it was just good, clean fun. \n \"We are not fighting against our cultural traditions,\" said Jesus Rodriguez, one of the organizers, as he waved a fake plastic arm he was \"gnawing\" on. \"On the contrary, if you take off the zombie*s flesh, there are skeletons, there are Catrinas.\" \n Yet Mexico's traditional view of the dead was never ghoulish or frightful. The dead were seen as the \"dear departed,\" people who remained close even after death. Could the outside influences threaten that? \n \"I don't think that will change,\" Angel said. \"I think Mexico maintains the sense of remembering the dead with closeness, not fright.\" \n Indeed, Mexicans still enjoy the graveside celebrations. Some popular cemeteries grow so packed and rowdy that authorities have been forced to ban alcohol sales at nearby stores. \n And Mexicans have changed the holiday themselves, without outside influences, making it a time to express social protest and social causes. \n Many have erected public shrines for the nearly 30,000 disappeared in Mexico's drug war. In downtown Mexico City in recent years, prostitutes have put on skull masks and erected a shrine to murdered prostitutes. \n Day of the Dead \u2014 itself an amalgam of Spanish and pre-Hispanic beliefs \u2014 seems likely to survive, despite the rapid changes, in a festival-loving country that has long managed to successfully absorb many outside influences. \n \"Any opportunity for a festival is welcome,\" Angel noted, \"and with any influences from at home or abroad, and in all possible combinations.\" \n As the arm-gnawing zombie Rodriguez put it, \"We love these days, Day of the Dead, Halloween, and Zombies, that is the reason why this crowd is here year after year.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Movies, zombies, Halloween changing Mexico's Day of the Dead"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> Officials say National Transportation Safety Board investigators have arrived at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, where a cargo plane caught fire upon landing. \n Broward County Aviation Department spokesman Greg Meyer told The Miami Herald (http://hrld.us/2f0keqE ) the airport's north runway would remain closed while investigators assess the FedEx plane. \n The airport's south runway has reopened. Officials said there were 43 delayed flights and six cancelled flights Saturday morning. \n The plane's left wing and fuel tank caught fire Friday evening as it landed. Broward Sheriff Fire Rescue spokesman Mike Jachles said the fire didn't spread to the 46,000 pieces of mail and other cargo the plane carried from Memphis, Tennessee. \n In a statement, FedEx said the plane's only crew members were both pilots who escaped down a rope ladder. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Investigators assess FedEx plane after Florida airport fire"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks at a news conference at Theodore Roosevelt High School in Des Moines, Iowa, Friday, Oct. 28, 2016. The FBI dropped what amounts to a political bomb on the Clinton campaign on Friday when it announced it was investigating whether new emails involving the Democratic presidential nominee contain classified information. \n WASHINGTON >> The FBI's announcement that it recently came upon new emails possibly pertinent to the Hillary Clinton email investigation raised more questions than answers. \n FBI Director James Comey said in a letter to Congress on Friday that the bureau had discovered the emails while pursuing an unrelated case and would review whether they were classified. \n The announcement, vague in details, immediately drew both criticism and praise to Comey himself. Some questions and answers: \n ___ \n Q: WHERE DID THE EMAILS COME FROM? \n A: The emails emerged during a separate criminal sexting investigation into former Rep. Anthony Weiner, estranged husband of Huma Abedin, one of Clinton's closest aides, a U.S. official with knowledge of the matter told The Associated Press. The official was not authorized to speak publicly about the investigation and discussed the matter on condition of anonymity. \n Federal authorities are investigating communications between Weiner, a New York Democrat, and a 15-year-old girl. \n It was not clear from Comey who sent or received the emails or what they were about. \n ___ \n Q: WHY IS THIS COMING OUT SO CLOSE TO THE ELECTION? \n A: Apparently because the emails were found very recently. In his letter to Congress, Comey said he had been briefed only Thursday by investigators. \n Releasing the letter opened Comey to partisan criticism that he was dropping a significant development too close to an election. But keeping it under wraps until after Nov. 8 would surely have led to criticism that he was sitting on major news until after the election. \n Comey has said there are no easy decisions on timing in the case. In an internal email sent Friday to FBI employees, he said he was trying to strike a balance between keeping Congress and the public informed and not creating a misleading impression, given that the emails' significance is not yet known. \n \"In trying to strike that balance, in a brief letter and in the middle of an election season, there is significant risk of being misunderstood,\" he wrote. \n Upon learning of Comey's intention to send lawmakers the letter, Justice Department officials conveyed disapproval and advised the FBI against it, according to a government official familiar with the conversations who was not authorized to discuss the matter by name and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n Department leaders were concerned that the letter would be inconsistent with department policy meant to avoid the appearance of prosecutorial interference or meddling in elections, the official said. \n ___ \n Q: IS THE DISCLOSURE STANDARD FOR THE FBI? \n A: No, but neither was the Clinton email investigation. \n In a nod to the extraordinary nature of an election-year probe into a presidential candidate, Comey promised extraordinary transparency as he announced the investigation's conclusion in July. \n \"I am going to include more detail about our process than I ordinarily would, because I think the American people deserve those details in a case of intense public interest,\" Comey said at the unusual news conference where he announced the FBI would not recommend criminal charges against Clinton. \n Since then, the FBI has periodically released investigative files \u2014 that is, summaries of witnesses who were interviewed. Those materials aren't typically public. \n Comey, a former Republican who is not registered with a political party, has served in government under both Democratic and Republican administrations and speaks repeatedly about the need for the FBI to be accountable to the public. \n His letter Friday seemed in keeping with a statement he made to Congress last month, that although the FBI had concluded its investigation, \"we would certainly look at any new and substantial information\" that emerged. \n ___ \n Q: BUT WHY WAS THE LETTER SO VAGUE? \n A: For one thing, the FBI avoids publicly discussing ongoing criminal investigations, or even confirming it has one open. \n It also appears the FBI isn't sure what it has. Comey said the FBI cannot yet assess whether the material is significant, or how long it would take to complete the additional work. \n Nevertheless, the letter's vagueness was immediately seized upon by critics as unacceptable and leaving the public in the dark. \n ____ \n Q: WHAT HAPPENS NOW? DOES THIS INCREASE THE LIKELIHOOD THAT SOMEONE COULD BE CHARGED? \n A: The FBI will review the emails to see if they were classified and were improperly handled. \n It's impossible to say if anyone is in greater jeopardy than before. \n The FBI announced in July that scores of emails from Clinton's server contained information that was classified at the time it was sent or received. So, new emails determined as classified might do nothing to change the legal risk for anyone who sent them. \n Comey said in July that the FBI had found no evidence of intentional or willful mishandling of classified information, of efforts to obstruct justice or of the deliberate exposure of government secrets. Those were elements that Comey suggested were needed to make a criminal case. \n Nothing in the letter appears to change that standard. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at FBI director Comey's decisions in the Clinton email case"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Holly Doll, of Mandan, an enrolled member of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, held a protest sign outside the state's capitol building, in Bismarck, N.D. today. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Protesters trying to block the Dakota Access oil pipeline urged unity on Saturday as they prayed together near burned-out construction vehicles that served as a barricade between activists and law enforcement officers. \n Following two days of confrontations with law enforcement, at least 150 people prayed near the barricade in chilly, cloudy weather in southern North Dakota. Women in Native American regalia participated in the prayer, which stressed the need for protesters to work together. Opponents of the project have been camped near the pipeline route for months in an effort to stop construction. \n \"Our camp needs to continue to be peaceful and prayerful,\" Caroline High Elk, who has stayed at the encampment for brief periods eight times over the past few months, said Saturday. \"But there are some who are been aggressive and energetic in a way because they want to be the fearless warrior.\" \n The $3.8 billion pipeline was designed to carry oil 1,200 miles from western North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a shipping point at Patoka, Illinois. But the Standing Rock Sioux tribe objects to the project, saying it passes so close to its reservation that any leak could pollute the local water supply. They also said the pipeline could disturb sacred cultural sites. \n The protest escalated last weekend, when demonstrators set up camp on private land along the pipeline's path that had recently been acquired by Energy Transfer Partners. On Thursday, more than 140 people were arrested as law enforcement \u2014 bolstered by reinforcements from several states \u2014 slowly moved in and cleared them off the private land. \n Then on Friday, dozens of people moved behind the burned vehicles and heavy plywood along a highway, facing concrete barriers, military vehicles and police in riot gear. Don Cuny, the security leader for activists at the encampment, said Saturday that standoff \"does not represent\" the ongoing protest. \n Cuny noted that disagreements have surfaced about how to demonstrate, but he said any people involved in the protest who instigate trouble would be kicked out of the encampment. Stressing unity, he said: \"More numbers make you more powerful.\" \n \"Enough is enough. Natives have been ignored throughout history,\" said Holly Doll, a tribal member who was among more than 60 protesters at another rally Saturday at the state Capitol in Bismarck. \"Our voices may be small, but we are strong. This is about looking ahead for future generations and protecting our water.\" \n The camp cleared on Thursday was located just to the north of the more permanent, larger encampment, which has been allowed on federally owned land and is a main staging area for hundreds of protesters from around the country including Native Americans, environmentalists and some celebrities. \n Sandra Chasing Hawk, 37, a Standing Rock Sioux member who has been at the protest camp for months, said joining the movement has been a religious experience for her. \n \"Our elders are keeping us together. They are bringing unity,\" she said. \n A federal judge in September denied the tribe's request to block construction after it argued that the Army Corps of Engineers improperly issued permits. \n North Dakota officials have said no culturally significant sites have been found in the area. But on the day the judge ruled, three federal agencies stepped in to order construction to halt on Army Corps-owned land around Lake Oahe, a wide spot of the Missouri River, while the Corps reviewed its decision. \n Construction has been allowed to continue on private land owned by the developer, with a goal of completion by the end of the year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pipeline protesters urge unity after days of confrontations"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n On Friday, Oct. 28, 2016, jurors viewed Wenner's video deposition where he says that he disagreed with a top editor's decision to retract an entire article about a gang rape at a University of Virginia fraternity after the story was discredited. University dean Nicole Eramo filed a defamation lawsuit against the magazine over the article. She says it portrayed her as the \"chief villain\" in the 2014 story. \n CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. >> Rolling Stone magazine publisher and co-founder Jann Wenner says in a video deposition that he disagreed with a top editor's decision to retract an entire article about a gang rape at a University of Virginia fraternity after the story was discredited. \n The Daily Progress reports jurors viewed Wenner's deposition Friday. On it, he says that although the woman identified as \"Jackie,\" who reported the rape, turned out not to be credible, 70 to 80 percent of the article was still valid. \n Police found no evidence to back up Jackie's claims. \n University dean Nicole Eramo filed a defamation lawsuit against the magazine over the article. She says it portrayed her as the \"chief villain\" in the 2014 story. \n Wenner's deposition was played shortly before attorneys for Eramo rested their case. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rolling Stone publisher disagreed with rape story retraction"}

{"date": "October 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n First lady Michelle Obama stands for the national anthem during a commissioning ceremony for the U.S. Navy attack submarine USS Illinois, Saturday, Oct. 29, 2016, in Groton, Conn. The submarine is named for Obama's home state of Illinois and the First lady is the ship's sponsor. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 11, 2016, file photo, first lady Michelle Obama speaks in Washington. The first lady is taking part in a commissioning ceremony for the U.S. Navy attack submarine named for her home state of Illinois. The submarine officially becomes the USS Illinois and begins active service at a ceremony Saturday, Oct. 29, 2016, in Groton, Conn. \n Groton, Conn. \u00bb First lady Michelle Obama said she was \"beyond proud\" to take part in a commissioning ceremony Saturday for the U.S. Navy attack submarine named for her home state of Illinois. \n The submarine officially became the USS Illinois, SSN 786, and began active service at a ceremony at the submarine base in Groton, Connecticut. \n Mrs. Obama, the ship sponsor, gave the order to \"man our ship and bring her to life\" before the crew of about 130 men ran across the brow, onto the vessel. \n \"Thank you for giving me the incredible privilege of being associated with you and with your families and with the Illinois for the rest of my life,\" she told them. \"I will continue to keep you in my prayers every single day and keep you in my thoughts, and know that you have a sponsor that cares deeply.\" \n The first lady, who is from Chicago, has made supporting military families a priority. She's considered an honorary member of the crew, and will be involved in the lives of the sub's sailors and families. \n \"Working with our military community has been the biggest honor of my life,\" she said, before going on board and touring the vessel. \n Cmdr. Jess Porter, the submarine's commanding officer, has compared having the first lady as the sponsor to having Babe Ruth on your team. He said her participation in the commissioning is \"pretty monumental.\" \n Porter said the crew has worked tirelessly as the sub was built and their families have sacrificed \u2014 the ceremony recognizes those efforts and accomplishments. \n \"This warship is absolutely ready to go,\" he said. \"She's a wonder.\" \n It took submarine supply businesses nationwide and thousands of shipyard employees in Connecticut, Rhode Island and Virginia to build the $2.7 billion submarine. Submarine builder Electric Boat, based in Groton, and Newport News Shipbuilding in Virginia build Virginia-class attack submarines under a teaming agreement and alternate the deliveries. \n The USS Illinois is the 13th member of the Virginia class. Eleven more submarines are currently under construction. The last of the submarines under contract, the future USS Utah, is scheduled to be delivered in 2023 as the 28th member of the class. \n Construction on the Illinois began in March 2011. The submarine was delivered to the Navy in August. The Navy has said the attack submarines are needed to replace those that were built during the Cold War and are retiring. \n Adm. John Richardson, chief of naval operations, gave the order to commission the submarine, telling the audience of about 2,500 that the \"powerful warship\" will strike fear into the hearts of the nation's enemies and bring warm reassurance to allies and partners. His flag and the submarine's commissioning pennant were raised, signaling that the submarine can be tasked to conduct Navy missions as an active member of the submarine force. \n \"You're needed on station and there's not a moment to lose,\" Richardson told the crew. \n It will be about another two years before its first deployment. The Illinois will undergo additional testing in the shipyard before it begins the process of getting certified for its maiden deployment. \n The submarine has a redesigned bow with two large tubes to launch Tomahawk missiles, instead of 12 smaller tubes. The larger tubes were designed so the Navy would have the flexibility to also launch future weapons and unmanned vehicles, according to Electric Boat. \n U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, called the vessel \"a technological wonder that will help keep us safe and safeguard our freedom.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michelle Obama: 'Beyond proud' at U.S. Navy submarine ceremony"}

