{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally in Miami. \n VIENNA >> Outraged claims of voting fraud are no longer only a regular part of elections in unsteady, young democracies \u2014 they're increasingly being made in established democratic countries by populist politicians who question the fairness of the voting process \u2014 and with it the validity of representation by and for the people. \n At the final debate of the U.S. presidential election, Donald Trump refused to commit to honor the result of the Nov. 8 vote. But he's not the only example of a politician casting doubt on the fairness of the democratic system in countries where it is the norm. \n Austria's right-wing Freedom Party had the results of presidential elections this year overturned after its candidate was narrowly defeated; fear that ballots marked in pencil in Britain could be tampered with forced that country's electoral commission to issue a statement reminding voters they could use a pen if they preferred; and former Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi has yet to concede defeat in a 2006 vote that he claims was flawed. \n Populists in Europe argue that the cards are stacked against them by the whole process, a message that appears to be gaining support. \n \"A wide segment of people is questioning democratic institutions across Europe and the U.S.,\" said Brian Klaas of the London School of Economics and Political Science. \n Politicians in young democracies are predictably most prone to cry fraud. Opposition parties in the formerly communist Yugoslav republics of Montenegro and Macedonia have questioned the validity of national elections in the past year, and Poland's right-wing Law and Justice party, now in power nationally, challenged the results of local elections it lost two years ago. \n But populist parties in some of Europe's established democracies are also increasingly flashing the fraud card, hoping to gain by spreading distrust of the establishment, even at the cost of turmoil. \n Comments from Trump supporter Roger Stone in August indicate a common trans-Atlantic playbook. \n \"I think we have widespread voter fraud, but the first thing that Trump needs to do is begin talking about it constantly,\" Stone said in a podcast discussion with conservative provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos. \"If there's voter fraud, this election will be illegitimate, the election of the winner will be illegitimate, we will have a constitutional crisis, widespread civil disobedience, and the government will no longer be the government.\" \n There is no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the United States. In one study, a Loyola Law School professor found 31 instances involving allegations of voter impersonation out of 1 billion votes cast in U.S. elections between 2000 and 2014. \n Nevertheless, the claims appear to be leaving their mark in the U.S. An Associated Press-GfK poll in October found that among Trump supporters, only 35 percent say they will most likely accept the results as legitimate if Hillary Clinton wins. That's only about half as many as among Clinton backers. \n Conspiracy theories reflecting distrust of the U.S. government are not new. A poll in 2013, half a century after John F. Kennedy's assassination, found 60 percent of American respondents disbelieve official findings that a lone gunman was the only person responsible for killing the U.S. president. \n But the internet has made it easier to find information \u2014 or disinformation \u2014 for any number of beliefs, including mistrust of democracy. \n \"There is more false information easily available and more information is channeled toward us that is primed and selected based on our past (internet) activities,\" said political scientist Nicholas Cheeseman of Oxford University. \"So you are likely trapped into a set of images or conversations that reflect or reinforce your beliefs.\" \n The message that democratically elected governments are not serving the will of the masses also erodes support for that sort of governance. \n \"These people \u2026 claim that the elites have sold them out,\" said Cheeseman, invoking the success of the Nazi mantra that post-World War I Germany lost territory to France through betrayal by its own and international governments. \n \"Populists,\" he said, \"make a lot out of picking an enemy and presenting themselves as the rescuers.\" \n They also exploit mistakes that occur even with the best of intentions. \n In Austria, experts say the faulty practices noted by the Freedom Party probably existed also in previous votes and would not have changed the results. \n But the nation's highest court ordered a rerun. The judges had little choice: the party had warned of possible election fraud even before the vote, so ruling the election valid would have given it a permanent opportunity to cry foul. \n With the rescheduled election too close to call, the party has accomplished its goal of giving its candidate, Norbert Hofer, a renewed chance to win on Dec. 4. \n And although the court found no case of willful wrongdoing, some Freedom Party officials continue to claim otherwise \u2014 as do some voters. \n \"All the polls showed Hofer ahead\" before the vote, said Hofer supporter Josef Hladek. \"Don't tell me there wasn't any funny business going on.\" \n Willful wrongdoing is rare \u2014 but suspected cases are seized upon. As it surges in popularity, Germany's populist AfD party has cited false ballot counts in one voting district during last year's municipal elections in the city of Bremen to cast the legitimacy of all future votes into question. \n Party head Joerg Meuthen said it shows that \"not even elections are guaranteed by the rule of law.\" Prominent party member Enrico Komning said intentional cheating in Bremen \"is difficult to prove, but the bitter aftertaste remains.\" \n Members of France's anti-immigrant National Front also have claimed to be election victims, even though they themselves await trial over suspected illegal campaign financing and fraud during the 2012 legislative and presidential elections. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Claims of election fraud resonate with growing audience"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fire department and rescue officials work at the scene of an early morning fatal collision between a school bus and a commuter bus in Baltimore. \n BALTIMORE >> The driver of a Baltimore school bus involved in a deadly crash with a commuter bus this week should not have been at the wheel because his commercial driver's license was suspended two months earlier. \n Glenn R. Chappell's one-year Medical Examiner's Certificate expired Aug. 31, and the Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration did not receive an updated one, as required by federal law for holders of commercial driver's licenses, spokesman Chuck Brown said in a statement. These licenses are required for school bus drivers in Maryland. \n Brown provided copies of two warning letters the agency sent Chappell. One, dated July 17, reminded him that his certificate would soon expire. The other, dated Sept. 8, told Chappell, \"you are no longer authorized to operate a commercial motor vehicle.\" \n He was told to either submit updated information or have his permit downgraded to a noncommercial driver's license. \n Chappell also could have been kept from driving for another reason: He pleaded guilty in 2012 to second-degree assault. A State Board of Education regulation says a school system \"may not\" permit someone convicted of a violent crime to operate a school vehicle. \n Neither Chappell's employer, AA Affordable Transportation, nor Baltimore City Public Schools answered questions posed by The Associated Press in calls and emails. \n A statement from AA Affordable, obtained by WJZ-TV, offered condolences to the victims' families and said the company is \"cooperating fully\" with investigators and cannot comment during the investigation. \n Brown said that to renew a certification, drivers must say whether they have experienced a brain injury, seizure, high blood pressure or dizziness, and submit to measurements of other standard health indicators. The resulting certificate doesn't contain this information, however, so the agency doesn't know about any medical conditions a driver might have. \n Brown said the agency sends warning letters only to commercial driver's license holders, not their employers. However, federal regulations require employers to maintain the certificates, which includes the date of expiration, for all of their drivers with commercial licenses, Brown said. \n \"Responsibility to maintain this certificate is on the individual and the employer,\" Brown said. \n Chappell, 67, was killed Tuesday, along with a Maryland Transit Administration bus driver and four mass transit passengers, when his school bus crossed the center line and smashed into the commuter bus after hitting a car and a roadside pillar in southwest Baltimore. No children were aboard. \n Chappell's son Moses said family members, like investigators, are awaiting his father's autopsy results, which could show if he suffered a medical emergency. Investigators are also looking into whether speed played a role in the crash. \n Moses Chappell said he never saw his father drink alcohol, he maintained a healthy lifestyle, and that \"day to day,\" he didn't seem to have any health issues. \n Moses Chappell said his father drove taxi cabs, trucks and buses over the years, and loved driving. \n \"It's been the toughest 48 hours of my life,\" he said. \n A close reading of the board of education rules suggests that Glenn Chappell's assault conviction wouldn't have automatically disqualified him from driving a school bus; the wording appears to give authorities some discretion. \n Board of Education spokesman Bill Reinhard said the local school district would have been responsible for making sure Chappell met state requirements, even though he worked for a contractor> \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "School bus driver in crash shouldn't have been behind wheel"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Children played next to a burning oil field in Qayara, south of Mosul, Iraq, today. \n MOSUL, Iraq >> As Iraqi forces pushed Islamic State militants out of Mosul's eastern neighborhoods this week, hundreds of civilians faced a dilemma: Stay in an area still beset by heavy fighting and surrounded by government troops that many still distrust, or evacuate for the uncertainty of a displacement camp. \n The elite special forces entered the Gogjali district Tuesday, touching off an exodus by hundreds of residents, many herding sheep, cows and goats as they fled to the east. \n But still more have been told by the troops to stay in their homes as the battle is changing to one of urban combat with the extremists who hold Iraq's second-largest city. Those civilians who remain have essentially become trapped on the front lines. \n As a convoy of armored Iraqi vehicles twisted through narrow dirt roads, a handful of families waved. Some children shouted and smiled at the passing troops, but other residents peeked cautiously from behind garden gates. In the center of the district, a crowd lined up to collect boxes of aid. \n One resident at the aid distribution site said the mood in the neighborhood was more tense than exuberant. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As Iraqi forces enter Mosul, some civilians don't feel safe"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People watch a TV screen showing the live broadcast of South Korean President Park Geun-hye's address to the nation, at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, Friday. \n SEOUL >> South Korean President Park Geun-hye took sole blame Friday for a \"heartbreaking\" scandal that threatens her government and vowed she will accept a direct investigation into her actions amid rising suspicion that she allowed a mysterious confidante to manipulate power from the shadows. \n In a high-stakes address to the nation, Park, her voice shaking, said the scandal is \"all my fault and mistake.\" In an extraordinary moment, she also denied media speculation here that she had been controlled by a religious cult. \n \"I feel a huge responsibility (for the scandal) deep in my heart,\" Park said. \"It is all my fault and mistake.\" \n Her comments come at what may well prove to be the crucial moment of her presidency. As calls for her to resign or be directly investigated rise, Park is attempting to show the contrition and sense of responsibility that South Koreans demand while re-establishing her tarnished credibility. She is in the fourth year of a single five-year term and, even before this scandal, faced criticism over the government's response to a ferry sinking that killed more than 300 and a perceived aloof nature. \n One national poll had her approval rating at 5 percent, the lowest for any modern South Korean leader. \n \"Anyone found by the current investigation to have done something wrong must be held responsible for what they have done, and I am also ready to face any responsibility,\" Park said. \"If necessary, I'm determined to let prosecutors investigate me and accept an investigation by an independent counsel too.\" \n Last week Park surprised many when she acknowledged that she had relied on Choi Soon-sil, the daughter of a cult leader and Park mentor, for help editing presidential speeches and other undefined \"public relations\" issues. \n Anger has exploded in the days since, with media reports claiming that the influence Choi had went much deeper. There are reports that Choi reviewed and made recommendations on government policy papers, helped choose presidential aides and even picked out Park's wardrobe. \n Thousands have protested, Park has fired many of her senior aides and is replacing her prime minister. \n Choi has been formally arrested, and opposition lawmakers have demanded that prosecutors also investigate Park. The president's nominee for prime minister, the country's No. 2 job, has suggested that Park can be directly investigated, despite her immunity from prosecution. \n Choi, 60, was arrested Thursday as Seoul Central District Court accepted a prosecutors' request to issue a warrant citing alleged abuse of authority and fraud, according to court spokesman Shin Jae-hwan. Choi is being held in a detention center, Shin said. \n In addition to the allegations Choi was a behind-the-scenes influence on Park, reports have alleged she pushed businesses to donate millions of dollars to two foundations that she controlled. \n Choi is the first person formally arrested in connection with the scandal. On Wednesday night, prosecutors detained one of Park's former senior presidential secretaries after summoning him for alleged involvement in extracting $70 million in donations. Prosecutors have 48 hours to determine whether to request an arrest warrant for Ahn Jong-beom or release him. \n Park has fired eight presidential secretaries and nominated three new top Cabinet officials including the prime minister in an effort to regain public confidence. Opposition parties have described Park's personnel reshuffles as a tactic to divert attention from the scandal. \n Park may survive what has become the worse patch of an already rocky four years in office. But if her choice for prime minister is rejected and she is forced to name someone chosen by the opposition, it will hamstring her authority and may end her ability to govern. \n On Thursday, Park's choice for prime minister, Kim Byong-joon, told a news conference that he thinks it's possible to have Park investigated, though he said the procedures and methods of any probe of the head of state must be carefully handled. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Embattled S.Korea leader: Scandal 'all my fault and mistake'"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 8, 2000 file photo, Willie Smith holds four copies of the Chicago Sun-Times, each with a different headline, in Chicago, reflecting a night of suspense, drama and changes in following the presidential race between Vice President Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W. Bush. \n WASHINGTON >> What happens if America wakes up on Nov. 9 to another undecided, hotly disputed presidential election? What if the outcome turns on the razor-thin margin in one or two states, one candidate seeking a recount, the other going to court? \n We know what happened in 2000, when the Supreme Court in a 5-4 vote effectively settled the election in favor of George W. Bush. \n As controversial as that decision was, it was made by a nine-justice court. This time around, there are only eight justices and the possibility of a tie vote. That would leave a lower federal or state court ruling in place, with no definitive judgment from the nation's highest court. \n \"It would be Bush v. Gore, with a twist,\" said one election law expert, law professor Richard Hasen at the University of California at Irvine. \n \"I call it the nightmare scenario,\" said University of Kentucky law professor Joshua Douglas. \n Sixteen years ago, the court divided 5 to 4 about whether to get involved at all and then voted the same way to stop Florida's state court-ordered recount. The five more conservative justices sided with Republican nominee Bush, while the four more liberal justices would have ruled for Democrat Al Gore. \n \"A no-brainer!\" Justice Anthony Kennedy said in Jan Crawford's book \"Supreme Conflict,\" recalling the decision to take on the case. \"A state court deciding a federal constitutional issue about the presidential election? Of course you take the case.\" \n The odds of history repeating itself in Florida or elsewhere are long. But it's hard to discount any possibility, however remote, in a tight campaign that already has seen Democratic lawsuits charging voter suppression and Republican claims the election will be rigged. \n The reason a tie Supreme Court vote is even possible stems from another aspect of this unusual election year, the Senate Republicans' refusal to act on President Barack Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to fill the seat of Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February. \n Any decision to seek a recount or otherwise contest the election results would depend on the margin in any one state and its potential for affecting the national outcome. In 2000, neither Bush nor Gore could muster an Electoral College majority of 270 votes without Florida. \n \"For candidates who lose by a fraction of a percent, even up to 1.5 percent, they will at least explore their options for seeking a recount or challenging the results in a particular state,\" said Michael Morley, a law professor at Barry University in Orlando, Florida. Morley represented Republican Joe Miller in his postelection challenge to Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, who won re-election as a write-in candidate after losing the GOP primary to Miller in 2010. \n If an initial recount doesn't settle things, a lawsuit could follow, with appeals possible all the way to the Supreme Court. \n If a case should make it that far, it would reach a court made up of four justices appointed by Republican presidents and four by Democrats. Just four of the eight were on the court for Bush v. Gore, although Chief Justice John Roberts aided Bush's cause as a lawyer in private practice. \n At this point, it's impossible to know who might go to court and in which state, what the issue might be and who might benefit if justices were evenly divided. A tie is a win for the person who already has prevailed in the lower court. \n But for some who already are dismayed about the extended Supreme Court vacancy since Justice Scalia's death, a tie would have broad implications beyond the election. \n \"I worry about a 4-4 tie because it would undermine the court's legitimacy,\" Douglas said. \n A Supreme Court appeal also would raise another delicate question. Would Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg participate after the comments she made about Trump in July to The Associated Press and other news outlets? \n She told AP then that she didn't want to think about the possibility of Trump being elected and later called him a \"faker\" in an interview with CNN. Soon afterward, she said her comments were ill-advised and apologized. \n Federal law requires recusal from any case in which a judge's impartiality \"might reasonably be questioned.\" But at the Supreme Court, a justice alone is the final judge of whether to sit out a case. \n A suit challenging presidential election results almost certainly would have to be wrapped up before Dec. 19, the date electors will meet. \n But control of the Senate also might rest on results in one state. If a candidate is dissatisfied with the initial tally and a recount, then sues, it could be months before the winner is known. \n That's what happened in Minnesota in 2008. Democrat Al Franken trailed Republican incumbent Norm Coleman by a couple of hundred votes in the first count and led by about the same margin after a mandatory recount. \n Coleman went to court and ultimately dropped his appeal after the Minnesota Supreme Court ruled against him. \n Franken didn't take his seat in the Senate until July 2009, more than eight months after the election. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Nightmare' \u2014 Supreme Court tying 4-4 on election dispute"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / MARCH 4, 2015 \n This photo from last year shows the 25th Infantry Division soldiers and equipment at a division-wide exercise called Lightning Forge at the Kahuku Training Area. \n A Schofield Barracks soldier died today during training in the Kahuku area as part of Lightning Forge, one of the 25th Infantry Division's biggest exercises of the year, the Army said. \n The soldier's name is being withheld pending notification of next of kin, the Army said. Army authorities are investigating the death. An official said more details would be forthcoming. \n Lightning Forge, which runs Oct. 28 to Sunday, is focused this year on training the approximately 4,000 soldiers of the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, but includes about 10,000 Hawaii soldiers in total including helicopter and support roles, the Army said. \n Live fire is typically not conducted in the Army's Kahuku training area. \n ", "author": "By William Cole wcole@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Schofield soldier killed in training accident"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "Firefighters are battling a brush fire in Waianae today. \n At 10:12 a.m., 20 firefighters responded to the blaze that is traveling up a mountain in proximity to Hakimo Road. \n Additional details were not available at this time. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crews battling brush fire in Waianae"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Melania Trump, husband of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, walked on stage to deliver a speech at the Main Line Sports Center in Berwyn, Pa today. \n BERWYN, Pa. \u00bb Donald Trump's wife, Melania, made a rare appearance on the campaign trail today, pledging to focus on combatting online bullying and serve as an advocate for women and children if her husband is elected to the White House. \n Her description of the perils of social media seemed at odds with her husband's divisive and bullying rhetoric throughout the campaign. \n \"Our culture has gotten too mean and too rough, especially to children and teenagers,\" said Mrs. Trump, delivering a get-out-the-vote speech in the Philadelphia suburbs with less than a week to go before Election Day. \"It is never okay when a 12-year-old girl or boy is mocked, bullied or attacked\" in the school yard, she argued, but it is \"absolutely unacceptable when it is done by someone with no name hiding on the internet. \" \n \"We have to find a better way to talk to each other, to disagree with each other, to respect each other,\" she said. \n The highly personal speech, which also touched on conversations with her young son, her marriage and her own experience as an immigrant, appeared aimed at humanizing her husband in front of an audience of suburban women who are critical to Trump's hopes in Pennsylvania and other key states. \n For years, Trump has used his Twitter account to berate and insult his rivals along with reporters, pundits and others who he feels have slighted him. Some educators have even described a so-called \"Trump effect\" increase in bullying inspired by Trump's bombastic rhetoric. \n Nonetheless, Mrs. Trump told the audience, \"We need to teach our youth American values: kindness, honesty, respect, compassion, charity, understanding, cooperation.\" \n The appearance came as Trump's rival Hillary Clinton and her allies have tried to paint the Republican nominee as anti-women, a strategy Democrats see as the best hope for rattling him and driving female voters away. \n Thursday's speech at the Main Line Sports Center was Mrs. Trump's first since she addressed the Republican National Convention in July. That speech was well-received initially, but was quickly overshadowed by the discovery that sections had been plagiarized from first lady Michelle Obama's address to the 2008 Democratic National Convention. \n While Mrs. Trump has given several television interviews and appeared by her husband's side at events, the former model is more often seen than heard. She explains her frequent absence from the campaign trail by saying her priority is raising the couple's 10-year-old son, Barron. \n In her remarks, Mrs. Trump described her husband as a \"fighter,\" beholden to no one, who \"will never give up.\" \n \"He certainly knows how to shake things up, doesn't he?\" she joked. \n She also spent time describing how, growing up in her native Slovenia, \"America was the word for freedom and opportunity. America meant: If you could dream it, you could become it.\" \n Receiving U.S. citizenship after a 10-year process, she said, was \"the greatest privilege in the world.\" \n There were plenty of \"Women for Trump\" signs in the crowd of several hundred, who repeatedly interrupted Mrs. Trump's 10-minute speech with cheers and applause. Throughout the audience were the suburban women whose votes Trump hopes to shore up on a path to victory Tuesday. \n Kris Goodman, 65, of Berwyn, said she believes Mrs. Trump would be a \"great first lady\" and an asset to her husband in the White House. Goodman, who has already voted absentee for the Republican nominee, said she was impressed with Trump's wife at the convention this summer. \n \"I think both she and (Trump's daughter) Ivanka are great examples of women of this century,\" Goodman said. \"What's in the media, I don't think portrays his record and how he deals with women.\" \n In addition to his wife, Trump's four oldest children have also been campaigning across the country, along with supporters like House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. \n Meanwhile, Clinton's campaign has deployed her husband, former President Bill Clinton, along with President Barack Obama, Mrs. Obama and a long list of celebrity backers to help her get out the vote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Melania Trump vows to take on cyberbullying as first lady"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the clergy joined protesters against the Dakota Access oil pipeline in southern North Dakota near Cannon Ball, today, to draw attention to the concerns of the Standing Rock Sioux and push elected officials to call for a halt to construction. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. \u00bb Hundreds of clergy of various faiths joined protests today against the Dakota Access oil pipeline in southern North Dakota, singing hymns, marching and ceremonially burning a copy of a 600-year-old document. \n The interfaith event was organized to draw attention to the concerns of the Standing Rock Sioux and push elected officials to call for a halt to construction of the $3.8 billion pipeline that's to carry North Dakota oil through South Dakota and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. The tribe believes the pipeline that will skirt its reservation threatens its drinking water and cultural sites. \n The pipeline \"is a textbook case of marginalizing minority communities in the drive to increase fossil fuel supplies,\" the Rev. Peter Morales, president of the Unitarian Universalist Association, said in a statement. Morales' group sent more than 30 clergy to the event. \n More than 500 clergy from around the world gathered with protesters today at a campfire at the main protest camp to burn a copy of a religious document from the 1400s sanctioning the taking of land from indigenous peoples. About 200 people then sang hymns while they marched to a bridge that was the site of a recent clash between protesters and law officers. Some held signs that read, \"Clergy for Standing Rock.\" \n \"It's amazing the spirituality going around this place,\" said Joe Gangone, who came with an Episcopalian church group from South Dakota's Rosebud Sioux Reservation. \n The Rev. Tet Gallardo, a Unitarian Universalist minister from the Philippines, said she was \"moved to come\" to the gathering. \n \"Water is the subject of concern also in the Philippines,\" she said. \"How can this happen to people who are so faithful to God?\" \n The group sang and prayed while gathered in a semicircle at the still-closed bridge while law officers monitored from vehicles at a barricade on the other side, from surrounding hillsides and from a helicopter flying overhead. \n John Floberg, an Episcopalian minister from the Standing Rock Reservation who organized the event, called for \"peaceful, prayerful, nonviolent and lawful activity here.\" There were no immediate confrontations between group members and authorities, and no arrests, Morton County sheriff's spokesman Rob Keller said. \n Opponents of the pipeline project have been camped near the route in southern North Dakota for months in an effort to stop construction. Clashes between protesters and police have resulted in more than 400 arrests since August. \n The most recent incident came Wednesday, when law officers in riot gear used pepper spray to deter dozens of protesters who tried to cross a frigid stream to access property owned by the pipeline developer. Two people were arrested. About 140 people were arrested on the property last week in a law enforcement operation that cleared the encampment that protesters had established on the land. \n Texas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners has said the 1,200-mile pipeline is largely complete outside of the area in south central North Dakota where it will go under Lake Oahe, a large Missouri River reservoir and the source of the tribe's drinking water. The federal government in September ordered a temporary halt to construction on Army Corps of Engineers land around and beneath the lake while the agency reviews its permitting of the project. There's no timetable for a decision. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clergy join Dakota Access pipeline protesters for ceremony"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / NOVEMBER 2013 \n Salt Pond Beach Park in Hanapepe. \n A body found near Salt Pond Beach in Hanapepe has been identified as Jon Togioka, 34, of Kekaha. \n The cause of Togioka's death has been classified as a homicide, according to Kauai police. \n Police have initiated an investigation. No arrests have been made. \n At approximately 7 a.m. Tuesday, police said a man was walking along the shoreline near Salt Pond Beach when he discovered Togioka, who was unresponsive. Police said the man called 911. \n Anyone with information on Togioka is asked to call Detective Chris Calio at 241-1683, police dispatch at 241-1711 or CrimeStoppers at 246-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Body found at Kauai beach is ruled a homicide victim"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "Big Island firefighters responded to a brush fire in Kau. \n The fire occurred shortly after 9 a.m. Wednesday at Ninole Loop below Colony One at Sea Mountain Condominiums. Fourteen firefighters battled the fire that scorched approximately 1 1/2 acres of tall grass, brush and trees on vacant land. \n Strong north, northeast winds contributed to the rapid spread of the blaze, according to the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 9:45 a.m. and extinguished it at 3 p.m. Wednesday night, two firefighters monitored the site for any hot spots and fire breaks. \n The cause of the brush fire is unknown at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters put out aggressive brush fire on Big Isle"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n On Wednesday, a tan 1987 Jeep pickup truck driven by a 61-year-old Captain Cook man was traveling southbound on the highway (Route 11) when the vehicle struck Kaaloa who was running westbound across the roadway near the 106-mile marker, according the Hawaii County Police Department. \n A 10-year-old Honaunau girl died Wednesday after she was struck by a vehicle on Mamalahoa Highway in South Kona while walking home from school. \n She has been identified as Janexty Kaaloa. \n The child was struck at about 1:10 p.m. as she was running across the roadway near the 106-mile marker. The vehicle that hit her was a tan 1987 Jeep pickup truck driven by a 61-year-old Captain Cook man traveling south on the highway (Route 11), said the Hawaii Police Department. \n Jevon Kaaloa Matsuyama said her neice, who the family affectionately called \"Ulu,\" was walking home from school when the accident occurred, and two of her sisters rushed to her aid. An off-duty firefighter and off-duty nurse performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation until paramedics arrived. \n \"They were able to get a heartbeat back and she was breathing on her own,\" said Matsuyama in a message to the Star-Advertiser. But the child's condition worsened and she was transported to Kona Community Hospital, where she was pronounced dead shortly after 2:30 p.m. \n An autopsy will be performed to determine Kaaloa's exact cause of death. \n The driver was released pending further investigation after police arrested him on suspicion of negligent homicide. Whether speed was a factor in the crash hasn't been determined. \n Matsuyama said Kaaloa, a fifth-grader at Honaunau Elementary School, loved to read and watch Japanese anime. \"She liked to go to the movies, to the beach, and hang out with her family and friends,\" Matsuyama said. \n It was the 26th traffic-related fatality on Hawaii island this year compared to 16 at the same time last year. \n Anyone who witnessed the crash is asked to call Officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Girl, 10, killed walking home from school is identified"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Des Moines Police Department shows Scott Michael Greene, of Urbandale, Iowa. \n DES MOINES, Iowa \u00bb A gun found by a search dog in a wooded area is believed to be the weapon used in the fatal ambush shootings of two Iowa police officers, police said today. \n The weapon was found \"where no person probably could have found it,\" Des Moines police spokesman Sgt. Paul Parizek said during a news conference. He said the weapon was found Wednesday, the same day the officers were shot, but he declined to provide details. \n The shootings came less than three weeks after the suspect, Scott Greene, argued with officers who removed him from a high school football game where he had unfurled a Confederate flag near black spectators. \n Greene turned himself in just hours after the shootings early Wednesday. The two officers \u2014 Urbandale Police Officer Justin Martin and Des Moines Sgt. Anthony Beminio \u2014 were shot while sitting in their patrol cars in separate incidents less than 2 miles apart. \n Parizek got emotional during today's news conference, thanking the community for its outpouring of support and saying the officers represent \"the security blanket you guys sleep under every night.\" \n Greene was hospitalized following his arrest but was expected to be released today, Parizek said. He said investigations have yet to speak with Greene and a motive remains unclear, but that investigators are looking at possible first-degree murder charges. No formal charges have been filed. \n Police said Greene, 46, flagged down an Iowa Department of Natural Resources employee in a rural area west of Des Moines on Wednesday, identified himself and asked that the employee call 911. Sheriff's deputies and state patrol officers took him into custody. \n Greene's suspected in the early morning slayings of 24-year-old Justin Martin, who had been with the force in the Des Moines suburb of Urbandale since 2015, and 38-year-old Sgt. Anthony Beminio, who joined the Des Moines department in 2005. \n Police responded to a report of shots fired shortly after 1 a.m. and found the Urbandale officer. Authorities from several agencies soon saturated the area. About 20 minutes later, they discovered the Des Moines officer, who had responded to the first shooting, Parizek said. \n The shootings happened less than 2 miles apart, and both took place along main streets that cut through residential areas. \n In the first shooting, investigators believe the gunman walked up to the officer's car and fired more than two dozen rounds. \n \"I wouldn't call it a confrontation,\" Urbandale Police Chief Ross McCarty said. \"I don't think he may have even been aware that there was a gunman next to him.\" \n The shootings follow a spate of police killings in recent months, including ambushes of officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Five officers were killed July 7 in Dallas. Three more were killed later that month in Baton Rouge. \n Race was an issue in those cases and others involving unarmed black men killed by officers. Greene is white, as were the officers. \n Greene appeared to have issues with people of other races. \n In the confrontation at the Urbandale High School football game, which Greene videotaped and posted on social media, he appeared to be trying to antagonize African-American fans when he shook a Confederate flag in front of them during the national anthem, McCarty said. \n In the video, officers can be seen asking Greene to leave school property while he insists he was assaulted and his flag was stolen. He demands officers file theft and assault charges, saying someone hit his head and grabbed the flag. \n In a back-and-forth with officers that lasts for nearly 11 minutes, officers say they could take a report but they cannot let Greene back inside the stadium because the school has banned him from the property. They also note they were returning his flag and ask if he purposely wanted to create a conflict by displaying it near African-Americans. \n \"I was peacefully protesting,\" he responds. \"That's my constitutional right.\" \n The video ends with Greene promising not to \"set foot on\" school property and officers saying they will take down his information. \n Ardis Gardner of Des Moines told The Associated Press he was at the Oct. 14 football game to watch his teenage son play. \n Gardner, 47, who is black, sat with a group of other friends and family members when Greene, who was dressed in Army fatigues, approached them within a few feet and waved the flag at them during the national anthem. \n \"I was angry,\" said Gardner, who typically sits during the national anthem and prays. \"It was senior night, and the spotlight should have been on those senior players. This was calculated for him to do it at that moment.\" \n A week later, Gardner said, Greene followed him and a group of black parents into another football game with a dog that was wearing a gun holster and a Confederate flag vest. Greene sat nearby again. \n After the video was posted on YouTube, someone identifying himself as Scott Greene commented, \"I was offended by the blacks sitting through our anthem. Thousands more whites fought and died for their freedom. However this is not about the Armed forces, they are cop haters.\" \n In other incidents, court records show Greene was jailed and charged with interfering with official acts after resisting Urbandale police officers who tried to pat him down for a weapon on April 10, 2014. An Urbandale officer described him as hostile and combative. Greene entered a guilty plea and was fined. \n Two days later, Urbandale police were called to answer a complaint of harassment at the apartment complex where Greene lived. The complaint said he threatened to kill another man during a confrontation in the parking lot and yelled a racial slur used against blacks. Greene was charged with harassment. \n He pleaded guilty and received a suspended jail sentence and a year of probation. An officer wrote that Greene had complied with the terms of his probation, noting that he had obtained a mental health evaluation and \"reports to have complied with the medication recommendations.\" The officer did not elaborate. \n Soon after the football game incident, on Oct. 17, a criminal complaint indicates Greene was involved in an altercation with his 66-year-old mother. Greene accused her of scratching and hitting his face. He captured the fight on cellphone video, which he used as evidence of the assault. \n A judge ordered Greene's mother to stay away from her son, and she was released on $1,000 cash bond. \n The Urbandale police chief said Greene was well-known to officers. \n Most officers in the city \"have some understanding of Mr. Greene,\" McCarty said. \"They've taken trips to his house, delivered service to him \u2014 never anything to this extent.\" \n It was unclear if either of the shootings was captured on police cameras. \n Greene has a daughter who attends Urbandale High School. The Urbandale shooting occurred near the school, and the city's entire school district closed for the day. \n The attacks on police this summer in Dallas and Baton Rouge came in the wake of several high-profile police shootings of black men, fueling a national debate about police use of force, especially against minorities. It has been a frequent topic in the nation's presidential race. \n Republican nominee Donald Trump has argued that police need the freedom to use greater force. Democrat Hillary Clinton has supported officers while calling attention to what she and others have called examples of bias in policing. \n Parizek, the police spokesman, said the officers' deaths are a blow to the city. \n \"They are our friends and co-workers,\" he said. \"Des Moines is not a big city. We all know each other. We're heartbroken.\" \n Associated Press writers David Pitt and Barbara Rodriguez in Des Moines, Ryan J. Foley in Iowa City and Nelson Lampe in Omaha, Nebraska, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police find gun believed used in Iowa officers' deaths"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n \"Vote Trump\" was seen spray-painted on the side of the fire-damaged Hopewell M.B. Baptist Church in Greenville, Miss. on Wednesday. \n GREENVILLE, Miss. \u00bb The FBI opened a civil rights investigation into the arson and vandalism of an African-American church in Mississippi, where someone spray-painted \"Vote Trump\" in what the mayor called a \"heinous, hateful, cowardly act.\" \n The pulpit and pews were burned, and soot stained the brick around some windows. Greenville Fire Chief Ruben Brown Sr. said the fire was set by someone and estimated the Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church was 80 percent destroyed. \n \"We consider it a hate crime,\" Mayor Errick Simmons said. \"Because of the political message which we believe was intended to interfere with worship and intimidate voters.\" \n About 78 percent of Greenville's 32,100 residents are African-American. \n FBI spokesman Brett Car said it was too early to determine whether the fire should be investigated as a possible hate crime. \n Gov. Phil Bryant, a Republican who has been campaigning for Donald Trump, said \"we expect a suspect will be identified and brought to justice.\" \n \"First, anyone who burns a place of worship will answer to almighty God for this crime against people of faith. But they should also answer to man's law,\" Bryant said in a statement. \n Democrat U.S. Rep. Bennie Thompson, whose district includes Greenville, said the fire and graffiti \"harkens back to a much darker day in Mississippi.\" \n \"The political message of the vandalism is obviously an attempt to sway public opinion regarding the upcoming election,\" he wrote in a statement. \"I encourage all citizens not to be deterred by this cowardly act and exercise your right to vote at the ballot box.\" \n Mississippi's top elections official, Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann, a Republican, said people shouldn't jump to the conclusion that the church was vandalized for political reasons. Initial reports suggest \"this is not of a political nature,\" he told WDAM-TV (http://bit.ly/2eAUErb). \n The fire chief said water from the hoses and heat from the fire also damaged the church's kitchen and the pastor's study. It was put out within 12 minutes, but it took an hour and a half to extinguish hot spots, he said. \n \"We don't have any suspect at time, but we are possibly talking to a person of interest,\" Police Chief Delando Wilson said. \n The congregation has about 200 members and has existed for 111 years. Pastor Carilyn Hudson promised to rebuild. \n \"The act that has happened has left our hearts broken but we are strong together,\" Hudson said. \"We are not angry, but our hearts are broken.\" \n A GoFundMe page, where online donations can be made to pay for repairs to the church, raised $157,000 by this morning, organizers said. \n An $11,000 reward was offered for information leading to the arrest and conviction of whoever set the fire. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI investigating arson, 'Vote Trump' tag at black church"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS \n Allen Pitts \n A 47-year-old man has been charged for his alleged escape from the Hawaii State Hospital in Kaneohe. \n Allen Pitts was charged Wednesday afternoon for second-degree escape. He is being held in lieu of $11,000 bail. \n On Saturday night, Pitts broke a window and fled from the facility. Staff discovered he was missing during a bed check the following morning. \n Police located him in Waikiki Monday night. \n Pitts was committed to the hospital for two separate incidents. In 2013, he led police on a chase on Kalakaua Avenue after he stole a dump truck, damaging police cars and parking meters before he struck a coconut tree. \n He jumped out of the truck and jumped into the ocean. Police later arrested him off Sans Souci Beach. \n Pitts was charged with unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle, reckless endangering and three counts of criminal property damage. In 2014, a judge found him guilty by reason of physical or mental disorder and committed him to the state hospital. \n In July 2015, he was granted conditional release after he was reported to be doing well. But after being \"out and about\" for a few weeks, the court issued a bench warrant for his arrest. Pitts turned himself in to police at the Waikiki substation where he got into an altercation. He was indicted in April for assaulting a police officer and harassment. \n Pitts was recommitted to the state hospital in August after a panel of doctors deemed him unfit to proceed to trial. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Captured state hospital inmate charged in escape"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Taliban fighters reacted to a speech by their senior leader, May 27, in the Shindand district of Herat province, Afghanistan. \n KABUL, Afghanistan \u00bb A joint U.S.-Afghan raid today against the Taliban involving NATO airstrikes left 26 civilians, three Afghan troops and two U.S. service members dead, Western and local officials said, as investigators worked to determine what went wrong. \n NATO and the Pentagon described the Americans killed and four other U.S. troops wounded as being part of \"a train, advise and assist mission,\" rare combat casualties for Western forces who handed over the task of securing Afghanistan to local troops some two years ago. \n Afghan officials said they were still investigating the attack and its civilian casualties, some of which may have been caused by the airstrikes called in to support Afghan and U.S. troops under fire. Residents later carried over a dozen corpses of the dead, including children, toward the local governor's office in a show of rage a year after American forces attacked an area hospital. \n NATO declined to identify the Americans killed, pending notification of their next of kin. NATO and the Pentagon did not respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press to further clarify the American troops' mission in the area. \n U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said four Americans were wounded. \n \"Our service members were doing their part to help the Afghans secure their own country while protecting our homeland from those who would do us harm,\" he said in a statement. \n The target of the raid were two senior Taliban commanders, who were killed in the fighting along with 63 other insurgents, Kunduz police chief Gen. Qasim Jangalbagh said. He said Afghan special forces carried out the raid and that he did not have any information about NATO involvement in the assault. \n Jangalbagh said 26 civilians, including members of the Taliban fighters' families, were killed in the assault. \n Kunduz official Mohammad Yousf Ayoubi and parliament member Malim Chari both also told the AP that civilians were killed in the fighting, though they had few details. Dr. Mohammad Naim Mangal, the director of a Kunduz hospital, said his facility received the bodies of a dead man and a child and treated 30 people, including children, wounded in the fighting. \n NATO only said it was \"aware of the allegations,\" while the Pentagon did not immediately respond. \n U.S. Brig. Gen. Charles Cleveland, briefing journalists in Brussels during a teleconference, said three Afghan troops were killed in the assault. Mohammad Radmanish, a deputy spokesman at the Afghan Defense Ministry, offered the same figure. \n In a later statement, Cleveland said that \"friendly forces received direct fire and airstrikes were conducted to defend themselves\" and an investigation was underway. \n He earlier described the assault as \"not a common event,\" without elaborating. \n A Taliban statement also said there were civilian casualties while claiming its fighters killed 16 U.S. troops. The insurgents often exaggerate their battlefield successes. \n Taliban fighters briefly overran the city of Kunduz, the provincial capital with the same name, in early October, a show of strength by the insurgents that also highlighted the troubles facing local Afghan forces 15 years after the U.S.-led invasion of the country. The Taliban captured and held parts of Kunduz a year earlier as well before the city was fully liberated weeks later with the help of U.S. airstrikes. \n Those 2015 airstrikes also saw a U.S. Air Force special operations AC-130 gunship attack a Kunduz hospital run by the medical charity Doctors Without Borders, killing 42 people. Sixteen U.S. military personnel, including a two-star general, later were disciplined for what American officials described as mistakes that led the strike. Doctors Without Borders has called the attack a war crime and demanded an independent investigation. \n Yet another airstrike killing civilians could stoke anger among Afghans, and the country's former President Hamid Karzai repeatedly clashed with NATO over them, straining relations. \n Today, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani issued a statement criticizing the Taliban for using women and children as \"a shield\" during the raid. He also announced a local investigation had been started. \n NATO's combat operations ended in Afghanistan at the end of 2014, a move that put Afghan forces in charge of the country's security. Since then, Afghan forces have suffered heavy casualties battling the Taliban, who have at times overrun provincial capitals before being pushed back. Meanwhile, NATO and U.S. casualties have been few. \n There have been at least other four combat deaths among American forces in Afghanistan in 2016. In October, a U.S. soldier was killed by a bomb in Nangarhar province while another was shot dead by a man wearing an Afghan army uniform in Kabul. In August, an American soldier was killed and another wounded by a roadside bomb in Afghanistan' southern Helmand province. In January, a U.S. soldier was killed by small arms fire in Helmand. \n The fight in Afghanistan \u2014 American's longest war \u2014 began after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks as the Taliban harbored al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. The Taliban and Afghan government recently held secret talks to see if they could start peace negotiations to end the fighting, though questions remain over which faction of the insurgency is doing the talking. \n Associated Press writer Lorne Cook in Brussels contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "26 civilians, 2 U.S. troops dead after Afghan raid on Taliban"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shinichi Ueyama, special advisor for Tokyo Metropolitan Government on reform, listens during an expert panel at the city hall in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> All options remain on the table \u2014 including moving the rowing venue to a site hundreds of miles outside of Tokyo \u2014 after a working group set up to review costs of the 2020 Olympics met for the first time, a top IOC official said Thursday. \n The group, made up of representatives from the International Olympic Committee, Tokyo organizers, the city government and Japan's central government, is looking into various cost reductions, including moving three sports from planned new venues to existing ones. \n The four-party group was set up after a report from a city expert panel last month said the cost of the Olympics could exceed $30 billion \u2014 four times the initial estimate \u2014 unless drastic cuts are made. \n The panel proposed moving the rowing venue to Miyagi prefecture, 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of Tokyo, and switching the volleyball site to Yokohama Arena instead of a new gymnasium in Tokyo. \n Christophe Dubi, the IOC's executive director of the Olympic Games, said the group discussed that option and it remains a possibility. \n \"The options remain,\" Dubi said, referring to the potential relocation of the volleyball and rowing sites. \"The purpose of this working group was not to decide. The purpose was to study and ask further questions that will help fully clarify the situation for the benefit of all parties.\" \n Dubi said the four-party group will make its decisions at the end of November. \n While the organizing committee has balked at the city's cost-cutting ideas, put forth by Gov. Yuriko Koike's review panel, the IOC seems willing to listen. \n \"When you have one objective \u2014 and it is to organize the best games possible and to leave the most possible legacy for the citizens of Tokyo, the vision of Tokyo \u2014 any effort that goes in this direction is welcome,\" Dubi said. \n The proposal to move the rowing to an existing facility in Miyagi came after the projected cost for the original Sea Forest venue on Tokyo Bay soared to nearly 50 billion yen ($480 million), seven times the initial estimate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "IOC: All options on table in cost-cutting for Tokyo Games"}

{"date": "November 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carrie Underwood accepts the award for female vocalist of the year at the 50th annual CMA Awards at the Bridgestone Arena on Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2016, in Nashville, Tenn. \n Garth Brooks, who lost entertainer of the year at last year's Country Music Association Awards when he returned to music after a 13-year break, won the top prize at the show Wednesday, where Beyonce and the Dixie Chicks' surprise duet performance was met with love and hate. \n Brooks beat out Carrie Underwood, Chris Stapleton, Keith Urban and last year's winner, Luke Bryan. \n \"We are so damn lucky to part of this thing called country music,\" Brooks yelled loudly at the Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee. \n Taylor Swift presented Brooks the award, but she wasn't the only pop star in the building: Beyonce sang her twangy song \"Daddy Lessons\" on a night celebrating the CMA Awards' 50th anniversary. It was the first time Beyonce, a Houston native, performed at the country awards show. The performance also marked a return for the Dixie Chicks, who hadn't attended the CMA Awards in some time. \n \"Everybody get on your feet. Put your hands together,\" Beyonce told the crowd. \n The diva sported a sheer champagne-colored dress that plunged in the center and layered pearls around her neck. Faith Hill sang along, Trisha Yearwood clapped and Miranda Lambert moved side to side during the song, which the Dixie Chicks have also covered at their live shows. \n Beyonce and the trio's appearance, though, wasn't cheered by everyone: On social media some fans tweeted angrily about the performance \u2014 some country music fans have disliked Dixie Chicks since band member Natalie Maines criticized former U.S. President George W. Bush over a decade ago. \n The night featured a number of other memorable performances, too: A mix of classic and contemporary country stars kicked off the show with 12 performances to celebrate its milestone anniversary, which included Randy Travis, Vince Gill, Charley Pride, Roy Clark, Alabama, Charlie Daniels, Ricky Skaggs, Alan Jackson, Dwight Yoakam and Merle Haggard's youngest son, Ben. \n Dolly Parton, who earned the Willie Nelson Lifetime Achievement Award, was honored by Reba, Underwood, Martina McBride, Jennifer Nettles and Kacey Musgraves, who all sang a rousing rendition of \"I Will Always Love You.\" \n \"I would have cried, but I didn't want to mess up my eyelashes,\" said Parton, sporting a bright yellow dress. \n Chris Stapleton, who won big at last year's show, was the night's top winner with two: He took home male vocalist and music video of the year. \n \"What a wonderful night \u2026 I've cried just watching everybody,\" said Stapleton, who walked into the show as the top nominee along with Eric Church and newcomer Maren Morris. \n Underwood won female vocalist of the year, ending Lambert's six-year consecutive winning streak since 2010. \n \"Glory to God, thank you Jesus,\" said a teary Underwood, who also thanked her husband and son. \n Church won album of the year for \"Mr. Misunderstood\" and Morris picked up new artist of the year. \n \"Last year, I sat across the street at a bar and watched this show. I never thought as a songwriter I'd be standing here today,\" she said. \n A number of celebrities were in the audience and presented awards, including Matthew McConaughey, Peyton Manning, Jennifer Garner, Olivia Newton-John, Nicole Kidman, Lily Tomlin, Sharon Stone and the Final Five Olympic gymnasts: Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, Laurie Hernandez and Madison Kocian. \n Paisley and Underwood, returning as hosts for the ninth time, told jokes about politics, Wikileaks, Brangelina's breakup and more. \n \"We're so sick of politics, we don't even care who wins,\" they sang in harmony. At one point, Paisley called Underwood a \"nasty woman,\" mocking Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n The three-hour-plus show, which aired on ABC, also featured performances by George Strait, Brooks & Dunn, Jason Aldean and Little Big Town, who sang their new song \"Better Man,\" written by Swift. \n The first award of the night went to Thomas Rhett, who won single of the year for \"Die a Happy Man.\" \n \"I gotta first thank the Lord \u2026 my lovely wife in the blue dress; she was the full inspiration of this song,\" said Rhett. \n Lori McKenna won song of the year for writing Tim McGraw's \"Humble and Kind,\" a tune she said was based on a prayer she wrote for her five children. McKenna co-wrote Little Big Town's megahit \"Girl Crush,\" earning a Grammy Award this year and last year's song of the year honor at the CMAs. \n \"I have a job in this town because of this guy's wife, Faith Hill,\" said McKenna, who was escorted to the stage by McGraw. \n Kenny Chesney, who released a new album last week, earned the Pinnacle Award. Little Big Town and Brothers Osborne won vocal group and vocal duo of the year, respectively, while Dierks Bentley and Elle King's \"Different for Girls\" won musical event of the year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Garth Brooks wins top award, Beyonce performs at CMA Awards"}

