{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Scott Michael Greene, of Urbandale, Iowa, is seen in an undated photo provided by the Des Moines Police Department. Des Moines and Urbandale Police said in a statement today that they have identified Greene as a suspect in the killings early this morning of two Des Moines area police officers. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement officials investigated at the scene of a shooting, today, in Urbandale, Iowa. Two Des Moines area police officers were shot to death early today in ambush-style attacks while they were sitting in their patrol cars. \n DES MOINES, Iowa \u00bb Authorities have apprehended a man suspected in the killings of two Des Moines area police officers who were shot to death early today in what authorities described as separate ambush-style attacks. \n Officers from the Dallas County Sheriff's Office and Iowa State Patrol took 46-year-old Scott Michael Greene into custody and were taking him to Des Moines, police said. \n His arrest came about eight hours after the killings of the two officers. \n Police responded to a report of shots fired at 1:06 a.m. and found an Urbandale Police Department officer who had been shot. Authorities from several agencies saturated the area after that shooting, and about 20 minutes later discovered that a Des Moines officer who had responded to the initial killing had been shot in a patrol car at an intersection, Des Moines Sgt. Paul Parizek said. The shootings happened less than 2 miles apart and both took place along main streets that cut through residential areas. \n \"There's somebody out there shooting police officers. We hope to find him before somebody else gets hurt,\" Parizek said at an early morning news conference, during which he stopped briefly as he worked to control his emotions. \n The shootings follow a spate of police killings, including ambushes of officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Five officers were killed in Dallas on July 7 and three were killed later that month in Baton Rouge. \n Des Moines and Urbandale Police later said they had identified Greene, of Urbandale, as a suspect in the killings through \"a series of leads and investigative tips.\" It is unclear if either of the shootings was captured on police body- or dashcams. \n Parizek told CNN he had few details about the circumstances of Greene's capture, but that he was on foot on a roadway at the time and was alone when he was taken into custody. \n Greene is white. Parizek said the officers killed also were white. \n Asked at a news conference about a video posted on YouTube that appears to show a man identified as Greene being removed from an Urbandale High School football game, Parizek said he was aware of the video but hadn't seen it and couldn't comment. \n The video, dated Oct. 14, was posted by someone identifying himself as Scott Greene. It shows a confrontation with police who have removed him from a football game, apparently after he held up a Confederate flag near a group of African Americans. The person shooting the video, who is never seen, asks police to investigate an assault again him. The officers ask him to leave and tell him it's inflammatory to display a Confederate flag at such a setting. \n Urbandale Community School District spokeswoman Dena Soenke confirmed Greene was involved in an incident at a recent high school football game that drew police attention. She referred questions about the incident to the Urbandale Police Department. \n A criminal complaint indicates Greene was involved in an altercation with his 66-year-old mother Oct. 17. Greene accused her of scratching and hitting his face. He captured the fight on cellphone video, which he used as evidence of the assault. A judge ordered Greene's mother to stay away from her son and she was released on $1,000 cash bond. \n Court records show Greene was jailed and charged with interference with official acts after resisting Urbandale police officers who tried to pat him down for a weapon on April 10, 2014. An Urbandale officer described him as hostile and combative. He entered a guilty plea and was fined. \n Two days later Urbandale police were called to answer a complaint of harassment at the apartment complex where Greene lived. The complaint said he threatened to kill another man during a confrontation in the parking lot and yelled a racial epithet at the man. Greene was charged with harassment. \n He pleaded guilty and received a suspended jail sentence and a year of probation. Court records show he completed a substance abuse and psychological evaluation. \n The attacks on police this summer in Dallas and Baton Rouge came in the wake of several high-profile police shootings of black men, fueling a national debate about police use of force, especially against minorities \u2014 a frequent topic in the nation's presidential race. \n Republican nominee Donald Trump has argued that police need the freedom to use greater force, while Democrat Hillary Clinton has taken a more nuanced position of supporting officers while calling attention to what she and others have called examples of bias in policing. \n Urbandale Sgt. Chad Underwood said he believes no officer in his department has previously been shot in the line of duty. The Iowa Department of Public Safety said today marked the first time a Des Moines police officer has been shot and killed on duty since 1977, when two died within months. \n In 2016, 113 officers have died in the line of duty, according to preliminary data from the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. \n Urbandale is a suburb of about 40,000 people in the Des Moines metro area with about 50 officers. Des Moines, a city of about 210,000, has about 375 sworn officers. \n Parizek said the officers' deaths are a blow to the city. \n \"They are our friends and co-workers,\" he said. \"Des Moines is not a big city. We all know each other. We're heart broken.\" \n Associated Press writers David Pitt and Barbara Rodriguez in Des Moines and Ryan J. Foley in Iowa City contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspect arrested after 2 officers killed in ambush-style attacks in Iowa"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a campaign stop at UW-Eau Claire's Zorn Arena in Eau Claire, Wis. \n Donald Trump's campaign Tuesday night said that he \"denounces hate in any form\" and disavowed support for his candidacy offered by a newspaper associated with the Ku Klux Klan. \n The campaign's statement came hours after the Crusader devoted its front page to Trump's well-known campaign slogan. \n \" 'Make America Great Again!' It is a slogan that has been repeatedly used by Donald Trump in his campaign for the presidency,\" wrote Thomas Robb, the paper's editor. \"You can see it on the shirts, buttons, posters and ball caps. \u2026 But can it happen? Can America really be great again? This is what we will soon find out!\" \n In an interview with The Washington Post, Robb said that his paper was not officially endorsing Trump. \n \"Overall, we do like his nationalist views and his words about shutting down the border to illegal aliens. It's not an endorsement because, like anybody, there's things you disagree with,\" Robb told the Post. \"But he kind of reflects what's happening throughout the world. There seems to be a surge of nationalism worldwide as nationals reclaim their borders.\" \n Trump's campaign sought to distance the newspaper's views from the nominee and his supporters. \n \"This publication is repulsive and their views do not represent the tens of millions of Americans who are uniting behind our campaign,\" Trump's campaign said in a statement. \n The back-and-forth marked his campaign's latest brush with individuals or groups tied to racist remarks and beliefs. \n Trump's yearlong campaign has been marked by divisive and racially coded rhetoric. He has received support from white supremacist groups and former KKK leaders, including David Duke, who is running for Senate in Louisiana. \n On Monday, a white nationalist leader who has funded several ads supporting Trump unveiled a new robocall in Utah targeting write-in candidate Evan McMullin. Trump's campaign denounced the ads. \n Over the weekend, at rally in Phoenix, a Trump supporter was captured on video shouting \"Jew-S-A\" at reporters. \n Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manger, denounced the rhetoric as \"disgusting.\" \n ", "author": "By Kurtis Lee, Los Angeles Times", "title": "Trump's campaign disavows support of newspaper aligned with KKK"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n FT. LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> Hillary Clinton is pressing into reliably red Arizona as she tries to steal a Republican state away from Donald Trump. Her rival, reinvigorated by the FBI's new email review, is laser-focused on Florida, a marquee battleground state he can't win the White House without. \n With less than a week until Election Day, both candidates are warning of dire consequences if the other is elected. \n Trump says Clinton would be under investigation as president, sparking a \"constitutional crisis,\" though the FBI has declined to prosecute her for her handling of classified information. Clinton has vowed the FBI will have \"no case\" after reviewing new emails, but her campaign is nervous about tightening polls and ramping up attacks on Trump, hoping to scare away voters who could still be persuaded to back him. \n On her own Florida swing Tuesday, Clinton hammered Trump as dangerous and divisive, highlighting in particular his treatment of women. \n \"When I think about what we now know about Donald Trump and what he's been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of time demeaning, degrading, insulting and assaulting women,\" Clinton said. \n Always important in presidential contests, Florida has emerged as this year's most crucial state on the road to the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Trump can't win without carrying Florida, meaning Clinton can deliver a knockout blow if she captures its 29 electoral votes. \n Even with national polls narrowing, Clinton has several more paths to 270 than Trump. Her campaign is underscoring that political reality with a stop in Arizona Wednesday, a state that has voted for Republican presidential candidates all but once since 1952. \n Clinton's campaign says it's buoyed by early voting turnout among Arizona Democrats, as well as Clinton's support among Hispanics turned off by Trump's hardline immigration policies. Democrats have been eying Arizona as a possible swing state in recent years, but believe Trump's unpopularity with Hispanics has expedited that evolution. \n Clinton's renewed focus on Trump's demeaning comments on women seemed aimed in part at baiting a response from the notoriously thin-skinned Republican. She notably appeared alongside former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, a woman Trump criticized for gaining weight. \n Trump, however, did not immediately take the bait. He spent Tuesday relentlessly on message, eschewing wild tangents and political fights in favor of carefully scripted remarks focused on health care and attacks on his opponent. He cautioned that Clinton's plan to strengthen \"Obamacare\" would lead to dire consequences, although he offered few specifics about his own plan. \n \"If we don't repeal and replace Obamacare, we will destroy American health care forever,\" Trump charged in a speech outside Philadelphia. \n He also promised, if elected, to call a special session of Congress to replace the law. However, Congress would already be in session when the next president takes office, raising the question of just what he meant. \n Still, frustrated Republicans were encouraged that Trump was focusing on policy prescriptions \u2014 for one day, at least \u2014 after a roller-coaster campaign marked by self-created controversy and political missteps. \n Meanwhile, both sides continued to spar over the recent revelation that FBI investigators are again probing Clinton's email practices. \n A lawyer for Clinton aide Huma Abedin said Tuesday that her client learned from media reports last Friday that a laptop belonging to her estranged husband, Anthony Weiner, might contain some of her emails. The attorney said Abedin has not been contacted by the FBI about the development and she will cooperate if asked. \n The revelation has put Democrats on the defensive, at least briefly, and hurt Clinton's plans to promote a positive message over the campaign's final week. \n \"The Trump campaign is on the offensive and we're expanding our map,\" Trump aide David Bossie said, suggesting the campaign now sees opportunities to compete in traditional Democratic states such as New Mexico and Michigan. \n Yet few Republican or Democratic operatives view the email news as a game-changer in the race for Senate control. The balance of power in Congress could have profound consequences for the future of health care in America, among other policy debates. \n A super PAC is spending $10 million on nationwide TV ads saying Clinton is too scandal-plagued for office, an investment that comes as the Republican makes the same case on the campaign trail. An ad debuting Wednesday by Future 45 \u2013 which counts conservative billionaires Joe Ricketts and Sheldon Adelson as its biggest donors \u2013 calls the FBI's Friday revelation a \"new bombshell.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton presses into Arizona, Trump focuses on Florida"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former North Charleston Police Officer Michael Slager sits in the courtroom, in Charleston, S.C. Slager, who turns 35 next month, faces 30 years to life in prison if convicted in the April 2015 death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. >> A jury is being seated in the trial of a former South Carolina policeman charged with murder in the shooting death last year of an unarmed black motorist. \n Attorneys will use their strikes Wednesday and seat the jury, which will decide the case of 34-year-old Michael Slager. Opening arguments could come later in the day. \n Slager, a former North Charleston officer, faces 30 years to life if convicted in the April 2015 shooting death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. Scott was killed as he fled a traffic stop after being pulled over for a broken taillight. \n The shooting was captured by a bystander on dramatic cellphone video. \n The defense has asked the judge to keep the video out of the trial. It shows Scott being shot eight times in the back. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury being seated in ex-cop's murder trial in South Carolina"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rachael Torricelli looks at marijuana for sale at Blum in Las Vegas. Las Vegas could soon add recreational marijuana to its list of vices if Nevada approves a Nov. 8 referendum on cannabis. \n LAS VEGAS >> Las Vegas could soon add recreational marijuana to its list of vices if Nevada approves a Nov. 8 referendum on cannabis. \n Supporters see pot as a fitting alternative for tourists tired of $15 cocktails and hangovers. But weed proponents will have to win over closely divided voters and a risk-averse gambling industry. \n In spite of their libertine reputation, Nevada's rigorously regulated casinos are known to err on the conservative side to avoid scandalizing the middle-aged tourists who are their bread and butter. \n The ballot initiative would not allow municipalities to put blanket bans on marijuana. It would also bar consumption in buildings that are open to the public. Local governments could restrict the locations of dispensaries, and city-dwellers would be effectively banned from growing their own pot. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ballot could add legal marijuana to Las Vegas' list of vices"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bishop Michael Jude Byrnes poses for a photo at the Archdiocese of Detroit Chancery in Detroit. Pope Francis on Monday named Byrnes, the auxiliary bishop of Detroit, as coadjutor bishop of the Guam archdiocese. \n HAGATNA, Guam >> The new leader of the Catholic Church in Guam will immediately assume all responsibilities in the archdiocese while its suspended archbishop faces a church trial for allegedly sexually abusing altar boys, a church leader said Tuesday. \n Pope Francis on Monday named Bishop Michael Jude Byrnes, the auxiliary bishop of Detroit, as the new leader of the Guam archdiocese. \n At a news conference Tuesday, Archbishop Savio Hon Tai-Fai, who is temporarily running the church, said Francis gave Byrnes special rights to carry out all the duties as archbishop effective immediately. \n Guam had been without a full-time leader since Archbishop Anthony Apuron, 71, was relieved of his duties after several former altar boys accused him of child sexual abuse. He is facing a canonical trial in the Vatican. \n Hon will remain on the island and assist Byrnes with a smooth transition. \n Byrnes is expected to arrive at the end of November, and will lead parishioners on the closing of the Jubilee Year of Mercy and the 50th anniversary of the foundation of the Guam diocese. \n \"With my brother priests and deacons, with the catechists and other pastoral workers, and above all with the spiritual gifts of the people of God, I trust we will persevere in faith, hope and love, and will exercise the 'wisdom from above' to meet these challenges,\" Byrnes said in a statement. \n Byrnes, who was ordained a priest in 1996 and elevated to bishop in 2011, has also worked in pastoral administration and seminary teaching, and served on an archdiocesan Presbyteral Council. The Detroit archdiocese's website says he played a key role in evangelization efforts. \n Apuron has denied the allegations and refused to step down. He has not been charged criminally. The allegations got little attention when they first came to light in 2014 but resurfaced this summer after a deacon accused Apuron of keeping the archdiocese's sexual abuse policy weak to protect himself. \n Also on Tuesday, a lawyer for four former altar boys filed a new civil lawsuit against Guam's church, Apuron and father Louis Brouillard over child sexual abuse allegations. \n Three of the men, now in their 50s, were altar boys in the 1970s under Apuron, who was a pastor at the time. They allege Apuron molested them during sleepovers. \n The fourth man, now in his 70s, was a student and former altar boy in the 1950s when he said Brouillard sexually molested him. Brouillard, 95, admitted to The Associated Press in August that he may have molested 20 boys during his time in Guam. \n Guam passed a law in September lifting time restrictions of civil lawsuits against alleged perpetrators and their institutions on child molestation cases. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope names successor to Guam archbishop accused of sex abuse"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A flame continues to burn after a Monday explosion of a Colonial Pipeline, Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2016, in Helena, Ala. The blast, which sent flames and thick black smoke soaring over the forest, happened about a mile west of where the pipeline ruptured in September, Gov. Robert Bentley said in a statement. \n HELENA, Ala. >> Executives at a pipeline company say their goal is to restart the line as early as this weekend after an explosion and fire shut down gasoline shipments to millions across the South. \n The deadly explosion sparked a geyser of fire Monday and closed off the vital pipeline, raising fears of another round of gas shortages and price increases. It's Colonial Pipeline's second accident and shutdown in two months. \n Continuing fires in the drought-stricken area of central Alabama hampered officials' efforts to fully assess the damage Tuesday afternoon, and firefighters built an earthen berm to contain the burning fuel. \n The accident happened when a dirt-moving machine struck the pipeline, ignited gasoline and sparked a blast Monday, killing one worker and injuring five others, the Georgia-based company said. \n Four of the injured remained hospitalized, Colonial spokesman Bill Berry said Tuesday afternoon in nearby Helena, Alabama. UAB Hospital, where the injured were treated, declined to release information on them, citing requests by their families for privacy. \n Another worker was treated for less severe injuries and released from a hospital, Berry said. \n As much as 168,000 gallons of gasoline could have burned, spilled, evaporated or remained in the pipeline, the company said. \n The explosion happened a few miles from where the pipeline sprung a leak and spilled 252,000 to 336,000 gallons of gasoline in September. After the leak, the company used one of Colonial's two main lines to move gasoline as it made repairs, but it still led to days of dry pumps and higher gas prices in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee and the Carolinas while repairs were made. \n Contractors were working on repairs related to the September leak when gasoline ignited and spread fire to the pipeline, the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration said Tuesday. \n The nine-member crew was using a track hoe to excavate the pipeline so permanent repairs from the September leak could be made, Colonial Pipeline executive Gerald Beck said. \n The pipeline provides nearly 40 percent of the region's gasoline and usually runs at or near full capacity. Together, Colonial's two lines carry more than 2 million barrels of fuel a day. \n By mid-day Tuesday, Colonial Pipeline said it was able to restart the second of its two main lines, which carries diesel and jet fuel. \n The severity of the gasoline shortage will depend on how long the gasoline pipeline remains closed, AAA spokesman Mark Jenkins said. \n \"We would encourage drivers not to panic, so don't run to the gas station and start filling up every gas can you can,\" said AAA spokeswoman Tamra Johnson. \n After the September leak, Colonial said it made up some of the gasoline shortfall by sending gas through the line that usually carries diesel and jet fuel. The company has not said whether it will do so again. \n From 3,000 feet in the air, a flame could be seen still burning in a haze of smoke Tuesday when an AP photographer flew over the site. \n Photographer Brynn Anderson said the blackened earth and a large area of charred trees are surrounded by other trees awash in fall colors just beyond the burned area. \n In 2003, the EPA fined Colonial $34 million for gross negligence after it spilled almost a million gallons of diesel in South Carolina, polluting waterways in four states. The company also agreed to spend $30 million to upgrade environmental protections on its pipeline system. \n Since 2006, the company has reported 178 spills and other incidents that released a combined 193,000 gallons of hazardous liquids and caused $39 million in property damage. Most were caused by problems with materials, welding or some other equipment failure, according to federal accident records reviewed by The Associated Press. \n The company paid $381,000 in penalties for violating safety rules during the same period. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "After explosion, company aims to restart gas pipeline"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Khizr Khan, father of fallen Army Capt. Humayun Khan and his wife Ghazala speak during the final day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. \n NEW YORK >> Many Muslim Americans cringe at the way they have been portrayed by candidates during the presidential campaign \u2014 either as potential terrorists or as eyes and ears who can help the government's counterterrorism efforts. \n Those descriptions, offered by Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, respectively, are troubling to Muslims who complain they are being pigeonholed and their concerns on other issues ignored. \n \"I think that there is some level of dismissiveness about Arab-Americans and American Muslims that allows candidates to talk about us, not really to us,\" said Omar Baddar, a political analyst and media producer based in Washington. \n Chaumtoli Huq, a lawyer from the New York City suburb of Yonkers, agreed. \n \"We're not able to talk about issues that impact us as citizens \u2014 education, jobs, things that any other voter would care about,\" she said. \"It's a really demoralizing way to be seen to be part of this country.\" \n One of the campaign's more memorable moments for Muslim Americans unfolded at the Democratic National Convention in July, when a grieving Khizr Khan addressed delegates about his son, Humayun, an American soldier who was killed in Iraq. The GOP candidate soon pushed back against Khan's anti-Trump comments, setting up an almost unprecedented episode in which a presidential nominee criticized a military family that lost a loved one in a war zone. \n Huq and others said Trump's campaign has clearly been the more negative one, starting with his call to ban foreign Muslims from entering the United States as an anti-terrorism measure. \n In the second presidential debate in St. Louis, Trump answered a question about how to stop Islamophobia in America by saying American Muslims must report other Muslims who are engaging in dangerous behavior. He also repeated the false claim that neighbors of the San Bernardino, California, shooters saw bombs all over the floor in the shooters' home last year but did not report it. \n That led to a widely retweeted comment from Brooklyn College professor Moustafa Bayoumi, who posted, \"I'm a Muslim, and I would like to report a crazy man threatening a woman on a stage in Missouri.\" By the time the debate ended, his retort had been retweeted more than 32,000 times and \"liked\" more than 43,000 times. \n Speaking to The Associated Press, Bayoumi said Muslim Americans \"get exceptionalized to such a degree that their average Americanness disappears in the wind.\" \n But Hillary Clinton did not escape censure from Muslim Americans, who said that the Democratic nominee's public remarks have primarily revolved around recognizing them for what they could do to support counterterrorism efforts. \n At that second debate, in answering the same question as Trump, Clinton said: \"We need American Muslims to be part of our eyes and ears on our front lines. I've worked with a lot of different Muslim groups around America. I've met with a lot of them, and I've heard how important it is for them to feel that they are wanted and included and part of our country, part of our homeland security, and that's what I want to see.\" \n Nour Eidy, a freshman at the University of Michigan, grew up in the Detroit suburb of Dearborn, which is heavily Arab and Muslim. She was troubled by the call to root out radicals, mainly because she has not come across any. \n \"I don't know anything about terrorism. I don't know their game plans, their strategies,\" she said. \"We're just as victimized by them as anybody else.\" \n Hussien Kazwini does not object to calls for Muslims to identify dangerous extremists. The college student in Toledo, Ohio, whose parents were born in Lebanon, said it's what every U.S. citizen should do. \n \"We, at the end of the day, are around more Muslims at a mosque or an event,\" Kazwini said. \"Maybe we do have an ability to more easily see if someone is going over to the extreme side.\" \n Frustration with the race is enough to make Ramah Kudaimi want to skip voting altogether. \n \"People are so shocked by what Trump is saying, that he's \u2014 and he's so openly racist \u2014 that they are giving Hillary Clinton a pass,\" the Washington, D.C., organizer said. \"The Democrats, frankly, have not necessarily done what is needed to also earn my vote as a Muslim American.\" \n In New York, Ahsia Badi said the campaign rhetoric had also affected how non-Muslims interact with Muslims. \"This sort of dialogue \u2026 is forcing people to sit there and see their friends who happen to be Muslim, to be their 'Muslim friends.'\" \n The 44-year-old health professional has two children, ages 10 and 8. \n Because of the constant linkage between Muslims and terrorism issues, she said, \"I'm worried about how my children see their own opportunities and what their role is\" as Americans. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Muslims cringe at how presidential nominees portray them"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pedestrian passes a locked rail station in west Philadelphia. Commuters scrambled Tuesday to find alternate ways to travel as transit workers in Philadelphia hit the picket lines after the city's main transit agency and a union representing about 4,700 workers failed to reach a contract agreement. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Commuters in Philadelphia are facing another day of transportation woes Wednesday as a transit strike enters its second day. \n The walkout began early Tuesday after the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority and a union representing about 4,700 workers failed to reach a contract agreement, shutting down buses, trolleys and subways that provide about 900,000 rides a day. \n Early Wednesday morning, SEPTA released a statement saying the two sides \"continue to make steady progress in the effort to reach an agreement on a new contract.\" Talks are expected to resume later Wednesday morning. \n The strike wasn't supposed to affect commuter rail lines and service in areas outside the city, but the transit agency said at the start of Tuesday's evening rush hour that striking workers were preventing some regional train crews from reporting to work, causing the cancellation of a significant number of trains to the suburbs. SEPTA said it went to court and obtained an injunction to prevent picketers from blocking access to those facilities, but it warned riders to expect delays. \n Rail lines serving the suburbs were operating Tuesday morning, but were jammed and running late because of a surge in riders. \n Transport Workers Union Local 234 President Willie Brown said in declaring the strike that the sides remained far apart on pension and health care issues, as well as noneconomic issues such as shift scheduling, break time and other measures that affect driver fatigue. SEPTA said it was ready to resume bargaining. \n The transit agency, however, said if no agreement is reached before Election Day, it planned to seek an injunction to restore service on that day \"to ensure that the strike does not prevent any voters from getting to the polls and exercising their right to vote.\" \n Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf and Democratic Mayor Jim Kenney urged the two sides to keep talking. Wolf said the strike was causing \"extreme hardships.\" \n Democratic District Attorney Seth Williams joined transit workers for a photograph on a picket line, tweeting that he was \"showing some love for the men & women of TWU Local #234.\" \n It is the ninth strike by city transit workers since 1975. The last one, in 2009, lasted six days. \n Alexia Coleman-Smith split an Uber so she could get to a station to get a train out to the city's western suburbs but planned to walk home from the station later in the day to save money. \n Brendan McQuiggan, who normally takes the subway, used the city's bike-share service to pedal to his job from the downtown area to Philadelphia's Old City neighborhood. The city's bike-share operator announced Tuesday that it was providing extra capacity at some stations during morning and evening commutes. \n LaBria Wilson usually takes a bus to get to the station where she grabs a train out to the suburbs and the prep school she attends, but got up an hour early Tuesday and was driven to the train by her mother. \n The city set up a special bus service to get its employees to and from work. Universities and some businesses also arranged new or expanded bus service for employees. \n SEPTA provides rides for nearly 60,000 public, private and charter school students, but the school district said students wouldn't be penalized for being late. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strike by Philadelphia transit workers enters 2nd day"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n DADE CITY, Fla. >> Donald Trump could draw the United States into nuclear war, Hillary Clinton warns. Clinton would plunge the country into a constitutional crisis, he says. \n As the caustic presidential race lurches toward the finish line, each candidate is aggressively casting the other as a catastrophic choice for the White House. Making an affirmative case about their own qualifications and vision has become a secondary priority. \n It's an ugly conclusion to a contest featuring two of the most unpopular presidential candidates in modern American politics. The sexual assault accusations that have trailed Trump in the race's closing weeks and a new FBI review into Clinton's email habits seem likely to only reinforce the public's negative perceptions, leaving the candidates to essentially argue to voters that they're the best of two unappealing options. \n \"I would rather be here talking about nearly anything else,\" Clinton said Tuesday during a rally in Florida where she leveled a series of attacks on Trump's character and preparedness for the White House. \"But I can't just talk about all of the good things we want to do.\" \n Indeed, Clinton's speeches in this final full week of campaigning have overwhelmingly focused on Trump. On Monday, she warned against giving Trump the authority to order a nuclear attack, bringing along a former nuclear launch officer to bolster her point. \n \"Imagine his advisers afraid to tell him what he doesn't want to hear, racing against his legendarily short attention span to lay out life-and-death choices too complex to be reduced to a single tweet,\" Clinton said Monday in Ohio. \"Then imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin.\" \n After spending much of the summer and fall tearing Trump down, Clinton had planned to close the campaign on a more positive note. She talked about giving Americans something to vote for, not just against. And with public opinion polls showing her with solid leads in most battleground states, she started talking about healing divisions and unifying the country after the election. \n But her advisers say they saw polls tighten even before the FBI launched its new email review. The campaign now believes she needs to make a last push to define Trump as an unacceptable choice in order to seal the deal with persuadable voters. \n On Tuesday, Clinton focused on Trump's demeaning and predatory comments about women, calling him a \"bully.\" This time she brought with her former Miss Universe Alicia Machado. Trump criticized Machado for gaining weight after winning the 1996 contest. \n Trump's campaign rhetoric has always been dark, full of searing depictions of a crumbling nation, and he has not been shy about going negative on Clinton. He routinely calls her \"Crooked Hillary\" and \"the most corrupt person ever to run for the White House.\" \n But Trump, too, has stepped up his broadsides after the last weeks of October handed him a pair of potentially potent political gifts: the projected \"Obamacare\" premium rate hike and FBI Director James Comey's letter revealing that agents are reviewing emails that may be connected to Clinton's private server. \n His campaign sees the latter in particular as an opportunity to reinforce questions about Clinton's trustworthiness and remind voters that sending Clinton to the White House could lead to the return of the scandals that trailed Bill Clinton's presidency in the 1990s. \n \"She would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I would say,\" Trump said during a rally in Michigan on Monday. \"So we'd have a criminal trial of a sitting president.\" \n Campaigning Tuesday in Pennsylvania, a state in which Trump has directed an abundance of time and resources, he and his running mate Mike Pence delivered their most full-throated takedown yet of President Barack Obama's health care law. \n Though barely mentioning Clinton's name, the typically fiery Republican somberly warned that electing Clinton would \"destroy American health care forever.\" \n Clinton's and Trump's closing campaign advertisements reiterate the race's sharply negative tone. \n Her campaign has several commercials out that directly question whether Trump would launch a nuclear attack. The ads feature clips of him saying he likes to be unpredictable and would \"bomb the (expletive) out of them.\" \n She's also doubled down on her argument that Trump's offensive comments about women, as well as his boasts about touching women without their permission, disqualify him from the White House. A 60-second ad that features Trump in his own words over the years concludes: \"Anyone who believes, anyone who says, anyone who does what he does, is unfit to be president.\" \n Meanwhile, Trump's ads reinforce his message that the country risks doom if it doesn't change directions by electing him. \"Hillary Clinton will keep us on the road to stagnation,\" a narrator says in one of his latest ads. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton, Trump warn of dire consequences if rival wins"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "HANOI, Vietnam >> Vietnamese authorities have seized 446 kilograms (981 pounds) of ivory illegally shipped from Nigeria after finding 3.5 tons at the same port last month, an official said Wednesday. \n The ivory seized Tuesday had been hidden in timber in a container at Cat Lai port in the southern commercial hub of Ho Chi Minh City, Customs official Le Dinh Loi said. \n Authorities seized 3.5 tons of ivory in three shipments smuggled from Africa at the same port last month. \n State media say 1 ton of ivory costs $1.8 million on the black market. \n Vietnam will host an international conference on illegal wildlife trade in Hanoi later this month that is expected to be attended by Britain's Prince William, a vocal critic of the trade. \n Elephant ivory is used as jewelry and home decorations in Vietnam, which bans hunting of its own dwindling population of elephants. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Vietnam seizes ivory hidden in timber shipment from Nigeria"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "An Oahu grand jury has indicted a former Halawa prison inmate for allegedly causing serious bodily injury to another inmate on Dec. 22. \n The Attorney General's Office announced Tuesday that Julius Mitchell, a former inmate at Halawa prison, was indicted on first-degree assault for injuring Kevin Nakayama, another Halawa inmate. \n A bench warrant was issued for Mitchell's arrest. His bail was set at $25,000. \n Department of Public Safety Director Nolan Espinda said the department \"does not tolerate violent acts committed by offenders. This indictment is a result of our collaboration with the Attorney General's Office to crack down on criminal behavior and we will continue to work with them as they investigate and prosecute cases such as this one.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Grand jury indicts former Halawa inmate for assault behind bars"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Police arrested three men who allegedly robbed three women at gunpoint early Tuesday morning at a business establishment in Kakaako. \n Police said the men, ages 40, 36 and 31, were armed with a firearm and demanded property from the women at 12:48 a.m. \n Police found the suspects nearby, had them identified and arrested them on first-degree robbery and a weapons charge. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Three men arrested after women robbed at gunpoint in Kakaako"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican vice presidential candidate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence speaks during a campaign stop in Maitland, Fla., Monday, Oct. 31, 2016. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. >> Republican vice presidential hopeful Mike Pence is scheduled to make a campaign stop Wednesday in southern New Mexico, as the GOP ticket says the race is tightening in the state with the nation's highest percentage of Hispanic residents. \n The campaign website for GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump announced this week that Pence will hold a rally at an airport hangar in Las Cruces. \n The Indiana governor's visit comes just days after Trump visited Albuquerque, and his campaign staff declared they were tied in New Mexico \u2014 a traditional Democratic stronghold where almost 50 percent of the state's residents are Latino. \n \"I'm going to tell you a little secret. . We're tied in New Mexico,\" Trump told a crowd of around 4,000 at an Albuquerque airport hangar. \n A Trump rally in May turned violent in Albuquerque after demonstrators threw rocks and burning shirts at police. \n Meanwhile, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and her running mate Tim Kaine have not held public events in New Mexico during the campaign. They've sent surrogates like former President Bill Clinton and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to campaign on their behalf. \n Clinton's campaign on Tuesday announced a six-figure ad buy in New Mexico for two video segments \u2014 one juxtaposing incendiary, expletive-punctuated comments by Trump with the faces of children watching television. \n Republican Party of New Mexico spokesman W. Tucker Keene said the GOP ticket's many visits to the state show it is in play. \n \"Hillary Clinton and the Democrats are taking New Mexico for granted, but the voters know better and their enthusiasm for Donald Trump will be reflected on Election Day,\" Keene said. \n But Democratic Party of New Mexico chairwoman Debra Haaland said Democrats aren't worried despite the no-shows from Clinton and Kaine. \n \"Donald Trump must not be looking at the early vote numbers in New Mexico. Democrats are turning out to vote in record numbers, because they want a country with a strong, steady leader, not a brash and dangerous candidate pushing the extreme Republican agenda,\" Haaland said. \n Brian Sanderoff, president of the Albuquerque-based Research & Polling, Inc., said the Trump campaign needs to win battleground states and convert traditional blue states like New Mexico to win the presidency. \n \"The Trump campaign must believe it has a shot because it would be silly to come here otherwise,\" Sanderoff said. \n Sanderoff said the Clinton campaign probably feels comfortable about its chances in New Mexico or else she would have visited the state. \n Pence held two campaign events in Albuquerque and another in Roswell. Wednesday's visit marks the closest any candidate has gotten to the U.S-Mexico border in New Mexico. \n Trump has called for the building of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and has compared Mexican immigrants to rapists and murderers. Those comments drew strong criticism from New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, a fellow Republican and the nation's only Latina governor. \n Martinez has refused to support Trump for president. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mike Pence to make campaign stop in southern New Mexico"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting an 18-year-old woman in Waikiki Tuesday morning after the incident was reported at 12:30 a.m. \n The Waikiki man was arrested at 1:30 a.m. on suspicion of first-degree sexual assault. He was in custody early Tuesday evening pending investigation. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for Waikiki sex assault"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Kauai police said they are investigating an unattended death after a man was found unresponsive near Salt Pond in Hanapepe on Tuesday. \n The victim, whose identity has not yet been released, is described as a 34-year-old male believed to be from the west Kauai. The cause of death is being investigated. \n Police said the body was discovered by someone walking along the shoreline shortly before 7 a.m. \n Anyone with information on this incident is urged to call Detective Chris Calio at 241-1683 or Police Dispatch at 241-1711. Those wishing to remain anonymous can call Kauai CrimeStoppers at 246-8300. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police investigating death of man found near Salt Pond on Kauai"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton takes the stage with Alicia Machado, who won the Miss Universe pageant in 1996, to speak at a campaign rally at Pasco-Hernando State College in Dade City, Fla., Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2016. \n KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa. >> With just a week to go and the race for the White House tightening, Hillary Clinton unleashed a new offensive against Donald Trump on Tuesday, pushing the Republican's vulgar and sexist comments back to the forefront. Trump strove to blend a quieter, presidential tone with his usual tough rhetoric, warning that a Clinton victory would \"destroy American health care forever.\" \n The White House contenders clashed from afar \u2014 Democrat Clinton in battleground Florida and Trump in Pennsylvania \u2014 with the sprint to next Tuesday's finish well underway. \n \"For my entire life, I've been a woman,\" Clinton, who would be the nation's first female president, declared in battleground Florida. \"And when I think about what we now know about Donald Trump and what he's been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of time demeaning, degrading, insulting and assaulting women.\" \n Trump has faced multiple allegations of sexual misconduct in recent weeks, complicating his efforts to win over women in both parties. He has denied them all. \n For Trump, the day's first appearance marked a sharp shift from his standard brash tone as he delivered carefully scripted remarks focused on health care. He cautioned that Clinton's plan to strengthen \"Obamacare\" would lead to dire consequences, although he offered few specifics about his own plan. \n \"If we don't repeal and replace Obamacare, we will destroy American health care forever,\" Trump charged. \n He also promised, if elected, to call a special session of Congress to replace the law. However, Congress would already be in session when the next president takes office, raising the question of just what he meant. \n Still, frustrated Republicans were encouraged that Trump was focusing on policy prescriptions \u2014 for one afternoon, at least \u2014 after a roller-coaster campaign marked by self-created controversy and political missteps. \n Clinton worked to ensure voters would not forget Trump's most damaging moments six days before the election. \n Alicia Machado, a former beauty queen who Trump previously described as \"Miss Piggy,\" introduced the Democratic nominee before her appearance in central Florida. \n \"He was cruel,\" Machado said of Trump's criticism of her weight. \"For years afterward I was sick, fighting back eating disorders.\" \n Trump spent several days in late September assailing the winner of his 1996 Miss Universe pageant and encouraging his Twitter followers to view her \"sex tape,\" although none exists. \n The Machado appearance was in line with Clinton's broader closing argument against Trump. \n \"He thinks belittling women makes him a bigger man,\" Clinton said. \"He doesn't see us as full human beings.\" \n Clinton also unveiled a television ad set to run in eight battleground states, including his remark caught in a 2005 video that he kissed women and grabbed their genitals without permission. \n Meanwhile, both sides continued to spar over the recent revelation that FBI investigators are again probing Clinton's email practices. \n A lawyer for Clinton aide Huma Abedin said Tuesday that her client learned from media reports last Friday that a laptop belonging to her estranged husband, Anthony Weiner, might contain some of her emails. The attorney said Abedin has not been contacted by the FBI about the development and she will cooperate if asked. \n The revelation has put Democrats on the defensive, at least briefly, and hurt Clinton's plans to promote a positive message over the campaign's final week. \n \"The Trump campaign is on the offensive and we're expanding our map,\" Trump aide David Bossie said, suggesting the campaign now sees opportunities to compete in traditional Democratic states such as New Mexico and Michigan. \n Yet few Republican or Democratic operatives view the email news as a game-changer in the race for Senate control. The balance of power in Congress could have profound consequences for the future of health care in America, among other policy debates. \n Trump on Tuesday promised to replace the federal health care law with health care savings accounts, while allowing states to craft their own Medicaid programs to cover the poor. \n The nonpartisan Center for Health and Economy determined this summer that Trump's proposal would lower premiums significantly for policies purchased directly by consumers but also make 18 million people uninsured. The nonpartisan Commonwealth Fund predicted that 20 million people would lose coverage under Trump's plan while Clinton's would add coverage for 9 million. \n Trump on Tuesday seized on projections of sharp health care cost increases as he campaigned in Pennsylvania, a state where some premiums are expected to rise by more than 40 percent. He was introduced by his running mate Mike Pence, who expanded Medicaid coverage as part of Obama's law as Indiana governor. \n Pence called Obamacare \"a crushing weight\" on the American economy. \"We're going to pull it off the market so it stops burning up our wallets,\" he declared. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, who has been silent on Trump's candidacy in recent weeks, told Fox News that electing Clinton and a Democratic-controlled Congress would be \"the worst of all possible things.\" \n \"For those of us who lived through the 1990s, it's sort of a feeling like deja vu,\" Ryan said. \"This is what life with the Clintons looks like. It's always a scandal, then there's an investigation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Race tightening, Clinton revives Trump-women issue"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fresh analysis of the final moments of doomed Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 suggests no one was controlling the plane when it plane plunged into the ocean. \n SYDNEY >> A fresh analysis of the final moments of doomed Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 suggests no one was controlling the plane when it plunged into the ocean, according to a report released by investigators on Wednesday, as experts hunting for the aircraft gathered in Australia's capital to discuss the fading search effort. \n A technical report released by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which leads the search, seems to support the theory investigators have long favored: that no one was at the controls of the Boeing 777 when it ran out of fuel and dove at high speed into a remote patch of the Indian Ocean off western Australia in 2014. \n In recent months, critics have increasingly been pushing the alternate theory that someone was still controlling the plane at the end of its flight. If that was the case, the aircraft could have glided much farther, tripling in size the possible area where it could have crashed and further complicating the already hugely complex effort to find it. \n But Wednesday's report shows that the latest analysis of satellite data is consistent with the plane being in a \"high and increasing rate of descent\" in its final moments. The report also said that an analysis of a wing flap that washed ashore in Tanzania indicates the flap was likely not deployed when it broke off the plane. A pilot would typically extend the flaps during a controlled ditching. \n Peter Foley, the bureau's director of Flight 370 search operations, has previously said that if the flap was not deployed, it would almost certainly rule out the theory that the plane entered the water in a controlled ditch and would effectively validate that searchers are looking in the right place for the wreckage. \n \"(It) means the aircraft wasn't configured for a landing or a ditching \u2014 you can draw your own conclusions as to whether that means someone was in control,\" Foley told reporters in Canberra on Wednesday. \"You can never be 100 percent. We are very reluctant to express absolute certainty.\" \n The report's release comes as a team of international and Australian experts begin a three-day summit in Canberra to re-examine all the data associated with the hunt for the plane, which vanished during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board. \n More than 20 items of debris suspected or confirmed to be from the plane have washed ashore on coastlines throughout the Indian Ocean. But a deep-sea sonar search for the main underwater wreckage has found nothing. Crews are expect to complete their sweep of the 120,000-square kilometer (46,000-square mile) search zone by early next year and officials have said there are no plans to extend the hunt unless new evidence emerges that would pinpoint a specific location of the aircraft. \n Australian Transport Minister Darren Chester said experts involved in this week's summit will be working on guidance for any potential future search operations. \n Experts have been preemptively trying to define a new search area by studying where in the Indian Ocean the first piece of wreckage recovered from the plane \u2014 a wing flap known as a flaperon \u2014 most likely drifted from after the plane crashed. \n Several replica flaperons were set adrift to see whether it is the wind or the currents that primarily affect how they move across the water. The results of that experiment have been factored into a fresh drift analysis of the debris. The preliminary results of that analysis, published in Wednesday's report, suggest the debris may have originated in the current search area, or to its north. The transport bureau cautioned that the analysis is ongoing and those results are likely to be refined. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New MH370 analysis suggests no one at controls during crash"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "A trial has started in a former jail social worker's lawsuit alleging the warden at Kauai Community Correctional Center subjected female inmates to sexual humiliation and discrimination. \n Carolyn Ritchie's 2014 lawsuit says the warden forced women to describe their sexual pasts while being filmed. The lawsuit also alleges inmates were forced to watch rape films. \n Her attorney, Margery Bronster, told jurors Tuesday that Ritchie was forced out of her job for trying to protect the women. \n The state Department of Public Safety denies the allegations. Deputy Attorney General Bosko Petricevic says no one was forced to discuss anything. He says the warden showed legitimate mainstream movies depicting rape to discourage male inmates from committing that crime and to show female inmates how to reduce their risk of being victims. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trial starts in lawsuit alleging female inmates mistreated"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "HOLLYN JOHNSON / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Mayor Billy Kenoi and his wife Takako hold hands after he was found not guilty by a Hilo Circuit Court jury today. \n HOLLYN JOHNSON / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Mayor Billy Kenoi and his wife Takako leave the courtroom after receiving a not guilty verdict from the jury completing his trial Tuesday in Hilo Circuit Court. \n HOLLYN JOHNSON / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Mayor Billy Kenoi and his wife Takako leave the courthouse after he received a not guilty verdict Tuesday from the jury at his trial in Hilo Circuit Court. \n HOLLYN JOHNSON / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Mayor Billy Kenoi hugs friends and family after a Hilo Circuit Court jury declared him not guilty verdict on all counts today. His attorney Todd Eddins is at right. \n HILO >> A Hawaii island jury today found Mayor Billy Kenoi not guilty on all charges related to his alleged misuse of a county-issued purchasing card. \n Kenoi hugged family members, friends and supporters as he was hustled out of the courtroom after the verdict was read. He did not speak with reporters. \n Deputy state Attorney General Kevin Takata also left the courtroom without addressing reporters. But Attorney General Doug Chin later issued a news release saying, \"We respect the verdict and thank the jurors for their service.\" \n After a two-week trial, the jury began their deliberations Monday. \n Kenoi faced four counts of theft \u2014 two of them Class C felonies and two of them misdemeanors. The charges also included one count of making a false statement under oath for billing the county $200 under for what he described as \"Luncheon with U.S. Conference of Mayors Visitors.\" Kenoi testified that he entertained the son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren of the head of the Washington, D.C.-based U.S. Conference of Mayors at Volcano House. \n Kenoi originally faced eight counts related to 15 transactions that he billed to his pCard from 2011 to 2014. \n He was never charged with the more eye-catching expenses that he billed to the county for a $1,200 surfboard; $400 that he spent at the Camelot Restaurant and Lounge hostess bar and a $892 tab at the Club Evergreen hostess bar, which are both located in Honolulu. \n After Kenoi's so-called pCard spending was reported by Hawaii island newspaper reporter Nancy Cook Lauer, Kenoi apologized publicly and reimbursed the county $31,112.59. \n Judge Dexter Del Rosario last week dismissed three counts related to tampering with government documents after the state Attorney General's office presented its case in Third Circuit Court. \n Kenoi's attorneys maintained throughout the trial that Kenoi reimbursed the county for personal expenses he billed to his pCard \u2014 and that there was no prohibition against purchasing alcohol on his pCard. Any liquor expenses, they said, were made while Kenoi was trying to use his connections to keep the Big Island running during the Great Recession or to thank volunteers at events that benefited the island's economy. \n The first count of second-degree theft involved nine pCard purchases that Kenoi billed to the county in 2011 for: hosting people associated with the Big Island Film Festival at Sansei Restaurant ($422.69); $140 spent at the Chart House restaurant; a $479.88 bill for the Hilton lobby bar in Baltimore for an after-hours gathering of people attending a U.S. Conference of Mayors event, followed the next night by a Washington, D.C. outing for staff of Hawaii's Congressional delegation that Kenoi lumped in with the U.S. Conference of Mayors event; a personal charge of $292.60 for a wedding present for his nephew that involved a two-night stay at the Hapuna Beach Prince Hotel; $81.24 that Kenoi billed to his pCard for a garment bag at Target en route to a flight to Honolulu; $130 spent on mostly alcohol at Macaroni Grill in Kona where the mayor and his guest testified they discussed county issues; $181.16 at Huggos; and $320 for a luncheon in honor of outgoing Kenoi aide Kevin Dayton, who is now the Honolulu Star-Advertiser's capitol bureau chief. Kenoi and others in his administration testified that discussions at the luncheon, where wine was served, included who would take over projects that Dayton had shepherded for Hawaii County. \n The second count of second-degree theft involved purchases Kenoi made in 2013 for: an outing to Clyde's Gallery ($600) that Kenoi said involved networking with Congressional staff members; a $125.95 purchase of beer and hard liquor at a Kona Long's that Kenoi testified was intended to thank volunteers at Sam Choy's annual poke contest; a $201.68 purchase at a Kona Long's for hard liquor that Kenoi said he gave to island dignitaries attending the Tahiti Fete after they presented Kenoi with gifts of paddles and he wanted to reciprocate; $300 spent at a Manoa restaurant in which Kenoi testified he tried to recruit former state Rep. Tommy Waters as corporation counsel while simultaneously trying to network with an Oceanic Time Warner cable representative to figure out who to contact to improve broadband service on Hawaii island. \n A third count \u2014 of third-degree theft \u2014 involved a $200 lunch at Volcano House in 2014 that Kenoi described as \"Luncheon with U.S. Conference of Mayors Visitors\" to host the son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren of the head of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. \n The Volcano House luncheon also was at the center of the remaining accusation that Kenoi made a false statement under oath. \n A separate count of third-degree theft involved a $170 purchase of alcohol at Tommy Bahamas in 2014 that Kenoi testified was related to hosting representatives from a lucrative meeting planners conference of financial planners. \n In his statement after the verdict, Attorney General Chin said, \"The crime of theft requires proof a person intended to permanently deprive his victim of what he stole. The prosecution argued that not paying back funds to the county of Hawaii until after the press caught him was proof of Mayor Kenoi's intent. We respect the verdict and thank the jurors for their service.\" \n Following six days of testimony that spanned two weeks, Takata told jurors in his closing arguments Monday morning that \"rules apply to everyone except the mayor. Apathy is the accomplice to political corruption. The verdict is yours. Do justice. Do equal justice.\" \n After Takata's initial closing argument, Kenoi defense attorney Todd Eddins displayed the words \"NOT GUILTY\" on a courtroom screen throughout his own closing argument. \n Eddins ended by telling jurors that \"Mayor Kenoi's an honorable, decent family man who worked tirelessly for this county\u2026 and you're lucky to have him. And he's been wrongfully accused by the state government. \u2026 It's an opportunity and privilege for you to right a wrong. It's an opportunity and privilege for you to tell the state government it's wrong.\" \n Eddins then touched his heart and said, \"Restore a good man. I hand William P. Kenoi over to you.\" \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kenoi not guilty on all counts, jury finds"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Austin Harrouff, as seen in an Oct. 3 photo provided by the Martin County Sheriff's Office. Public records released Monday show Harrouff, who is accused of killing a couple and chewing on the dead man's face told deputies, \"Help me, I ate something bad\" and then admitted it was \"humans.\" \n WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. \u00bb The Florida college student accused of killing a couple and chewing on the dead man's face told deputies, \"Help me, I ate something bad\" and then admitted it was \"humans\" as he spit out a piece of flesh, court documents show. \n \"Shoot me now, I deserve to die,\" Harrouff said. \n Harrouff is charged with second-degree murder in the Aug. 15 attack on Stevens, 59, and his 53-year-old wife, Michelle Mishcon, outside their Tequesta home. Prosecutors say they will ask a grand jury to indict him on first-degree murder charges. That would make him eligible for the death penalty. \n Deputies say they found the then-muscular former high school football player and wrestler in his underwear, making animal noises and biting Stevens' face as he pinned his victim's body to the driveway. \n The FBI is running tests to determine whether Harrouff was on drugs. Harrouff was hospitalized for almost two months after the attack. His father says his esophagus was burned. Martin County Sheriff William Snyder has said Harrouf may have ingested lawn chemicals found in the couple's garage. \n According to the court documents, one deputy ordered Harrouff off Stevens at gunpoint while another used an electric stun gun on him but he wouldn't let go. Snyder has said the deputies didn't shoot Harrouff because they feared hitting Stevens. \n Finally, a deputy with a dog arrived and its bites enabled deputies to subdue Harrouff. Mishcon's body was found in the garage. \n Less than an hour before the attack, Harrouff was having dinner with his father, sister and a friend at a restaurant about 4 miles from the victims' house when he apparently had words with his father. Surveillance video shows him calmly walking out about 45 minutes before the stabbings, and his family was concerned. \n His mother, unaware of the attack, called police to report him missing; she said he had been acting strangely for about a week, claiming to have superpowers and to have been sent here to help people. \n The victims lived a short distance from Harrouff's father and were known to sit in their garage with the door open, watching television and chatting with passers-by. \n Harrouff's parents issued a statement days after the slayings expressing their condolences to the Stevens family and their apologies to neighbor Jeff Fisher, who was stabbed as he tried to rescue the couple. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Face-biting attacker: 'I ate something bad \u2026 humans'"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Comedian and actor Bill Cosby arrives at the Montgomery County courthouse, Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2016, in Norristown, Pa. Cosby's lawyers pressed a judge Tuesday to keep his potentially damaging testimony from a lawsuit out of his sexual assault trial, saying it would be fundamentally unfair since Cosby thought he had a promise from the government that he would never be charged. \n NORRISTOWN, Pa. >> Bill Cosby's lawyers pressed a judge Tuesday to keep the comedian's damaging deposition in a decade-old lawsuit out of his sexual assault trial, saying Cosby agreed to answer questions under oath after being assured he wouldn't be charged with a crime. \n The defense has insisted Cosby had an oral promise from the district attorney at the time that he wouldn't be prosecuted over a 2005 sexual encounter with Andrea Constand, a former Temple University basketball manager. \n The judge previously refused to dismiss the charges on those grounds, but is now being asked to disallow the deposition when the case goes to trial in June. \n A new district attorney had Cosby arrested last year, after the deposition was unsealed and dozens of new accusers came forward. \n Cosby, now 79 and blind, has said his encounter with Constand was consensual. He could get 10 years in prison if convicted. He is free on $1 million bail. \n The \"Cosby Show\" star once known as America's Dad smiled as he arrived at the suburban Philadelphia courthouse with his entourage. \n Judge Steven O'Neill, who is hearing pretrial arguments, said that Cosby's decision to testify could have been strategic. He found no evidence that Cosby's lawyers tried to get the promise in writing before letting him give four days of testimony. \n They might have thought it was better for him to testify than plead the Fifth Amendment and have a civil jury think he had something to hide, the judge suggested. \n Defense attorney Brian McMonagle said the judge would set a bad precedent if he let the testimony in. \n \"I don't want DAs making promises that they don't later keep,\" McMonagle said. \"That strikes at the heart of fundamental unfairness.\" \n Cosby was questioned a decade ago as part of a lawsuit brought against him by Constand. The long-married comedian testified about a series of affairs with young women and said he sometimes gave them pills or alcohol before sex. Constand eventually settled in 2006 for an undisclosed sum. \n The pretrial hearing resumes Wednesday, with another hearing on the evidence set for December. O'Neill must also decide if 13 other accusers can testify against Cosby at the trial to show they were drugged and molested in similar fashion. \n Cosby's lawyers want the judge to bar such testimony about \"prior bad acts,\" saying prosecutors are reaching back to the \"casting couch\" era to round up accusers and build a \"stale\" case. The defense contends the women's memories have been compromised by time, age and widespread news coverage of the case. \n \"The fact that even the most fervently held memories can actually be tainted \u2014 or altogether false \u2014 is supported by a vast existing and growing body of science,\" McMonagle wrote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cosby lawyers press judge to exclude deposition from trial"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cars waited to enter the United States from Tijuana, Mexico, through the San Ysidro port of entry in San Diego in Dec. 2014. An increasing number of people from far-flung corners of the world quietly have tried to sneak into the United States among the hundreds of thousands of other, mostly Latin American migrants caught at the Mexican border in 2015, according to arrest data from the Homeland Security Department. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb An increasing number of people from far-flung corners of the world have tried to sneak into the United States among the hundreds of thousands of other, mostly Latin American migrants caught at the Mexican border in the last year, according to arrest data from the Homeland Security Department. \n The arrests of more than 8,000 people from India, China, Romania, Bangladesh and Nepal between October 2015 and the end of August is offering a new challenge to immigration agents tasked with fully identifying would-be immigrants and quickly deporting people caught crossing the border illegally. \n The group of overseas migrants represents a tiny fraction of the more than 408,000 people caught crossing the Mexican border illegally in the last year. But the arrests suggest a rising trend in the number of migrants opting for a convoluted trek that sometimes wends across the seas to South America, over land to Central America and then through Mexico before arriving at the U.S. border illegally. \n For decades Mexico dominated the discussion on illegal immigration as the country from which most immigrants went to the border illegally. But in recent years the number of Mexican nationals who have been trying to sneak into the United States has dropped. \n India and China are now squarely among the top 10 countries of origin for people caught trying to sneak into the United States. Large numbers of immigrants from those two countries have long come to the United States legally and many have overstayed visas to remain here. Now some people are taking a different approach altogether by making their way to Mexico to try to sneak into the United States as visas are harder to come by. \n Victor Manjarrez, a former Border Patrol sector chief and director of the Center for Law & Human Behavior at the University of Texas at El Paso, said the rising number of migrants from countries far beyond the Americas should be seen as a growing concern. \n \"That is very unusual. If I was still sitting as the chief of El Paso or Tucson\u2026I'd be a little concerned,\" Manjarrez said. \"In the grand scheme, as a percentage, it's relatively small but the raw numbers are such a big jump historically.\" \n The changing face of illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border is a small part of a broader trend of global migration, with millions of people fleeing their home countries. But the arrival of so many people from far beyond U.S. borders brings with it broad implications for U.S. border security and other immigration enforcement efforts. \n The Homeland Security Department has made arresting, jailing and deporting recent border crossers a top priority for immigration agents. Most Mexican migrants caught at the border are sent home within just a few days. But for migrants from countries a continent away the process is often far longer and costlier for the U.S. government as the migrants wait in immigration jails for travel documents to return home or a judge to decide their fate. \n The uptick in arrivals of people from other continents, combined with an increase in overall border crossings in the last 12 months, has led to a spike of more than 40,000 people being held in immigration jails in recent weeks. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's budget gives them enough money to house 34,000 people at any given time and the recent overflow has officials worried they may face a budget shortfall of more than $130 million in the coming months if the trend continues. \n DHS spokeswoman Gillian Christensen said the agency has enough money to \"operate at current levels\" until Dec. 9, when a temporary budget resolution expires. After that, she said, DHS will work to either shift money from other parts of the department or find another \"alternative budget strategy.\" She described the possible budget adjustment as \"common.\" \n Manjarrez said border agents and immigration officials face multiple challenges with a rise in immigrants from so far away, including language barriers and crowded detention centers. \n \"The further away you get from the Americas, the more difficult it is to really know who they are,\" Manjarrez said of the government's ability to fully identify some would-be immigrants. \n The director of the Washington Office on Latin America's Mexico program, Maureen Meyer, said it appears that many of the overseas migrants are making their way through Mexico via South American countries, including Brazil, where entry visas are either easy to come by or not required. And their final destination is more often than not the United States. \n \"I think it's reflecting a gradual trend, as of at least particularly the last year,\" Meyer said. \n While the exact draw of the round-the-world route isn't entirely clear, Meyer said an expanding network of human smugglers appear to be taking advantage of the increasingly popular smuggling routes that use Mexico as a transit country. \n \"There's a lot of smuggling that goes through Mexico that you don't see,\" Meyer said. She added that rumors of lenient treatment of some immigrants in the United States may also be a factor. \n The recent influx of overseas migrants may be a harbinger of things to come. \n More than 7,000 people who claimed to be from Africa have been arrested in Mexico between January and August, according to statistics maintained by Mexican federal immigration authorities. The number of such immigrants has been on the rise in recent years. \n In 2013 Mexican immigration authorities arrested fewer than 1,000 migrants from Asia and Africa, while the number rose to nearly 11,000 from January through August. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More people from far-flung corners of world sneaking into U.S."}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump talked with customers during a visit to a Wawa gas station, today, in King of Prussia, Pa. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump gestured while speaking healthcare, today, in King of Prussia, Pa. \n KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa. \u00bb With just a week to go, Donald Trump strove to blend a quieter, presidential tone with his usual tough rhetoric today, warning that a Hillary Clinton presidency would \"destroy American health care forever.\" Clinton pushed back with a scathing effort to remind swing state voters about her Republican opponent's degrading comments about women. \n The White House contenders clashed from afar \u2014 Clinton in battleground Florida and Trump in Pennsylvania \u2014 with the sprint to next today's finish well underway. \n For Trump, the day's appearance marked a sharp shift from his standard brash tone as he delivered carefully scripted remarks focused on health care. He cautioned that Clinton's plan to strengthen \"Obamacare\" would lead to dire consequences, although he offered few specifics about his own plan. \n \"If we don't repeal and replace Obamacare, we will destroy American health care forever,\" Trump charged. \n He also promised, if elected, to call a special session of Congress to replace the law. Congress would already be in session when the next president takes office, however, raising the question of just what he meant. \n Still, frustrated Republicans were encouraged that Trump was focusing on policy prescriptions \u2014 for one afternoon, at least \u2014 after a roller-coaster campaign marked by self-created controversy and political missteps. \n Clinton worked to ensure battleground state voters would not forget Trump's most damaging moments six days before the election. \n Alicia Machado, a former beauty queen who Trump previously described as \"Miss Piggy,\" was scheduled to introduce the Democratic nominee in Florida. Trump spent several days in late September assailing the winner of his 1996 Miss Universe pageant, encouraging his Twitter followers this fall to view her \"sex tape,\" although none exists. \n The Machado appearance was in line with Clinton's broader closing argument against Trump. \n Clinton, as has been all but overlooked in recent months, would be the nation's first female president. Trump has faced allegations of sexual misconduct that complicated his struggle to win over women in both parties. \n Clinton unveiled a new television ad today highlighting Trump's history of sexist statements, including his remark caught in a 2005 video that he kissed women and grabbed their genitals without permission. \"Anyone who does what he does is unfit to be president,\" reads the final scene of the ad, which Clinton's campaign says will run across eight battleground states. \n At the same time, both sides sparred over the recent revelation that FBI investigators were again probing Clinton's email practices. \n A lawyer for Clinton aide Huma Abedin said today that her client learned from media reports last Friday that a laptop belonging to her estranged husband, Anthony Weiner, might contain some of her emails. The attorney said Abedin has not been contacted by the FBI about the development but she would cooperate if asked. \n The revelation put Democrats on the defensive, at least briefly, and hurt Clinton's plans to promote a positive message over the campaign's final week. \n Yet neither Republican nor Democratic operatives view the news as a game-changer in the race for Senate control. The balance of power in Congress could have profound consequences for the future of health care in America, among other policy debates. \n Trump today promised to replace the federal health care law with health care savings accounts, while allowing states to craft their own Medicaid programs to cover the poor. \n The nonpartisan Center for Health and Economy determined this summer that Trump's proposal would make 18 million people uninsured, while also lowering premiums significantly for policies purchased directly by consumers. The nonpartisan Commonwealth Fund predicted that 20 million people would lose coverage under Trump's plan while Clinton's would add coverage for 9 million. \n Trump today seized on projections of sharp health care cost increases as he campaigned in Pennsylvania, a state where some premiums are expected to rise by more than 40 percent. Trump was introduced by his running mate Mike Pence, who expanded Medicaid coverage as part of Obama's law as Indiana governor. \n Pence called Obamacare \"a crushing weight\" on the American economy. \"We're going to pull it off the market so it stops burning up our wallets,\" he declared. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, who has been silent on Trump's candidacy in recent weeks, told Fox News that electing Clinton and a Democratic-controlled Congress would be \"the worst of all possible things.\" \n \"For those of us who lived through the 1990s, it's sort of a feeling like deja vu,\" Ryan said. \"This is what life with the Clintons looks like. It's always a scandal, then there's an investigation.\" \n Associated Press writers Lisa Lerer and Erica Werner in Washington and Julie Pace in Dade City contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Race tightening, Trump goes hard after 'Obamacare'"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Police briefly closed the Honolulu-bound lanes on the Pali Highway due to a two-vehicle accident that sent two people to the hospital in serious condition. \n The accident involved a Toyota pickup truck and a sport utility vehicle that occurred shortly before 9:30 a.m. on the highway, approximately 100 yards below Old Pali Road near the Nuuanu Reservoir, according to Honolulu Fire Capt. David Jenkins. \n Emergency Medical Services said the pickup truck with four occupants was rear-ended by the SUV. At some point during the crash, the SUV overturned. \n Jenkins said the SUV driver was able to get out of the vehicle on his own. Fire personnel treated him at the scene where he declined further treatment. \n The truck driver, a 67-year-old man, was trapped inside of the vehicle because it was pinned against the hillside by the SUV. Firefighters used cutting tools to extricate the driver. Three passengers \u2014 two women ages 53 and 35 and an 11-month old baby \u2014 were able to exit the vehicle on their own. \n The 67-year-old driver and 53-year-old passenger were transported to the hospital in serious condition, and the 35-year-old passenger and baby were transported in stable condition. \n A separate multi-vehicle accident occurred on the Kailua-bound lanes of the Pali Highway near the hairpin turn at approximately 10:30 a.m. Paramedics treated four people \u2014 three women and a man \u2014 for minor injuries. \n Emergency Medical Services said one of the four individuals, a 54-year-old woman, complained of a chest injury and was transported to a trauma hospital in stable condition. The three other individuals declined to be transported to the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Townbound lanes of Pali Highway reopen after serious vehicle accident"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n Westbund traffic was backed up at the intersection of Nimitz Highway and Alakawa Street after police closed off a section of the highway to conduct an accident investigation. \n A 53-year-old woman was transported to a trauma center in critical condition today after she was involved in an accident on Nimitz Highway in front of the Kalihi Kai Fire Station. \n The accident occurred shortly before 8 a.m. Police closed the westbound lanes on the highway between Alakawa Street and Waiakamilo Road to investigate. Lanes were reopened at about 10:10 a.m. \n Emergency Medical Services said the woman was riding a bicycle when she apparently struck a car and lost control. She was ejected and reportedly landed on her head. \n She was not wearing a helmet. \n Fire personnel and paramedics treated the bicyclist for a head wound before she was transported to the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist critically injured in crash on Nimitz Highway"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "A 64-year-old pedestrian who died from injuries after he was struck by a vehicle on the Big Island in October has been identified as Gary Hall of Hilo. \n At about 7:43 p.m. on Oct. 3 near the 500 block of Kilauea Avenue, police said a 2007 Dodge pickup was traveling south on the roadway when it struck Hall. He was not in a crosswalk at the time of the collision, according to a news release from the Hawaii Police Department. \n Hall was taken to Hilo Medical Center and flown to Queen's Medical Center where he died the following day. The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office determined he died from injuries sustained in the crash. \n The pickup driver was not injured, and police found that speed and alcohol were not factors involving the driver. \n Police believe alcohol was a factor for Hall. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pedestrian hit by truck in Hilo identified"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Police closed a section of Honoapiilani Highway on Maui after a fatal motor vehicle accident this morning. \n The accident occurred at about 6:45 am. Police said the highway is closed between Maalaea Road and Ukumehame. \n Additional details are pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fatal vehicle crash closes section of Maui highway"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "A 22-year-old man was taken to a hospital after suffering multiple stab wounds in Waikiki. \n Police arrested a 20-year-old North Shore man on suspicion of second-degree attempted murder and he remains in custody. \n The suspect was arrested shortly after midnight on Kalakaua Avenue near Sans Souci Beach. \n Police said the victim suffered more than one stab wound. Paramedics transported him to the hospital in stable condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested after stabbing in Waikiki"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Allen Pitts \n Police arrested a 47-year-old man in Waikiki who had escaped from the Hawaii State Hospital Saturday night. \n At 11:10 p.m. on Monday, officers arrested Allen Pitts at or near the Outrigger Reef Waikiki Beach Resort on Kalia Road. \n Pitts faces charges of second-degree escape and promotion of a detrimental drug in the third-degree. \n State hospital staff discovered Pitts was missing during a bed check at 8 a.m. Sunday. He escaped from the facility Saturday night after he broke a window and fled. \n Pitts was committed to the hospital by court order for two separate incidents. \n In 2013, Pitts stole a dump truck with an attached trailer, led police on a chase up and down Kalakaua Avenue along Kapiolani Park, damaging cars. He struck a coconut tree, jumped out of the truck and into the ocean. Officers arrested him off Sans Souci Beach. \n He was charged with unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle, reckless endangering and three counts of criminal property damage. \n In 2014, a judge found Pitts not guilty by reason of physical or mental disorder and committed him to the state hospital. \n His attorney said he was doing well when he applied and was granted conditional release in July 2015. He was living in a halfway house but Pitts \"was out and about\" for approximately two to three weeks. \n The court issued a bench warrant in January and Pitts turned himself into police at the Waikiki substation. While there, he got into an altercation. On Apr. 19, he was indicted for assaulting a police officer and harassment. \n In August, he was sent back to the state hospital after a panel of doctors determined he was unfit to proceed to trial. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police capture state hospital escapee"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean protesters staged a rally calling for President Park Geun-hye to step down in downtown Seoul on Tuesday. South Korean police detained a man who rammed a large excavator into a gate Tuesday near the office where prosecutors questioned a woman at the center of a scandal that threatens the country's president. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Choi Soon-sil, a woman at the center of a scandal that threatens the country's president, arrived for questioning at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors Office in South Korea on Tuesday. South Korean police detained a man who rammed a large excavator into a gate Tuesday near the office where prosecutors questioned Choi. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police officers examined an excavator after a man rammed into a gate near a Seoul prosecutors' office in South Korea on Tuesday. Police detained the man. \n SEOUL \u00bb South Korean police detained a man who rammed a large excavator into a gate Tuesday near the office where prosecutors questioned a woman at the center of a scandal that threatens the country's president. The woman had earlier said she \"deserves death\" and the detained man said he \"came here to help her die.\" \n The attack with heavy construction equipment on a government building is part of a frenzy of emotion in South Korea over the woman, Choi Soon-sil, whom prosecutors have detained as they examine whether she used her close ties to President Park Geun-hye to pull government strings from the shadows and amass an illicit fortune. \n Prosecutors are expected to quickly seek an arrest warrant for Choi, who was swarmed Monday by hundreds of journalists and protesters as she tried to enter the prosecution office. \n Choi, a cult leader's daughter with a decades-long connection to Park, was nearly knocked off her feet several times as the crowd closed in on her. Protesters screamed for her arrest and Park's resignation; one angry person reportedly tried to enter the building with a bucket full of animal feces; and Choi, 60, lost her Prada shoe in the scrum. \n Social media is now awash with images of the discarded black footwear and the word, \"Soonderella,\" a combination of parts of Choi's name and the girl from the fairy tale who leaves behind a glass slipper at a ball. \n \"Please, forgive me,\" Choi said Monday through tears inside the Seoul prosecutor's building. Using a common expression of deep repentance, she added, \"I committed a sin that deserves death.\" \n The man accused of running his big yellow excavator into the prosecution office near where Choi had been investigated later told officials that \"since Choi Soon-sil said she committed a sin that deserves death, I came here to help her die,\" according to police officer Han Jeung-sub. The man detained was identified as a 45-year-old surnamed Jeong. \n It wasn't known if Choi was at the Seoul office at the time of the ramming, which injured a security guard and damaged the gate and other facilities. \n Last week, amid intense speculation, Park acknowledged Choi had edited some of her speeches and provided public relations help. Widespread reports have said Choi had a larger role in government affairs despite having no official ties to the administration. \n Prosecutors are trying to determine the scope of access Choi had and whether she was given sensitive presidential documents. Choi has previously said she helped Park but didn't know if she was seeing confidential information. \n Other reports have contained allegations she misused money from nonprofit organizations after pressuring businesses to donate to them. \n Park has fired some of her closest aides to try to contain the fallout. Some lawmakers and the public have called for Park's resignation or impeachment, and thousands of people have protested in the streets. \n Choi has been close to Park since Choi's father, the leader of a religious cult, gained Park's trust by reportedly convincing her that he could communicate with her assassinated mother. Choi's father denied this in a 1990 media interview. \n The scandal has resonated with South Koreans in a way that past corruption allegations have not. \n Some of this has to do with Park Geun-hye, who has long been criticized for an aloof manner and for relying on only a few longtime confidantes. That she may have been outsourcing sensitive decisions to someone outside of government, and someone connected with a murky, lurid backstory, has incensed many. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korean man rams office: 'I came here to help her die'"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "A man was taken to a hospital in critical condition after lost control of a vehicle he was driving and slammed into a metal utility pole near Aloun Farms early this morning. \n At approximately 2:25 a.m., police said the man, described to be in his 20s, was traveling westbound in a vehicle on Farrington Highway at a high rate of speed. He lost control and veered off the roadway before he crashed into the pole, three-tenths of a mile east of Kualakai Parkway. \n Police said speed was factor in the crash. \n At 3:07 a.m., police sent out an alert that Farrington Highway between Kualakai Parkway and Old Ft. Weaver Road was closed in both directions. Police reopened the highway at 4:42 a.m. \n The investigation is ongoing. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police reopen Farrington Hwy after critical crash"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Prosecutors Tuesday night charged a 41-year-old Aiea man who had allegedly sexually assaulted an 18-year-old woman for the last five years since she was a minor. \n Scott M. Chinen was charged with four counts of first-degree sexual assault and one count of third-degree sexual assault. \n The woman said Chinen sexually assaulted her in Hauula beginning in May 1, 2011, when she was a juvenile, to May 31. Police arrested Chinen on Monday on suspicion of four counts of first-degree sexual assault and two counts of third-degree sexual assault. \n His bail was set at $300,000. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Aiea man allegedly sexually assaulted woman as minor"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Jacksonville, Fla. \u00bb A Florida man faces up to 12 years in federal prison for burying his mother in her backyard so that he could continue collecting her retirement payments. \n Prosecutors say Brian Adams admitted that he failed to notify anyone that his mother had died of natural causes in July 2014. \n U.S. Attorney A. Lee Bentley III says in a news release that the 56-year-old Adams of Green Cove Springs pleaded guilty on Monday to theft of government property and aggravated identity theft. \n Adams told investigators that he used his mother's name on Social Security and pension payment checks and transferred $35,345 between her accounts, which he used himself. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man pleads guilty to burying mom to keep retirement checks"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 19, 2015, file photo, Korean adoptee Adam Crapser poses with daughter, Christal, 1, in the family's living room in Vancouver, Wash. Crapser, a South Korean man who was flown to the U.S. 37 years ago and adopted by an American couple at age 3 has been ordered deported back to a country that is completely alien to him, Wednesday, Oct. 26, 2016. \n Salem, Ore. \u00bb A man who was adopted as a 3-year-old from South Korea almost four decades ago and flown to America is in detention awaiting deportation because of \"the severity of his criminal history,\" U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said. \n Adam Crapser was ordered deported last week back to a country that is completely alien to him. No one sought U.S. citizenship for him as he grew up in America, abandoned by one adoptive family, thrown into the foster care system and winding up with abusive parents. The lack of citizenship made him liable for deportation, especially after he built a criminal record. \n ICE prioritizes immigration enforcement resources \"on individuals who pose a threat to national security, public safety, and border security,\" Rose M. Richeson, spokeswoman for ICE's Seattle field office, said in a statement. \n Richeson cited Adam Crapser's criminal history, including convictions for assault and being a felon in possession of a weapon. Crapser's immigration attorney said Monday that her client's 1994 burglary offense \u2014 which served as a predicate for the \"felon in possession\" conviction \u2014 was for breaking back into the home of his criminally abusive second set of parents to retrieve two things that had come with him from the Korean orphanage. \n Crapser has untreated post-traumatic stress disorder \"from the trauma and abuse he suffered as a child,\" said attorney Lori Walls. \n \"Mr. Crapser served his time for his offenses,\" Walls said in an email to The Associated Press. \"Mr. Crapser was eligible for and deserved another chance.\" \n The decision by a federal immigration judge last week not to give Crapser a reprieve for deportation was a big blow to his supporters, including some Korean Americans, several of whom were also adopted as babies or children. \n Crapser decided not to appeal because the conditions in the immigration detention center in Tacoma, Washington, where is has been locked up since February, are so bad, his supporters say. \n Richeson said Crapser was arrested by ICE on Feb. 8 after serving a 60-day sentence for menacing and attempted coercion. Walls said those crimes resulted from Crapser \"spending 25 months incarcerated with untreated PTSD.\" \n His immigration woes mirror those of thousands of others. The National Korean American Service & Education Consortium says an estimated 35,000 intercountry adoptees lack U. S. citizenship. It is backing legislation in Congress to address that issue. \n Seven years after Crapser and his older sister were adopted, their parents abandoned them. The foster care system separated Crapser when he was 10 from his sister. He was housed at several foster and group homes. When Crapser was 12, he moved in with Thomas and Dolly Crapser, their biological son, two other adoptees and several foster children. \n There, he was physically abused, Crapser has said. In 1991, the couple was arrested on charges including physical child abuse. \n Federal immigration officials say they became aware of Crapser after he applied for a green card for permanent residency. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Feds targeted adoptee from South Korea because of crimes"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "Richmond, Va. \u00bb A music promoter in Virginia is facing backlash on social media for dressing in blackface as part of his Halloween costume over the weekend. \n Multiple news outlets report that Chris Bopst apologized for his actions after posting a photo of himself on Facebook on Saturday dressed in blackface with a red bow on his head with the caption \"I am pretty.\" \n He took the photo at a Halloween party at Richmond's Balliceaux restaurant, where he booked music. He has since resigned. \n Bopst said in a Facebook post Monday he wore the costume to be thought-provoking and funny but has since realized that the costume was in poor taste. \n On its Facebook page, Balliceaux apologized for what happened, saying the costume went unnoticed \"due to dim lighting and a busy atmosphere.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Virginia music promoter facing heat for blackface costume"}

{"date": "November 1, 2016", "text": "JOSHUA POLSON/THE GREELEY TRIBUNE VIA AP \n A Weld County mobile command bus sits inside the Waste Management landfill on Monday, Oct. 31, 2016 outside of Ault, Colo. The command unit served as a headquarters in the search for the body of 13-month old child. \n Cheyenne, Wyo. \u00bb The search for the remains of a missing 13-month-old Wyoming boy is set to start daybreak Tuesday at a Colorado landfill. \n Capt. Linda Gesell of the Laramie County Sheriff's Office says about 30 people a day from her department and the Wyoming Army National Guard will search the landfill in Ault, Colorado. \n Gesell says the search may take weeks. It will address an area 25 yards wide and 100 yards long where the trash is about 15-feet deep. \n Twenty-three-year-old Logan Hunter Rogers of Cheyenne is charged with involuntary manslaughter and child endangering with a controlled substance in the death of Silas Anthony Ojeda of Cheyenne. \n Investigators say Rogers told them the boy died after falling off a counter and that Rogers put his body in a trash container. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Search to start for infant's remains at Colorado landfill"}

