{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "WASHINGTON >> House Republicans are laying the groundwork for a fresh effort to overhaul the nation's food stamp program during Donald Trump's presidency, with the possibility of new work and eligibility requirements for millions of Americans. \n The GOP majority of the House Agriculture Committee is releasing its two-year review on Wednesday. It stops short of making specific policy recommendations, but it does hint at areas that congressional Republicans could focus on with their GOP monopoly under Trump: strengthening current work requirements and perhaps creating new ones, tightening some eligibility requirements or creating new incentives to encourage food stamp recipients to buy healthier foods. \n \"There's nothing off the table when it comes to looking at solutions around these areas where we think improvements need to be made,\" House Agriculture Chairman Mike Conaway, R-Texas, said in an interview with The Associated Press. \n The food stamp program, called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, now serves about 43.6 million people and cost $74 billion in 2015. Participation in the program rose sharply as the country suffered a recession, and the program now costs roughly twice what it did in 2008. \n The report is based on 16 House Agriculture Committee hearings and lays out several findings, including that better enforcement of some SNAP work programs is needed in some states and that 42 states use broad eligibility standards that some Republicans have criticized as too loose. It also encourages more incentives to get people to buy healthy food with their food stamp dollars, addressing criticism that recipients use taxpayer money to buy junk foods. The report cites USDA data showing that 10 percent of foods typically purchased by SNAP households are sweetened beverages. \n It's unclear how or when an overhaul could happen. Food stamp policy is included in a wide-ranging farm bill every five years; the next one is due in 2018. It could also be part of a larger effort headed by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., to tackle welfare or entitlement reform, if that should happen in the next Congress. \n Still, food stamp reform has always been a hard sell in Congress. Democrats almost unilaterally oppose any changes, and some Republicans from poorer districts are also wary. The 1996 welfare law added some new work requirements, but Congress declined to convert federal food stamp dollars into block grants for the states, a move that would cut spending for the program. \n In 2013, House Republican leaders tried to cut the program by 5 percent annually by passing broad new work requirements as part of the last farm bill. The House bill also included drug testing for recipients. \n The then-Democratic Senate balked, though, and the final bill included a much smaller cut and no allowances for drug testing. \n Conaway said he's open to any of those policies, but suggested that block granting the program \u2014 a past priority for Ryan \u2014 or drug testing recipients are not his priorities. \n \"We don't want to be helping folks on drugs, but then again, folks on drugs have children,\" Conaway said. \n On block granting, Conaway said it's not off the table, but not a top priority. \n \"We want to be more focused on getting people off the program and into successful lives and on their own two feet as opposed to being focused on how many people are there, how much money we're spending,\" he said. \n He said the report should help lawmakers be \"not as knee-jerk reactionary as they have been in the past.\" The 2013 effort didn't resonate well, he has said, because Republicans didn't spell out why it was necessary. \n Part of the calculation will be what Ryan proposes. He strongly supported block granting food stamps as part of his larger plans for welfare reform when he was chairman of the House Budget Committee. But an agenda he released earlier this year after becoming speaker was vaguer, only suggesting that some food aid programs could be consolidated. \n As for Trump, he's said little about what he'd want to do with the program. But he has frequently mentioned how the rolls have increased since President Barack Obama took office. \n Kansas Sen. Pat Roberts, the Republican chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, was heavily involved in the 1996 welfare reform. He has said his committee will review the food stamp program, but hasn't made any specific proposals. \n He says block grants would face significant opposition in the Senate, and he's not sure whether new work requirements would pass muster, either. \n \"To be determined,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House GOP eyes food stamp overhaul"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jill Stein arrived for a news conference in front of Trump Tower on Monday. \n DETROIT >> Michigan's presidential recount suddenly appears in doubt after a state appeals court said the Green Party candidate's poor showing disqualified her from seeking a second look at the votes. \n Meanwhile, the fate of a statewide recount push in Pennsylvania must wait at least until Friday, when a federal judge has scheduled a hearing. \n President-elect Donald Trump narrowly defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in both states and Wisconsin, which started its recount last week. The recounts requested by Green Party candidate Jill Stein were not expected to change enough votes to overturn the result of the election. \n Stein, who received about 1 percent of the vote in all three states, says her intent is to verify the accuracy of the vote. She has suggested, with no evidence, that votes cast were susceptible to computer hacking. \n Here's what's happening in each state and in Nevada, where a partial recount of the race was requested by independent presidential candidate Roque De La Fuente: \n WISCONSIN \n Trump had widened his victory margin over Clinton in Wisconsin by 146 votes, with 23 of the state's 72 counties having finished their recounts as of today. In those counties, Trump gained 105 votes and Clinton dropped 41 votes. \n Trump defeated Clinton in Wisconsin by about 22,000 votes. \n A federal judge has scheduled a hearing for Friday in a lawsuit filed last week by a Trump voter and two super PACs seeking to stop the recount. \n MICHIGAN \n A recount that started Monday might end after the state appeals court said Stein has no standing to have the votes recounted. The court said she finished fourth in the election and doesn't qualify as an \"aggrieved\" candidate under Michigan law. \n The court ordered the state election board to reject her recount petition. The board meets again Wednesday. \n Attorney General Bill Schuette said the decision means the recount \"must stop.\" But Stein's attorney, Mark Brewer, insisted the recount isn't over. \n The ruling came a day after U.S. District Judge Mark Goldsmith ordered an immediate statewide recount of roughly 4.8 million ballots. Eight counties have started, including the largest, Wayne County. \n But Goldsmith's decision dealt with the timing of the recount, not whether Stein had standing. Goldsmith called a hearing for 10:30 a.m. Wednesday to address Schuette's request to set aside the ruling in light of the state court's decision. \n Trump won Michigan by about 10,700 votes over Clinton. \n Also today, a Republican-controlled committee in the Legislature approved a measure that would require candidates who lose by more than 5 percentage points to pay 100 percent of the estimated recount cost. The bill would apply to Stein, though Democrats questioned the legality of changing the rules \"in the middle of the game.\" \n PENNSYLVANIA \n U.S. District Judge Paul Diamond in Philadelphia today scheduled a hearing Friday on the request for a recount. The Republican Party and Trump warned that the case threatens Pennsylvania's ability to certify its election before the Dec. 13 federal deadline. Stein's team hasn't produced evidence of hacking, but calls Pennsylvania's election system \"a national disgrace.\" \n Also today, Pennsylvania election officials updated the state's vote count to show that Trump's lead over Clinton had shrunk to about 44,000 out of more than 6 million votes cast. That is still shy of Pennsylvania's 0.5 percent trigger for an automatic statewide recount. A state spokeswoman said 15 provisional ballots remain uncounted. \n NEVADA \n A partial recount is underway in Nevada at the request of De La Fuente, who finished last with a fraction of 1 percent of the vote. He paid about $14,000 for the recount to provide what he called a counterbalance to the recounts sought by Stein. Most of the 92 precincts being re-counted are in the Las Vegas area, with eight of the precincts in four other counties. If the sample shows a discrepancy of at least 1 percent for De La Fuente or Clinton, a full recount will be launched in all 17 Nevada counties. Clinton defeated Trump in Nevada by 27,202 votes, out of 1.1 million votes cast. Nevada Secretary of State spokeswoman Gail Anderson said the recount will be finished by the end of this week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michigan recount now in doubt; Pennsylvania sets hearing"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "GEORGE F. LEE / GLEE@STARADVERTISER.COM \n USS Arizona veteran Lauren Bruner shook hands with John Ressmeyer at Smith's Union Bar on Sunday night. \n He walked slowly, an entourage of help ensuring he didn't slip. People in the bar clapped as he moved past. Then Lauren Bruner gave up his cane and settled at a table against the wall where his picture had been hanging for years. \n Dwight Lockwood, reed-thin in shorts and flip-flops, darted behind the bar and quickly popped the cap off a Kona Longboard beer. \"It's his favorite,\" he said. The drink was on the house, of course. \n Bruner took a swig. Around him, dozens of people waited to shake his hand, share a story or take a picture. The bar was a dive, barely more than the width of a long hallway. He looked around from the stool \u2014 his stool \u2014 and the decades began to melt away. \n No longer was he 96, with a broken heart and a busted back. He was back in Smith's Union Bar, and it was in the exact same place it had been when he was stationed at Pearl Harbor all those years ago. In his mind, he was 21 again \u2014 strong from swabbing decks and climbing steep ladders aboard the battleship Arizona. \n Then came Dec. 7, 1941 \u2014 the day of America's first 9/11, the day the U.S. got drawn into World War II in a hail of fire and fury. The day more than 2,400 men and women died in an attack by a country America wasn't even at war with. The day Bruner has spent most of his life not talking about. \n That changed a few years ago, when he met Ed McGrath. \n It has been a week of memories all over this tropical Navy town, where survivors are commemorating the day the Imperial Japanese Navy, seeking to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet out of Southeast Asia, aimed 353 bombers, fighter planes and torpedo planes in a preemptive strike at eight U.S. Navy battleships berthed at Pearl Harbor, including the Arizona, which exploded and sank. \n The Arizona, which is the centerpiece of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument, will be the site of a ceremony Monday honoring the 1,177 sailors and Marines who were killed on the battleship during the Sunday morning assault. \n Bruner worked in fire control, where the ship's guns were aimed. He spent months in the hospital, and in 1942 joined a crew on a destroyer to finish out the war. From there, he settled in La Mirada, Calif., with his wife and got a job at a plant making industrial-size refrigerators. \n His life never included having children, and it also never included talking about what happened that day on the Arizona. \n But then, one day in 2011, long after he'd retired, Bruner got a phone call. A man named Ed McGrath said he'd seen his name on a list of Arizona survivors and wondered whether he'd be willing to talk to him about it. Bruner said he wouldn't talk about the attack, but he'd be happy to meet with him. \n \"I had called 12 Arizona survivors and Lauren was the only one who responded,\" McGrath said. \"I love history and I thought I might try to make a documentary about it.\" \n McGrath, 70, had worked in Hawaii in the early 1970s and fell in love with the history and culture of the islands. Writing a book or making a film about Pearl Harbor wasn't something he'd tried before \u2014 but why not? \n McGrath showed up at Bruner's house in La Mirada, and the two men sat down in the kitchen. \"We started just by talking about his life and his naval career,\" McGrath said. \n The next week, McGrath came back. And the week after that. \n Every Thursday morning, he'd go through the same routine: Drive from his home in Palos Verdes, drop the dog off at the office in Torrance and make the 42-mile drive to Bruner's house. \n McGrath would drive in silence, lost in thought. He'd pull up to the modest home with light-green trim and Bruner would let him in. They'd sit at the round, cluttered table in the kitchen over coffee. \n Slowly, the memories began to leak out. \n Bruner talked about how the crew on the Arizona, which he'd joined in 1939, would make wagers on what time the anchor would drop. Bruner only won that pool once. There were tales of fights he broke up at the bar, scuffles he got into himself, how he met actress Lana Turner on the beach in Hawaii. \n He told him about Michiko Takahashi, a bartender he'd met on shore leave and fallen in love with on the spot. Nikki, she told him to call her. They were supposed to have their first official date on the morning of Dec. 7, 1941. He never saw her again. \n When it came to the attack itself, though, there was not a word. McGrath would ask around the subject and Bruner wouldn't bite. \n Then one day Bruner was talking, and McGrath noticed he'd started to cry. \n The older man started with three words: \"It was bad,\" he said. \n McGrath listened intently through Bruner's tears. The story was worse than he'd imagined. \n \"He told me that the ship was listing and he was looking down on the deck and there are bodies everywhere,\" McGrath said. \"But he said he spotted these two sailors wearing their white uniforms, and the way they were walking, they looked like two friends taking a walk. He said he thought they'd be OK and were going to make it. Then, he said, they turned around and their uniforms were burned off, their hair was burned off and even their peckers were burned off.\" \n McGrath was scribbling down notes quickly as Bruner began to open up more. He began recording everything. It was as if McGrath had poked a hole in a bag of salt and the building pressure around the hole opened the rip wider. \n Bruner cried a lot more as he recounted the tales of carnage he'd witnessed \u2014 skin separating from flesh under intense heat, bodies ripped apart and hurled into the oily seawater, the searing pain of two bullets ripping through his leg. \n Bruner suffered burns over more than two-thirds of his body. He and five other crew members \u2014 hands badly burned \u2014 managed to escape the burning vessel by sliding along a line tied to a nearby ship. \n He spent several months recovering in a hospital before ultimately taking an assignment as a gun captain on a destroyer in the Pacific theater in 1942. \n Bruner's brother, Chet Danforth, an Army sniper in the Battle of the Bulge, said he and his brother never talked much about the war. The conversation would end before it started. \n How McGrath got his brother to talk, Danforth doesn't know. \n Bruner does: He realized the more he told, the fewer nightmares he had. And it wasn't just about the war and the attack. He found himself telling McGrath how he had been angry at his mother for giving him and his siblings away when he was 6 years old. It was during the Great Depression and the lumber mill she worked at laid her off and was seizing the house \u2014 but he didn't know that at the time. \n He confided details about his marriages and relationships after the war, all of them ending in loss: The first one lasted almost 13 years before she died. The second one he was with for nearly 24 years before she died. The third time around, it was 11 years \u2014 and then she died. \n His latest girlfriend died in November, the week of Thanksgiving \u2014 the same week he hurt his back, which made the flight to Honolulu excruciating. His sister-in-law, Mary Danforth, said his heart hurt more than his back. \n After the war, Bruner came home with all that had happened sealed up tight in his brain, and he left it there for seven decades. \n Gradually, it began to seem as if the war hadn't happened at all. It was the script of the occasional nightmares of an old man \u2014 nothing more. \n Then McGrath came along. \n \"Being able to tell him what happened lifted a great weight from my shoulders,\" Bruner says now. \n McGrath eventually turned their conversations into that book he'd wanted to write, along with photographer Mark Comon. \"Second to the Last to Leave\" debuted Sunday morning at an autograph session in Honolulu with three other Arizona survivors \u2014 including Donald Stratton, whose experiences were recounted in the current best-selling book \"All the Gallant Men.\" \n \"I told Ed for the book so I wouldn't have to talk about it again,\" Bruner said. \n Bruner was weary after signing his name hundreds of times, but he took a nap that afternoon so he could be ready to head over that night to Smith's Union Bar, which had been the Arizona's go-to bar before the attacks. \n The other three survivors had been invited to come to Smith's, but only Bruner made it. \n \"Lauren's a sure thing,\" said Lockwood, the bartender. \"I think he'd stay and close the place.\" \n As the crowd at Smith's thinned out, McGrath wasn't sure whether he'd make it as long as Bruner \u2014 who seemed to have picked up a second wind. But midnight wasn't far off, and finally Bruner gestured for his cane. As he got off the stool, though, his 96-year-old body turned mutinous. \n Bruner winced as his bad back twisted. He wasn't going to be able to walk out of the bar this time. Bruner gave up the cane and settled into the wheelchair. The crowd parted as he rolled slowly and carefully out the door, to where his ride was waiting. \n ", "author": "By David Montero Los Angeles Times", "title": "Veteran finally lets himself remember Pearl Harbor"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Flowers, pictures and candles adorn a fence at a makeshift memorial near the site of a warehouse fire. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> City and state officials fielded years of complaints about dangerous conditions, drugs, neglected children, trash, thefts and squabbles at the illegally converted warehouse where 36 partygoers were killed in a weekend fire, with inspectors knocking on the door as recently as two weeks before the blaze. \n With all the attention from police, child welfare authorities, building inspectors and others, some of those who saw what was going on at the underground artists' colony say they figured time and again that authorities would shut it all down. \n But they never did. \n \"It makes me so sad that all this has been there this whole long time,\" said neighbor Phyllis Waukazoo. \"This was an accident waiting to happen. That could have been prevented.\" \n Mayor Libby Schaaf deflected questions about whether more aggressive action by authorities could have prevented the tragedy at the cluttered, ramshackle building known as the Ghost Ship. \n Most recently, Oakland city inspectors received complaints on Nov. 13 about the warehouse being remodeled into residences and on Nov. 14 about an \"illegal interior building structure,\" city records showed today. \n City officials sent a violation notice for the first complaint and opened an investigation for the second one. \n A building inspector who went to an Oakland warehouse on Nov. 17 after receiving a complaint of illegal interior construction left after being unable to get inside. \n Schaaf said today the inspector followed procedure and later sent a request to the owner to gain entry. She did not reveal the outcome of that request. \n Under the Oakland city code, building officials and fire marshals need court permission to enter commercial lodgings if the owner or manager refuses access. \n Building inspectors typically cannot force entry to a property unless there are pressing circumstances, Schaaf said. \n The cause of the fire is still under investigation, and prosecutors said they are looking into the possibility of criminal charges. \n Alameda County sheriff's Sgt. J.D. Nelson said today that of the 36 victims found, 35 have been identified and 20 of their families have been notified. Officials are still lacking any type of identity for one person. \n Record searches and interviews by the Associated Press indicate that the couple who leased the warehouse and turned it into rented living spaces and artists' studios, Derick Ion Almena and Micah Allison, were already under scrutiny by several agencies. \n Some of those agencies had been told or could have seen for themselves that the family of five and their dozens of artist tenants were living in a warehouse that had no permit to operate as a living space and allegedly had no proper kitchen, electricity, adequate fire exits or solid stairs. \n Almena, 46, is on probation for receiving stolen property, an Airstream trailer he was accused of stealing and stashing at the warehouse. The terms of his probation allowed authorities to enter his home without a warrant, records show. \n Child welfare workers had taken away the couple's three children in mid-2015 but returned them by this past summer, despite the illegal conditions at the warehouse and the children being hungry, infested with lice and frequently truant, Micah Allison's father and other acquaintances said. \n Almena confirmed in a 2015 document that child welfare workers visited the warehouse at least twice. \n Child welfare authorities refused to comment on the family, citing privacy laws. \n In returning the children, the authorities set certain conditions, including that the youngsters be out of the warehouse during the many parties held there, according to those who knew the couple. \n On the night of the fire, Allison and the three children had checked into an Oakland hotel, according to Almena. All of them survived. Almena said in a TV interview that he had little involvement in the party and had gone to the hotel as well. \n Allison's father, Michael Allison, said he is left wondering why authorities failed to take quicker, tougher action. \n \"This whole thing, the city giving them warning after warning after warning, strikes me as bizarre. It's been going on for years,\" he said. \"I knew something was going to happen \u2026 but not this.\" \n Under state and city law, commercial buildings must receive annual fire inspections. Sheriff's Sgt. Ray Kelly refused to say whether fire officials had visited the warehouse before the blaze. \n Zac Unger, vice president of the Oakland firefighters union, said the city has about one-third of the fire inspectors of other cities of comparable size. \n \"It's a systematic underinvestment in the fire department and a roll of the dice, hoping they'll get away with it,\" he said. \n Noel Gallo, a city councilman who lives a block away and recalled fruitless conversations with Almena over trash and other nuisances, said he will push for more building inspectors and fire marshals. \n But Gallo noted the city has many occupied warehouses and has to be mindful of the \"desperate\" housing shortage in the San Francisco Bay area, where the tech boom has driven up prices and rents. \n In an interview after the fire, Almena said police also had been in and out of the buildings for years, over thefts and other complaints from the people there. \n \"They would come in and they would walk through our space and they'd always say 'Wow, what an amazing space,'\" Almena told San Jose TV station KNTV. \n A video reportedly recorded in October and acquired by NBC shows two police officers walking through the warehouse with a young man in handcuffs. \n Oakland Police Department spokeswoman Officer Jonna Watson said police officers are not trained on zoning laws but pointed out they document every call they respond to. \n \"The Alameda County District Attorney's office is the lead investigating agency and as the mayor has stated over the last five days, everything will be looked at,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Did authorities miss opportunities to prevent warehouse fire?"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescuers searched for survivors under the rubble of a collapsed building after an earthquake in Aceh province. \n BIREUEN, INDONESIA >> A strong undersea earthquake rocked Indonesia's Aceh province early on Wednesday, killing at least 25 people and causing dozens of buildings to collapse.  \n The U.S. Geological Survey said the shallow 6.4-magnitude earthquake that struck at 5:03 a.m. (2203 GMT Tuesday) was centered about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of Reuleut, a town in northern Aceh, at a depth of 17 kilometers (11 miles). \n Indonesia's Climate, Meteorology and Geophysics Agency said the quake has no potential to trigger a tsunami. \n The chief of the district nearest to the epicenter said 25 people have been killed in that district alone. \n Pidie Jaya District chief Aiyub Abbas also said hundreds of people in the district have been injured and more than 40 buildings were flattened. The district is located 18 kilometers (11 miles) southwest of the epicenter. \n Abbas said there is an urgent need for excavation equipment to move heavy debris and emergency supplies. \n A frantic rescue effort involving dozens of villagers, soldiers and police was underway in Meureudu, a severely affected town in Pidie Jaya. Suyatno, who heads Aceh's search and rescue agency, said three excavators were trying to remove debris from shop houses where three people were believed buried. \n In the nearby district of Bireuen, a teacher at an Islamic building school died after being hit by falling debris, said health worker Achmad Taufiq. \n About 20 people were being treated at a health center and one person was moved to a hospital because of broken bones and a head injury, said Taufiq. \n Residents of the nearby town of Lhokseumawe ran out of their houses in panic during the quake and many people fled to higher ground. \n The world's largest archipelago, Indonesia is prone to earthquakes due to its location on the Pacific \"Ring of Fire,\" an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific Basin. \n In December 2004, a massive earthquake off Sumatra island triggered a tsunami that killed 230,000 people in a dozen countries. More than 160,000 people died in Indonesia alone, and most of those deaths occurred in Aceh. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Earthquake rocks Indonesia's Aceh province"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "JACKSON, Ga. >> With the execution today of a man convicted of killing his father-in-law, Georgia has put to death nine inmates this year \u2014 more than any other state.  \n William Sallie's time of death was 10:05 p.m., after an injection of compounded barbiturate pentobarbital at the state prison in Jackson, Warden Eric Sellers told witnesses. Sallie, 50, was convicted of murder in the March 1990 shooting death of John Lee Moore in rural south Georgia. \n When asked if he wanted to make a final statement, Sallie lifted his head to face the witnesses. \n \"I just want to say I'm very, very sorry for my crimes. I really am sorry,\" he said, adding that he had prayed about it many times. \"I'm just very sorry for everything. I do ask for forgiveness.\" \n He accepted the offer of a prayer. \n Records from past executions show that the lethal drug generally starts flowing within a couple of minutes of the warden exiting the execution chamber. About a minute after the warden left, Sallie lifted his head and looked out at the witnesses before putting his head back down, yawning and then closing his eyes and breathing deeply several times. \n About two minutes after the warden left, Sallie's body twitched five or six times, his shoulders lifting slightly off the gurney, but his eyes remained closed. Within another minute, he became still. \n In addition to the nine executions in Georgia this year, habitual leader Texas executed seven inmates, and Alabama, Florida and Missouri have carried out one execution apiece, for a total of 19 executions this year. Alabama has one more scheduled Thursday. \n This year's tally also marks the most executions Georgia has carried out in a calendar year since the death penalty was reinstated in 1976. The state executed five inmates last year and five in 1987. \n Sallie had abused his wife during their marriage and she was living with her parents in rural Bacon County after having filed for divorce, according to a Georgia Supreme Court summary of the case. The two had fought bitterly over custody of their young son. \n After cutting his in-laws' phone lines and breaking into their house about 12:45 a.m. on March 29, 1990, Sallie went to the master bedroom and shot John and Linda Moore, the summary says. John Moore died from his injuries. \n Sallie took his wife and her sister to his mobile home, leaving his son behind, the summary says. Sallie released his wife and her sister that night and was arrested a short time later. \n Sallie's lawyers have said the shooting happened during a botched attempt to take his son and leave. \n The Georgia Supreme Court threw out Sallie's first conviction and death sentence in 1998 because his trial lawyer had a conflict of interest. At a second trial in 2001, he was again convicted and sentenced to die. \n His lawyers argued that he should, once again, be granted a new trial because a woman who ultimately ended up on the jury during the second trial lied during jury selection and failed to disclose her own history of domestic violence, messy divorces and child custody fights \u2014 traumatic events that they said were \"bizarrely similar\" to Sallie's case. \n But no court ever properly considered the alleged juror bias, his lawyers argued in a recent legal challenge, because the issue wasn't discovered until more than a decade later, and courts had ruled that Sallie's petitions raising that evidence were procedurally barred because he missed a filing deadline by eight days at a time when he didn't have a lawyer. \n The defense team also made those arguments in a clemency petition to the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles, urging it to act as a \"fail safe\" against a miscarriage of justice. But the board, the only authority in Georgia with power to commute a death sentence, declined to spare Sallie's life after a clemency hearing Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Georgia executes 9th inmate this year, most in nation"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Joe Biden presided over the Senate at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Monday. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans controlling Congress today unveiled $10 billion in supplemental war funding and $4 billion more for disaster relief for Louisiana and other states as key additions to must-pass legislation to keep the government running into next spring. \n The bill would also deliver $170 million in long-delayed help for Flint, Michigan, to fix its lead-tainted water system. \n The legislation would prevent the government from shutting down this weekend and buy several months for the new Congress and incoming Trump administration to wrap up more than $1 trillion worth of unfinished agency budget bills. \n Democrats complained the GOP measure shortchanged New York City by giving it just $7 million to cover police overtime and other security costs for President-elect Donald Trump, who lives in midtown Manhattan. And they complained that a provision to help retired Appalachian coal miners keep their health benefits for a few months was woefully inadequate. \n The bill attracted attention as the final legislative locomotive to leave the station before Congress closes shop this year. Nothing else on Capitol Hill's agenda had the power to tow other unfinished legislation into law. \n The White House and Main St. Republicans were denied in a bid to revive the Export-Import Bank's ability to approve export financing deals exceeding $10 million. But the trucking lobby appeared poised to win permanent relief from recent Transportation Department rules mandating longer rest breaks for long-haul carriers. \n Democrats complained about a proposal to help speed a congressional waiver required next year to confirm retired Gen. James Mattis as secretary of defense. Mattis who would otherwise be ineligible to serve because of a law that requires a seven-year wait for former members of the military to serve in the post. A late change aimed at mollifying Democrats would maintain the 60-vote filibuster threshold to deliver the waiver. \n One major dispute centered on protecting health care benefits for about 16,000 retired coal miners facing the loss of coverage on Dec. 31. \n The measure had divided coal-state Republicans. Several supported longer-term legislation tackling the loss of health care, but GOP leaders \u2014 including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky \u2014 were wary of bailing out unionized workers. \n McConnell said Tuesday that the temporary health care help for miners would be part of the spending bill, though Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., protested that McConnell's fix would only last for a few months vowed to push for a permanent solution. \n Manchin vowed to block any Senate effort to move quickly on unrelated legislation until the miners' fight was settled. \n \"Over two years ago, we promised the retired coal miners of America \u2014 we promised them and most of their families \u2014 and these are a lot of widows now \u2014 and we promise them that they would have their health care benefits, which were guaranteed to them, and their pensions,\" Manchin said. \n At issue are health benefits for retirees whose companies declared bankruptcy in recent years. \n The Obama White House had requested $35 million to reimburse New York City for providing security for Trump and New York Democrats were upset when just $7 million was made available. \n \"Republicans' failure to fully reimburse NYPD for its efforts to protect President-elect Trump is beyond disappointing,\" said Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., who called the $7 million just a \"down payment on the way to making New York City whole.\" \n The overall measure would keep the government running through April 28. \n Lawmakers are again denying themselves a cost-of-living pay hike that's fallen out of favor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP adds $10B for wars, $4B for disasters to stopgap bill"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff Amy Raniag, left, stood guard with her K-9 dog, Sstack as commuters arrived at the Universal City Red Line station in Los Angeles today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garretti talked to the media before taking the subway to work from the Universal City Red Line station that was threatened with a terror attack in Los Angeles today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A commuter had his bag checked by a Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputy at the Universal City Red Line station in Los Angeles today. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Heavily armed sheriff's deputies stood watch today at a Los Angeles-area subway station named in an unconfirmed threat and Mayor Eric Garcetti took the line to work to show confidence in security measures. \n Temporary barriers were in place at the entrance to the Red Line station near Universal Studios and some commuters were subjected to bag searches as deputies stood by with rifles and dogs. \n The mayor, who had urged people to go about their normal routines, used the station to get to work. \n Garcetti said the threat was reported to an overseas tip line and relayed to the FBI. \n \"So this threat did not come from a person directly,\" he said. \"It came from a person who said they knew of a person.\" \n Garcetti would not release further information, including the country where the call was received. \n Information about the potential threat was relayed to the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force from international partners Monday morning and was publicly revealed in a Monday night press conference. \n Deirdre Fike, assistant director of the FBI's Los Angeles office, said the credibility of the threat was still being investigated but it was announced due to its specificity and because the attack was threatened for the next day. \n Area U.S. Rep. Adam Schiff, ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said he was briefed by law enforcement about the threat. \n \"While the threat is still under investigation, law enforcement and local officials acted appropriately by alerting the public promptly, increasing security and urging residents to go about their normal daily business,\" he said in a statement that recalled a threat that closed the Los Angeles Unified School District last December. \n \"If it turns out to be a hoax like the prior threat against the LAUSD, it will represent another profound example of the extraordinary cost imposed on communities throughout the United States by such actions,\" Schiff added. \n The Universal City Red Line station is adjacent to the studio theme park, the Universal CityWalk entertainment district, hotels and office buildings. \n The line carries commuters from the San Fernando Valley to Union Station in downtown Los Angeles. About 150,000 riders a day take it and the Purple Line, which covers some of the same route. \n Police Chief Charlie Beck and Sheriff Jim McDonnell said stepped-up security would include additional uniformed officers as well as officers in plainclothes. \n \"This could be real, it could be a hoax. But we must remain calm but vigilant,\" McDonnell said. \n Both he and Beck encouraged anyone who sees anything suspicious to contact authorities immediately. \n AP photographer Richard Vogel and reporter John Antczak contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Threatened rail attack prompts heightened security in L.A."}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Military personnel saluted as Air Force One, with President Barack Obama aboard, departed at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. on Nov. 6. President-elect Donald Trump wants the government's contract for a new Air Force One canceled. \n NEW YORK \u00bb The government should cancel its multibillion-dollar order for new Air Force One presidential planes, Donald Trump declared today, serving notice he's ready to jump in and start making decisions six weeks before his inauguration. \n Costs for the two Boeing 747s are \"totally out of control,\" Trump told reporters in the lobby of his New York skyscraper. \n The government has contracted with Boeing to build the planes, which would go into service around 2024. That means Trump wouldn't fly on the aircraft, which carry U.S. presidents around the globe, unless he pursued and won a second term. But the Air Force has pressed for a faster schedule, saying the current version is becoming too expensive to repair and keep in good flying shape. \n The contract for the planes was to be about $3 billion, but costs have been reported to be rising. Trump tweeted early today, \"Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order!\" \n Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order! \n Later, he said the costs are ridiculous: \"I think Boeing is doing a little bit of a number. We want Boeing to make a lot of money, but not that much money.\" \n The price of Boeing stock dipped after his comments but not drastically. Trump had tweeted in 2013 that he owned Boeing stock, but a spokesman said today he sold all of his stocks in June. \n The company said in a statement, \"We are currently under contract for $170 million to help determine the capabilities of these complex military aircraft that serve the unique requirements of the president of the United States. We look forward to working with the U.S. Air Force on subsequent phases of the program allowing us to deliver the best planes for the president at the best value for the American taxpayer.\" \n Trump now uses his own plane, a Boeing 757, which he has outfitted with white leather and gold, a large flat-screen television and a bedroom. But as president it is expected that he would travel aboard the Air Force jet, which is equipped with special safety, defensive and communications equipment. Air Force One also has seating for reporters; Trump generally does not allow the press on his own plane. \n Later today, Trump will be using his 757 to travel to the second stop of his \"thank you\" tour, in North Carolina, less than a week after his return to rallies at an Ohio appearance that felt more like a raucous campaign stop than a traditional speech by a president-to-be. \n At that Cincinnati stop, Trump disparaged the media as \"dishonest,\" inspired loud \"Build the wall\" chants, took swipes at fellow Republicans and stunned his own aides with his surprise announcement from the stage that he was appointing retired Gen. James Mattis as secretary of defense. \n Mattis' selection was being formally announced today, and he is to appear with Trump at the evening event in Fayetteville. \n Later this week there will be rallies in Iowa and Michigan as Trump barnstorms the country to salute his supporters who delivered victories in the battleground states he needed to capture the White House. And on Saturday, Trump will attend the 117th annual Army-Navy football game, spending half the game on Navy's side of the stadium and the other half on Army's side. The game between the two military academies often draws the commander in chief; both Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush have attended in recent years. \n Before leaving for North Carolina today, Trump was slated to hold a number of meetings in New York, including with Rex Tillerson, the CEO of ExxonMobil; Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad, who is meeting about a diplomatic post, and radio host Laura Ingraham who is being considered for press secretary. \n Those interviews come a day after Trump chose retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson to be secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, raising fresh concerns about the lack of experience some of Trump's Cabinet picks have with agencies they're now being chosen to lead. \n Carson, who opposed Trump in the Republican primaries, has no background in government or running a large bureaucracy. \n South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, Trump's choice to be ambassador to the United Nations, has no foreign policy experience. Steve Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs partner and Hollywood executive, is Trump's man to lead the Treasury Department but has never worked in government. And Mattis, a widely praised battlefield commander, spent decades in the Marines but now is tapped to run the nation's largest government agency, the Defense Department, with 740,000 civilian employees in addition to 1.3 million service personnel. \n Carson would oversee a budget of nearly $50 billion that provides rental assistance for more than 5 million households. Demand for that assistance is high in part because housing costs are rising faster than incomes. HUD also promotes home ownership with the Federal Housing Administration underwriting about 1 in 6 mortgages issued in the U.S. The agency is charged with enforcing federal fair housing laws, too. \n AP Writer Joseph Pisani contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Cancel It!' Trump says new Air Force One cost ridiculous"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "Maui police arrested a 20-year-old Kihei man Monday in connection with the fatal hit-and-run crash that killed 16-year-old Hannah Simmons. \n The driver was arrested on suspicion of accidents involving serious bodily injury or death and second-degree negligent homicide. He was released pending further investigation, according to a news release from the Maui Police Department. \n Police seized a blue 2007 Ford F-250 pick up truck. \n On the night of Nov. 27, police said the 20-year-old man was traveling on Kaiwahine Street and made a left turn onto Piilani Highway when the vehicle struck Simmons of Kihei who was in a marked crosswalk. \n The driver fled the scene. Simmons was transported to Maui Memorial Medical Center in critical condition and died from her injuries. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kihei man arrested in fatal Maui hit-and-run"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "LOS ANGELES \u00bb Los Angeles County prosecutors have charged a University of Southern California student with murder in the stabbing death of a professor. \n The district attorney's office says 28-year-old David Jonathan Brown will be arraigned today. \n The case includes a special allegation that Brown personally used a deadly weapon to kill 50-year-old Siaufung \"Bosco\" Tjan in the professor's office. \n If convicted, Brown could face a maximum sentence of 26 years to life in prison. \n Tjan joined USC in 2001, taught in the Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, and served as co-director of the Dornsife Cognitive Neuroimaging Center. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "USC student charged with murder in stabbing of professor"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This booking photo released by the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office shows Ronald Gasser, 54, the man who fatally shot ex-NFL player Joe McKnight in a New Orleans suburb during a road rage dispute. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The body of former NFL player Joe McKnight lay between the shooter's vehicle at left and his Audi SUV at right as the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office investigated the scene in Terrytown, La., Dec. 1. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Friends and family of former NFL player Joe McKnight gathered at the scene of his shooting death as the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office investigated in Terrytown, La., Dec. 1. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The body of former NFL player Joe McKnight lay between the shooter's vehicle at left and his Audi SUV at right as the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office investigated the scene in Terrytown, La., on Dec. 1. \n HARVEY, La. \u00bb The Louisiana man who fatally shot ex-NFL player Joe McKnight during a road rage dispute was jailed on a manslaughter charge as a sheriff angrily defended the investigation today, saying authorities \"strategically\" waited for days to make the arrest because they needed to find independent witnesses. \n Ronald Gasser, 54, was initially taken into custody after the shooting last Thursday but he was released without being charged, drawing heated criticism from protesters who said race played a role in the investigation. Gasser, who is white, was arrested late Monday. McKnight was black. \n Jefferson Parish Sheriff Newell Normand pounded on a podium during a news conference explaining the investigation. \n \"This isn't about race. Not a single witness has said \u2026 one racial slur was uttered,\" the sheriff said. \n The case comes at a time of intense scrutiny in the African-American community about the shootings of black men, in particular by police. While this case doesn't involve a police shooting, it has flared temperatures and drawn protests at the sheriff's department. \n It's not clear whether Gasser has an attorney. Attempts to reach Gasser's family were unsuccessful today. \n The sheriff said the dispute between the men started on a bridge and proceeded into a New Orleans suburb, with both men driving erratically and yelling at each other. Eventually, the cars came to a stop and McKnight confronted Gasser, who was still seated in his car, the sheriff said. Gasser pulled out a gun and shot McKnight three times, killing him. When deputies arrived, the sheriff said Gasser handed them his gun and said he shot McKnight, 28. \n The sheriff said McKnight had a gun in his vehicle but no evidence suggested he insinuated anything about it. It was his stepfather's gun, and his stepfather's vehicle, the sheriff said. \n During the news conference, the sheriff read aloud some of the derogatory remarks about the investigation, including racially charged comments. \n \"We have sometimes unrealistic expectations of how these things work \u2026 you don't just run out and start slapping cuffs on people,\" Normand said. \n He noted that on Thursday, Gasser gave authorities a statement that included him being fearful and defending himself, saying that McKnight had made threatening comments. On Thursday evening, authorities had only been able to interview six witnesses, none of whom had seen the shooting. One person they talked to lied to authorities about what happened, the sheriff said. \n Normand said had an arrest been made Thursday, he was certain people would be afraid to come forward. Instead, authorities found more than 250 people they wanted to talk to by identifying license plates in the area at the time, and conducted more than 160 interviews. The sheriff said several witnesses made comments contradicting Gasser's statements and were the key to making the arrest. \n He also pointed out that Gasser didn't ask for an attorney but instead sat with authorities for over ten hours of interviews in the days after the shooting and gave permission for them to search his home. \n Normand also pushed back against questions about whether he understood the fear that a shooting like this had brought about among some in the black community. \n \"Let's not try to make this out to be something that it is not. What we had were two adult males engaged in unacceptable behavior that did not understand how to deal with conflict resolution,\" he said. \n The sheriff did not want to go into details about why he felt Gasser should be arrested even though the state has a version of the \"Stand Your Ground\" law. \n Louisiana's law holds that people don't have a duty to retreat and can \"meet force with force\" if they reasonably believe that using deadly force is necessary. Law experts say it's not a blanket excuse. \n \"When you use lethal force, it's got to be proportional,\" said Ken Levy, an associate professor who teaches criminal law at LSU Law Center. \"And the only way it's proportional is if McKnight was threatening serious bodily injury or death.\" \n McKnight played three seasons for the New York Jets and one with the Kansas City Chiefs. \n The Jets held a moment of silence Monday night before their game against the Indianapolis Colts at MetLife Stadium to honor the former running back. He most recently played for the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the Canadian Football League. \n McKnight's death was eerily similar to that of former New Orleans Saints player Will Smith, who was killed last April in a shooting sparked by a traffic altercation. Cardell Hayes is on trial and charged with second-degree murder. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man who shot ex-NFL player charged with manslaughter"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary John King spoke at the White House in Washington on Sept. 29. The latest global snapshot of student performance shows declining math scores in the U.S. and stagnant performance in science and reading. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb American students have a math problem. \n The latest global snapshot of student performance shows declining math scores in the U.S. and stagnant performance in science and reading. \n \"We're losing ground \u2014 a troubling prospect when, in today's knowledge-based economy, the best jobs can go anywhere in the world,\" said Education Secretary John B. King Jr. \"Students in Massachusetts, Maryland, and Minnesota aren't just vying for great jobs along with their neighbors or across state lines, they must be competitive with peers in Finland, Germany, and Japan.\" \n Math was a stubborn concern. \"This pattern that we're seeing in mathematics seems to be consistent with what we've seen in previous assessments \u2026 everything is just going down,\" said Peggy Carr, acting commissioner at the National Center for Education Statistics. \n The 2015 Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, study is the latest to document that American students are underperforming their peers in several Asian nations. The U.S. was below the international average in math and about average in science and reading. Singapore was the top performer in all three subjects on the PISA test. \n More than half a million 15-year-old students in about 70 nations and educational systems took part in the 2015 exam. The test is coordinated by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. \n Here are the main things to know about the PISA exams: \n U.S. SCORES AND RANKINGS \n Not so encouraging. \n The test is based on a 1,000-point scale. Among the findings: \n -In math, the U.S. average score was 470, below the international average of 490. Average scores ranged from 564 in Singapore to 328 in the Dominican Republic. \n -In science, the U.S. average score was 496, about the same as the international average of 493. Average scores ranged from 556 in Singapore to 332 in the Dominican Republic. \n -In reading, the U.S. average score was 497, around the same as the international average of 493. Average scores ranged from 535 in Singapore to 347 in Lebanon. \n Average scores in math have been on the decline since 2009, and scores in reading and science have been flat during that same time period. \n Across the globe, American students were outperformed by their counterparts in 36 countries in math; 18 countries in science and 14 countries in reading. \n SO, WHAT IS GOING ON WITH MATH? \n Andreas Schleicher, director of education and skills at OECD, says high-performing countries do really well in math in three things: rigor, focus, and coherence. \n For example, he says, many high-performing countries will teach a lot less but focus at much greater depths, particularly when you look at East Asia, Japan and Singapore. \n \"Students are often good at answering the first layer of a problem in the United States,\" said Schleicher. \"But as soon as students have to go deeper and answer the more complex part of a problem, they have difficulties.\" \n WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING ABOUT HOW THE U.S. STACKS UP \n \"The latest U.S. PISA achievement results are disappointing but not surprising,\" said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. \"They were predictable given the impact of the last 15 years of U.S. education policies combined with continuing state disinvestment following the 2008 recession. Thirty-one states still spend less per pupil than before the recession.\" \n  \"This stagnant performance on PISA by U.S. students in the last four years once again affirms our belief that the U.S. would be well served to take a hard look at the strategies used by the top-performing education systems and adapt lessons learned from them to fit the U.S. context and needs,\" said Marc Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the Economy. \"It is critical to look not only at their average high performance, but also at the strategies they use to achieve much greater equity across and within schools compared to the United States.\" \n OTHER FINDINGS \n Globally, gender differences in science tended to be smaller than in reading and math. But, on average, in 33 countries and economies, the share of top performers in science is larger among boys than among girls. Finland was the only country where girls were more likely to be top performers than boys. \n Across OECD countries, on average, the gender gap in reading in favor of girls narrowed by 12 points between 2009 and 2015. \n Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Puerto Rico participated as international benchmarking systems and received separate scores from the United States. Massachusetts's average scores were higher than the U.S. and the international average scores in science, math and reading. North Carolina's average scores were not statistically different from the U.S. average scores for all three subjects. And Puerto Rico's average scores were lower than both the average U.S. scores and the international average scores for all three subjects. \n ABOUT THE TEST AND COMPARISONS \n The PISA test is conducted every three years. Schools in each country are randomly selected, and OECD says the selection of schools and students is kept as inclusive as possible so that student samples are drawn from a broad range of backgrounds and abilities. \n Another international test, known as the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study, or TIMSS, had similar international comparisons with Asian countries solidly outperforming American students. That test, though, administered every four years to a random sampling of younger students in dozens of countries, had eighth graders in the U.S. improving their scores in math, up nine points. Scores for science, however, were flat. In fourth grade, scores were unchanged in math and science. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Math a concern for U.S. teens; science, reading flat on test"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The USS John C. Stennis arrived at Pearl Harbor on Friday. \n Pearl Harbor Remembrance Ceremony: What you need to know \n \u2014\u2014\u2014  \n Source: 75th Commemoration Committee, city Department of Emergency Management  \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pearl Harbor ceremony: What you need to know"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sunday, Nov. 6, 2016, file photo, Todd Kohlhepp's enters the courtroom of Judge Jimmy Henson for a bond hearing at the Spartanburg Detention Facility in Spartanburg, S.C. Deputies have formally charged Kohlhepp, suspected of being a serial killer, with three additional counts of murder for bodies found buried on his land. The arrest warrants issued Monday, Nov. 28, against Kohlhepp were for killings that Spartanburg County Sheriff Chuck Wright already said the 45-year-old real estate agent was responsible for. \n Spartanburg, S.C. \u00bb A South Carolina man charged with killing a total of seven people is facing another lawsuit. \n Local news outlets report Charlie Carver's estate filed a wrongful death lawsuit Monday against Todd Kohlhepp and his mother. \n Last week, the woman police say was locked in a storage container for two months by Kohlhepp sued him for intentional infliction of emotional distress, false imprisonment, assault and battery. Authorities say Kohlhepp kidnapped the woman Aug. 31 after talking to Carver and her about hiring them to clean up his property. \n Carver was the woman's boyfriend, and his body was found in a shallow grave near the container. Deputies say Kohlhepp fatally shot Carver that day, then locked the woman in the container. \n The Anderson Independent-Mail reports attempts to reach Kohlhepp's mother for comment were unsuccessful. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man's estate files suit against cold case killings suspect"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pictures and flowers adorn a fence near the site of a warehouse fire Monday, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, Calif. The death toll in the Oakland warehouse fire climbed Monday with more bodies still feared buried in the blackened ruins, and families anxiously awaited word of their missing loved ones. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judy Hough, left, and her husband Brian, center, hold a picture of their son Travis, who died in a warehouse fire, during a vigil at Lake Merritt on Monday, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, Calif. Family members and friends are being notified as firefighters continue a painstaking search for victims of the Oakland warehouse fire. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Signs and flowers adorn a fence near the site of a warehouse fire Monday, Dec. 5, 2016, in Oakland, Calif. The death toll in the Oakland warehouse fire on Friday climbed Monday with more bodies still feared buried in the blackened ruins, and families anxiously awaited word of their missing loved ones. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman cries near the site of a warehouse fire that started Friday night and killed dozens, Sunday, Dec. 4, 2016, in Oakland, Calif. The death toll was expected to rise, as crews using buckets and shovels slowly made their way through the building, finding victims where they least expected them, Alameda County Sheriff's Sgt. Ray Kelly said. \n Oakland, Calif. \u00bb A therapist who used music to help kids cope with trauma. A woman who taught at a Montessori school. An energetic artist who could make friends with anyone. \n These were some of the people killed when flames ripped through a converted Oakland warehouse during a dance party Friday night. \n The death toll from the fire climbed to 36 on Monday. Alameda County Sheriff Gregory Ahern told The Associated Press he didn't believe more bodies would be found. \n The victims also included teens and people from Europe and Asia, Sheriff's Sgt. Ray Kelly said. Here's a closer look at who they were: \n PASSIONATE MUSIC THERAPIST \n Travis Hough, 35, believed music healed people, including himself. \n Hough was an experimental electronic artist behind Ghost of Lightning, a project in which he created music to explore and understand his own psyche, said Michelle Campbell, founder of Mixtape, an artist management company based in Oakland. \n Hough worked by day as a therapist in schools in the Bay area, using music to help children cope with trauma, Campbell said. \n \"Really his passion was his work in helping find ways to use music as a means of healing,\" Campbell said. \n Hough played bass and keyboard and was a performance artist who was inspired by Prince and other male performers \"who wear ruffles, glitter and makeup,\" she said. His shows included orbs of rhythmically pulsating light. \n He enjoyed a good meal with family and friends and hiking through northern California's Redwood forests. \n \"He was definitely a radiant light,\" Campbell said. \n EXTRAORDINARY CO-WORKER \n Nick Gomez-Hall, 25, made a warm impression on friends and colleagues in California and Rhode Island as a musician, mentor and community advocate who most recently worked for an independent publisher. \n Berkeley, California-based publisher Counterpoint Press said Monday it was devastated by the loss of an \"extraordinary co-worker and a true friend.\" \n \"Whether he was recommending new music to listen to (and it was always so good), regaling us with tales of the bowling alley, offering his beloved truck for a ride if anyone needed it or sharing his much-appreciated opinions about a jacket or manuscript, he made everyone feel like they were his friend,\" the company wrote in a social media post. \"He was kind, considerate, hilarious.\" \n Gomez-Hall was a 2013 graduate of Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, where he concentrated in American Studies. The university on Monday said he \"played an integral role\" in the school's Swearer Center for Public Service. He volunteered to teach at an elementary school while an undergraduate and later helped run an after-school program. \n He also became well-known in Providence's music scene for playing guitar and singing in the two-man band Nightmom. \n Gomez-Hall recently moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. He was originally from Southern California and graduated from Coronado High School. \n 'TOTAL GOOFBALL' \n Cash Askew, a 22-year-old musician from Oakland, was kind, gentle and a \"total goofball,\" said her girlfriend, Anya Taylor. \n The couple met about a year ago at a concert in Oakland and connected through their love of music. \n Taylor told the Washington Post (http://wapo.st/2gZc0Qu) she rushed to the scene after hearing about the blaze, but \"all we could do was stand there.\" \n Leisa Baird Askew said her daughter grew up in a musical and artistic family. \n Cash was one of two members of the band Them Are Us Too. She had been performing with bandmate Kennedy Ashlyn since 2013. The duo met while studying at the University of California at Santa Cruz. \n Ashlyn said Askew recently started becoming \"her best self\" after she came out as transgender about two years ago. \n TEACHER, GARDENER \n Sara Hoda, 30, of Walnut Creek, was a \"sweet person\" who gardened and taught at a Montessori school, friend Carol Crewdson told the Los Angeles Times (http://lat.ms/2g3oOTH) \n Crewdson, 33, met Hoda in 2010 when they started a collective where artists and creatives could stay, avoiding the San Francisco Bay Area's high rent. \n They lost touch after the collective shut down. But Crewdson said while it was operating, Hoda was very active in the collective process. \n THE HEART OF OAKLAND \n Friends called Ara Jo a vibrant artist and community organizer who could make friends with anyone, anywhere. \n Jo, 29, grew up in Los Angeles and was living in Oakland. Authorities notified her family of her death Monday. Her parents flew in from South Korea. \n \"She's a typical artist. She's got more causes than she has energy, even though she has a lot of energy,\" said her boyfriend, Terry Ewing. \n Ewing said one of her latest causes was to raise money and awareness for American Indians and others protesting the Dakota Access Pipeline Project in North Dakota. \n Friends mourned Jo on social media, calling her the heart of Oakland. \n UNIQUE SENSE OF STYLE \n Donna Kellogg, 32, of Oakland, was described as energetic and intelligent by friends and co-workers. \n Josh Howes, an ex-boyfriend, said Kellogg wanted to be a healer, the East Bay Times reported (http://bit.ly/2h0AbAl). He said she was studying nutrition. \n Kellogg worked at Highwire Coffee Roasters, where founder Robert Myers said she had just cut her hair and was on the brink of changes. He said all her co-workers enjoyed connecting with her through their shared interests in coffee and her quirky sense of style. \n \"I loved that she had a belt with her name on it and would wear it to work,\" Myer said. \n LIKE A BROTHER \n Peter Wadsworth was thoughtful, caring and always willing to lend a hand, his friend Tammy Tasoff said. \n Tasoff, 29, said Wadsworth looked out for her, doing little things that made her life easier. He would organize her messy files, give her advice and fix her computer if she needed help, said Tasoff, a dental student. \n He bought video games because he knew she loved them, and he would often watch her play, she said. \n \"Usually he'd say, 'Let's play video games,' and then he'd say, 'No, I just want to watch you play,'\" she said, sobbing. \"He'd make me food. He took really good care of me. He was like my big brother.\" \n LONG-DISTANCE RELATIONSHIP \n Among the fatalities was Alex Ghassan, while his fianc\u00e9e, Hanna Henrikka Ruax, is listed as missing. \n Ghassan, whose death was confirmed late Monday, was a director and producer who worked with Spike Lee and Talib Kweli. He was the father of twin toddlers. \n Ruax is a yoga instructor, entrepreneur and activist visiting from Helsinki, Finland. She arrived in Oakland in late November. \n The pair had been dating long-distance, and Ghassan was preparing to move to Europe, said his roommate Vikram Babu. \"He was fed up with the U.S.,\" Babu said. \n Ghassan previously resided in Orange, New Jersey. He has lived in Oakland on and off for about a year, Babu said. \n Ghassan's mother, Emilie Grandchamps, told WABC-TV (https://goo.gl/HFH3eN), that Ghassan often went out of his way to help other artists. \n Before the fire, Ghassan posted video of the warehouse party on Instagram. \"Oakland reminds me of #JerseyCity so much at times,\" he wrote. \n Ruax, meanwhile, is a social justice activist who organized a large protest in Finland after a neo-Nazi rally in that European country, Babu said. \"She is very gentle,\" he said. \n Ruax's Instagram account is filled with playful photos of her and Ghassan. Last week, she posted a selfie with Ghassan where both made funny faces into the camera. \n \"Sent this pic to my mumz after arriving home to my boo,\" she wrote. \"Home sweet home!\" \n FINDING THEIR PLACE THROUGH MUSIC \n Ben Runnels, was listed as confirmed dead late Monday, while Nicole Renae Siegrist, known as \"Denalda,\" is among the missing. \n They named their last album \"Temporary Heaven\" to describe the fleeting nature of life and the moments of happiness when you feel completely comfortable with who you are, no matter how different from others you may be, said Brendan Dreaper, who helps operate Mixtape, the Oakland-based company that managed their band. \n That's also the message the two friends, who formed the group Introflirt, would want the world to remember about their music, Dreaper said. They dubbed their sound \"croonwave\" and made it their mission to create a \"soundtrack for the insecure,\" according to Mixtape. \n Runnels, who played guitar and sang, was introverted but connected to people through his music, Dreaper said. Siegrist, who played the synthesizer, was an outgoing \"free spirit\" who used herself as a canvas, painting black streaks or bold marks on her face to contrast with outfits like a veil, halo of flowers and white dress. \n Runnels was from the East Coast, and Siegrist the Midwest. They met in the Bay Area a few years ago and wanted to send a message to people who feel out of place. \n \"You may feel like an outsider, but that's your advantage in life,\" Dreaper said. \"They were completely comfortable with being themselves. I think they did achieve that. I know people connected to them. The music did that for them, as well. It made them feel happy about themselves.\" \n The two went to the warehouse show with friends, including musician Hough, who also worked with Mixtape. They went to see Runnels' roommate, Igaz, who is listed among the missing. \n Siegrist's cousin, Rhonda Ford, said the musician grew up in Lincoln, Nebraska, and described her as caring and outgoing, someone who could talk to anybody and lived life to the fullest. \n She said the family is awaiting formal notification of her death. Runnels' family could not be reached. \n OTHER VICTIMS \n The city of Oakland also identified David Clines, 35, of Oakland, and Brandon Chase Wittenauer, 32, of Hayward, as victims. \n Another victim has been identified, but officials said they were withholding the name because the person was 17 years old. \n One of the people killed was the son of a local deputy, Kelly said Sunday. He did not release the name. \n ___ \n Many friends and family members were still awaiting word of their missing loved ones as crews searched for remains. Some gathered outside a sheriff's office for official confirmation on their status. \n ATTORNEY WITH A DESIRE TO HELP \n Nick Walrath, 31, of Oakland texted his girlfriend, Alexis Abrams-Bourke, from inside the burning structure, saying there was a fire and that he loved her. \n Abrams-Bourke said Monday that Walrath was among the missing. She spoke between sobs as she described him as a wonderful person who was open and vulnerable and goofy and generous. \n \"I feel like my future has been ripped from me,\" she said. \n The two moved together from New York City several years ago after Walrath got a job as a clerk for the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. He spent a year working as a judicial law clerk for the federal district court in San Francisco, and recently was hired as an attorney with the San Francisco law firm Durie Tangri. \n But his ultimate goal was to work for the American Civil Liberties Union, according to Abrams-Bourke. \n Helping people is what drove him. \n \"He could really step outside of himself and care and listen to other people and feel their struggles, and want to help,\" Abrams-Bourke said. \"Not everyone is equipped to help in that way, and he knew he was, you know, and that was his gift.\" \n District Judge Jon Tigar said in a statement that Walrath was an \"exceptional\" law clerk in his chambers. \n \"Nick brought his brilliant intellect, cogent writing skills, curiosity and relentless work ethic to everything he did,\" Tigar wrote. \n 'SO SUPPORTIVE TO US' \n Barrett Clark, 35, was a popular sound engineer at the San Francisco club The Bottom of the Hill. And his friends say he appeared to be everywhere. \n Parker T. Gibbs, chief operating officer at Magnolia Media Productions, said when he'd walk into a rave full of strangers, he'd always spot Clark. \"I knew where I'd be for the rest of the night,\" Gibbs said. \"Right next to him.\" \n Authorities have listed Clark among the missing. \n Friends say the Santa Rosa native was a sound engineer and DJ who was a \"standup guy\" and appeared always ready to help musicians and fellow DJs. \n \"Mourning Barrett Clark \u2014 so supportive to us,\" composer and musician Holly Herndon tweeted Monday. \"Played mesmeric live techno. Best sound engineer. Always laughing & making things work for ppl.\" \n Lynn Schwarz, co-owner of The Bottom of the Hill, said Clark was the engineer she hired to impress popular bands. \n \"You couldn't shock the guy,\" Schwarz said. \"He had all kinds of friends.\" \n PHOTOGRAPHER WHO LOVED MUSIC \n Friends and family were holding out hope that photographer Amanda Allen, 34, would be found safe. \n The Chelmsford, Massachusetts, native is a dancer with a passion for music, loved ones told The Lowell Sun (http://bit.ly/2gISHNd). \n \"We are all praying for a miracle and coming together as a family,\" said her mother, Linda Smith Regan. \n Allen's husband, Andy Kershaw, a DJ, called her vibrant and magnetic. \n Allen graduated from Bridgewater State University in 2004. She and Kershaw moved to San Francisco from Boston in 2008. \n Chelmsford native Shannon Fisher said Allen took ballet as a child and later embraced \"that underground musical life.\" Fisher described Allen as smart and funny, with a laugh that comes easily. \n A photography website belonging to Allen says she shoots portraits and events. \n A BEAUTIFUL SOUL \n Kershaw said his friend and fellow DJ Johnny Igaz also was unaccounted for. \n Igaz reportedly was playing a set when the fire broke out. He was listed on Facebook as a record buyer at Green Apple Books and Music in San Francisco. \n His Facebook page was littered with tearful posts from friends who called him a beautiful soul and a true friend. \n HER TRUE SELF \n Riley Fritz, 29, a musician and artist from Connecticut, recently moved to San Francisco to be with friends, according to her brother, Ben Fritz. \n \"She was a kind and beautiful person who had the strength to be her true self even when she knew that was not an easy path,\" Ben Fritz, 39, told The Associated Press. He said she appeared to be the \"happiest she had been in a few years.\" \n Ben Fritz said the family was notified Sunday night that Riley, also known as Feral Pines, likely was killed in the fire. \n Their father, Bruce Fritz, told the San Francisco Chronicle (http://bit.ly/2haW54C) he was flying to Oakland on Monday to identify the body. He said he would be joined by Ben Fritz, who lives in Los Angeles. \n Riley Fritz graduated from Staples High School in Westport in 2005 and the School for the Visual Arts in Manhattan in 2010. She lived in several places before moving to the Bay Area, according to her family. \n ___ \n Associated Press writers Julie Watson in San Diego, Janie Har in Oakland, Russell Contreras in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island, and Rachel D'Oro in Anchorage, Alaska, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Music therapist, teacher, teens among warehouse fire victims"}

{"date": "December 6, 2016", "text": "WPVI-TV 6-ABC \n This photo taken from video provided by WPVI-TV 6-ABC shows firefighters responding to the scene of a possible explosion at a power substation in downtown Philadelphia, on Saturday, Dec. 3, 2016. Officials say no one was injured but about 10 people had to be rescued from elevators because of the resulting power outage in the downtown neighborhood. \n Philadelphia \u00bb A utility company says a transformer issue is to blame for causing white foam to seep out of a downtown Philadelphia substation and onto a side street this past weekend. \n PECO Energy Co. spokesman Ben Armstrong dispelled rumors Monday that an explosion occurred at the substation Saturday afternoon. \n The frothy mess can be traced back to one of the site's transformers, which flashed momentarily and shut down with an audible popping sound when a circuit breaker went offline. \n Armstrong says the outage triggered emergency systems to flood the substation with fire-suppressing foam. Approximately 2,700 PECO customers briefly lost power. \n A hazmat crew was able to clean up the foam, which isn't toxic, after a few hours. \n An internal investigation is ongoing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Utility blames transformer issue for Philadelphia foam leak"}

