{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY WAIMEA VALLEY PARK \n Mud covered the floor of the special events pavilion at Waimea Valley Park after a massive flood \n COURTESY WAIMEA VALLEY PARK \n Debris from trees blocked the entrance to Waimea Valley Park after a massive flood \n Waimea Valley Park suffered tens of thousands of dollars in damage to equipment as a result of major flooding from the recent storm, according to its executive director, Richard Pezzulo. \n Among the equipment lost was a $30,000 tractor that floodwaters swept about 300 yards from the facility workshop into a stream, Pezzulo said. \n Workers also were faced with a major cleanup of facilities today, including piles of debris at the front entrance of the park and mud and water that flooded the special event pavilion. Pezzulo said the stream, which usually measures a foot in height, rose 12 feet in an hour and a half on Tuesday night. \n \"It was pretty intense,\" he said. \"The stream couldn't deal with the volume of water.\" \n The park was closed for repairs and planned to reopen on Sunday. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Flooding damages Waimea Valley Park"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "THE TIMES-NEWS / ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Two weeks ago, John R.K. Howard took a seat during his sentencing hearing at the courthouse in Twin Falls, Idaho. District Judge Randy Stoker has sentenced Howard, a high school football player, to three years of probation and 300 hours of community service after prosecutors said he took part in a brutal locker room assault on a black football player in a small Idaho town. The allegations of racist taunts and physical abuse suffered by the teen were revealed this month when the family filed a $10 million lawsuit against the Dietrich School District. \n BOISE, Idaho >> The investigation into the sexual assault of a disabled black football player by his white teammates at a small-town Idaho high school showed that crucial evidence was collected by school employees, not law enforcement officials, and that the culture that led to the attack stretched far beyond the locker room. \n John R.K. Howard and two teammates were charged with sodomizing the victim with a clothes hanger in 2015 in the locker room at the high school in the tiny farming village of Dietrich. The sex assault charge against Howard, who was 18 at the time of the incident, was later dropped. He was sentenced last week to probation for felony injury to a child. The other two cases are sealed because they are being handled in juvenile court. \n An Associated Press review of roughly 2,000 pages of documents from the Idaho Attorney General's office found that school officials did not immediately report the crime. Instead, Superintendent Ben Hardcastle gathered key evidence, including the hanger, and began interviewing the suspects and some of the 27 potential witnesses before notifying the sheriff's department. \n Fellow students, neighbors and even football coaches were allowed to pressure the 17-year-old victim about his testimony, in some cases telling him that the case could bring the town to ruin and send friends to jail. \n Like most of his classmates, the victim grew up in Dietrich, though he was one of just a few black children in the community. He also struggled with mental illness and a developmental disability that made it hard for him to describe timelines or immediately recognize the racial implications of the teasing he endured. \n The teen ultimately had a breakdown from the stress and had to be institutionalized for a time, according to his mother. \n In the village of about 300 people, the school is the main public gathering space. The athletics programs are \"pretty much the only community activity,\" especially during cold winter days, said Roy Hubert, a Lincoln County commissioner who has lived there since 1943. \n The school locker room was ruled by a so-called \"bro code\" that forbid students to share what happened there with anyone outside, according to the attorney general's documents. Coaches were reluctant to be in the room when the boys were changing or showering, an absence that may have allowed the code to thrive. \n Racial harassment was common, though some claimed it was unintentional: The victim was nicknamed \"grape soda,\" \"fried chicken\" and \"Kool-Aid\" by his teammate and coaches. The coaches later said they did not know the nicknames were based on racial stereotypes. School officials knew that a student had drawn a cartoon of the victim sitting in the back of a bus on a classroom whiteboard, and the victim later reported that Howard frequently called him a racial slur and showed him a KKK song. \n Locker-room bullying escalated in the months before the attack, according to the documents. Some players showed dominance by \"dry humping\" teammates. Teammates occasionally tried to hit each other in the testicles. Wedgies \u2014 a prank in which the fabric of a boy's underwear is yanked up into his buttocks \u2014 were commonplace. \n The coaches knew about at least some of the behavior. At least one player, Howard, had previously lost playing time as a penalty for aggressively humping other students. \n Before practice on Oct. 22, 2015, one player gave the victim a wedgie that ripped the waistband of his underwear and exposed his buttocks. Then a teammate shoved him into a bathroom and humped him so hard that students outside heard banging. \n After practice, things escalated. Witnesses gave conflicting statements, but the documents suggest one suspect asked the victim for a hug and then held the victim while another shoved a coat hanger between the boy's buttocks. A third player, Howard, kicked the hanger at least once and possibly as many as three times, according to witness reports. \n After the victim screamed in pain, a teammate pulled the hanger out and flung it aside before a coach walked into the room. The coach did not ask the victim why his underwear was ripped or what happened, the documents said. \n The assault went unreported until the next day, when the victim's brother told their mother about it. She immediately contacted the superintendent before taking her son to a hospital for an exam. \n Hardcastle began interviewing team members and, based on their statements, took two coat hangers from the locker room. \n Then, deciding that the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office would be too busy because a deputy had recently died and believing that the boy's mother would report the incident, Hardcastle opted to wait. He reported the allegations to police the following Monday, four days after the assault, in a phone message. \n Idaho law requires school officials to report suspected crimes against children, including abuse, within 24 hours. \n Hardcastle declined to comment to The Associated Press, citing ongoing litigation. \n Almost a week after the assault, the sheriff's office notified the school that a criminal investigation was underway. The same day, the county prosecutor asked Idaho Attorney General Lawrence Wasden to take over the case, noting the many personal relationships between the school and law enforcement in the small community. \n Wasden agreed. A week later, he sent an investigator to collect interview records, surveillance videos, the hangers and other evidence from the school. That was on Nov. 10, 2015, nearly three weeks after the assault. \n The investigator Wasden assigned to the case, Tony Pittz, noted that state officials had to write a warrant and get a judge to sign it before they could collect student records, the hangers and other evidence from the school, a process that took several days. \n Many people pressured the victim not to talk about the assault. Fellow students told him the town \"would be destroyed\" and they would \"lose their farms\" if a lawsuit filed by the victim's family went forward, according to the documents. \n Information about those interactions was forwarded to the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office so they could look into possible witness intimidation, Pittz said. \n Even the football coaches attempted to manipulate the victim, according to the documents, approaching him along with teammates when his parents were not present and recording the conversation. \n On the recordings, the coaches urged the victim to \"tell the truth,\" and his teammates told him how much he was loved. At one point, the victim acknowledged that he was not absolutely sure which way he was facing when the assault occurred, a statement later used to suggest he lied under oath. \n The boy's doctors were worried that being forced to testify could affect his mental health. The prosecutor said that concern in part prompted him to offer a plea deal to Howard. In exchange for his guilty plea to a different felony, prosecutors dropped the sex-crime charge. \n The family's lawsuit alleges that school officials knew about the racial harassment and bullying but failed to take action. The complaint is pending. \n The family's attorney, Keith Roark, told the judge in Howard's criminal case that the family was outraged by the plea deal. \n The outcome of the case has drawn criticism from across the country from people who think the judge went too easy on Howard, perhaps because he was white and the victim was black. \n The judge insisted neither sex nor race was behind the crime and that out-of-towners did not understand the case, referring to news reports. \n \"People from the East Coast have no idea what this case is about,\" Judge Randy Stoker said. But \"I'm not going to impose a sentence that is not supported by the law.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Idaho school led locker room assault investigation"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigate a traffic fatality on South King Street on Tuesday. \n The woman who died after exiting a moving van in Makiki has been identified as Kerlin Bossy of Honolulu, according to the Honolulu Medical Examiner. \n Bossy, 20, exited the side door of a van in motion near the intersection of Pensacola and King streets at about 1:45 p.m. Tuesday, police said. \n Police said a 26-year-old woman was driving the van. \n Bossy was taken by Honolulu Emergency Medical Services to a hospital, where she died. \n The medical examiner said it is deferring making a determination of the cause of death at this time. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman who died after falling out of moving van on King Street identified"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This microscope image made available by Matthew Dodd in February 2017 shows tiny tubes in rock found in Quebec, Canada. The structures appear to be the oldest known fossils, giving new support to some ideas about how life began, a new study says. \n NEW YORK >> Tiny tubes and filaments in some Canadian rock appear to be the oldest known fossils, giving new support to some ideas about how life began, a new study says. \n The features are mineralized remains of what appear to be bacteria that lived some 3.77 billion to 4.28 billion years ago, the scientists said. That would surpass the 3.7 billion years assigned to some other rock features found in Greenland, which were proposed to be fossils last August. \n Such early-life findings are not as clear-cut as, say, digging up a dinosaur bone. The key question is always whether the rock features were really produced by living things. The new study hasn't convinced everybody. \n The new results come from examining rock found along the eastern shore of Hudson Bay in northern Quebec. The microscopic filaments and tubes, composed of an iron oxide called hematite, appeared within a rock type called jasper. A single strand may represent a chain of cells. \n Matthew Dodd of University College London, an author of the study published Wednesday by Nature, said the microbes lived near a vent in the seafloor where water was heated by a volcano. Since the fossil are nearly as old as Earth, which formed some 4.5 billion years ago, the finding supports previous indications that life may have begun in such an environment, he said. \n He and colleagues presented several lines of evidence to support the idea that the filaments and tubes are signatures of past life. But two experts who've previously reported similar findings said they're not convinced. \n \"I would say they are not fossils,\" Martin J. Van Kranendonk of the University of New South Wales in Australia, who reported the Greenland findings last year, wrote in an email. \n The paper's evidence for a biological origin falls short, he said. \n Abigail Allwood, a NASA geologist, said the authors have produced \"one of the most detailed cases yet made\" for evidence of life in rocks older than 3.5 billion years. \n But \"it's an extraordinary claim to make and you do need extraordinary evidence,\" she said. \n While the rock features could be signs of past life, she said, \"I think the jury is still out a little bit.\" \n Stronger evidence for ancient fossils comes from several findings in rocks at around 3.5 billion years old, she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tiny tubes in Canadian rock may be oldest known fossils"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this November, residents watched as workers load one of the five people killed in an alleged police anti-drug operation in Manila, Philippines. A human rights watchdog today accused the police in the Philippines of falsifying evidence to justify unlawful killings in the government's war on drugs that has caused more than 7,000 deaths, and pointed the finger at President Rodrigo Duterte as being ultimately responsible. \n MANILA, Philippines >> A human rights watchdog on Thursday accused the police in the Philippines of falsifying evidence to justify unlawful killings in the government's war on drugs that has caused more than 7,000 deaths, and pointed the finger at President Rodrigo Duterte as being ultimately responsible. \n Human Rights Watch said in a report that Duterte and other senior officials instigated and incited the killings of drug suspects in a campaign that could amount to crimes against humanity. \n The United Nations should create an independent investigation to determine responsibility and ensure accountability, the report said. \n Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella said the presidential palace will issue a statement later Thursday in response to the report. \n The report said police have repeatedly carried out extrajudicial killings of drug suspects, then falsely claimed self-defense, and planted guns, spent bullets or drugs on the bodies. \n \"Our investigations into the Philippine drug war found that police routinely kill drug suspects in cold blood and then cover up their crime by planting drugs and guns at the scene,\" said Peter Bouckaert, emergencies director at Human Rights Watch and author of the report. \"President Duterte's role in these killings makes him ultimately responsible for the deaths of thousands.\" \n Human Rights Watch said masked gunmen taking part in killings appeared to be working closely with the police, casting doubt on government claims that vigilantes or rival gangs are behind majority of the killings. It said in several instances it investigated, suspects in police custody were later found dead and classified by police as \"found bodies\" or \"deaths under investigation.\" \n The report draws heavily on interviews in metropolitan Manila with 28 family members of victims, witnesses to police killings, journalists and human rights activists. It also references initial police reports of killings, which Human Rights Watch said its field research consistently contradicted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rights groups says Philippine police has falsified evidence"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A boy stands on a fishing boat on the littered shore of Lake Titicaca in Kapi Cruz Grande, in the Puno region of Peru. The camouflage-colored Titicaca water frogs that used to be in abundance have thinned in numbers and have been placed on a \"critically endangered\" list by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and just 10,000 remain. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Melinda Quispe walks on the trash strewn shore of Lake Titicaca, as she holds her dog, in her village Kapi Cruz Grande, in the Puno region of Peru. The governments of Peru and Bolivia signed a pact in January to spend more than $500 million to attack the pollution problem of Lake Titicaca, though the details were vague. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cousins from the Avila family search for discarded toys on the shores of Lake Titicaca, in Coata in the Puno region of Peru. The shores of South America's largest lake are littered with dead frogs, discarded paint buckets and bags of soggy trash. Less visible threats lurk in the water itself: highly toxic levels of lead and mercury. \n LAKE TITICACA, Peru >> Tucked between snow-capped mountains, Lake Titicaca was once worshipped by the Incas, who proclaimed its deep blue waters the birthplace of the sun. \n These days the shores of South America's largest lake are littered with dead frogs, discarded paint buckets and bags of soggy trash. Less visible threats lurk in the water itself: toxic levels of lead and mercury. \n The steady deterioration of the prized tourist destination has caused a rash of health problems among the 1.3 million people in Peru and Bolivia living near Lake Titicaca's polluted banks. \n Untreated sewage water drains from two dozen nearby cities and illegal gold mines high in the Andes dump up to 15 tons of mercury a year into a river leading to the lake. \n \"If the frogs could talk they would say, 'This is killing me,'\" said Maruja Inquilla, a local environmental activist who recently showed up at the Puno governor's house carrying plastic bags filled with hundreds of dead frogs in protest. \n Increasing concern about pollution has prompted a series of scientific studies and promises of official action. \n The governments of Peru and Bolivia signed a pact in January 2016 to spend more than $500 million to attack the problem, though the details were vague. \n A year later, Peru's new president, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, pledged to construct 10 treatment plants around the lake, putting the cost at $437 million, \"so that the most beautiful lake in the world is the cleanest lake in the world.\" \n But details of how the plants would be funded remain unclear and promises by politicians dating back two decades have so far gone unfulfilled. \n Many of the more than 400,000 tourists who visit Lake Titicaca from Peru each year stop first in Juliaca, a town that produces 200 tons of trash daily, much of it winding up in a river that has turned into a conveyor belt of waste heading into the lake. Hypodermic needles, tires, old shoes and used diapers are scattered among the potato fields that line the giant lake's shores. An additional 350,000 tourists visit the lake from Bolivia. \n A Peruvian government-sponsored study in 2014 found mercury, cadmium, zinc and copper in four types of fish that form part of the local population's diet at levels higher than those advised for human consumption. \n Cellular malformations were detected in the fishes' blood, said Mario Monroy, lead author of the study and professor at Jorge Tadeo Lozano University in Bogota, Colombia. Monroy likened the state of the fishes' blood to a thermometer for measuring the health of Lake Titicaca's waters. \n The blue waves that lure travelers also contain lead at levels above international standards, the study found. \n Dr. Jane M. Hightower, who specializes in internal medicine at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco and is author of the book \"Diagnosis: Mercury: Money, Politics & Poison,\" reviewed the study and told The Associated Press that the numbers indicate the amount of mercury consumed by Titicaca residents would be \"unacceptable.\" \n The study suggested officials limit some fish consumption, but inhabitants of the lake area said they weren't informed about the study or told they could be consuming fish harmful to their health. \n Environment Minister Elsa Galarza said her agency plans to make recommendations to residents based on the findings, though Peru's Production Ministry, which co-financed the study, told The Associated Press in an email that more investigation is required. \n Inquilla, the local activist, hasn't been waiting for more. Donning a wide-brimmed, rainbow-hued hat typical of the indigenous communities that surround the lake, she has been visiting villagers to alert them of the dangers lurking in their food and water. \n The green totora reeds and camouflage-colored Titicaca water frogs she once spotted in abundance have thinned in numbers. The frogs have been placed on a \"critically endangered\" list by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and just 10,000 remain. \n In the coastal hamlet of Coata, 23-year-old Maria Avila grew angry as she talked about the lake's contamination. The mother of a 4-year-old living in an adobe house says she cannot bathe or drink the water without getting severe diarrhea or red spots on her skin. \n If she washes a blouse with the lake's water it turns a green color and if she heats the water to make mate, a tea-like drink with a normally grassy taste, it becomes salty and bitter. \n Avila collects rainwater for household use, but when there isn't rain, she rows a boat 10 kilometers (6 miles) out from the shore and gathers water in barrels. The water deeper in Lake Titicaca is cleaner than that collected from the banks and can be used to cook, bathe and drink after being boiled. \n \"My ancestors have lived here more than 500 years. They have never gone through these things,\" Avila said. \n Like many living on the 4,000-meter (13,100-feet) high plain surrounding the lake, Avila feels government leaders have neglected them. \n In 2011, then-presidential candidate Ollanta Humala promised to resolve the contamination and construct water sewage processing plants. He won 79 percent of votes in the Lake Titicaca region but did not follow through. \n Kuczynski, a former Wall Street banker who lived just 40 kilometers (25 miles) from the lake as a youth, has made access to clean water one of the priorities of his presidency. In a visit to the lake earlier his year, he characterized the polluted waters \"a pigsty.\" \n Avila said Lake Titicaca's people refuse to live \"like pigs and streets dogs.\" \n \"That's not who we are,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lake worshipped by Incans now littered with trash"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by the University of Minnesota, professor John Bischof works in a lab. \n WASHINGTON >> Deep-freezing donated organs might one day help improve the transplant supply but scientists must first figure out how to thaw the delicate tissue without it cracking. Now researchers are taking a first step toward that goal, using nanotechnology to create super heaters for preserved tissue. \n University of Minnesota researchers call their approach \"nanowarming,\" and they reported today that it safely and rapidly thawed larger amounts of animal tissue than today's tools can. \n The trick: Bathe pieces of tissue in magnetic nanoparticles and then beam radiofrequency energy to activate them. The nanoparticles act like microscopic heaters, evenly warming the tissue surrounding them, concluded the research published in Science Translational Medicine. \n Years of additional research are needed before attempting to thaw human organs. \n \"We are cautiously optimistic that we're going to be able to get into a kidney or maybe a heart. But we are not, in any way, declaring victory here,\" said University of Minnesota mechanical engineering professor John Bischof, who led the research team. \n Doctors have longed to create an organ bank much like sperm or heart valves can be frozen and preserved for long periods, and specialists say the new research is an important proof of concept. \n \"If you could pull this off, it would really be transformational,\" said Dr. David Klassen, chief medical officer at the United Network for Organ Sharing, which oversees the nation's transplant system. \n About 119,000 people are on the waiting list for an organ transplant, and last year there were 33,599 transplants performed. One of the many challenges is that organs can't be stored for long outside the body \u2014 about four to six hours for a heart or lung, for example. \n And they're stored in a decidedly old-fashioned way for the race to a needy recipient, infused with a cold preservation solution and set with ice inside a cooler, Klassen noted. That's cold enough to slow cellular activity but they're not frozen. \n A kind of cryopreservation that uses such a fast, deep freeze that tissue looks glass-like potentially could allow organs to be stored for longer periods. \n But today's thawing technology only works well with small or simple types of tissue. Try it in larger, more complex tissue and damaging ice crystals form, even cracking frozen tissue much like an ice cube cracks when it's dropped into water, Klassen explained. \n Bischof's team turned to metallic nanoparticles \u2014 iron oxide \u2014 for their new approach. To keep the tissue stable, warming would have to be super-fast and evenly dispersed. \n The nanowarming could heat 10 to 100 times faster than previously attempted methods, Bischof said. After nanowarming, small samples of human skin cells and pig arteries were as healthy-looking as those thawed by today's standard heating. Larger samples of pig heart tissue too big for today's heating tools also were thawed by the new technology without signs of damage, the researchers reported. \n Afterwards, the researchers were able to wash away the nanoparticles. \n Working with entire organs will require infusing the nanoparticles deeper into nooks and crannies. Already the researchers are testing the approach with frozen rabbit kidneys. A heart may be easier, Bischof said, because of its hollow chambers. \n The research was partly funded by the National Institutes of Health and U.S. Army. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "First step to help preserved organs survive the deep freeze"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former U.S. President George W. Bush discusses his new book \"Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief's Tribute to America's Warriors,\" a collection of his artwork featuring paintings of veterans and stories at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif. today. \n LOS ANGELES >> George W. Bush is warning against an \"isolationist tendency\" in the U.S. that he says is dangerous to national security. \n The former president's remarks come at a time when Europeans have been skittish that President Donald Trump may promote isolationist policies, and Vice President Mike Pence last month reassured allies in Europe about the U.S. willingness to maintain international partnerships. \n Speaking today at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California, the 43rd president appeared to allude to the Iraq War, and warned that there is a lesson \"when the United States decides not to take the lead and withdraw.\" \n He said it was not his intent to criticize his successors at the White House and he is optimistic about the future. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "George W. Bush warns against 'isolationist tendency' in U.S."}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions pauses while speaking at the National Association of Attorneys General annual winter meeting Tuesday in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Attorney General Jeff Sessions had two conversations with the Russian ambassador to the United States during the presidential campaign season last year, contact likely to fuel calls for him to recuse himself from a Justice Department investigation into Russian interference in the election. \n Sessions, an early supporter of President Donald Trump and a policy adviser to the Republican candidate, did not disclose those communications at his confirmation hearing in January when asked whether \"anyone affiliated\" with the campaign had contact with the Russians. \n Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores said tonight that \"there was absolutely nothing misleading about his answer.\" \n That answer did not satisfy Democrats demanding his recusal from an ongoing federal investigation. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, accused Sessions of \"lying under oath\" and demanded that he resign. \n Sessions had more than 25 conversations with foreign ambassadors in his role as a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and had two separate interactions with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, the department said. \n One was a visit in the fall, Flores said, and the other occurred in a group setting following a Heritage Foundation speech that Sessions gave during the summer, when several ambassadors \u2014 including the Russian ambassador \u2014 approached Sessions after the talk. \n Revelations of the contact, first reported by The Washington Post, triggered calls from members of Congress for Sessions to back out of any involvement in the FBI's probe. \n \"If reports are accurate that Attorney General Sessions \u2014 a prominent surrogate for Donald Trump \u2014 met with Ambassador Kislyak during the campaign, and failed to disclose this fact during his confirmation, it is essential that he recuse himself from any role in the investigation of Trump campaign ties to the Russians,\" said Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. \n \"This is not even a close call; it is a must,\" he said. \n At the confirmation hearing in January, Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota alerted Sessions to allegations of contact between Russia and Trump aides during the 2016 election. He asked Sessions what he would do if there was evidence that anyone from the Trump campaign had been in touch with the Russian government during the campaign. \n Sessions replied he was \"unaware of those activities.\" \n Then he added: \"I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I didn't have, did not have communications with the Russians, and I'm unable to comment on it.\" \n Flores, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said that response was not misleading. \n \"He was asked during the hearing about communications between Russia and the Trump campaign \u2014 not about meetings he took as a senator and a member of the Armed Services Committee,\" she said in a statement. \n The White House did not immediately comment. \n Franken, in a statement tonight, said he was troubled that the new attorney general's response to his question was \"at best, misleading.\" He said he planned to press Sessions on his contact with Russia. \n \"It's clearer than ever now that the attorney general cannot, in good faith, oversee an investigation at the Department of Justice and the FBI of the Trump-Russia connection, and he must recuse himself immediately,\" Franken said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Justice Dept: Sessions spoke with Russian ambassador in 2016"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carryn Owens, widow of Chief Special Warfare Operator William \"Ryan\" Owens, is applauded Tuesday on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n CHICAGO >> The televised moment moved a nation: A grief-stricken widow clasping her hands and looking skyward, tears streaming down her face as the nation's lawmakers and president delivered a deafening standing ovation in honor of her fallen husband. \n President Donald Trump's tribute to Navy SEAL William \"Ryan\" Owens during Tuesday's congressional address was seen by many as touching. But others regarded it as a calculated attempt to deflect criticism of his decision to approve a failed military operation and to turn around his administration's shaky start with a gesture that sought to unify a deeply divided country. \n Social media was abuzz with both praise and criticism. \n Trump was praised on Twitter as giving \"the greatest respect to Carryn Owens\" and for moving \"viewers to tears with his love for our fallen military.\" \n But others said Trump was responsible for Owens' death and criticized the \"exploitation of his widow for last night's dog and pony show.\" \n Perceptions of the gesture likely depended on whether viewers trust Trump, said Matthew Dallek, a political management professor at The George Washington University and speechwriter for former Democratic U.S. Rep. Richard Gephardt. \n \"Whether he seems to be exploiting (Owens') death or it seems to be heartfelt and genuine very much depends on one's political view and whether or not you trust Trump,\" Dallek said. \"If you voted for him, you think he's honoring a patriot and this is powerful. If \u2026 you don't trust him and don't approve of his presidency so far, I don't think this changes very much.\" \n Trump is following in the footsteps of many presidents who have introduced guests to help make a political point. But Tuesday's tribute was potentially more fraught because Owens' father has refused to meet with Trump and called for an investigation into the Yemen raid that took his son's life. \n Owens, a 36-year-old married father of three, was the first known U.S. combat casualty since Trump took office, and his death, as well as the killing of several civilians, raised questions about the effectiveness of the raid. Trump used the tribute to insist again that Owen's death was not in vain, saying he helped gather significant intelligence. \n Trump's gesture could have been genuine and calculated at the same time, said Elizabeth Sherman, a political science professor at American University. He likely knew that it would be difficult to criticize the tribute because Carryn Owens accepted his invitation and the chance for the nation to honor her husband's sacrifice. \n \"I think Trump figured this was a brilliant PR move. How can you lose?\" Sherman said. \n But Ryan Owens \"might have been alive\" if there had been a deeper assessment of the raid's risks, she said. \"No one wants to say that\" amid Carryn Owens' grief. \n Dallek said Trump also might have inflamed the politics around Owens' death when he again insisted that valuable information was gathered in the raid, despite reports to the contrary. \n \"He could have invited Owens' widow, acknowledged her sacrifice and her husband's heroism and really left it at that,\" Dallek said. \"But he's got to justify the raid as incredibly successful and one that is going to help him kill the terrorists.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Some criticize Trump's tribute to fallen Navy SEAL"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "Police briefly closed Kalakaua Avenue this afternoon to investigate a bomb threat at the Moana Surfrider hotel. \n Authorities began closing lanes for emergency vehicles at about 4:50 p.m. and completely closed the road from Seaside to Kaiulani avenues at about 5:10 p.m. The road was reopened a few minutes later. \n Police said someone had called in the bomb threat. \n A previous version of this story incorrectly said the hotel was evacuated. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police investigate bomb threat at Waikiki hotel"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A group of Chinese lawyers is suing the governments of Beijing and its surrounding areas for not doing enough to get rid of the smog. \n BEIJING >> Lawyer Cheng Hai has an itemized list of compensation demands from Beijing authorities over the city's smog: 65 yuan ($9) for having to buy face masks, 100 yuan ($15) for seeing a doctor for a sore throat and 9,999 yuan ($1,500) for emotional distress. \n Fed up with what they consider halfhearted efforts to fight air pollution, Cheng and like-minded lawyers are putting China's legal system to the test by suing the governments of the capital and its surrounding regions. \n \"Some people might think that air pollution is inevitable with economic development, but they are wrong,\" said Cheng, 64. \"We have laws to protect air quality, and major pollution can be avoided if they are fully enforced.\" \n The lawsuits demonstrate the mounting frustration of China's middle class at the country's notoriously bad air, a topic that is expected to be discussed at the upcoming annual meeting of the country's parliament three years after Premier Li Keqiang declared a \"war on pollution\" at the same event. \n The dissatisfaction comes even as authorities in the capital are closing factories, getting rid of coal-fired boilers and taking older, heavier-polluting vehicles off the road. \n Official data show those measures are having some effect, with Beijing showing year-on-year improvements since 2013. \n Yet the city's average reading of the tiny particulate matter PM2.5 \u2014 considered a good gauge of air pollution \u2014 is still seven times what the World Health Organization considers safe. \n \"We are the victims of smog and we are entitled to ask for an apology and compensation from the government,\" said another of the lawyers, Yu Wensheng, 50, from Beijing. \n The suits, which accuse authorities of failing to deal effectively with the smog, are important to show that the government is not above the law, said Yu. \n \"If the government is not restricted by law, then what else can restrict it?\" said Yu, who has spent time in detention accused of supporting Hong Kong pro-democracy protests in 2014 and for speaking up in support of detained rights lawyers. \n Along with Beijing, the group has attempted to sue the neighboring province of Hebei and the port city of Tianjin. The region generally suffers the worst pollution in China and forms a front line in the central government's battle against the scourge. \n The lawyers say their cases are more about drawing attention to government inaction rather than winning a settlement. \n China is grappling with serious pollution resulting from three decades of breakneck growth that vastly improved living standards for many, but took a disastrous toll on the environment. \n As people became more aware of the health issues associated with smog, the declaration of a \"war on pollution\" at the National People's Congress in 2014 resulted in measures to reduce pollutants in the air, including capping coal consumption. However, a particularly heavy bout of smog at the beginning of this year still triggered pollution \"red alerts\" in more than 20 cities. \n Beijing plans to spend $2.7 billion on fighting air pollution this year, part of which would be used to close or upgrade more than 3,000 polluting factories, replace the use of coal with clean energy on the outskirts of the city and phase out 300,000 high-polluting older vehicles, according to the city's acting mayor, Cai Qi. \n Despite efforts to enlist the public in the anti-pollution struggle, China's authoritarian Communist government heavily discourages protests and other forms of independent action, and at least one of the initial five lawyers in the case appears to have withdrawn his lawsuit under pressure from local authorities. \n The Beijing press office said the government hadn't received any notices about the lawsuits and was unable to comment. The governments of Hebei and Tianjin didn't respond to requests for comment. \n The Ministry of Environmental Protection has been sending out inspection teams to check on how well local governments are implementing smog control measures. On Monday, it announced that the lists of companies that have to halt production during periods of heavy pollution drawn up by three lower-level governments under Beijing and Hebei included companies that were already no longer operating. \n A Beijing court has already twice rejected attempts by the lawyers to file cases, while a court in Hebei province's capital, Shijiazhuang, has yet to respond to a case filed more than two months ago. Similar attempts to file suits in previous years have also been derailed, and while a change in the law has allowed some environmental NGOs to bring cases against polluters since 2015, they are discouraged to do so by the high costs of investigating and proving environmental damage, and potential threats and harassment from those they're suing. \n Wang Canfa, the director of a center that helps people bring lawsuits relating to pollution, said it would be difficult for the plaintiffs to establish a link between the governments' actions and the harm they have suffered. \n \"In this circumstance, the governments are not the ones that inflict harm, rather it is the companies that discharge emissions, and individuals who drive cars, who are the polluters,\" said Wang, who teaches at the China University of Political Science and Law. \n Still, the lawyers appear to feel it's worth the risks and frustrations to make their point. \n Another of them, Lu Tingge, who filed the Hebei case, said his mother suffers respiratory illnesses and the pollution makes it difficult for her to breathe. \n He's asking for 10 yuan ($1.50) in compensation for masks, 5,000 yuan ($730) for \"spiritual damage\" and an official apology for the harm to his life and work. \n \"I know my chances of winning are small,\" said Lu, 47. \"But I just want to make people understand that the government bears the main responsibility for dealing with smog and air pollution.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyers sue Chinese authorities for not getting rid of smog"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "BLOOMBERG \n The IRS says it has $1 billion in unclaimed refunds from the 2013 tax year. They are owed to about 1 million taxpayers. \n WASHINGTON >> If you didn't file a tax return for 2013, the IRS might have a refund waiting for you. But the deadline to claim it is only a few weeks away. \n The IRS says it has $1 billion in unclaimed refunds from the 2013 tax year. They are owed to about 1 million taxpayers. \n Under federal law, there is no fine for failing to file a tax return \u2014 as long as you are owed a refund. But taxpayers have only three years to claim them. After that, they are forfeited to the U.S. Treasury. \n Tax returns for 2013 were due in April 2014, so the deadline for claiming the refunds is this year's tax day, which falls on April 18. \n \"People across the nation haven't filed tax returns to claim these refunds, and their window of opportunity is closing soon,\" IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said in a statement. \"Students and many others may not realize they're due a tax refund. Remember, there's no penalty for filing a late return if you're due a refund.\" \n Also, many low- and-moderate income workers might have been eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit, which families can claim even if they owed no income tax. \n The IRS estimates that the median unclaimed refund is $763, meaning that half are larger and half are smaller. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "IRS: Deadline near to get $1 billion unclaimed 2013 refunds"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / jaquino@staradvertiser.com \n Cary Okimoto, acting chief for HPD, answers questions during a news conference on Dec. 20 at the main police precinct in Honolulu. Okimoto told the Police Commission today that HPD would take another look at three cases involving injury to children. \n The Honolulu Police Department plans to do more investigating on three old cases that resulted in serious injury to a child after determining more could have been done during the initial investigations, officials said today. \n Two of the three cases, for which details were not released, are from 2014 and one is from 2015, assistant chief Richard Robinson told the Honolulu Police Commission. \n Acting Police Chief Cary Okimoto told the commission that investigators need to take a harder look at the three cases. \n The department identified those three after conducting an audit of 112 cases that resulted in serious injury to a child and were investigated by HPD during the past three years. \n The audit was done in the wake of a 2015 case in which questions recently were raised in a Civil Beat article about how police handled the investigation. That case happened at the Ewa Beach home of his babysitter, who was the wife of an HPD officer. The child, Peyton Valiente, suffered severe injuries while in her care. \n The case still is open, but Okimoto told commissioners he was highly disappointed that the investigation, though following proper procedures, didn't move as quickly as it should have. \"If it was my child, I might be upset,\" he said. \n \"We really don't want this to ever happen again,\" Okimoto told commissioners. \n ", "author": "By Rob Perez rperez@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HPD takes another look at 3 old cases involving injured keiki"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Construction crews dredged the river bed near Oroville Dam's crippled spillway on Tuesday in Oroville, Calif. Water authorities stopped the flow of water down the spillway on Monday, allowing workers to begin clearing out massive debris that's blocking a hydroelectric plant from operating. \n WASHINGTON >> California faces an estimated $50 billion price tag for roads, dams and other infrastructure threatened by floods such as the one that severely damaged Oroville Dam last month, the state's natural resources secretary said Wednesday. \n Nearly 200,000 people living near the country's tallest dam were evacuated three weeks ago amid fears of a catastrophic flood after heavy rains tore away a chunk of concrete from the main spillway, leaving it severely damaged. \n Swollen rivers, troubled levees and crumbling roads are causing havoc statewide as California copes with what is likely its wettest year ever, California Natural Resources Secretary John Laird said. Severe winter storms have brought torrential rain and significant snow after five years of drought. \n Damage to California's highways is estimated at nearly $600 million. More than 14,000 people in San Jose were forced to evacuate last month and floods shut down a portion of a major freeway. \n In the Yosemite Valley, only one of three main routes into the national park's major attraction is open because of damage or fear the roads could give out from cracks and seeping water, rangers said. On central California's rain-soaked coast, a bridge in Big Sur has crumbled beyond repair, blocking passage on the north-south Highway 1 through the tourist destination for up to a year. \n Gov. Jerry Brown has redirected $50 million for emergency flood response and asked state lawmakers to speed up $387 million in spending from a 2014 voter-approved water bond. Laird called the proposals \"an important start,\" but said they fall far short of the amount needed to address flood projects statewide. Fixing Oroville Dam alone could cost up to $200 million. \n Laird told the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that he has asked the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies to expand inspection and review of all federally-owned dams in California, with particular attention paid to secondary structures such as spillways. \n He also has asked the Corps to update federal operating manuals for key California reservoirs and is seeking hundreds of millions of dollars authorized under a new water-projects law for rehabilitation of \"high hazard dams\" in the state. \n Dam improvements are part of a $10 billion law approved by Congress late last year to authorize water projects across the country, including more than two dozen projects in California. \n Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., said nearly half of California's 1,400 dams are designated as \"high hazard potential\" by state officials. \n The state has invested about $11 billion in flood control management over the past decade, Harris said, yet more action is needed to protect nearly 7 million people and $580 billion worth of assets \u2014 buildings, farmland, and crops \u2014 that are at risk. \n The committee also heard from officials in Wyoming and Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where recent floods caused millions of dollars in damage. \n The panel's chairman, Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., said winter \"ice jams\" on partially frozen rivers, combined with rapid snowmelt, cause frequent floods that harm small towns from Wyoming to the Dakotas and upstate New York. \n President Donald Trump has made improving the nation's infrastructure a priority, and Barrasso said he was optimistic Congress would approve funding to modernize dams and levees across the country. \n \"Infrastructure is critical to our nation's prosperity,\" Barrasso said. \"It's a driver of our nation's economy and it impacts every community.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California faces $50B price tag for flood control"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n CEO Marissa Mayer won't be paid her annual bonus nor receive a potentially lucrative stock award because a Yahoo investigation concluded her management team reacted too slowly to one breach discovered in 2014. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Yahoo is punishing CEO Marissa Mayer and parting ways with its top lawyer for the mishandling of two security breaches that exposed the personal information of more than 1 billion users and already have cost the company $350 million. \n Mayer won't be paid her annual bonus nor receive a potentially lucrative stock award because a Yahoo investigation concluded her management team reacted too slowly to one breach discovered in 2014. \n Yahoo's general counsel, Ronald Bell, resigned without severance pay for his department's lackadaisical response to the security lapses. \n Alex Stamos, Yahoo's top security officer at the time of the 2014 breach, left the company in 2015. \n Although Yahoo's security team uncovered evidence that a hacker backed by an unnamed foreign government had pried into user accounts in 2014, executives \"failed to act sufficiently\" on that knowledge, according to the results of an internal investigation disclosed Wednesday. At that time, Yahoo only notified 26 people that their accounts had been breached. \n The report didn't identify the negligent executives, but it chastised the company's legal department for not looking more deeply into the 2014 breach. Because of that, the incident \"was not properly investigated and analyzed at the time,\" the report concluded. \n Bell declined to comment through his spokeswoman, Marcy Simon. \n Yahoo didn't disclose the 2014 breach until last September when it began notifying at least 500 million users that their email addresses, birth dates, answers to security questions, and other personal information may have been stolen. Three months later, Yahoo revealed it had uncovered a separate hack in 2013 affecting about 1 billion accounts, including some that were also hit in 2014. \n The breaches, the two biggest in internet history, have already exacted a major toll. \n Yahoo already lowered the sales price of its email and other digital services to Verizon Communications from $4.83 billion to $4.48 billion to account for the potential backlash from the breaches. That deal was reached last July, two months before Verizon and the rest of the world learned about Yahoo's lax security. \n More than 40 lawsuits also have been filed seeking damages for the breaches. If Yahoo's sale to Verizon is completed as expected later this year, a successor company called Altaba Inc. will be responsible for paying those legal claims. \n Yahoo's handling and disclosure of the breaches is also under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission. The Sunnyvale, California, company says it has spent $16 million investigating the breaches and covering the legal expenses so far. \n In a blog post on Yahoo's Tumblr service , Mayer said she didn't learn about the scope of the breaches until September and then tried to set things right. \"However, I am the CEO of the company and since this incident happened during my tenure, I have agreed to forgo my annual bonus and my annual equity grant,\" Mayer wrote. \n In its report, Yahoo's board said it decided to withhold a cash bonus that otherwise would have been paid to her. Mayer is eligible to receive a bonus of up to $2 million annually. The board said it accepted Mayer's offer to relinquish her annual stock award, which is typically worth millions of dollars. \n Mayer said she wants the board to distribute her bonus to Yahoo's entire workforce of 8,500 employees. The board didn't say if it would do so. \n Losing her bonus and annual stock award probably won't be too painful for Mayer, who is already rich after working for more than a decade as a top executive at Google and then as Yahoo's CEO for the past 4 1/2 years. She is also in line for a $44 million severance package if she doesn't go to work for Verizon after the sale closes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Yahoo punishes CEO in latest fallout from security breakdown"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Storm clouds begin to form over the White House in Washington today. The White House counsel's office has instructed the president's aides to preserve materials that could be connected to Russian interference in the 2016 election and related issues. \n WASHINGTON >> White House lawyers have instructed the president's aides to preserve materials that could be connected to Russian interference in the 2016 election and other related investigations, three administration officials said today. \n The memo, which was sent to White House staff on Tuesday, comes after Senate Democrats last week asked the White House and law enforcement agencies to keep all materials involving contacts that Trump's administration, campaign and transition team \u2014 or anyone acting on their behalf \u2014 have had with Russian government officials or their associates. \n The Senate intelligence committee, which is investigating Russia's role in the 2016 election, has also asked more than a dozen organizations, agencies and individuals to preserve relevant records. \n The three administration officials who confirmed that White House staffers were instructed to comply did so on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly disclose the memo from White House counsel Don McGahn. \n President Donald Trump has been dogged by questions about his advisers' ties to Russia since the campaign. Federal investigators have been looking into possible contacts between Trump advisers and Russia, while congressional committees are investigating Russia's role in political hacking during the campaign. \n The intelligence community has assessed that Russia's hacking of Democratic groups and operatives was carried out to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n One official said the memo from the counsel's office instructs White House staff to preserve material from Trump's time in office, and for those who worked on the campaign, relevant material from the election. \n A Trump spokesman said the White House was \"simply taking proactive steps\" and called the accusations of nefarious ties between the president and Russia \"false and politically motivated attacks.\" \n Congressional staffers have said they are not aware of any evidence that materials related to Russia are not being preserved. But Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York said last week: \"There is real concern that some in the administration may try to cover up its ties to Russia by deleting emails, texts and other records that could shine a light on those connections. These records are likely to be the subject of executive branch as well as congressional investigations and must be preserved.\" \n Trump has denied having any knowledge that aides were in touch with Russian intelligence agents during the election, as reported by The New York Times. The White House has launched an aggressive effort to discredit the report, including enlisting GOP chairmen of the congressional intelligence committees to push back against it. \n The involvement of North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr and California Rep. Devin Nunes has sparked calls \u2014 mostly from Democrats \u2014 for a special prosecutor to investigate Russia's role in the election and possible ties to Trump. \n The White House has acknowledged that Michael Flynn, Trump's former national security adviser, misled top officials about the nature of his contacts with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. Flynn initially told Vice President Mike Pence and other Trump advisers that he did not discuss sanctions with the envoy during the transition, though it was later revealed that he did. \n The FBI interviewed Flynn about the contacts days after the inauguration. Trump fired Flynn after the discrepancies in his account were publicly revealed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House staff told to preserve Russia-related materials"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence administers the oath of office to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke today in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington, as his wife Lolita holds the Bible. \n WASHINGTON >> Former Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke was sworn in Wednesday as secretary of the Interior Department, assuming oversight of 400 million acres of public land, mostly in the West. \n Vice President Mike Pence administered the oath of office hours after the Senate confirmed President Donald Trump's nomination of Zinke by a vote of 68-31. Several Democrats from Western states as well as those facing tough re-election campaigns next year, including Montana's Jon Tester, Indiana's Joe Donnelly and Joe Manchin of West Virginia, voted for Zinke, a Republican. \n Zinke pledged to \"get to work\" immediately and said he knows he'll \"be held accountable to get things done.\" \n A former Navy SEAL, Zinke praised his new boss as a \"great president and a commander in chief I will fight with.\" \n Zinke is the 16th of 22 of Trump's Cabinet and Cabinet-level nominations to win Senate approval. Ben Carson, Trump's choice to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development, cleared a Senate hurdle by a vote of 62-37. Carson's confirmation was expected later this week. \n Zinke, 55, and a former Montana state senator, resigned as a delegate to the Republican National Convention last year to protest the GOP's position in favor of land transfers to state or private groups. \n Still, his stance on public lands has come into question in recent weeks after he voted in favor of a House rule that would allow federal land transfers to be considered cost-free and budget-neutral, making it easier for drilling and development. \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said Zinke at Interior should \"concern every lover of our great and grand national parks.\" \n Dismissing the Republican's claim to be like the late President Teddy Roosevelt, Schumer said, \"You can't be a Roosevelt conservationist if you sell off public lands.\" \n Countering the Democrat, Montana Republican Sen. Steve Daines said Zinke \"will be a strong advocate for our public lands.\" \n Zinke, who recently began his second term as Montana's sole House member, told senators at a January hearing that federal land management should be done under a multiple-use model that allows hiking, hunting, fishing and camping along with harvesting timber, mining for coal and drilling for oil and natural gas. \n Zinke also pledged to tackle an estimated $12 billion backlog in maintenance and repair at national parks and stand firm against attempts to sell, give away or transfer federal lands. \n Sen. Maria Cantwell of Washington state, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said she is not convinced that Zinke will be able to \"stand up\" to Trump and prevent oil, gas and mining companies from unduly exploiting public lands. \n Cantwell also said Zinke appears willing to support transfer of some federal lands to states, citing his vote for the GOP-sponsored rules package. She worries that Zinke may weaken or repeal recent designations by President Barack Obama of national monuments, including Utah's Bears Ears monument. \n Senate Energy Chairwoman Lisa Murkowski of Alaska called Zinke an excellent choice, noting that the fifth-generation Montanan is an avid hunter, fisherman and skier. \n \"He was born in the West. He lives in the West. He understands it, he understands its people,\" Murkowski said. \n Zinke also has \"firsthand experience in trying to solve\" problems faced by the Interior Department and has \"shown he understands the need for the department to be a partner of Alaska and our Western states,\" Murkowski said. \n During his hearing, Zinke rejected Trump's claim that climate change is a hoax, saying it is indisputable that environmental changes are affecting the world's temperature and human activity is a major reason. \n \"I think where there's debate is what that (human) influence is and what can we do about it,\" he said. \n Zinke also pledged to work with members of Congress on monument designations, noting the strong opposition to Bears Ears by Utah's congressional delegation and governor. \n \"I think the state should have a say on it,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Zinke sworn in as interior secretary"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Durant will be out indefinitely after he sprained the medial collateral ligament in his left knee and bruised a bone in his leg during Tuesday night's loss at Washington, leaving the Warriors without their shot-blocking big man who also does it all on offense. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> Kevin Durant is down for the immediate future with a knee injury, and that's a huge blow on both ends of the floor for the playoff-bound, championship-chasing Golden State Warriors. \n Stephen Curry and Co. are going to have to carry on without KD perhaps for the remainder of the regular season \u2014 and maybe longer. \n Durant will be out indefinitely after he sprained the medial collateral ligament in his left knee and bruised a bone in his leg during Tuesday night's loss at Washington, leaving the Warriors without their shot-blocking big man who also does it all on offense. \n \"Heal up my Man\u2026we will hold it down til your back on the court with us. Prayers up!\" Curry, the two-time reigning MVP, posted Wednesday on Twitter. \n The NBA's top team will push toward the playoffs without its leading scorer and rebounder. For the month of March, at least. \n The Warriors said Wednesday that their medical staff hasn't ruled out a Durant return before the end of the regular season, though nobody is predicting at this stage. \n \"At this time it's just speculation to guess when that is,\" general manager Bob Myers said in a conference call. \"He'll heal as his body heals. And when he's healed and our doctors clear him and we feel like it's safe, he'll play. I want to know as much as you guys but at this point the plan is just to reevaluate him and see where he's at in four weeks.\" \n The All-Star forward hyperextended his knee early in the Warriors' 112-108 loss to the Wizards and later underwent an MRI exam, which revealed a Grade 2 \u2014 or moderate \u2014 sprain in the knee as well as a bruised tibia. \n Durant is scheduled to be reevaluated in four weeks, so if he is fully healthy then, that would leave about two weeks remaining in the regular season. He was scheduled to return to the Bay Area on Wednesday and immediately begin rehabilitation. \n On a Wizards possession under their basket less than a minute into the game, Washington center Marcin Gortat pushed Warriors center Zaza Pachulia, who fell into Durant's left leg. While Myers isn't on the trip and only saw the play on TV, he said the team's video staff might have other angles he can see \u2014 though in speaking to Durant there wasn't immediate concern about the play being intentional. \n \"These things happen in sports,\" Myers said. \"Nobody's raised that question on our side. I don't know if it's being raised outside of us. I spoke to Kevin a couple times. Other than just being disappointed that he's injured, nobody's mentioned anything like that.\" \n The Warriors became the earliest team in NBA history to clinch a playoff berth when they beat the Nets on Saturday and are now focused on locking up the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference. \n LeBron James, whose Cleveland team beat the Warriors in Game 7 for last year's championship before Durant came from Oklahoma City, saw the injury. \n \"I hope it's not serious,\" James said. \"We'll see what happens.\" \n Durant leads the Warriors in scoring and rebounding with 25.3 points and 8.2 boards along with 4.8 assists in his first season with Golden State. At 50-10, the Warriors have the NBA's best record. \n Myers expects the Warriors to fill the 15th spot on the roster in the next 24 to 48 hours, though Matt Barnes posted a photo on his Instagram account from his first stint with the Warriors and this: \"You know you're strong when you're helping ppl through their storms while going through your own that's strength.\" \n Myers declined to provide names in the mix. \n \"These things are very fluid this time of year or any time of year to be honest. Injuries happen unexpectedly,\" he said. \"We have to take another look at what our roster needs. I'm not going to get into specifics. We have to look and see where we need the most depth in light of this recent occurrence. We're in the process of doing that and should have some resolution in the next 24 to 48 hours. \u2026 Last night showed that you have to be able to pivot in the course of an NBA season. We'll do our best with the options available to keep the roster in the best shape we can. No roster's perfect. Every team deals with injuries. As we move forward from today on and through the playoffs, I hope we stay healthy. In the event that we don't, we will explore the best options that give us the best chance to win.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Durant out indefinitely with left knee injury"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 2017, file photo, Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins (8) runs onto the field before an NFL football game against the New York Giants in Landover, Md. The NFL salary cap for the upcoming season will be $167 million per team, up more than $12 million over last year. This is the fourth consecutive year the cap has risen at least $10 million. \n NEW YORK >> The NFL salary cap for the upcoming season will be $167 million per team, up more than $12 million over last year. \n The league and the NFL Players Association compile the cap from specific revenues, and it has risen annually. It was $143.28 million two years ago. \n This is the fourth consecutive year the cap has risen at least $10 million. \n Player benefits also are included under the 10-year labor agreement reached to end the 2011 lockout. That comes to $37 million per team, bringing the players' total compensation package to over $200 million per club for the first time. \n In comparison, baseball had 12 teams with luxury-tax payrolls beyond $167 million in 2016. \n Since 2011, the cap has increased by $47 million. \n Also, 2017 is the first year of a four-season minimum spending period of 89 percent per club and 95 percent leaguewide. \n The added cap room should have a major impact on teams' spending when the NFL's new year begins next Thursday. \n \"A lot,\" Seahawks general manager John Schneider said Wednesday at the NFL combine in Indianapolis. \"It's an ongoing process, trying to make sure you can hang on to your top players all the time, what we view as our core players. A lot of times when we do those deals we're like: 'Hey, look, there's going to be some tough decisions that are made. There's going to be some guys that have to leave.' It's just part of the game. \n \"This year in particular I think you see there's a huge discrepancy in terms of cap space with a number of teams. It's what the NFL's about. It's about parity, and so you have those teams that are just going to be able to that much more than you possibly can. It's all about trying to move those pieces around and try to stay in the game with the free agents and your own free agents as much as you possibly can.\" \n Seven players were given franchise tags this year: Redskins QB Kirk Cousins and Rams CB Trumaine Johnson, both for the second straight year; Steelers RB Le'Veon Bell; Giants DE Jason Pierre-Paul; Cardinals LB Chandler Jones; Chargers LB Melvin Ingram; and Panthers DT Kawann Short. Only Cousins and Bell got exclusive tags, meaning no team can talk to them except their current club. Compensation would go to any team losing a non-exclusive franchise player in the form of two first-round draft picks. \n Quarterback, of course, has the highest franchise tag tender at $21.268 million. Next is defensive end ($16.934 million), followed by wide receiver ($15.682 million). Then it's linebacker ($14.550 million), offensive line ($14.271 million), cornerback ($14.212 million), defensive tackle ($13.387 million), running back ($12.120 million), safety ($10.896 million), tight end ($9.78 million) and kicker/punter ($4.835 million). \n Pittsburgh GM Kevin Colbert believes more teams are taking the path the Steelers usually do of developing players they draft and rewarding their own free agents. \n \"As a result, you're seeing less and less quality free agents (on the market),\" Colbert said. \"There's an inherent danger in that, because some of the players who are hitting the market with the number of dollars that are available might not be quite worth what they're going to get paid because of the supply and demand. And I think that's reflective in a lot of the early cuts, the five- and six-year-deal guys who usually get cut after two or three, because maybe they were oversigned. \n \"I think that it reinforces that you're wanting to sign your own and keep your own. But again, you have to be careful about the free agent market and not overpay for maybe an average player.\" \n Yet, beginning next week, the money will flow to many free agents, even though this crop seems lacking in franchise-type players. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NFL salary cap for 2017 season is $167 million per team"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "THE CANADIAN PRESS VIA AP \n In this Dec. 2016, file photo, Seattle Sounders midfielder Osvaldo Alonso, front left, hoists soccer's MLS Cup with teammates after defeating Toronto FC in the playoff game. Launched with 10 teams in 1996, MLS has plans to expand to 28 teams in coming years. \n The theme for Major League Soccer this season is 22 in 22, as the league embarks on its 22nd year with 22 teams \u2014 including two new teams in the Atlanta United and Minnesota United. \n The theme could just as easily be expansion, expansion, expansion. \n Launched with 10 teams in 1996, MLS has plans to expand to 28 teams in the coming years. The replacement for the defunct Chivas USA, Los Angeles FC, joins the league next season. It is hoped that a long-anticipated Miami franchise, an effort led by David Beckham, will materialize as the league's 24th team. \n There were 12 bids submitted earlier this year for the final four teams. In a preseason interview with The Associated Press, Commissioner Don Garber said a decision about two of the teams could come by the end of this year and they could begin play in 2020, while the final two will be announced sometime thereafter. \n \"I think it's fair to say that this year and the last number of years we've been very focused on strategically growing the league and celebrating new markets coming in and building a fan base, helping to create this soccer nation that we've been so focused on,\" Garber said. \"And this year is probably no different. We've got a team coming in that is setting records for attendance in Atlanta, and a team in Minnesota that's similar to Portland in that it is coming into Major League Soccer after many decades of support for the professional game. \n \"I think you'll continue to see more and more stories coming out of our league that are about growth, but I try to focus as much on celebrating all the great things that have gone on in so many markets for the last number of years.\" \n The 12 bids, along with Atlanta United's season-ticket sales topping 30,000, are proof that soccer continues to gain a foothold in the American sports landscape. \n \"It just speaks to the overall development and growth of our sport in our country and Canada,\" Garber said. \"I continue to be impressed by how many of our clubs prove that it is irrelevant how big your market is or where it's located. It really is about your plan, your focus, your commitment. \u2026 If the ingredients are right I'm convinced we can be successful in any city, any state in the United States. And that's not something we believed 10 years ago.\" \n The stadium includes 49 rainbow-color seats in section 12, a permanent tribute to the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting last year. \n \"It was a heart issue. It's something that's difficult to kind of explain,\" Dempsey said last month. \"But at the same time I'm not feeling those things anymore and I'm happy to be back playing.\" \n \"I don't think it's going to be without its challenges. It's a new development, a new technology,\" Garber said. \"I want to remind all of our fans that it's not going to be foolproof \u2014 officiating the games still relies on enormous judgment, even if it's the judgment of a review official \u2014 but I'm convinced it will correct some of the real mistakes that are made.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "MLS celebrates 22 teams in 22 years this season"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Belgian Vice Prime Minister Alexander De Croo talks during an interview with the Associated Press in Brussel today. Organizers say some 50 countries signed up at short notice to attend Thursday's global family planning conference specifically called to see how nations can make up for a funding gap of about half a billion dollars left by President Donald Trump's ban on U.S. funding to organizations linked to legal abortion. \n BRUSSELS >> Some 50 countries have signed up to attend a family planning conference in Brussels aimed at making up the gap left by President Donald Trump's ban on U.S. funding to groups linked to abortion, organizers said Wednesday. \n The participants agreed to attend the conference scheduled for Thursday on short notice and will discuss using pledges from other nations and the private sector to \"make sure that the impact on the field is completely taken away,\" Belgian Vice Premier Alexander De Croo said. \n \"This should not be a moment where we are taking steps back into the Dark Ages for women and girls,\" De Croo said. \n Trump's decision, one of his first acts as president, withholds about half a billion dollars a year from international groups that perform abortions or provide information about abortions. Officials in many European nations and around the world say the move will hurt women and girls who need family planning most. \n \"This is 50 countries saying, 'Let's roll up our sleeves and let's stand for the values we think are important,'\" De Croo said. \n Belgium and several other countries already have committed to contributing at least 10 million euros each. Beyond governments, philanthropists and private donors will be asked to contribute at the conference. \n Outside of many European nations, Canada, African and Asian countries will also have representatives at the conference, as will the European Union and the United Nations. \n Swedish Vice Premier Isabella Lovin told the AP that even though maternal mortality rates have declined by almost half in the last generation, \"every second minute a woman or a girl dies in the world due to pregnancy.\" \n \"The important thing now is what we can do as a progressive alliance of countries and organizations that want to do more and to make sure that we do not (go) back on progress that has been done,\" Lovin said. \n The U.S. ban on funding to organizations that perform abortions or discuss the procedure with clients has been instituted by Republican administrations and rescinded by Democratic ones since 1984. \n Former President Barack Obama last lifted it in 2009. But Trump significantly expanded it in an executive order he signed on his first full day in office. \n Instead of containing abortions, the move would increase dangerous pregnancy terminations, Lovin and De Croo said. \n De Croo insisted that he was not putting up a defense of abortion, per se. \n \"To be clear, any abortion that takes place is one too many,\" he said. \"But if it has to take place, then I think it should be available, and it should be available in a safe way.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "50 nations seek to counter U.S. ban on family planning funds"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The academy president told The Associated Press that Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz, the PwC accountants who handled the winners' envelopes at Sunday's show, have been permanently removed from all film academy dealings. \n LOS ANGELES >> The president of the film academy says the two accountants responsible for the best-picture flub at Sunday's Academy Awards will never work the Oscars again. She also laments that the error overshadowed the show's rich diversity of talent and storytelling. \n Breaking her silence four days after the biggest blunder in the 89-year history of the Academy Awards, Cheryl Boone Isaacs praised the show's producers and host Wednesday for \"a most beautiful, beautiful, wonderful evening.\" \n \"Then, of course, there was the last 90 seconds,\" Boone Isaacs said. \"And what angered me, I would say, in these last couple days is (the focus on) this 90 seconds and moving to the side the brilliance of the day.\" \n The academy president told The Associated Press that Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz, the PwC accountants who handled the winners' envelopes at Sunday's show, have been permanently removed from all film academy dealings. While Cullinan was responsible for handing over the errant envelope that led to \"La La Land\" mistakenly being announced as best picture rather than \"Moonlight,\" PwC said neither partner acted quickly enough to catch the error. \n The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' relationship with PwC, which has been responsible for tallying and revealing Oscar winners for 83 years, remains under review, Boone Isaacs said. \n Cullinan was distracted backstage, she said. He tweeted (and later deleted) a photo of Emma Stone in the wings with her new Oscar minutes before giving presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway the wrong envelope for best picture. \n \"They have one job to do. One job to do!\" Boone Isaacs said. \"Obviously there was a distraction.\" \n PwC released a statement late Sunday and another Monday taking \"full responsibility for the series of mistakes and breaches of established protocols\" during the Oscar show. \n \"Once the error occurred, protocols for correcting it were not followed through quickly enough by Mr. Cullinan or his partner,\" the statement said. Both partners remain with the company, a PwC spokesman said Wednesday. \n Protocols for handling the winners' envelopes had been established by the accounting firm, Boone Isaacs said, \"and they have worked for 83 years.\" \n \"We are reviewing those protocols, of course,\" she said. \"Because it never happened before and we never are going to have it happen again. And we are setting new guidelines, new protocols and really re-examining every step to make sure this never ever, ever happens.\" \n Though the academy released a statement late Monday apologizing to the artists of \"Moonlight\" and \"La La Land,\" Boone Isaacs said she waited to say more until her team had a better understanding of what led to the error. \n \"You need to get some facts under your belt,\" she said. \"It needs to be not just an emotional response. It needs to have some sort of clarity. \u2026 We wanted to say something right away, but we also didn't want to misspeak.\" \n She commended show producers Jennifer Todd and Michael De Luca, presenters Beatty and Dunaway and host Jimmy Kimmel for handling the unprecedented situation so gracefully. \n \"Warren, he took charge there,\" Boone Isaacs said. \"He took charge of a situation that he did not create.\" \n She also lauded \"La La Land\" producer Jordan Horowitz, who she said \"went from a nominee to a winner to a presenter\" in a matter of minutes. \n Still holding the Oscar, he thought he'd won, Horowitz was the first to announce that \"Moonlight\" was the actual best picture recipient. \n Though unexpected, having the casts of two films onstage at the end of the Oscar show revealed \"the very best\" of Hollywood, Boone Isaacs said: \"And that is a camaraderie and respect for each other.\" \n \"It's important to remember that that is what this is all about,\" she said. \n Also on Wednesday, the academy addressed another embarrassment on Sunday's show, apologizing to the Australian movie producer incorrectly shown during the in memoriam segment. \n In a statement, the academy extended \"our deepest apologies\" to producer Jan Chapman, whose photo was mistakenly used in the tribute instead of Chapman's colleague and friend, the late Janet Patterson. Chapman had said she was \"devastated\" by the error. \n Boone Isaacs said she regrets that the best-picture flub has overshadowed the show and its diverse array of winners. After two years of \"OscarsSoWhite,\" with all white acting nominees, Sunday's ceremony recognized several actors and writers of color, and named a tender film about a gay black boy best picture. It followed two years of extensive reform to improve inclusion within the academy. \n \"Going back to the brilliance of the show, as well as a year of conversation about Hollywood today and the evolution of Hollywood in so many different ways, and to culminate in such a beautiful evening,\" she said. \"It (attention on the flub) was beyond disappointing.\" \n And though she's ready for public attention to shift back to the winning films rather than the errant envelope, Boone Isaacs appreciates that so many people care about the Academy Awards. \n \"The Oscars are truly special, to such a degree that everyone has an opinion about it, but I'm fine with that,\" she said. \"They have an opinion about how it should be, how it shouldn't be, what we should do, who should win. \u2026 I love that we're in the conversation. Let's just make sure that, certainly this year, the conversation is about celebrating a fantastic year in the film business and a fantastic show.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Accountants in Oscar mistake are off the show"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUNA KEA WEATHER CENTER \n The Keck 1 telescope is obscured this afternoon by whiteout conditions on Mauna Kea. \n Blowing snow, strong winds, and poor visibility on Hawaii island's summits were making conditions extremely dangerous for travel with possible whiteout conditions, the National Weather Service said. \n Big Island summits above 11,000 feet were under a blizzard warning today through 6 a.m. tomorrow. A low pressure system system near Kauai was bringing the conditions to the summits. \n New snowfall of six to 10 inches, ice and strong winds were expected for the summits, the weather service said. \n Winds were forecast to be 45 to 55 mph from the southwest with gusts of up to 65 mph. Visibility will be less than a quarter-mile during heavier precipitation. \n A blizzard warning means severe weather conditions are expected or occurring. The warning replaces a previous winter storm warning. \n The weather service urged people not to travel in the area and to have a winter survival kit if you must travel. \n The National Park Service closed the summit of Mauna Loa because of the blizzard warning. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Blizzard warning for Hawaii island summits"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating the unattended death of a 34-year-old man who was found unresponsive in his vehicle in Waimanalo Tuesday. \n The man was discovered in the front seat of his vehicle and was pronounced dead at the scene. Police listed his initial time of death between 7 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. Tuesday. \n Police said there were no signs of foul play. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man, 34, found dead in car in Waimanalo"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency has postponed its monthly test of the statewide outdoor warning siren system today to avoid confusion as a powerful storm dumps heavy rain throughout the islands. \n \"Current severe weather conditions may cause area residents to mistake the testing of the siren for an actual emergency alert,\" agency officials said in a news release. \n The test has been rescheduled for Friday. It is usually conducted at 11:45 a.m. on the first business day of the month. \n Heavy rain has led to several ongoing flood advisories and warnings throughout Hawaii this morning, and the rain is expected to continue into the evening. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Monthly siren test canceled due to storm"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "A 72-year-old Anahola woman died following a head-on crash on Kapaa Bypass Road Tuesday afternoon. \n Police identified the woman as Lynette Lanning. \n Lanning was driving a Mazda sedan south of Crossroads Christian Fellowship on Kapaa Bypass Road around 4:30 p.m. when she was hit by a 21-year-old Kapaa man driving north in a Chevrolet pickup truck. \n Kauai officials said the pickup crossed the center line. \n Lanning was in critical condition when she was transported to Wilcox Hospital, where she died. \n Her 44-year-old, male passenger from Anahola and the pickup truck driver were taken to Wilcox with non-life threatening injuries and were released Tuesday night. \n Police continue to investigate the cause of this crash. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify woman who died in crash on Kauai"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Army Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend watched during a Feb. 8 tour north of Baghdad, Iraq. A Russian airstrike in northern Syria hit U.S.-backed Syrian Arab forces who are part of the fight against the Islamic State group, Townsend said today. \n WASHINGTON >> A Russian airstrike in northern Syria hit U.S.-backed Syrian Arab forces who are part of the fight against the Islamic State group, a senior U.S. general said today. \n Russia denied responsibility, saying in a written statement that it had adhered to U.S. guidance on avoiding friendly forces in that area. \n Army Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend, commander of the U.S.-led coalition forces in Iraq and Syria, said an unspecified number of American military advisers were a few miles away from the bombed site, out of immediate danger but close enough to see their Syrian partners get hit. He declined to say how many of the U.S.-backed Syrian fighters were killed or wounded. \n Townsend said the Americans sent word that quickly reached Russian officials, who acknowledged the problem and stopped the bombing. Townsend, who spoke to reporters at the Pentagon from his headquarters in Baghdad, said he believes the Russians thought they were striking Islamic State positions in the village. But IS fighters had withdrawn before the bombing, and members of what the Americans call the Syrian Arab Coalition had moved in, he said. \n In Moscow, the Russian Ministry of Defense issued a statement contradicting Townsend's version of the events. It said that in communications prior to the airstrike, a U.S. officer had expressed concern about the possibility of U.S.-backed Syrian fighters being struck inadvertently. \n \"To prevent any such incidents, a U.S. representative gave precise coordinates of the U.S.-backed opposition forces in that area to a Russian military officer,\" the statement said. \"The Russian military command took that information into account. Russian or Syrian aircraft haven't dealt a single strike on the areas designated by the U.S.\" \n The incident happened southeast of the city of al-Bab, which Townsend said has been fully \"liberated\" by Turkish forces. \n Townsend mentioned the incident to illustrate his point that the battlefield in Syria is exceptionally complex. He expressed worry that the complexities could lead to more severe miscalculations and undercut an anti-IS military campaign that is approaching a crucial juncture as U.S.-backed Syrian Arab and Kurdish fighters close in on Raqqa, the self-declared IS capital. \n Townsend said the U.S. is still talking to Turkey about whether and how Turkish forces might be involved in an assault on Raqqa. The issue is a sticky one because the Turks are opposed to the U.S. relying on Syrian Kurdish fighters in and around Raqqa; the Turks consider the Kurdish force known as YPG to be terrorists and a threat to Turkey. \n Russia's military involvement is a further complication, from the U.S. point of view. It's unclear whether President Donald Trump will seek military coordination with Russia in Syria; his predecessor deemed it inappropriate, arguing that the Russians were at cross purposes with the U.S. by acting to prop up the Syrian government. \n Townsend did not comment on relations with Russian other than to mention that a U.S.-Russian military communications link set up during the Obama administration was used in response to the airstrikes that hit U.S. partner forces Tuesday. The link was established to \"deconflict,\" or avoid collisions between U.S. and Russian warplanes over Syria. \n \"We used that mechanism and it worked,\" Townsend said. \n More broadly, the general said he is satisfied that the U.S. counter-IS strategy as developed during the Obama years is working. He said he has forwarded up his chain of command a set of recommendations on possible adaptions of the strategy, but he would not discuss those. He suggested that no major changes were needed and explicitly stated that sending large numbers of U.S. troops, as Trump proposed during the presidential campaign, would not help. \n \"I don't foresee us bringing in large numbers of coalition troops, mainly because what we're doing is in fact working,\" he said. \"But in the event that we bring in any additional troops, we'll work with our local partners both here in Iraq and Syria to make sure that they understand the reasons why we're doing that and to get their buy-in of that.\" \n Others have said the Trump administration might seek to accelerate the assault on Raqqa by putting additional U.S. trainers and advisers into Syria and possibly sending small numbers of conventional forces to operate long-range artillery. \n Earlier this week, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis sent to the White House his outline of how the administration might change the counter-IS strategy, which relies heavily on airstrikes and has evolved since President Barack Obama reintroduced troops into Iraq in 2014 after IS fighters swept across the Syrian border and captured large portions of northern and western Iraq. \n Townsend said U.S. intelligence estimates put the number of IS fighters in Iraq and Syria combined at 12,000 to 15,000. That is down from an estimate of 19,000 to 25,000 in February 2016 and 20,000 to 31,000 in 2014. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia inadvertently strikes U.S.-backed Syrians"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII CRIMINAL JUSTICE DATA CENTER \n Jordan Goetsch \n Jordan Goetsch allegedly yelled that someone was trying to kill him on a tour bus on Sunday. \n Within minutes of his outburst, he would jump out the bus window on the H-1 freeway, scale a barbed wire fence, and try to drive off in a woman's SUV while she was seated in her driver's seat, according to a police affidavit filed in Honolulu District Court on Tuesday. \n Goetsch, 31, was charged Monday with second-degree robbery in connection with the incident. He had a preliminary hearing scheduled for Thursday and was being held at Oahu Community Correctional Center in lieu of $50,000 bail. \n Police said the incident began at about 4:15 p.m. when a Grayline tour bus operator was driving Ewa-bound on H-1. The driver told police that Goetsch began to yell, \"they're trying to kill me\" and pulled an emergency window release, the affidavit said. \n When the driver pulled onto the shoulder near the Nimitz Highway offramp, Goetsch jumped out the window, ran off the freeway, and climbed a barbed wire fence to the Fort Shafter Flats military area. \n About 15 minutes later, a 69-year-old woman was stopped in traffic on Middle Street in her Mazda SUV when she saw Goetsch running toward her. \n He entered her unlocked front passenger door, sat in the passenger seat, searched her purse and took her iPhone, the affidavit said. Then Goetsch allegedly told her to drive because \"they were going to kill him.\" \n When the woman refused, Goetsch jumped onto her lap and tried to drive with the woman still in the driver's seat, the affidavit said. \n The woman took out her key and ran away from her SUV. \n Responding officers located Goetsch in the Marukai parking lot along Kamehameha Highway. He was arrested at 5:16 p.m. without further incident. \n Police said the woman's property was not found. \n Goetsch has one state conviction on his record for misdemeanor assault in June. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man charged with robbing woman stopped in Kalihi traffic"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "A female bicyclist was taken to a trauma center in critical condition early this morning following a collision with a vehicle on Piikoi Street near Kinau Street, Honolulu's Emergency Medical Services reported. \n The woman is believed to be 50 years old. \n She was struck just before midnight, forcing Piikoi to be closed for more than two hours between Beretania and Kinau streets. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist critically injured in collision in Makiki"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "A 12-year-old girl allegedly assaulted an on-duty educational worker in Waianae Monday and was arrested the following day. \n A 31-year-old, female educational worker allegedly was assaulted at 2:12 p.m. Monday at an undisclosed school in Waianae. The case was reported to police at 12:45 p.m. Tuesday. \n Police said the girl was arrested on suspicion of second-degree assault. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Girl, 12, arrested in assault of Waianae school worker"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU \n City workers deployed to Kaunala Street on the North Shore to help clear mud and debris brought by today's rainfall. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A pedestrian made his way over Lusitana St. this morning. Rain has forced the closure of the Honolulu Zoo and several municipal golf courses today and Kamehameha Highway remains closed in both directions in front of the Turtle Bay Resort as communities from the North Shore to Hawaii Kai report momentary power outages. \n Rain has forced the closure of the Honolulu Zoo and several municipal golf courses today as communities from the North Shore to Hawaii Kai report momentary power outages. \n Kamehameha Highway in front of Turtle Bay was reopened shortly before 10 a.m. after being closed in both directions for about 6 hours because of flooding. The Department of Emergency Management reported that two sedans stalled in the area, according to city spokesman Andrew Pereira. \n The state Department of Health issued a brown water advisory for Maui, Oahu and Kauai, warning people to stay out of flood waters and storm runoff because of the risk of overflowing cesspools, sewer manholes, pesticides, animal fecal matter, dead animals, pathogens, chemicals and flood debris. \n About 2,200 Hawaiian Electric Co. customers in Nanakuli and Waianae lost power just before 9 a.m., HECO spokeswoman Shannon Tangonan said. \n Additionally, some businesses at the Hawaii Kai Towne Center have been without power since 8:30 a.m. today, Tangonan said. \n On the North Shore, city crews deployed to help clear away mud and debris on Kaunala Street in the Velzyland area. Kaunala is a private road, but the city has responsibility for its maintenance, Pereira said. \n The National Weather Service said that radar showed more heavy rain sitting just off the Waianae coast and south shore, moving north at a rate of 15 to 20 mph. \n Areas that could be particularly affected include Maunawili, Kailua, Waikane, Mililani, Waialua, Hawaii Kai, Salt Lake, Kaneohe, Waiahole, Moanalua and Halawa, according to the weather service. \n The West Loch and Ewa Villages golf courses are closed and play is suspended at the Ted Makalena and Pali golf courses, Pereira said. \n Only the paths are open at the Ala Wai golf course, he said, and Kahuku remains open. \n Flooding on Kauai forced the closure of Hanalei Elementary School for the second day in a row today, and of Kuhio Highway near the Hanalei Bridge in both directions. By late morning, one lane of the highway was reopened and police were alternating traffic on the road. The American Red Cross opened an emergency shelter at the school at 6 a.m. but closed it by late morning. \n Some power lines were reported down in the Campbell Industrial Park area but repair crews were on scene and making repairs, Tangonan said. \n Areas of Makakilo and Hawaii Kai reported \"flickers,\" in which service momentarily goes out and then returns, Tangonan said, and \"minor\" website outages occurred in Makakilo. \n HECO's website indicated outages had been reported around Pupukea, Laie, Kahana Valley Road, Waipahu, Pearl City and Nuuanu. \n There were also reports of downed trees in Nanakuli and downed power lines on Boxer Road at Barber's Point Housing, according to the weather service. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Heavy rains, flooding prompt closures"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "The 18-year-old male driver of an allegedly stolen vehicle intentionally crashed into two Honolulu police vehicles in the Pearl City area Tuesday, police said. \n Police stopped the vehicle at 1:09 a.m. following a traffic violation. A license plate check showed that the vehicle had been stolen, police said. \n The driver struck the police vehicles while attempting to flee, police said. He then fled on foot but was arrested for investigation of several counts, including two counts of criminal property damage, police said. \n Three other occupants were arrested for investigation of unauthorized entry into a moving vehicle. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man rams vehicle into HPD cars after traffic stop in Pearl City"}

{"date": "March 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. applauded on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, following the president's address to a joint session of Congress. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump addressed a joint session of Congress on Capitol Hill in Washington on Tuesday. Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. listened. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump boasted in his speech to Congress that new money \"is pouring in\" from NATO partners, which it isn't. He also took credit for corporate job expansion and military cost savings that actually took root under his predecessor. \n A look at some of his claims Tuesday night: \n Only five of the 28 member countries are meeting the 2 percent level, and no new commitments have been made since the NATO meeting. \n In fact, Germany's foreign minister said today he is skeptical about his country's plans to increase defense spending, saying it could raise concerns in Europe by turning Germany into \"a military supremacy.\" German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said her country will meet its commitment to raise defense spending by the 2024 deadline. In any event, the commitment is for these nations to spend more on their own military capabilities, which would strengthen the alliance, not to hand over money. \n The report found that while first-generation immigrants are more expensive to governments than their native-born counterparts, primarily at the state and local level, immigrants' children \"are among the strongest economic and fiscal contributors in the population.\" This second generation contributed more in taxes on a per capita basis, for example, than did the rest of the population in the period studied, 1994-2013. \n The report found that the \"long-run fiscal impact\" of immigrants and their children would probably be seen as more positive \"if their role in sustaining labor force growth and contributing to innovation and entrepreneurial activity were taken into account.\" \n The head of the Air Force program announced significant price reductions in the contract for the Lockheed F-35 fighter jet Dec. 19 \u2014 after Trump had tweeted about the cost but weeks before he met the company's CEO about it. \n Pentagon managers took action even before the election to save money on the contract. Richard Aboulafia, an analyst with the aerospace consulting firm Teal Group, said there is no evidence of any additional cost savings as a result of Trump's actions. \n Some of the job announcements have come after companies, such as the wireless carrier Sprint, reduced their numbers of workers. \n More important, even as some companies create jobs, others are laying off workers. The best measure of whether more jobs are actually being created is the monthly employment report issued by the Labor Department, which nets out those gains and losses. The department will issue its report for February, the first full month of Trump's term, on March 10. \n The World Economic Forum ranks the U.S. seventh out of 138 countries for its transportation infrastructure, ahead of countries such as Germany, Spain, Canada, Britain and China. Countries ahead of it on the list are smaller, including the United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Hong Kong and the Netherlands. \n By the nation's own measurements, bridges have improved over the past decade or so. The trade association for road builders, using government data, indeed says there are 55,710 structurally deficient bridges \u2014 those carrying more traffic than they were designed for. But that number represents a 34 percent decline since 2002. And the share of miles driven on national highways with pavement offering \"good ride quality\" rose from 50 percent in 2002 to 57 percent in 2012. \n That 94 million figure includes everyone aged 16 and older who doesn't have a job and isn't looking for one. So it includes retirees, parents who are staying home to raise children, and high school and college students who are studying rather than working. \n They are unlikely to work regardless of the state of the economy. With the huge baby boomer generation reaching retirement age and many of them retiring, the population of those out of the labor force is increasing and will continue to do so, most economists forecast. \n It's true that some of those out of the workforce are of working age and have given up looking for work. But that number is probably a small fraction of the 94 million Trump cited. \n Even the attacks Trump singled out weren't entirely the work of foreigners. Syed Rizwan Farook, who along with his Pakistani wife killed 14 people in the deadly 2015 attack in San Bernardino, California, was born in Chicago. \n It's true that in the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, the FBI's primary concern was with terrorists from overseas feared to be plotting attacks in the United States. But that's no longer the case. \n The FBI and the Justice Department have been preoccupied with violent extremists from inside the U.S. who are inspired by the calls to violence and mayhem of the Islamic State group. The Justice Department has prosecuted scores of IS-related cases since 2014, and many of the defendants are U.S. citizens. \n One of the two major components of the Affordable Care Act has seen a spike in premiums and a drop in participation from insurers. But the other component, equally important, seems to be working fairly well, even if its costs are a concern. \n Trump and congressional Republicans want to repeal the whole thing, which risks leaving millions of people uninsured if the replacement plan has shortcomings. Some critics say GOP rhetoric itself is making things worse by creating uncertainty about the future. \n The health law offers subsidized private health insurance along with a state option to expand Medicaid for low-income people. Together, the two arms of the program cover more than 20 million people. \n Republican governors whose states have expanded Medicaid are trying to find a way to persuade Congress and the administration to keep the expansion, and maybe even build on it, while imposing limits on the long-term costs of Medicaid. \n While the Medicaid expansion seems to be working, the markets for subsidized private health insurance are stressed in many states. Also affected are millions of people who buy individual policies outside the government markets, and face the same high premiums with no financial help from the health law. \n Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation says \"implosion\" is too strong a term. An AP count found that 12.2 million people signed up for this year, despite the Trump administration's threats to repeal the law. \n But a health care blogger and industry consultant, Robert Laszewski, agrees with Trump. He says too few young, healthy people have signed up to guarantee the stability of the insurance markets. \n Associated Press writers Robert Burns, Alicia A. Caldwell, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Eric Tucker, Joan Lowy, Lolita C. Baldor and Jim Drinkard contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Trump jumps the gun on NATO, jobs claims"}

