{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump looks on as Juanita Broaddrick speaks before the second presidential debate with Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at Washington University on Sunday in St. Louis. \n MANCHESTER, N.H. \u00bb Women voters in swing states are expressing deep disgust about Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's assertion that an old tape featuring him talking about groping women amounted to \"locker room talk\" and not sexual assault.  \n But interviews with several dozen today show Trump's latest actions, including bringing women who have accused former President Bill Clinton of sexual harassment or rape to Sunday's debate, did little to sway their opinions about the presidential contest. Many Republicans and independents said they already weren't going to support Trump, but weren't convinced to vote for Hillary Clinton. Some said they wouldn't vote at all or would choose Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson. \n \"It didn't surprise me that it came from him. It makes it even more shameful that there's a possibility that he would represent the United States,\" said Chris O'Rourke, a New Hampshire voter who doesn't identify with a political party. But, she added, \"I'm not a fan of the Clintons. \u2026 I don't know if I'm going to vote.\" \n In the 2005 recording released Friday, Trump is heard saying he can grab, kiss and \"do anything\" with women because he is famous. On Sunday he denied that he's ever grabbed women without their consent and again characterized the comments as \"locker room talk.\" Prior to the debate, he met with three women who have accused Bill Clinton of harassment or rape. The former president never faced criminal charges in relation to the allegations, and a lawsuit over an alleged rape was dismissed. He did settle a lawsuit with one of the women who claimed harassment. \n Trump was already struggling with women voters, while Clinton is looking to run up her margins with them to make up for her challenges among men. Among registered voters, women were more likely than men to say they'd be afraid if Trump were elected, 60 percent to 52 percent, according to a recent Associated Press-GfK poll released before the tape of Trump came to light. They were more likely to say he's not at all civil, 54 percent to 49 percent, or compassionate, 58 percent to 50 percent. \n And 51 percent of women said they planned to vote for Clinton compared to 34 percent for Trump. \n The 2005 tape prompted a stream of elected Republicans, including Sens. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and Rob Portman of Ohio, to denounce their party's nominee. But many women voters said the tape shouldn't have been surprising. \n Debbie Manzanares, a Republican from Colorado, won't cast a vote for Trump, but the tapes aren't the reason. \n \"If anyone's surprised,\" she said. \"They haven't been listening.\" \n Marie Cote, of New Hampshire, is one voter who said the tape did sway her vote. Cote, 60, said she was on the fence about voting for Trump because she sees him as a \"go-getter.\" But she has five daughters, and Trump's comments about grabbing and kissing women disturbed her. \n \"It concerns me about what their future will be like if he's president,\" she said. \n Cote said she's now leaning toward voting for Clinton but hasn't decided, adding, \"It is hard for women.\" Cote said she thinks it's fair game for Trump to link Hillary Clinton to her husband's infidelities: \"She must've known he was a womanizer.\" \n Still, some female voters said they planned to vote for Trump despite being appalled by his latest remarks. Susan Broadwell of New Hampshire, who wore a \"Nobody for President\" shirt as she grocery shopped, said some of Trump's behavior is \"distressing, to say the least.\" But she said Trump's words pale in comparison to some of Clinton's actions, particularly her response to the 2012 attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi, Libya. \n Broadwell, 56, met Trump at a rally in New Hampshire earlier this year. She said she appreciates that he is the same person in public and in private. \n \"I'm willing to see what he can do,\" she said. \n But others said they'll vote for Johnson because they dislike Clinton and Trump so deeply. Cynthia Isom of Pennsylvania said the recording reveals Trump's true thoughts on women and that she felt he was trying to intimidate Clinton in Sunday's debate. \n \"I just can't look in the mirror and say I voted for either one of them,\" she said. \n Democrats like Anne Green of Pennsylvania wonder how any women could vote for Trump at this point. \n \"If any woman votes for Trump, they're out of their mind, but I do know a few people who are,\" she said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's 2005 comments disgust women, but change few opinions"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 22-year-old Salt Lake man who allegedly robbed a 44-year-old man Sunday night in Kalihi. \n Police said the man was armed with a dangerous instrument, but did not describe what it was. \n He allegedly threatened the older man with the instrument during the robbery, which occurred at 8:15 p.m., police said. \n Police arrested the man at 8:32 p.m. on suspicion of first-degree robbery and on a $20,000 probation violation warrant. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Salt Lake man arrested in Kalihi robbery"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / FEB. 2013 \n In this file photo, Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Uighur minority, gestures as he speaks during an interview at his home in Beijing, China. A group of leading rights organizations has awarded its annual prize for human rights defenders to imprisoned Chinese Muslim minority economics professor Tohti, shining new attention on a case that has brought strong international condemnation. \n BEIJING \u00bb A group of leading rights organizations has awarded its annual prize for human rights defenders to imprisoned Chinese Muslim minority economics professor Ilham Tohti, shining new attention on a case that has brought strong international condemnation.  \n The Martin Ennals Award is bestowed by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and eight other human rights groups. The award ceremony will take place in Geneva, Switzerland, on Tuesday evening. \n Tohti was given a life sentence on charges of separatism in September 2014 after a two-day trial. A member of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group, he taught at Beijing's Minzu University and was an outspoken critic of Beijing's ethnic policies in the far western region of Xinjiang. Tohti denied advocating separatism or violence. \n Tohti has \"sought reconciliation by bringing to light repressive Chinese policies and Uyghur grievances. This is information the Chinese government has sought to keep behind a veil of silence,\" the group said in a statement, using an alternative spelling for Uighur. \n \"He remains a voice of moderation and reconciliation in spite of how he has been treated,\" it said. \n Tohti's sentence brought statements of condemnation from numerous Western governments and the European Union, and in January this year several hundred academics petitioned China's authoritarian communist government to release him. \n Many Uighurs say Chinese government policies and an influx of migrants belonging to China's majority Han ethnic group have threatened their culture and left them economically marginalized. Such sentiments are seen as driving occasional outbursts of violence, including deadly riots in the regional capital of Urumqi in 2009. \n China's government had no immediate comment on the award, but generally denounces such accolades as part of a hazy foreign plot to smear China's reputation and undermine its Beijing's authority. \n \"The award not only duly recognizes Prof. Ilham Tohti's courageous work promoting minority rights and dialogues between Hans and Uighurs, it also highlights the Chinese government increasingly harsh punishment against its critics,\" said Maya Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher with Human Rights Watch. \n \"Instead of reacting angrily to the news, the Chinese government should release Ilham Tohit and reverse its repressive policies in Xinjiang,\" Wang said. \n Prevented from publishing, Tohti turned to the Internet, running the site Uyghurbiz.net to foster discussion about the economic, social and developmental issue Uighurs face. \n Seven of Tohti's students were also sentenced in what was seen as a move to strengthen the government's case against him. \n Authorities accused the professor and the students of forming a criminal gang that sought to split Xinjiang from China \n This year's other finalists for the award were Ethiopian independent journalism collective Zone 9 Bloggers, and Syrian human rights lawyer, activist and journalist Razan Zaitouneh. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Imprisoned Chinese minority scholar given human rights award"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Stacks of picket signs wait for Chicago Teachers Union members to pick up outside union's strike headquarters today in Chicago. Negotiators for the union and Chicago Public Schools continue to meet in an effort to reach a contract and avert a threatened teachers' strike. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chicago Teachers Union members paint a strike sign that will read Special Needs Over Corporate Greed, at the union's strike headquarters today in Chicago. Negotiators for the union and Chicago Public Schools continue to meet in an effort to reach a contract and avert a threatened teachers' strike. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Retired Chicago school teacher Patricia Lofton counts through a stack of picket sign for Chicago Teachers Union members to pick up today in Chicago. Negotiators for the union and Chicago Public Schools continue to meet in an effort to reach a contract and avert a threatened teachers' strike. \n CHICAGO \u00bb Chicago teachers and the nation's third-largest school district struck a tentative deal on a new contract late today, averting what would have been the second major strike since 2012 for Chicago Public Schools just hours before union members were set to hit the picket lines. \n Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis said at a news conference just before midnight Tuesday that after more than a year of negotiations, the two sides had hammered out an agreement that isn't perfect but is good for students, teachers and the city. \n The deal still must be approved by the union's House of Delegates and the full membership, a process that could take weeks. \n \"There will be classes in the morning,\" she said. \"It wasn't easy as you all know \u2026 we're very pleased we were able to come to this.\" \n Lewis gave few details of the four-year proposal, though she said it included cost-of-living increases in the third and fourth year and that it doesn't require current teachers to pay more toward their pensions \u2014 a change CPS had been seeking and the union rejected earlier this year. But future CPS hires would have to pick up that additional pension cost, Lewis said. \n There was no immediate comment from CPS, and no details about how much the deal would cost or how the financially struggling district would pay for it. \n The CTU had directed its roughly 28,000 members to report to picket lines Tuesday morning unless they heard otherwise from union negotiators for a walkout that would have affected nearly 400,000 students. \n The two sides held negotiations throughout the weekend. On Monday afternoon, teachers picked up strike placards and painted banners. Earlier in the day, parents and other supporters rallied across from Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home. \n \"Nobody wants to go on strike but I think the teachers finally said 'Enough is enough,'\" Nate Rasmussen, a preschool teacher at Beasley Elementary School on the city's South Side said prior to the tentative deal. He said the district's 2013 closing of some 50 schools, layoffs of thousands of teachers in recent years and other spending cuts have made the job tougher. \n Teachers have been without a contract since June 2015. The union wanted no cuts to salary or benefits and an additional $200 million \u2014 or $500 per student \u2014 in spending to ensure adequate staffing and \"to accommodate the needs of our children,\" Lewis said on Friday. \n CPS has said it is working within the framework of a January offer, which included pay increases and a cap on privately operated charter schools but would have required all teachers to contribute more to their pension costs. The union turned it down in February. \n CPS officials say the district is facing serious financial constraints, due largely to soaring pension costs and a flawed state school funding formula. \n Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said Monday that both sides are trying to find a way to ensure school is in session Tuesday. \n \"The good news is, everybody's got their sleeves rolled up working toward an honest agreement that reflects everybody's interest,\" he said earlier in the day. \"My interests are to make sure our kids are in school learning and continue to make educational gains and do it in a way that reflects the budget constraints we're all living under.\" \n About two-dozen people with Parents 4 Teachers rallied in Emanuel's leafy Ravenswood neighborhood on the city's North Side Monday morning. \n Organizer Erica Hade has several children in the public school system and lives across the street from a school. She said she sees teachers arriving for work at 6 a.m. and leaving 12 hours later. \n \"How can parents not be supportive of teachers?\" she said. \n Jim Tormey, a 52-year-old father of two children who attend CPS, spoke with the demonstrators. Afterward, he said he had some sympathy for teachers but that his feelings were mixed. \n \"There are ebbs and flows in that sympathy,\" he said. \"We love our teachers, but we want our kids not to miss school because of a strike.\" \n During the last major strike in 2012, teachers were out for seven school days. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago teachers, district reach tentative deal; no strike"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton arrives to speak at a rally at The Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio today. \n DES MOINES, Iowa \u00bb Continuing her policy focus on children and families, Hillary Clinton is pledging more tax relief for families with young kids. \n The Democratic presidential nominee announced a plan on Tuesday to double the Child Tax Credit and to increase the amount that low-income families could get back in refunds. \n Clinton said she is trying to help families struggling with the cost of child care, health care and college. She said the \"new tax credit will make their lives a little bit easier and help restore fairness to our economy.\" \n Clinton has made women and families a central priority of her campaign. She has pledged not to raise taxes on the middle class and has proposed plans to cap child care costs and offer tax credits for excessive health care costs or for family caregivers. \n The latest proposal is in keeping with that. Currently, the Child Tax Credit is $1,000 per child under 17. Clinton would increase it to $2,000 per child up until the age of 4. \n Clinton would also increase the amount that low-income families could get back in refunds under the program. Families with young children would see the most benefit. \n Clinton's campaign said the plan would cost between $150 billion and $200 billion and would be paid with higher taxes on the wealthy. As with the current Child Tax Credit, it would phase out for higher income families. \n Republican Donald Trump has proposed a more sweeping tax cut, condensing the current seven brackets to just three. But some analyses have found that his proposal could actually raise certain families' tax bills because of how it changes deductions and exemptions. \n Trump has also proposed a tax deduction for child care \u2014 which could provide greater benefit to higher income families. He also proposes expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit to aid lower-income families with child care costs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton proposes tax relief for families with young kids"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "WCAX-TV VIA AP \n In this still image from video provided by WCAX-TV, a worker attaches a wrecker cable to a vehicle on Interstate 89 early Sunday in Williston,Vt., after a wrong-way driver caused a crash just before midnight that killed multiple people, before stealing a police cruiser, striking several vehicles and injuring several people. \n WCAX-TV VIA AP \n In this still image from video provided by WCAX-TV, workers remove vehicles from Interstate 89 early Sunday, in Williston, Vt., after a wrong-way driver caused a crash just before midnight that killed multiple people, before stealing a police cruiser, striking several vehicles and injuring several people. \n WCAX-TV VIA AP \n In this still image from video provided by WCAX-TV, workers remove vehicles from Interstate 89 early Sunday in Williston, Vt., after a wrong-way driver caused a crash just before midnight that killed multiple people, before stealing a police cruiser, striking several vehicles and injuring several people. \n DUXBURY, Vt. \u00bb A man accused of driving the wrong way on an interstate, crashing into a car and killing five high school students, is facing trial on an unrelated domestic assault charge, prosecutors said today. \n A police affidavit says Steven Bourgoin hit his girlfriend in the head and threatened to throw her down the stairs in May. Police say when she tried to leave with their 2-year-old child, Bourgoin got into the vehicle, drove them around and threatened to kill them. The now ex-girlfriend received custody of the child last month, prosecutors said. \n Bourgoin remained unconscious and in critical condition at a hospital Monday. Police say that after crashing into the teens' car he took a police cruiser and crashed into seven more cars. They say he was injured when he was thrown from the vehicle, which went up in flames. \n Prosecutors say Bourgoin is their prime suspect in the teens' deaths, but they haven't charged him. They applied for an arrest warrant on charges related to use of the police cruiser. \n It was unknown if Bourgoin has an attorney. A public defender representing him in the domestic violence case didn't immediately return a phone call seeking comment. \n Chittenden County state's attorney TJ Donovan raised questions about the motive for the crashes. When asked if the driver was trying to kill himself, he said he \"would not classify what occurred on Interstate 89 as an accident.\" \n Meanwhile, Democratic Gov. Peter Shumlin ordered flags to fly at half-staff. He called the teens' deaths \"unimaginable and heartbreaking.\" \n The teens died at the scene of the crash in Williston on Saturday night. They were Mary Harris, 16, of Moretown; Cyrus Zschau, 16, of Moretown; Liam Hale, 16, of Fayston; Janie Cozzi, 15, of Fayston; and Eli Brookens, 16, of Waterbury. \n Classmates, teachers and staff at Harwood Union High School in Duxbury, where four of the five were students, held a candlelight vigil for them. About 1,000 people attended. Many cried before releasing lanterns that floated off into the chilly night. \n Darrell Mays, Mary's uncle, thanked the community for supporting the family but said their grief was only just beginning to be felt. He urged the students left behind to honor their friends who died. \n \"Live a great life,\" he said. \"That's what you can do for your friends who died.\" \n Dan Weintraub, Janie's soccer coach and European history teacher at Kimball Union Academy in Meriden, New Hampshire, said her teammates and coaches deeply loved her. \n \"She always came to every practice with a huge smile and put in a 100 percent effort,\" he said. \"Everybody followed her lead.\" \n Bourgoin, 36, is a warehouse associate at Lake Champlain Chocolates. A spokeswoman said workers were as shocked and saddened as everyone else in the area. \n Around midday Monday, the boys and girls soccer teams at Harwood started kicking balls around the field. Two of the students killed were on the boys varsity soccer team, and all had grown up playing soccer. \n Assistant soccer coach Joe Yalicki said a varsity game that had been scheduled for Monday was canceled but the team wanted to get together. \n \"They agreed to get together today just to do something, kick the ball around, laughing and crying, a little of both,\" said Yalicki, who graduated from Harwood in 2009 and had known all five students since they were in eighth grade. \n Mason Lemery, 16, a Harwood soccer team member, said the last 24 hours had been \"really hard.\" \n \"We're just trying to remember all the good memories of them, doing what they would have wanted us to do, come out here and play soccer,\" he said. \n In Waitsfield, one of the communities that makes up the Harwood school district, free soft-serve ice cream was given out Monday at the Canteen Creamery, where Cyrus worked. \n \"Cyrus was a big presence here, but his friends were as well,\" said store owner Charlie Menard, who had Cyrus' name written on the white hat he was wearing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man in wrong-way fatal crash faces domestic assault trial"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 27 photo, relatives and hospital staff pose for a photo with Jose Wesley Campos during his 1-year birthday party at home in Bonito, Pernambuco state, Brazil. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 30 photo, 1-year-old Jose Wesley Campos, who was born with microcephaly, cries during his physical therapy session at the AACD rehabilitation center in Recife, Brazil. Jose is like a newborn. He is slow to follow objects with his crossed eyes. His head is unsteady when he tries to hold it up, and he weighs less than 13 pounds, far below the 22 pounds that is average for a baby his age. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 27 photo, Solange Ferreira holds her son Jose Wesley Campos as family friend Sandra Souza, right, holds his nasogastric feeding tube during his 1-year birthday party at his home in Bonito, Pernambuco state, Brazil. \n RECIFE, Brazil \u00bb Two weeks shy of his first birthday, doctors began feeding Jose Wesley Campos through a nose tube because swallowing problems had left him dangerously underweight. \n Learning how to feed is the baby's latest struggle as medical problems mount for him and many other infants born with small heads to mothers infected with the Zika virus in Brazil. \n \"It hurts me to see him like this. I didn't want this for him,\" said Jose's mother, Solange Ferreira, breaking into tears as she cradled her son. \n A year after a spike in the number of newborns with the defect known as microcephaly, doctors and researchers have seen many of the babies develop swallowing difficulties, epileptic seizures and vision and hearing problems. \n While more study is needed, the conditions appear to be causing more severe problems in these infants than in patients born with small heads because of the other infections known to cause microcephaly, such as German measles and herpes. The problems are so particular that doctors are now calling the condition congenital Zika syndrome. \n \"We are seeing a lot of seizures. And now they are having many problems eating, so a lot of these children start using feeding tubes,\" said Dr. Vanessa Van der Linden, a pediatric neurologist in Recife who was one of the first doctors to suspect that Zika caused microcephaly. \n Zika, mainly transmitted by mosquito, was not known to cause birth defects until a large outbreak swept through northeastern states in Latin America's largest nation, setting off alarm worldwide. Numerous studies confirmed the link. \n Seven percent of the babies with microcephaly that Van der Linden and her team have treated were also born with arm and leg deformities that had not previously been linked to other causes of microcephaly, she said. \n To complicate matters, there are babies whose heads were normal at birth but stopped growing proportionally months later. Other infants infected with the virus in the womb did not have microcephaly but developed different problems, such as a patient of Van der Linden's who started having difficulties moving his left hand. \n \"We may not even know about the ones with slight problems out there,\" Van der Linden said. \"We are writing the history of this disease.\" \n On a recent day, Jose laid on a blue mat wearing just brown moccasins and a diaper, his bony chest pressed by a respiratory therapist helping him clear congested airways. \n Jose, who has been visited by The Associated Press three times in the last year, is like a newborn. He is slow to follow objects with his crossed eyes. His head is unsteady when he tries to hold it up, and he weighs less than 13 pounds, far below the 22 pounds that is average for a baby his age. \n Breathing problems make his cries sound like gargling, and his legs stiffen when he is picked up. To see, he must wear tiny blue-rimmed glasses, which makes him fussy. \n Arthur Conceicao, who recently turned 1, has seizures every day despite taking medication for epilepsy. He also started taking high-calorie formula through a tube after he appeared to choke during meals. \n \"It's every mom's dream to see their child open his mouth and eat well,\" said his mother, Rozilene Ferreira, adding that each day seems to bring new problems. \n Studies are underway to determine if the timing of the infection during pregnancy affects the severity of the abnormalities, said Ricardo Ximenes, a researcher at the Fiocruz Institute in Recife. \n Also, three groups of babies whose mothers were infected with Zika are being followed for a study funded by the U.S. National Institutes of Health. The groups include infants born with microcephaly, some born with normal-sized heads found to have brain damage or other physical problems and babies who have not had any symptoms or developmental delays. \n At birth, Bernardo Oliveira's head measured more than 13 inches, well within the average range. His mother, Barbara Ferreira, thought her child was spared from the virus that had infected her during pregnancy and stricken many newborns in maternity wards in her hometown of Caruaru, a small city 80 miles west of Recife. \n But Bernardo cried nonstop. The pediatrician told Ferreira that her baby was likely colicky and would get better by the third month. Instead, the crying got worse, so Ferreira took him to a government-funded event where neurologists were seeing patients with suspected brain damage. \n \"At the end of the second month, beginning of the third, his head stopped growing,\" Ferreira said. \"Bernardo was afflicted by the Zika virus after all. I was in despair.\" \n In Brazil, the government has reported 2,001 cases of microcephaly or other brain malformations in the last year. So far, only 343 have been confirmed by tests to have been caused by Zika, but the Health Ministry argues that the rest are most likely caused by the virus. \n Health Minister Ricardo Barros said there was a drop of 85 percent in microcephaly cases in August and September compared to those months last year, when the first births started worrying pediatricians. He credited growing awareness of the virus and government attempts to combat mosquitoes through spraying campaigns. \n Despite all the problems, some infants with the syndrome are showing signs of progress. \n On a recent evening, 11-month-old Joao Miguel Silva Nunes pulled himself up in his playpen and played peek-a-boo with his mother, Rosileide da Silva. \n \"He is my source of pride,\" Silva said. \"He makes me feel that things are working out.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "As babies stricken by Zika turn 1, health problems mount"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigate an apparent stabbing on Wiliwili and Lime Street in McCully tonight. \n Police arrested a 26-year-old McCully man Monday in connection with stabbings that left a 5-year-old boy dead and a 29-year-old woman in critical condition. \n The incident occurred about 4:45 p.m. in a second-floor unit of an apartment complex on Lime Street. \n Police were initially called to respond to an argument at the residence. A late call reported the incident as a stabbing. \n Honolulu Police Department Homicide Lt. Phillip Lavarias said that when officers arrived they found the armed suspect still at the scene. Officers persuaded the man to surrender his weapon and, on a subsequent search of the apartment found the two injured people. \n Lavarias said the child sustained multiple stab wounds to the chest. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said that the child suffered a cardiac arrest and was administered advanced cardiac life support before being transferred in critical condition to a local trauma center, where he later died. \n The woman suffered multiple stab wounds to the back and was transported to a local trauma center in critical condition, according to EMS. \n Lavarias said the suspect and the female victim may have been siblings. The child is believed to be related, as well, but as of Monday evening police had yet to confirm this. \n The suspect and both victims resided in the apartment. \n ", "author": "By Michael Tsai", "title": "Man arrested after boy dies, woman wounded in McCully stabbings"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton arrives at Lambert\u2013St. Louis International Airport in St. Louis on Sunday for the second presidential debate. \n Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump, 52 percent-38 percent, among likely voters in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey conducted over the weekend, before Sunday night's debate.  \n In a four-way matchup including Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson and Green party nominee Jill Stein, Clinton led Trump, 46 percent-35 percent, with Johnson at 9 percent and Stein at 2 percent. \n The poll was conducted after news broke on Friday about a video in which Trump can be heard boasting that he can grope women because \"when you're a star, they let you do it.\" \n Trump's problems may be washing over his party, as well, either by tainting it with his own unpopularity or by discouraging Republican turnout, the poll indicated. Asked which party they would favor in congressional elections, likely voters sided with the Democrats, 49 percent-42 percent, the poll found. \n That result is up from a 3-point Democratic advantage last month. Whether it would be large enough to overturn the Republican majority in the House, however, is not clear. In 2006, when Democrats won control of the House, their average advantage in polls was about 8 percentage points, but redistricting after the 2010 Census has given Republicans a significant cushion in many races. \n Among Republicans, the poll indicated that Trump retains significant support \u2014 a problem for congressional Republican leaders who are trying to distance the party from him. About two-thirds of Republicans in the poll said the party's candidates should continue to back Trump. \n The poll surveyed 500 registered voters on Saturday and Sunday. It has a margin of error of 4.6 percentage points in either direction for the likely voter sample. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Tribune Co.  \n ", "author": "By David Lauter Tribune Washington Bureau", "title": "Clinton takes double-digit lead over Trump in weekend poll"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "Kauai police arrested a 57-year-old Kapaa man after he allegedly shot his 52-year-old roommate Sunday. \n The shooting occurred at about 12:20 a.m. Sunday at a home on Kamalu Road in Wailua Homesteads, police said. Police responded to the shooting after area residents heard multiple shots fired. \n It's unknown at this time what had occurred before the shooting. \n Officers found a man lying on the floor in his bedroom with gunshot wounds to his face and chest, according to police spokeswoman Sarah Blane. He was transported to Wilcox Hospital and medevaced to Queen's Medical Center in serious but stable condition. The suspect was not at the home when police arrived. \n Police said the victim lives in the home with the 57-year-old man and several other roommates. \n Detectives conducted a search for the suspect that morning. Police said the 57-year-old man turned himself in to police Sunday afternoon and was arrested on suspicion of second-degree attempted murder and two counts of reckless endangering. \n He is being held in lieu of $1 million bail and is scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai man arrested in connection with shooting of roommate"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo released by the Texas Office of the Attorney General shows Carl Ferrer. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. \u00bb California authorities say the former owners of the Village Voice in New York City have been arrested days after they were charged with sex trafficking through their control of an online site that advertises escort services. \n Kristin Ford, a spokeswoman for California Attorney General Kamala Harris, says 68-year-old Michael Lacey and 67-year-old James Larkin were booked into Sacramento County Jail on Monday. \n The controlling shareholders of the Backpage.com site are charged with conspiracy to commit pimping. That's defined as making money from prostitutes or soliciting customers for prostitution. \n Attorneys for the Arizona men, who once owned the Phoenix New Times alternative weekly, did not immediately return telephone messages, but Backpage's lawyer called the arrests \"an election year stunt\" as Harris runs for the U.S. Senate. \n They are to appear in court Wednesday with Backpage chief executive Carl Ferrer, who was arrested last week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Website shareholders jailed on California pimping charge"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "DREAMSTIME \n If you have a medical problem, you're better off seeing a real doctor than relying on the diagnosis of a program on your computer or smartphone, according to a new study. \n If you're feeling sick and you want to know what's wrong with you, there's an app for that. But the diagnosis won't be as accurate as the one you'd get from a doctor \u2014 not by a long shot. \n In a head-to-head comparison, real human physicians outperformed a collection of 23 symptom-checker apps and websites by a margin of more than 2 to 1, according to a report published today in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine. \n Even when the contestants got three chances to figure out what ailed a hypothetical patient, the diagnostic software lagged far behind actual doctors. Indeed, the apps and websites suggested the right diagnosis only slightly more than half of the time, the report says. \n The research team \u2014 from Harvard Medical School, Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston and the Human Diagnosis Project in Washington, D.C. \u2014 asked 234 physicians to read through a selection of 45 \"clinical vignettes\" to see how they would handle these hypothetical patients. Each vignette included the medical history of the \"patient\" but no results from a physical exam, blood test or other kind of lab work. \n Most of the doctors were trained in internal medicine, though the group included some pediatricians and family practice physicians too. About half of them were in residency or fellowship, so their training was not yet complete. \n Even so, of the 1,105 vignettes they considered, they listed the correct diagnosis first 72 percent of the time, according to the study. \n The 23 symptom checkers evaluated a total of 770 vignettes in an earlier study by some of the same researchers. The apps and websites (including several from professional medical organizations, such as the American Academy of Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Dutch College of General Practitioners) listed the correct diagnosis first just 34 percent of the time. \n Both the doctors and the computer programs were able to include more than one ailment in their differential diagnosis. So the researchers also compared how often the correct diagnosis was among the top three responses. \n For the doctors, that happened 84 percent of the time. For the symptom checkers, it was 51 percent of the time. \n Though the humans trounced the computers across the board, there were situations in which did a particularly good job of naming the correct diagnosis first. For instance, their margin in cases with common conditions was 70 percent to 38 percent. In cases with uncommon conditions, it grew to 76 percent to 28 percent. \n The seriousness of the malady made a difference too. In cases with low acuity, doctors bested software by 65 percent to 41 percent. But in cases with high acuity, that gap widened to 79 percent to 24 percent. \n \"Physicians vastly outperformed computer algorithms in diagnostic accuracy,\" the researchers concluded. Full disclosure: Three of the study authors are doctors, and none are apps. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Karen Kaplan Los Angeles Times", "title": "Your phone may be smart, but your doctor still knows more than an app"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "DAILY NEWS VIA AP / JAN. 2004 \n In this file photo, students jog around a stadium at sunset in Bowling Green, Ky. A large, international study released today ties heavy exertion while stressed or mad to a tripled risk of having a heart attack within an hour. \n If you're angry or upset, you might want to simmer down before heading out for an intense run or gym workout. A large, international study ties heavy exertion while stressed or mad to a tripled risk of having a heart attack within an hour.  \n Regular exercise is a healthy antidote to stress and can help prevent heart disease \u2014 the biggest problem is that too many people get too little of it. But the new research suggests there may be better or worse times to exercise, and that extremes can trigger harm. \n \"This study is further evidence of the connection between mind and body. When you're angry, that's not the time to go out and chop a stack of wood,\" said Barry Jacobs, a psychologist at the Crozer-Keystone Health System in suburban Philadelphia and an American Heart Association volunteer. \n He had no role in the study , led by the Population Health Research Institute at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. Results were published today in the Heart Association journal Circulation. \n Earlier studies have looked at anger and exertion as heart attack triggers but most were small or in one country, or included few women or minorities. The new study involved 12,461 people suffering a first heart attack in 52 countries. Their average age was 58 and three-fourths were men. \n They answered a survey about whether they were angry or upset, or had heavy exertion, in the hour before their heart attack or during the same time period the previous day. That way researchers could compare risk at different times in the same people and the effect of these potential heart attack triggers. \n Being angry or upset doubled the risk of suffering heart attack symptoms within an hour; heavy physical exertion did the same. Having both at the same time more than tripled the risk for a heart attack. \n The risk was greatest between 6 p.m. and midnight, and was independent of other factors such as smoking, high blood pressure or obesity. \n Big caveats: Patients reported their own stress or anger, and people who just had a heart attack may be more prone to recall or think they suffered one of these triggers than they otherwise might have been. Also, strenuous exertion is whatever the patient perceives it to be \u2014 for some people that could be climbing stairs and for others, running a marathon. \n The study also is observational, so it cannot prove cause and effect. But it's likely to be the best kind of information available \u2014 it's not possible to randomly assign people to be angry and exercise, then see how many have heart attacks. \n \"This is a large enough sample size that we can put stock in the findings,\" Jacobs said. \n \"We all need to find ways of modifying our emotional reactions and to avoid extreme anger,\" such as distracting ourselves, walking away from the stressful situation, trying to see it from a different perspective, talking it out and getting support from other people, he said. \n The study's findings also are biologically plausible. Emotional stress and exertion can raise blood pressure and heart rate, change the flow of blood in the vessels and reduce the heart's blood supply, said the study leader, Dr. Andrew Smyth of McMaster University. In an artery already clogged with plaque, a trigger could block blood flow and lead to a heart attack. \n \"From a practical perspective, there will be times when exposure to such extremes is unavoidable,\" Smyth said. \n \"We continue to advise regular physical activity for all, including those who use exercise to relieve stress,\" but people should not go beyond their usual routine at such times, he said. \n The study was funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, other governmental bodies from various countries that participated, and grants from several drug companies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Beware extremes: Exercise, anger may trigger heart attack"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ELKHART POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This photo released by the Elkhart, Ind., Police Department shows Amber Pasztor. Pasztor, was arrested on two counts of murder on Sept. 26 in the deaths of 7-year-old Liliana Hernandez and six-year-old Rene Pasztor, who were the subject of an Amber Alert. \n FORT WAYNE, Ind. \u00bb An Indiana woman accused of smothering her two children after abducting them says she decided to kill them after hearing that authorities had issued an Amber Alert. \n Pasztor says 7-year-old Liliana Hernandez and 6-year-old Rene Pasztor were in good hands in her father's custody, but she didn't think they were safe. She says \u2014 in her words \u2014 \"My kids are in a better place. . They don't have no worries no more.\" \n The 29-year-old Fort Wayne woman is charged with two counts of murder in the Sept. 26 deaths. \n Pasztor also told WANE-TV she shot her neighbor and took his car. She hasn't been charged with Frank Macomber's death. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indiana mom says she decided to kill kids after Amber Alert"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally today in Ambridge, Penn. \n AMBRIDGE, Pa. \u00bb Donald Trump today put the claim that Bill Clinton was a sexual predator whose wife attacked the victims at the center of his flailing presidential campaign, insisting his own vulgar words about women in 2005 weren't as bad as the Clintons' alleged deeds two decades ago. \n \"I was getting beaten up for 72 hours for inappropriate words, locker room talk, whatever you want to call it,\" said Trump at a noisy rally at a high school gymnasium in Ambridge, Pennsylvania. \"But Bill Clinton has sexually assaulted innocent women and Hillary Clinton was attacking those women viciously.\" \n \"Bill Clinton was the worst abuser of women to ever sit in the Oval Office. He was a predator,\" Trump added. \n The rally was Trump's first campaign event following the town hall-style debate Sunday night against Hillary Clinton, his Democratic rival. It came just hours after the nation's most senior elected Republican leaders effectively dropped any effort to elect their own presidential nominee. \n Monday morning, Speaker Paul Ryan told GOP House members he would no longer campaign for Trump and instead would focus on maintaining the party's majority. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, meanwhile, refused to even acknowledge Trump, telling business leaders in his home state of Kentucky that if they expected to hear him discuss the presidential race, they \"might as well go ahead and leave.\" \n The every-Republican-for-himself approach was a stark rejection of Trump after a history-making weekend in presidential politics. On Friday, The Washington Post broke the story that Trump had been recorded in 2005 bragging about groping women without their consent. Trump apologized \"if anyone was offended\" and in the same video said Bill Clinton's actions were worse. \n Widespread condemnation followed. Even his own running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence refused to defend the remarks, with all eyes on Trump's Sunday debate with Clinton. \n But before it began, Trump lobbed another bomb designed to change the subject to the Clintons' alleged treatment of women. He abruptly appeared live on Facebook at a table with women who have accused Bill Clinton of rape and unwanted advances. He then sat the women in the debate hall, where members of the Clinton and Trump families gathered to watch the debate. \n Bill Clinton has denied or not admitted to the women's accusations. Hillary Clinton has never addressed them, and that held true through the 90-minute showdown. \n Increasingly isolated, Trump on Monday tried to frame his candidacy as a comeback bid, saying he could revive a struggling nation and suggesting his supporters don't care about personal mistakes. \n \"The last 72 hours has framed what this election is all about,\" he said. \"It's about the American people fighting back against corrupt politicians who don't care about anything except for staying in power.\" \n But personal attacks clearly were his focus. In addition to Bill Clinton, Trump also invoked the 1969 incident when a woman died after then-Massachusetts Sen. Ted Kennedy crashed his car in Chappaquiddick, Massachusetts. The celebrity nominee claimed the media protected their \"hero\" in Kennedy and was doing the same for the Clintons. \n Trump's campaign was foundering even before The Washington Post published the 2005 video, which included comments by him that many said describe sexual assaults of women. \n \"When you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything,\" said Trump, who said he to \"grab them by the p\u2014\u2014\" and they wouldn't resist. \n Pennsylvania is a linchpin to Trump's hope to carry blue-collar voters in the Rust Belt, but the odds have long been stacked against him. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump puts Clinton sex abuse claims at center of campaign"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "A fire that may have been started by a lithium-ion battery in a charging device on a bed caused about $400,000 damage to a Waiehu house Sunday night. \n Firefighters arrived at the Alakai Street house at 10:27 p.m. to find a fire with flames coming from windows on the left side of the home. Crews had the fire contained about 10:47 p.m. and extinguished at 1:24 a.m. Monday. Damages were $300,000 to the structure and $100,000 to contents. \n The residents were at home and detected a smoke odor, said Edward Taomoto, fire services chief, and when they opened a bedroom door, they found the bed on fire and evacuated the home. They got out safely and no injuries were reported. \n An occupant reported that 30 minutes prior, residents began charging a lithium-ion battery in a USB charging device that was plugged into an electrical outlet. The charging device and battery was left on the bed, Taomoto said. \n Fire investigators say that the fire started in the bedroom but were unable to determine the exact cause, Taomoto said. \n Three adults and three children who live in the home have been displaced. The Red Cross is assisting the families. \n The Fire Department says that if a fire is discovered in a room of the home, occupants should quickly shut the door to the room before exiting the structure. By closing the door, they effectively contain the fire to the room of origin and restrict the spread of heat, smoke and flames from the rest of the home. In this incident, the door to the bedroom was left open, which allowed the fire to spread down the hall and to other areas of the home, firefighters said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire that started in bedroom causes $400K damage to Maui house"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 18 photo, Nancy O'Dell arrives at the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb \"Entertainment Tonight\" host Nancy O'Dell says women shouldn't be objectified, even in the locker room. \n On the entertainment news show today, O'Dell addressed crude, taped comments made about her by GOP presidential contender Donald Trump in 2005 and his response following their release last week. \n Referring to a previous statement, O'Dell repeated her assertion that \"there is no room for objectification of women, or anyone for that matter.\" She then added, \"not even in the locker room.\" \n During Sunday's debate with Democratic contender Hillary Clinton, Trump dismissed his remarks to then-\"Access Hollywood\" host Billy Bush as \"locker-room talk.\" \n The candidate apologized for the vulgar banter, which included his assertion that he tried and failed to sleep with a married woman he called \"Nancy.\" \n \"Access Hollywood\" has identified O'Dell as the woman Trump referred to. \n In the recording that was published Friday by The Washington Post and NBC News, Trump also said, \"When you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything,\" adding, \"Grab them by the p\u2014\u2014. You can do anything.\" \n Under questioning by debate moderator Anderson Cooper, Trump denied groping women or kissing women without consent. \n In her on-air remarks today, O'Dell said she's been a journalist for more than two decades, and \"it is my job to bring you news about others rather than turning the focus on myself.\" \n But the release of the tape that's become a national story and part of the presidential race has \"thrown me in the middle of the political arena of which I didn't ask to be a part,\" O'Dell said. \n She used the opportunity to call for respect for all. Speaking as a mother, she said, children and especially young girls \"need to know that their hard work, their achievements, their intelligence, their heart are most important.\" \n O'Dell, who did not refer to Trump by name in her remarks, thanked viewers for the many \"kind words\" she has received. \n In her weekend statement, she said it was \"disappointing to hear such objectification of women. The conversation needs to change because no female, no person, should be the subject of such crass comments, whether or not cameras are rolling.\" \n Trump was visiting a soap opera set when he and Bush were taped in a bawdy hot-mike conversation. Bush, now with NBC's \"Today,\" has been suspended indefinitely from the job he started just two months ago. \n \"Today\" Executive Producer Noah Oppenheim said in a memo Sunday that \"there is simply no excuse for Billy's language and behavior on that tape.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nancy O'Dell: Even the locker room no excuse for Trump"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, left, listened as Kathy Shelton made remarks before the second presidential debate with democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at Washington University, Sunday, in St. Louis. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A sexual assault victim who is critical of Hillary Clinton and who appeared alongside Donald Trump before Sunday night's debate was paid $2,500 by a political action committee founded by Trump ally Roger Stone. \n The Arkansas woman, Kathy Shelton, was sexually assaulted at age 12 and was the victim in a 1975 case in which Clinton was appointed to represent her then-41-year-old attacker, Thomas Alfred Taylor. Shelton has accused Clinton of crossing ethical bounds in the case, and over the past few months, Shelton has given TV and video interviews slamming Clinton. \n Shelton's case has been extensively cited in conservative media as evidence that Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, does not have the best interests of women at heart. \n The May payment to Shelton by the Committee to Restore America's Greatness PAC, founded by Stone, was described as \"contract labor\" in campaign finance reports filed with the Federal Election Commission. Asked by The Associated Press about the reason for the payment, Stone said in an email that Shelton \"was extensively interviewed on video about her experience with Hillary Clinton and was paid for her time.\" \n Shelton did not respond to a written request for comment left at her home in recent weeks by an AP reporter. \n In 1975, Clinton was asked by a judge overseeing the case to represent Shelton's alleged attacker. After the prosecution lost key evidence, Clinton's client entered a plea to a lesser charge. In an interview a decade later, Clinton expressed horror at the crime, but was recorded on tape laughing about procedural details of the case. The audio has been seized on by conservative groups looking to attack Clinton's candidacy. \n Stone is a former lobbyist for Trump, the GOP presidential nominee, and has boasted about his role as a bit player in the Watergate scandal. Stone served as a senior adviser to Trump's White House campaign in its early days. After separating from the campaign early last summer, Stone created a series of pro-Trump organizations. He has said he remains in direct touch with the candidate. \n Stone has arranged to pay other women critical of the Clintons. \n Earlier this year, Stone sought to raise money to pay off the mortgage of Kathleen Willey, who accused Bill Clinton of making unwanted sexual advances toward her during her time as a volunteer in his White House in the 1990s. Stone claimed in an online video interview that Trump had personally contributed to the fund. \n Trump's campaign has not endorsed Stone's political action committee, and has sent the group a cease and desist letter. The campaign has denied that Trump gave money to Willey's mortgage fund. \n A company called WeSearchr said on Twitter that it paid for Shelton's trip to the debate in St. Louis. That firm was co-founded by conservative media figure Charles C. Johnson, an outspoken Trump supporter. WeSearchr says it crowdfunds research about rumors it believes are not being covered by news outlets. \n Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in an email Sunday that the campaign paid for Juanita Broaddrick's travel to the debate. \"She was our invited guest,\" Hicks wrote. \n Broaddrick is a former Arkansas nursing home administrator who first claimed 17 years ago that Bill Clinton raped her during a meeting in Little Rock in 1978. Broaddrick sued Bill Clinton in 1999, but the case was dismissed in 2001. Bill Clinton has long denied Broaddrick's allegations. \n Associated Press writer Julie Bykowicz and Stephen Braun contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sexual assault victim critical of Clinton paid by Trump ally"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actress Shailene Woodley attended the premiere of \"Snowden\" in New York on Sept. 13. Woodley was arrested today during a protest of the four-state Dakota Access pipeline in southern North Dakota. \n BISMARCK, N.D. \u00bb Actress Shailene Woodley has been arrested during a protest of the four-state Dakota Access pipeline in southern North Dakota. \n Morton County Sheriff's Department spokesman Rob Keller says the \"Divergent\" star was arrested today for criminal trespass and engaging in a riot during a protest at a construction site that involved about 300 people. \n Both charges are misdemeanors that carry a maximum punishment of 30 days in jail and a $1,500 fine. Woodley's publicist did not immediately comment. \n Keller says 27 people were arrested during protests at two construction sites that prompted the shutdown of a state highway for several hours. No injuries were reported. \n The $3.8 billion pipeline is being built by Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners and will cross through North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa and Illinois. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Divergent' star arrested at Dakota pipeline protest"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / AUG. 2016 \n People voted at Hahaione Elementary in the primary election. More than 740,000 people have registered to vote for this year's presidential election, which will be held Nov. 8. \n More than 740,000 people have registered to vote for this year's presidential election, which will be held Nov. 8 \u2014 an increase over general election figures two years ago, according to the state Office of Elections. \n Today is the deadline to register to vote in the General Election. \n Nedielyn Bueno, spokeswoman for the state elections office, said 706,890 people were registered to vote for the general election in 2014. \n In the last presidential election in 2012, 705,668 people were eligible to cast a ballot for president. \n To be eligible to register to vote, a person must be a U.S. citizen, a Hawaii resident and at least 18 years of age. \n There are several ways for Hawaii residents to register: \n \u00bb Apply in-person at county Clerk's Office or at the Office of Elections by 4:30 p.m.. \n Voters who have moved or changed their name since the last election will need to update their voter registration. \n Bueno said the Office of Elections and County Clerks will be holding drive-thru voter registration events at various locations statewide, giving Hawaii residents another opportunity to register to vote today. \n Individuals may visit a designated location to register or update their voter registration from the convenience of their vehicle. Additionally, voters are welcomed to drop-off completed voter registration forms to these locations. \n On Oahu, the drive-thru location will be open until 4:30 p.m. at the State Capitol in front of the Father Damien statute on Beretania street. \n There are several drive-thru locations of the Big Island County building in Hilo, at Kmart in Kona, and Malama Market in Pahoa. \n On Kauai, the location is at the county clerk's office in Lihue. \n The general election will be held on Nov 8. Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii voter registration deadline is today"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta spoke to members of the media, Oct. 5, outside Clinton's home in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chelsea Clinton, daughter of Hillary Clinton, talked to former President Bill Clinton during the second presidential debate between Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton at Washington University in St. Louis on Sunday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Newly leaked emails show consternation among those closest to Hillary Clinton about how Bill Clinton's business dealings might damage his reputation and potentially affect her presidential hopes. \n The emails, posted today by the WikiLeaks organization, also give insight into tension and turmoil within the Clinton Foundation while Clinton was serving as secretary of state. The chief operating officer of the family charity was reported to be threatening to commit suicide over the stress. \n Wikileaks began releasing on Friday what it says are years of messages from the accounts of Clinton Campaign Chairman John Podesta. Podesta has acknowledged his emails were hacked, but warned the messages may have been altered or edited to do political damage to Clinton. \n It wasn't immediately clear who hacked Podesta's emails, though U.S. intelligence officials last week blamed the Russian government for a series of breaches and leaks intended to influence the presidential election. \n The emails that circulated among Podesta, Chelsea Clinton and former close Bill Clinton aide Doug Band detail internal tensions that simmered inside the Clinton Foundation and appear to have played a role in Band's departure from the family charity. \n Internal concerns among Clinton family intimates about Band and the private corporate advisory firm he co-founded, Teneo Holdings, have been previously detailed in several media accounts. But the new emails provide raw glimpses of an apparent power struggle between the Clintons' daughter and Band, who worked closely for Bill Clinton for more than a decade after the end of the Clinton administration. \n In an email exchange from December 2011, Chelsea Clinton tells Podesta and others \u2014 including Clinton adviser and current Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe \u2014 that she's increasingly concerned about Teneo. \n The email includes a forwarded news article that alleges that former President Bill Clinton had collected $50,000 a month through Teneo from MF Global, the commodities brokerage formerly run by former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine, while MF Global was preparing to file for bankruptcy. \n Chelsea Clinton tells Podesta and others that two people separately came up to her at a London event for the Clinton Foundation to raise concerns someone representing Teneo clients had been calling members of the British Parliament \"on behalf of President Clinton\" without her father's knowledge. Chelsea Clinton said the calls had people in London \"making comparisons\" between the \"profit motivations\" of the former president and former Prime Minister Tony Blair. \n \"Which would horrify my father,\" Chelsea Clinton wrote. \n Band wrote in an email that Chelsea Clinton seemed more concerned about critical news coverage about MF Global, a derivatives broker, and Band's advisory firm, Teneo, than published reports about Bill Clinton's infidelity. \n \"I realize it is difficult to confront and reason with her but this could go (too) far and then we all will have a real serious set of other problems,\" Band vented in an exchange sent to Podesta. \"I don't deserve this from her and deserve a tad more respect \u2026 She is acting like a spoiled brat kid who has nothing else to do but create issues to justify what she's doing because she, as she has said, hasn't found her way and has a lack of focus in her life.\" \n The emails reflect the ascendance of Chelsea Clinton \u2014 as early as 2011 \u2014 inside the family charity. The younger Clinton was recently was anointed as the Clinton Foundation's future leader if her mother wins the presidency next month. Bill Clinton announced in August that he planned to step down from the charity's board if his wife becomes president. Chelsea Clinton will remain on the organization's board. \n Bill Clinton explained in a letter to supporters in August that he would resign and stop raising funds for the charity to eliminate \"legitimate concerns about potential conflicts of interest.\" \n Calls seeking comment from the Clinton Foundation and from Teneo, where Band works, received no immediate response today. \n Also in December 2011, Clinton Foundation chief operating officer Laura Graham contacted Band to complain that stress she blamed on the former president and Chelsea Clinton was causing her to consider suicide. \n Band wrote that when Graham called him, she was in her car parked near the water with her foot on the gas pedal. He said he dissuaded her from hurting herself. \n \"She called me to tell me the stress of all of this office crap with wjc and cvc as well as that of her family had driven her to the edge and she couldn't take it anymore,\" Band wrote in an email to Podesta and Cheryl Mills, then Hillary Clinton's chief of staff. \n Graham later departed the Clinton Foundation, taking a new job with the State of New York. Phone messages left for Graham today received no immediate response. \n Associated Press writers Ted Bridis and Josh Lederman contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Leaked emails show tension inside Clinton inner circle"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "A 20-year-old Makaha woman was charged with assault after she allegedly stabbed a companion during an argument Friday. \n Temari Wilson was charged with second-degree assault and first-degree terroristic threatening Friday following an argument that ended with a 23-year-old man taken to the hospital with stab wounds. \n Emergency Medical Services said paramedics treated the victim around 10 a.m. Thursday at a home near the intersection of Lahaina and Manuku streets in Makaha. He was taken to the hospital in serious condition with a stab wound to the stomach. \n Police said the 20-year-old suspect was arguing with the victim when she stabbed him and fled. She was arrested at her home on Lahaina Street. \n The case was in initially classified as a second-degree attempted murder. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Makaha woman charged in stabbing of companion"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kenneth Bone listened as Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton answered a question during the second presidential debate with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump at Washington University in St. Louis on Sunday. \n ST. LOUIS \u00bb While supporters of GOP nominee Donald Trump and Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton bicker following the second presidential debate, one participant is being greeted with almost universal approval: Kenneth Bone. \n The mustachioed undecided voter from Illinois clad in a red sweater and khakis became an internet sensation almost instantly Sunday night when he took part in the town hall-style forum by asking the candidates about energy policy. \n In an interview this morning with St. Louis radio station KFNS, the power plant worker explained that he was initially unaware of his newfound celebrity because participants in the forum weren't allowed to have smartphones with them. \n \"When I got back to my car and turned it on I had 423 Facebook friend requests,\" Bone said. \"I just went ahead and accepted them all and it made me feel good about myself for a minute.\" \n \"I'm going as myself for Halloween. It will be the best costume ever,\" he said. \n Bone has been inundated with media request since his appearance, telling KFNS that he was booked for an appearance on ABC's \"Jimmy Kimmel Live\" today. \n Bone may have found internet fame during the debate, but he still hasn't figured out who he'll vote for. He plans to wait until after the final debate next week to decide. He hopes the newfound attention on him as an undecided voter encourages people to focus on the issues. \n \"I'm just trying to get the message out there to keep everybody involved in the political process,\" he said. \"It's the most important election of our time.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Debate questioner Kenneth Bone becomes internet star"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A bald eagle was wedged in a vehicle near Green Cove Springs, Fla. on Saturday.\tThe bird was freed unharmed after a passing motorist noticed the bird. \n GREEN COVE SPRINGS, Fla. \u00bb A bald eagle that somehow managed to get wedged in the front grill of a Florida car was freed unharmed after a passing motorist noticed the bird just after Hurricane Matthew roared past the area. \n The Clay County Sheriff's Office says a resident of the Fleming Island area south of Jacksonville noticed the bird peering out of a passing car Saturday in the storm's aftermath. The resident urged the motorist to pull over. \n The sheriff's department says rescue personnel and deputies were able to work the bird free. It was taken to a wildlife sanctuary in Jacksonville but authorities say the eagle appears to be unharmed. Photos posted of the eagle on the sheriff's office Facebook page show it standing on two feet in a cage. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Eagle freed in Hurricane Matthew aftermath from car grill"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Oliver Hart, the Andrew E. Furer Professor of Economics at Harvard, read congratulatory emails at his home in Lexington, Mass., today, after winning the Nobel prize in economics. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Finnish Professor Bengt Holmstrom of Massachusetts Institute of Technology attended a business seminar in Helsinki, Finland in Nov. 2015. Holmstrom and Oliver Hart today won the Nobel Memorial Prize in economic sciences. \n STOCKHOLM \u00bb Two U.S.-based professors won the Nobel prize in economics today for studying how to best design contracts, work that sheds light on when it makes sense to give a CEO a bonus or privatize public services like schools, hospitals and prisons. \n British-born Oliver Hart of Harvard University and Finnish economist Bengt Holmstrom of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Finland will share the $930,000 award for their contributions to contract theory. \n That's a field of research that deals with incentives and risks involved in contracts drawn up between companies and employees, banks and lenders or insurance agents and their customers. \n In research in the 1970s, '80s and '90s, Hart and Holmstrom created \"new theoretical tools\" that shed light on how contracts help people and companies deal with conflicting interests and the \"potential pitfalls\" that occur when contracts are poorly designed, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said. \n \"These kinds of insights into how we should design contracts are very important because we don't want to give the wrong incentives to people,\" said Nobel committee member Tomas Sjostrom. \"We don't want to reward them for things that they were not responsible for. We want to reward the right thing.\" \n Hart, 68, is a London-born U.S. citizen who has taught at Harvard since 1993. Holmstrom, 67, is an academic from Finland who used to serve on the board of the country's mobile phone company Nokia. \n Speaking to reporters in Stockholm by telephone, Holmstrom said he felt very lucky and grateful. \n \"I certainly did not expect it, at least at this time, so I was very surprised and very happy, of course,\" he said. \n In the 1970s Holmstrom showed how a principal, for example a company's shareholders, should design an optimal contract for an agent, like the CEO. His \"informativeness principle\" showed how the contract should link the agent's pay to information relevant to his or her performance, carefully weighing risks against incentives, the academy said. \n Pay packages, for example, should avoid holding CEOs responsible \u2014 or rewarding them \u2014 for events beyond their control. \n \"You don't want to reward the CEO because the S&P 500 (stock index) has gone up 20 percent,\" said Patrick Bolton of Columbia University's School of Business, who studied under Hart and has written a textbook on the economics of contracts. \"You want to reward the CEO when his company outperforms the S&P.\" \n Bolton described Hart has a rigorous but open-minded thinker who challenges his students' ideas: \"He's very determined to think for himself. He will not let go until he is persuaded, but he can be persuaded.\" \n Holmstrom said his incentive to study contract theory came before he was an academic, when he was working for a company in the 1970s that tried to use computers to figure how to make strategic plans. \n \"That's when I realized that the issue wasn't really about the difficulty of coming up with the best plans,\" he said. \"The bigger issue was also to create incentives for people to give the right information that is needed for these plans and incentivize them in general.\" \n Hart made fundamental contributions to a new branch of contract theory in the mid-1980s. His findings on \"incomplete contracts\" shed new light on the ownership and control of businesses, the academy said. \n \"His research provides us with theoretical tools for studying questions such as which kinds of companies should merge, the proper mix of debt and equity financing, and which institutions such as schools or prisons ought to be privately or publicly owned,\" the academy said. \n It cited a 1997 article co-authored by Hart which highlighted how private contractors have stronger incentives for investing in both quality and cost reduction. The authors argued that the incentives for cost reduction sometimes is too strong, and expressed particular concern about privately-run prisons, the academy said. \n The U.S. Department of Justice recently decided to stop using private prisons after a report showed the conditions are worse than in government-run prisons. \n Pennsylvania State University economist Ran Shorrer, who taught contract theory as a graduate student at Harvard, said Hart and Holmstrom have had a huge influence on the way corporations decide to pay executives. \n \"Any modern compensation scheme is informed by their work,\" he said. \n The economics prize is not an original Nobel Prize. Formally called the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, it was added to the others in 1968 by Sweden's central bank. \n The Nobel Prizes in medicine, physics, chemistry and the Nobel Peace Prize were announced last week. This year's Nobel announcements will finish Thursday with the literature award. \n Each award is worth 8 million kronor, or about $930,000. The laureates will collect them on Dec. 10, the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel's death in 1896. \n Associated Press writers Keith Moore in Stockholm and Paul Wiseman in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 U.S. professors share economics Nobel for contract theory"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The destroyer USS Mason sailed in the Suez canal in Ismailia, Egypt in March 2011. Two missiles fired from rebel-held territory in Yemen landed near an American destroyer passing by in the Red Sea, the U.S. Navy said today. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates \u00bb Two missiles fired from rebel-held territory in Yemen landed near an American destroyer in the Red Sea, the U.S. Navy said today, the second such launch targeting ships in the crucial international waterway in recent days. \n The missile launches Sunday came as a ballistic missile fired from Yemen apparently targeted a Saudi air base near the Muslim holy city of Mecca, the deepest strike yet into the kingdom by Shiite rebels and their allies. \n Yemen's Shiite rebels known as Houthis and their allies offered no reason for the launches, though they came after a Saudi-led airstrike targeting a funeral in Yemen's capital killed over 140 people and wounded 525 on Saturday. \n In a statement, the Navy said no American sailors were injured and no damage was done to the USS Mason, an Arleigh Burke class of guided missile destroyer whose home port is Norfolk, Virginia. Lt. Ian McConnaughey, a spokesman for U.S. Navy Forces Central Command, said that it's unclear if the USS Mason was specifically targeted, though the missiles were fired in its direction over an hour's time period, starting at around 7 p.m. \n An American defense official said the USS Mason used onboard defensive measures after the first missile was fired, but it wasn't clear if that caused the missile to splash harmlessly into the sea. The destroyer at the time of the missile fire was north of the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, which serves as a gateway for oil tankers headed to Europe through the Suez Canal, the official said. \n The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss details of the incident that haven't been made public. \n However, the Houthi-controlled SABA news agency of Yemen quoted an anonymous army official denying its forces fired on the USS Mason, without elaborating. \n Last week, an Emirati-leased Swift boat came under rocket fire near the same area and sustained serious damage. The United Arab Emirates described the vessel as carrying humanitarian aid and having a crew of civilians, while the Houthis called the boat a warship. \n U.S. Navy officials declined to immediately discuss what kind of rockets were used in the USS Mason incident. \n Analysts with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy suggested in a report that the Houthis may have targeted the Emirati ship with an Iranian anti-shipping cruise missile, based on purported video of the attack. \n Shiite power Iran has supported the Houthis, but denied supplying them with weapons. Any Iranian involvement could stoke tension between the Islamic Republic and the U.S., which already have had a series of tense naval encounters since the nuclear deal with world powers. \n Meanwhile, Saudi state television aired a brief clip of what appeared to be a projectile that was said to have landed in Taif in the ballistic missile attack. The video shows the flash of an explosion, followed by images of emergency vehicles. Taif is home to Saudi Arabia's King Fahd Air Base, which hosts U.S. military personnel training the kingdom's armed forces. \n The Saudi military said the missile fired late Saturday night was intercepted and caused no damage. The U.S. military's Central Command, which oversees troops in the Middle East, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n Al-Masirah, a satellite news channel run by Yemen's Shiite rebels known as the Houthis, identified the missile as a local variant of a Soviet-era Scud missile. It said the Volcano-1 missile targeted the air base. \n The Houthis have fired a series of ballistic missiles in Saudi Arabia since a kingdom-led coalition of Arab countries has launched an offensive against them in Yemen in March 2015. Most of those ballistic missiles have hit areas far closer to Saudi Arabia's border with Yemen, like an attack Friday night that targeted the southwestern city of Khamis Mushait. \n In the Taif attack, however, the missile struck a target more than 520 kilometers (325 miles) from the border. Taif also is just outside of Mecca, which is home to the cube-shaped Kaaba that all of the world's Muslims pray toward. \n The Saudi military also said it earlier intercepted another ballistic missile fired Sunday on the Yemeni city of Marib. \n The Houthis gave no reason for their targeting of Taif, but it comes after a Saudi-led airstrike Saturday targeting a funeral in Yemen's capital, Sanaa. On Sunday, thousands marched through the streets of Sanaa to protest the strike, one of the deadliest single attacks in the impoverished Arab country's relentless civil war. \n The Saudi Foreign Ministry said its U.N. mission sent a letter on Sunday to the Security Council, expressing the kingdom's \"deep regret of the reported attack\" on the funeral. Saudi officials have promised to investigate the bombing. \n Yemen's war is largely overshadowed by the conflict against the Islamic State group elsewhere in the Middle East, though rights groups have mounted increased criticism of the Saudi-led airstrikes in recent months for killing civilians. The U.N. and rights groups estimate the conflict has killed at least 9,000 people and displaced nearly 3 million more. \n Associated Press writers Maggie Michael in Sanaa, Yemen, and Lolita C. Baldor in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Missiles fired from rebel-held Yemen land near U.S. destroyer"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "A 21-year-old man was killed and another 21-year-old man is in critical condition at the hospital after the metal railing they were leaning on collapsed Sunday night and they fell four floors on the mauka side of Ala Moana Center. \n The Medical Examiner's Office has identified the man who died as Nicholas Freitas of Honolulu. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine cause of death. \n Police said the accident occurred at 9:45 p.m. \n Emergency Medical Services said the two men were treated by paramedics near the Barnes & Noble Book Store at Ala Moana Center and taken in critical condition to the hospital. \n The accident occurred several hours after the stores at the shopping center closed at 7 p.m. Sunday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "1 man dead, 1 critically injured after railing collapses at Ala Moana Center"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 12, 2016, file photo, Ryan Lochte listens to a question from the media in Charlotte, N.C. Lochte announced his engagement to former Playboy model Kayla Rae Reid on Instagram, Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016. \n Los Angeles \u00bb Ryan Lochte has gotten engaged to former Playboy model Kayla Rae Reid. \n The pair shared Instagram pictures Sunday night of the 25-year-old Reid sporting a big diamond ring in front of a Malibu backdrop. Reid's photo included the note, \"Speechless. Absolutely beautiful. So in love with YOU.\" \n The 31-year-old Olympic swimmer and \"Dancing with the Stars\" contestant told USA Today for a story published last week that he was ready to ask Reid to marry him. He says they met in January at a nightclub and he realized she was \"the one\" after she stuck by him during his recent controversies. \n Two men rushed the \"Dancing with the Stars\" stage last month to protest Lochte for lying about a drunken encounter during the Rio Olympics. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ryan Lochte engaged to former Playboy model Kayla Rae Reid"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "Lakeland, Fla. \u00bb Investigators are searching for a 4-year-old central Florida girl who they say was taken by a longtime family friend. \n The Polk County Sheriff's Office says in a news release the pair was spotted at a gas station in Forsythe, Georgia, on Saturday evening. They were in a car with a stolen Alabama license plate. \n Investigators say 31-year-old West Hogs showed up at the family's home Saturday morning and left with Rebecca Lewis. The girl's 16-year-old sister says she saw Rebecca sleeping about 9 a.m. but when she woke up again 45 minutes later, the little girl was gone. \n Investigators say the family searched for Rebecca for an hour before calling law enforcement. Deputies searched the home and nearby areas. \n Anyone with information is asked to contact authorities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Abducted Florida girl spotted at Georgia gas station"}

{"date": "October 10, 2016", "text": "Kailua-Kona, Hawaii \u00bb State officials are urging beachgoers to use extra caution this month when entering the water, as shark encounters tend to peak in Hawaii during the fall season. \n Researchers have attributed the seasonal spike to migrating tiger sharks that travel from the Northwestern Hawaiian islands to the main islands during the fall to give birth. \n While the chance of being bitten by a shark is \"extremely small,\" Bruce Anderson with the state's Division of Aquatic Resources says people should minimize the risk by going to beaches with lifeguards and staying close to shore. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State warns of October peak in Hawaii shark attacks"}

