{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "U.S. NAVY VIA AP \n In this photo provided by the U.S. Navy, a pair of stranded mariners signal for help as a U.S. Navy P-8A Poseidon aircraft crew from Patrol Squadron (VP) 8 flies over in support of a Coast Guard search and rescue mission on an uninhabited island in Micronesia. \n A U.S. Navy aircraft crew spotted the pair on the beach and gave their location to the Coast Guard in Guam. Hawaii News Now says the two, who had no emergency equipment, were picked up and taken to a patrol boat. \n The Coast Guard received a report about the couple's 18-foot vessel going missing on Aug. 19. Hawaii News Now says the two departed Weno Island on Aug. 17, and they were expected to arrive at their destination to Tamatam Island the next day. \n Hawaii News Now says that on Wednesday, a ship noticed flashing lights from the uninhabited Chuuk State island where the two were later found. The U.S. Navy was alerted and spotted the survivors on the beach. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'SOS' in sand leads to rescue of 2 people stranded on island"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "A 59-year-old Wailea woman was found today floating unresponsive in waters off Kamaole Beach Park, Maui Fire Department said in a news release. \n Firefighters arrived at 12:09 p.m. at the Kamaole Beach Park I and assisted lifeguards with the woman, who had been brought to shore by beach-goers. \n The woman was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in critical condition. \n There were no witnesses to the incident, the Fire Department said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman in critical condition after being found floating off Kamaole Beach Park"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Durant Police Chief John Haynes, left, and assistant Police Chief James Lee reassure Lexington Medical Clinic employees Lisa Dew, right, and Viola Turner, seated, that the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation was giving the home of two slain Catholic nuns who worked as nurses at the clinic a through crime scene investigation on Thursday in Durant. \n SISTERS OF CHARITY OF NAZARETH VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by Sisters of Charity of Nazareth shows Sister Paula Merrill. Sister Margaret Held and Merrill, two nuns who worked as nurses and helped the poor in rural Mississippi, were found slain in their home and there were signs of a break-in and their vehicle was missing, officials said Thursday. \n LEXINGTON, Miss. \u00bb A man has been arrested and charged with two counts of capital murder in connection with the deaths of two nuns who were slain in Mississippi, police said.  \n Rodney Earl Sanders, 46, of Kosciusko, was charged in the deaths of Sister Margaret Held and Sister Paula Merrill, both 68, Mississippi Department of Public Safety spokesman Warren Strain said in a statement released late tonight. \n Their bodies were discovered Thursday after they failed to show up for work at a clinic in Lexington, Mississippi, about 10 miles from where they lived. \n \"Sanders was developed as a person of interest early on in the investigation,\" Lt. Colonel Jimmy Jordan said in the statement. \n Sanders was being held in an undisclosed detention center awaiting his initial court appearance. \n Meanwhile, in the poverty-stricken Mississippi county where the two nuns were slain, forgiveness for their killer is hard to find, even if forgiveness is what the victims would have wanted. \n Sisters Margaret Held and Paula Merrill were nurse practitioners who dedicated their lives to providing health care to people in the poorest county in the state. And as authorities sought the killer, many residents wondered how they will fill the hole the women's deaths have left. \n \"Right now, I don't see no forgiveness on my heart,\" said Joe Morgan Jr., a 58-year-old former factory worker who has diabetes and was a patient of Merrill's at the clinic where the two nuns worked. \n He said Merrill would want him to forgive whoever killed the women, but he hopes the perpetrator is arrested, convicted and executed. \n \"She doesn't deserve to die like this, doing God's work,\" Morgan said, shaking his head. \"There's something wrong with the world.\" \n Both women worked Man, 46, faces 2 at the clinic, where they gave flu shots, dispensed insulin and provided other medical care for children and adults who couldn't afford it. \n Their stolen car was found abandoned a mile from their home, and there were signs of a break-in, but police haven't disclosed a motive. \n Authorities have not said how the women were killed, but the Rev. Greg Plata of St. Thomas Catholic Church in Lexington, where the nuns had led Bible study for years, said police told him they were stabbed. \n The state posted a reward of $20,000 for information leading to an arrest and conviction. \n Plata said both nuns' religious communities have asked that people pray for the killer or killers. Asked about people's struggles to forgive, the priest said: \"Forgiveness is at the heart of being a Christian. Look at Jesus on the cross: 'Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.'\" \n On Friday, a handwritten sign on the front door of Lexington Medical Clinic said it was closed until Monday. \n The clinic and the nuns' home in Durant are in Holmes County, population 18,000. With 44 percent of its residents living in poverty, Holmes is the seventh-poorest county in America, according to the Census Bureau. \n The slayings did more than shock people and plunge the county into mourning. They leave a gaping hole in what was already a strapped health care system. \n Dr. Elias Abboud, who worked with the sisters for years and helped build the clinic, said it provided about 25 percent of all medical care in the county. \n The two nuns cultivated relationships with drug company representatives, who often left extra free samples, according to clinic manager Lisa Dew. \n \"This is a poor area, and they dignified those who are poor with outreach and respect for them,\" Plata said. \"They treated each person as a child of God.\" \n Merrill's sister Rosemarie, speaking by telephone from her Stoneham, Massachusetts, home, said her sister had been in Mississippi helping the poor since 1981 and had previously worked in Holly Springs, where she used to ride around on a moped and was instrumental in locating the source of a tuberculosis outbreak. \n Merrill was raised in the suburbs of Boston and came from a working-class family, her father a laborer and her mother a bookkeeper, her nephew David said. He said his aunt had worked with Held for many years. \n \"We always considered Margaret just part of the family,\" he said. \"The word 'sister' has many meanings, and they fulfilled all of them.\" \n Rosemarie Merrill said she doesn't know what will happen to the clinic now and worries about the effect on health care in Holmes County. She said her sister and Held would often go into the clinic on Sundays after Mass or on their days off. \n \"It's just going to be a disaster,\" she said. \n Genette Pierce, who works at a home health and hospice business a few doors down from the clinic, said: \"Their patients \u2014 all of them \u2014 they're going to be lost without them right now.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man faces 2 capital murder charges in Mississippi nun deaths"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "Police arrested an 18-year-old man for allegedly robbing a 15-year-old boy today in Ewa Beach. \n Police said the man used physical force to take the boy's property at 3:23 p.m. \n Police found the man about a half hour later and arrested him on suspicion of second-degree robbery. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for allegedly robbing boy, 15, in Ewa Beach"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 24-year-old Wahiawa man who was the alleged getaway driver of a stolen moped for another man who allegedly stole items from a North Shore beach today. \n Police said the suspect reportedly took the items from a 44-year-old man and a 2-1/2-year-old boy and fled on the moped driven by the 24-year-old at 8:30 a.m. \n When police arrived, the 24-year-old was the only suspect found and was in possession of personal, confidential information, police said. \n Police arrested him at 9 a.m. on suspicion of second-degree theft, unauthorized possession of a propelled vehicle and unauthorized control of personal, confidential information. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "2 make getaway on allegedly stolen moped after beach theft"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "METROPOLITAN DETENTION CENTER VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Metropolitan Detention Center shows Jessica Kelley. Details of what New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and law enforcement officials described as an unspeakable crime emerged Thursday in a criminal complaint made public and filed against the girl's mother, her boyfriend and his cousin, Jessica Kelley. \n METROPOLITAN DETENTION CENTER VIA AP \n This Thursday booking photo provided by the Metropolitan Detention Center shows Fabian Gonzales. Officer Tanner Tixier said in a news release Wednesday that charges are being filed against Gonzales, Michelle Martens, and Jessica Kelley. \n METROPOLITAN DETENTION CENTER VIA AP \n This Thursday booking photo provided by the Metropolitan Detention Center shows Michelle Martens. Officer Tanner Tixier said in a news release Wednesday that charges are being filed against Martens, Fabian Gonzales, and Jessica Kelley. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. \u00bb The killing this week of a 10-year-old Albuquerque girl who police say was drugged, raped and dismembered is just the latest horrific child slaying case for New Mexico, which has the nation's highest youth poverty rate and a state government that has had heavily publicized difficulties protecting children from abuse.  \n Victoria Martens was not known to have been a victim of previous violent abuse. But officials acknowledged today that the man accused of injecting her with methamphetamine before raping her was not being monitored by probation officers or tested for drugs as mandated by a judge last year. \n In that case, 31-year-old Fabian Gonzales was arrested for beating another woman in a car with a baby inside it while the woman was driving and ended up pleading no contest to two misdemeanor crimes that kept him out of jail. Corrections department officials said Friday they never got the judge's order for him to be supervised by probation officers. \n Victoria's death follows a 40-year prison sentence handed down in May for an Albuquerque woman for the 2013 kicking death of her 9-year-old son. That case prompted an overhaul of the New Mexico state agency that investigates child abuse. \n That same month, an 11-year-old Navajo girl was taken to a desolate area by a stranger who sexually assaulted her, bludgeoned her and left her to die. \n \"We have a litany of little angels who are crying at us from the grave,\" said Allen Sanchez, executive director of the New Mexico Conference of Catholic Bishops. \n New Mexico Children, Youth and Families Secretary Monique Jacobson said Friday that state records showed no prior cases involving violence or sexual abuse against Victoria. The agency has joined police in the investigation into the death. \n Jacobson said she was prohibited by law from disclosing whether the agency had received any other complaints related to Victoria, described by neighbors from her blue-collar apartment complex as a seemingly happy and sociable girl who loved to swim and dance. \n The others charged in Victoria's death are her mother, Michelle Martens, and Gonzales' cousin Jessica Kelley. While Martens has no online record of an arrest in New Mexico, she told police Kelley had been released from jail just days before Victoria's death. \n The three face charges of child abuse resulting in death, kidnapping and tampering with evidence. Gonzales and Kelley are also charged of criminal sexual penetration of a minor. \n There were conflicting reports from state officials Friday over communication of probation requirements imposed on Gonzales between court administrators and the New Mexico Department of Corrections. \n Deputy Corrections Secretary Alex Sanchez said her agency never received a judgment and sentence order mandating supervised probation for Gonzales. It was meant to ensure he committed no crimes and threatened jail time as punishment for violations like illegal drug use. \n Second Judicial District Court spokesman Tim Korte said records show the documents were forwarded to the corrections department in February 2015. \n Martens worked at a local grocery store, said neighbors who knew little else about her, and told detectives she met Gonzales online about a month before her daughter's death. \n Victoria's grieving grandparents and other relatives said they were thankful to first-responders, investigating authorities and community members who offered prayers, said minister and family spokeswoman Laura Bobbs. \n \"Children have few rights and no one to speak for them,\" Bobbs said. \"Today, I speak for the children and the voice of Victoria. Parents, communities and governments need to put our children first because they are our future.\" \n Other high-profile New Mexico child killing cases include a woman sentenced last year to 21 years in prison for smothering her infant daughter to avoid hearing her cry and a man sentenced to 63 years for raping and killing his baby daughter. \n Those stories made national headlines, but Victoria's slaying is drawing deeper condemnation. \n New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez said it was more troubling than all crimes she handled during a 25-year career as a state prosecutor before her election to the state's top post in 2010. \n \"I personally took on some of the most brutal, violent, gut-wrenching cases our state has ever seen. This has to be the worst,\" she said in a statement Friday. \n Sanchez suggested deaths like Victoria's could be prevented if state child welfare case workers made more home visits and New Mexico implemented a statewide pre-kindergarten program. Research shows both help reduce to reduce child abuse and poverty, he said. \n \"We should get on this now,\" Sanchez said. \"It's going to take a whole generation before we see real change.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Girl's killing is New Mexico's latest horrific child death"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n TV screens show file footage of a North Korea's ballistic missile that North Korea claimed to have launched from underwater at the Yongsan Electronic store in Seoul on Wednesday. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea \u00bb North Korea on Saturday expressed anger at United Nations Security Council discussions over a statement denouncing the country's latest submarine-launched missile test. \n North Korean Foreign Ministry official Jon Min Dok told Associated Press Television News in an interview that the U.S.-led discussions at the U.N. were a \"terrible provocation\" and that the country is developing nuclear weapons because of \"outrageous nuclear intimidation\" by the United States. \n Jon spoke just before the Security Council concluded the discussions with a statement strongly condemning all four North Korean ballistic missile launches in July and August, calling them \"grave violations\" of a ban on all ballistic missile activity. \n The statement came after North Korea fired a ballistic missile from a submarine off its eastern coast on Wednesday. South Korean defense officials said the missile was tracked flying about 310 miles, the longest distance achieved by the North for such a weapon. \n Jon said that the latest submarine-launched missile didn't cause any harm to the security of neighboring countries. He said it showed North Korea's \"great power and inexhaustible strength in the face of the trials of history and the challenges of our enemies.\" \n \"The best way for the U.S. to escape a deadly strike from us is by refraining from insulting our dignity and threatening our security, by exercising prudence and self-control,\" Jon said. \n North Korea already has a variety of land-based missiles that can hit South Korea and Japan, including U.S. military bases in those countries. Its development of reliable submarine-launched missiles would add a weapon that is harder to detect before launch. \n Wednesday's launch was the latest in a series of missile, rocket and other weapon tests this year by North Korea, which is openly pushing to acquire a wider range of nuclear weapons, including those capable of striking targets as far away as mainland United States. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N. Korea says UN condemnation of missile tests 'provocation'"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chicago Bulls player Dwyane Wade speaks during a news conference on July 29 in Chicago. \n CHICAGO \u00bb NBA star Dwyane Wade's cousin was shot and killed in Chicago today while pushing her baby in a stroller near a school where she intended to register her children. \n Her family said Nykea Aldridge, 32, had recently relocated to the area on the city's South Side. Chicago police said she was killed when two males walked up and fired shots at a third man but hit Aldridge in the head and arm. She wasn't the intended target, police said. \n Family members are caring for the baby, who wasn't hurt. Police said Friday evening that they were questioning witnesses in the shooting but had no suspects in custody. \n Wade, a native of Chicago who signed with the Chicago Bulls in July after 13 years with the Miami Heat, posted on Twitter: \"My cousin was killed today in Chicago. Another act of senseless gun violence. 4 kids lost their mom for NO REASON. Unreal. #EnoughISEnough.\" \n A day earlier, Wade had participated via satellite in a town hall meeting in Chicago on gun violence hosted by ESPN, along with his mother pastor Jolinda Wade. \n Outside the emergency room where Aldridge was pronounced dead Friday, Jolinda Wade clutched Aldridge's grief-stricken mother and spoke for the family as mourners stood in a circle holding hands and praying. \n Jolinda Wade said she had participated in the town hall meeting on gun violence Thursday, \"never knowing that the next day we would be the ones that would actually be living and experiencing it.\" \n \"We're still going to try to help and empower people like the one who senselessly shot my niece in the head,\" Jolinda Wade said. \"We're going to try to help these people to transform their minds and give them a different direction.\" \n It is not the first time Dwyane Wade's family in Chicago has been touched by gun violence. \n His nephew, Darin Johnson, was shot twice in the leg in 2012 but recovered. \n Chicago has been plagued by gun violence for years, especially in a few areas of the South and West sides of the city. Chicago recorded 65 murders in July, the most seen during that month since 2006. \n Chicago had recorded 381 homicides by the end of July, up 30 percent from the same period of 2015. Its murder rate is higher than the more populous cities of New York and Los Angeles. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dwyane Wade's cousin fatally shot pushing baby in stroller"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lt. John Toolan speaks to reporters after a change of command ceremony in Kaneohe Bay today. The U.S. Marine Corps new commander for the Pacific says he aims to carry on his predecessors momentum on helping allies and partners develop their amphibious skills. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lt. Gen. David Berger, left, receives the U.S. Marines Forces Pacific flag from outgoing commander Lt. Gen. John Toolan during a change of command ceremony in Kaneohe Bay today. The U.S. Marine Corps new commander for the Pacific says he aims to carry on his predecessors momentum on helping allies and partners develop their amphibious skills. \n The U.S. Marine Corps' new commander for the Pacific said he aims to advance his predecessor's work helping allies and partners develop their skills storming beaches and moving forces ashore.  \n Lt. Gen. David Berger made the comments today after assuming command of U.S. Marine Corps Forces Pacific from Lt. Gen. John Toolan. Berger said he will make sure his new command understands what capabilities its allies want and need and how the U.S. Marines can help them. \n Toolan told reporters there's growing interest in amphibious capabilities in the Pacific because of China's land-reclamation efforts in the South China Sea, where several nations have contested territorial claims. \n \"The Vietnamese, the Filipinos, all those guys have a vested interest in the Spratlys, the Paracels. So they want to protect their sovereign territory,\" Toolan said. \"And amphibious is the way to handle islands.\" \n Marine Forces Pacific includes units in California, Hawaii, Japan and South Korea. Some are in Australia on a six-month rotation. \n Berger most recently served as the commander of a marine expeditionary force at Camp Pendleton in California. \n Toolan was retiring after 40 years in the Marine Corps. \n \"The momentum that he's generated \u2014 I need to make sure that that doesn't stall,\" Berger said. \n Toolan told reporters that helping Japan, Australia and South Korea develop their amphibious operations had been one of his top accomplishments. \n Toolan also pointed to the work the Marines have done to help the Philippines military build its army so it can defend its territory and address internal security challenges. \n He cited the growth of what he called a \"community of interest\" in amphibious operations. The U.S. has been working with two dozen nations interested in developing amphibious skills, bringing them together for conferences and exercises. \n \"It is paying huge benefits for us. And in the long run it will help us give them areas to focus on while we focus on the high end,\" he said. \n Brad Glosserman, executive director of the think tank Pacific Forum CSIS, said Berger will have to ensure his new command's warfighting capabilities remain sharp amid tensions on the Korean peninsula, the East China Sea and the South China Sea. \n \"The tip of the spear, which the Marines tend to be, needs of course to be sharp,\" Glosserman said. \"That's the immediate concern that he's got. You're always concerned about your warfighting capability.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Pacific Marine leader vows to keep up work with allies"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "NOAA VIA AP \n This image provided by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shows a humpback whale sighted off Maui, Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary Superintendent Malia Chow said today. \n Hawaii humpback whale experts are reporting the sighting of a sickly humpback whale off Maui.  \n Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary Superintendent Malia Chow said today the animal is emaciated and covered in whale lice. At least four sharks were following the whale. She says these are all indicators of a whale in distress. \n She says the whale isn't entangled and doesn't appear to have been struck by a vessel. She says the animal's poor condition is a mystery. \n Hawaii's humpback whales normally spend their summers feeding in cold places like Alaska and return to the islands in September or October. \n Chow says it's not clear whether this whale is one of the first sightings of Hawaii's upcoming whale season or if this whale stayed around from last season. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sickly humpback whale spotted in Hawaii waters"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton looked up to audience members as she left a campaign event at Truckee Meadows Community College in Reno, Nev. on Thursday. \n WASHINGTON >> Seven months after a federal judge ordered the State Department to begin releasing monthly batches of the detailed daily schedules showing meetings by Hillary Clinton during her time as secretary of state, the government told The Associated Press it won't finish the job before Election Day. \n The department has so far released about half of the schedules. Its lawyers said in a phone conference with the AP's lawyers that the department now expects to release the last of the detailed schedules around Dec. 30, weeks before the next president is inaugurated. \n The AP's lawyers late Friday formally asked the State Department to hasten that effort so that the department could provide all Clinton's minute-by-minute schedules by Oct. 15. The agency did not immediately respond. \n The schedules drew new attention this week after the AP analyzed the ones released so far. The news agency found that more than half the people outside the government who met or spoke by telephone with Clinton while she was secretary of state had given money \u2014 either personally or through companies or groups \u2014 to the Clinton Foundation. The AP's analysis focused on people with private interests and excluded her meetings or calls with U.S. federal employees or foreign government representatives. \n The AP's reporting was based on official calendars covering Clinton's entire term plus the more-detailed daily schedules covering roughly half her time as secretary of state. The AP first asked for Clinton's calendars in 2010 and again in 2013. It then sued the State Department in federal court to obtain the detailed schedules, and the department so far has provided about half of them under court order. \n Clinton has said the AP's analysis was flawed because it did not account fully for all meetings and phone calls during her entire term as secretary. She also said the analysis should have included meetings with federal employees and foreign diplomats. The AP said it focused on her meetings with outsiders because those were more discretionary, as Clinton would normally meet with federal officials and foreign officials as part of her job. \n Clinton said she met with people outside government regardless of whether they gave money or charitable commitments to her family's charity. \n \"These are people I would be proud to meet with, as any secretary of state would have been proud to meet with, to hear about their work and their insights,\" Clinton said this week on CNN. \n With the foundation drawing continued attention, Clinton promised Friday to put in place additional safeguards to prevent conflicts of interest with the charity should she win the White House. \n The foundation issue, along with continued focus on her use of a private email server, has dogged Clinton politically throughout the week, drawing strong criticism from opponent Donald Trump. \n Former President Bill Clinton said last week that if she is elected president, the foundation will no longer accept foreign or corporate donations. \n The State Department is now estimating there are about 2,700 pages of schedules left. Under its process, it is reviewing and censoring them page-by-page to remove personal details such as private phone numbers or email addresses. In some cases it has censored names of people who met privately with Clinton or the subjects they discussed. \n A State Department spokeswoman, Elizabeth Trudeau, declined to discuss the ongoing case and noted the agency is struggling with thousands of public records requests. \n In court, the AP in December had asked U.S. District Judge Richard Leon to order the State Department to produce specific percentages of the remaining schedules every 30 days under a formula so that all would be released before the presidential primary elections were complete. \n Instead, because the State Department said it did not know how many pages were left, Leon ordered it in January to release at least 600 pages of schedules every 30 days. Each 600-page group covers about three months of Clinton's tenure. \n Under the present rate, a government attorney working on behalf of the State Department notified the AP's lawyers, it will take about four and one-half months \u2014 or until Dec. 30 \u2014 to release all the remaining schedules through the end of Clinton's term, in February 2013. The government's notice late Thursday was the first time the State Department has provided the AP with a measure of how many pages were remaining and when it expected to complete the job. \n It was unclear whether the judge will reconsider his earlier decision and order faster results. In the AP's lawsuit over other Clinton-related files, Leon has said it would be \"ridiculous\" to allow the State Department to delay until even weeks before the election. He also cited \"mounting frustration that this is a project where the State Department may be running out the clock.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.: Clinton calendars won't be released until after election"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Billy Jean Clay, left and Roxanne Hunt, of Silverton, Ore., looked at marijuana plants today at the Oregon State Fair during the first day of an exhibit of living pot plants in Salem, Ore. \n SALEM, Ore. >> Living marijuana plants went on display Friday at the Oregon State Fair, with organizers saying it's the first state fair in the nation to allow cannabis for public viewing. \n The state voted to legalize recreational marijuana in late 2014. Here are a few things to know about legal pot in Oregon and the display at the fair: \n WHAT'S THE BUZZ?  \n The Oregon State Fair allowed a display about marijuana without any living plants last year and it generated no complaints. So this year, the organization took the next step and agreed to let marijuana growers display live plants. \n The Oregon Cannabis Business Council, which is sponsoring the display, says it's the first time living pot plants have been open for public viewing at any state fair nationwide. \n The council is renting space in an exhibit hall for its tent and selected nine plants for the display at an industry event two weeks ago. \n WILL FAIRGOERS GET HIGH?  \n No. While the tent holding the display smells strongly of weed, fair authorities are only allowing immature plants \u2014 that is, pot plants without flowers. \n Marijuana leaves are much less potent than the flowers, or buds, and it's not yet legal to transport flowering plants within the state anyway. \n Donald Morse, director of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council, said his group hopes to get permission to display flowering pot plants next year, but the details aren't finalized. \n CAN ANYONE SEE THE PLANTS?  \n No. The exhibit is in a translucent tent and both the entrance and exit are monitored. Anyone entering must present identification proving they are 21 or over. \n AREN'T STATE FAIRS FOR GIANT PUMPKINS, PIGS AND APPLE PIE?  \n The way people think about marijuana in Oregon is changing, and recreational grow sites are recognized under state law as farm crops. \n The Oregon Liquor Control Commission is in the process of licensing recreational marijuana in much the same way it already controls the sale and use of alcohol. \n Fair spokesman Dan Cox says the event must adapt to changing cultural and societal values and allowing the display is one part of that shift. \n A CASH CROP  \n Oregonians voted to legalize marijuana in 2014 and the state allowed the sale of marijuana \"edibles,\" such as pot-infused candies and confections, earlier this year. \n This week, the state said it had processed $25.5 million in taxes on recreational pot since January 2016. \n Anticipated state revenue through June 2017 was recently quadrupled by Oregon's Legislative Revenue Office, from $8.4 million to $35 million. \n BUT IT'S ILLEGAL, RIGHT?  \n Recreational marijuana is still illegal in 46 states and is banned by the federal government. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon fair generates buzz with first legal pot display in U.S."}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n Hurricane Lester was located about 595 miles southwest of the southern tip of Baja California, moving west at 12 mph. \n NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n Tropical Storm Madeline was located about 1,160 miles east-southeast of Hilo, moving west-northwest at 10 mph. \n NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected 5-day path and intensity of Tropical Storm Lester. \n NOAA/ GOES WEST \n This satellite image taken late this morning shows Tropical Depression 14E (lower center) and Tropical Storm Lester (right near Mexico). Another area of clouds south of Hawaii is not expected to affect the weather in the state. \n NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the five day projected track and intensity of Tropical Depression 14E. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline continues to strengthen as it moves west-northwestward tonight.  \n The National Hurricane Center reported it was located about 1,160 miles east-southeast of Hilo, moving west-northwest at 10 mph. \n In the next couple of days, forecasters expect Madeline to continue northwestward with a decrease in forward speed and could become a hurricane on Sunday night or Monday. \n Maximum sustained winds have increased to nearly 50 mph with higher gusts, and tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 60 miles from the center. \n Hurricane Lester is turning toward the west while it strengthens tonight, with maximum sustained winds of 85 mph. \n It was located about 595 miles southwest of the southern tip of Baja California, moving west at 12 mph. \n Forecasters expect Lester to continue moving west with an increase in forward speed and to strengthen during the next couple of days. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles from the center, and tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline formed east-southeast of Hawaii today, moving west-northwest at about 12 mph. \n The National Hurricane Center reported Madeline was about 1,235 miles east-southeast of Hilo with sustained winds of 40 mph. \n It is expected to continue moving west-northwestward over the weekend, and could become a hurricane on Monday. \n Lester developed an eye and became a hurricane about 550 miles southwest of the southern tip of Baja California, moving west at 9 mph. \n Forecasters expect Lester to continue west over the next few days with maximum sustained winds of 75 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles. \n Previous coverage \n A newly formed tropical depression is likely to strengthen into a hurricane and could pass over or near Hawaii as a tropical storm next week. \n Tropical Storm Lester is behind it and is likely to become a hurricane tonight or Saturday, but it is still too far away to say if it will have any impact on Hawaii's weather. \n Tropical Depression 14E is moving west-northwest at 12 mph, about 1,305 miles east-southeast of Hilo at 11 a.m. \n It has sustained winds of 35 mph. The storm is moving over an area of warm water with little wind shear, so it is expected to strengthen into a hurricane over the next three days before weakening as it approaches the Big Island. \n If it reaches tropical storm strength in the East Pacific, it will be named Madeline. If it crosses into the Central Pacific it will be called Ulika. \n Forecasters caution the margin of error in computer models for storms more than 5 days away is 170 miles in either direction. So the storm could still pass well south or north of the islands without much effect on Hawaii's weather. \n If it continues on its current track, it will bring another round of high humidity starting as early as Wednesday and could bring heavy rain and winds through the Labor Day weekend, potentially affecting events at the World Conservation Congress. \n Bob Burke, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said people should be aware of the approaching storm and monitor weather forecasts but its too early to predict its impact on Hawaii. People should also have storm supplies and an emergency plan in place, whether or not the storm hits Hawaii. \n \"Be prepared,\" Burke said. \n At 11 a.m., Tropical Storm Lester was 530 miles southwest of Baja California with sustained winds of 70 mph. It is expected to reach hurricane strength tonight and could send surf to east shores of Hawaii next week, depending on the strength of the winds and its eventual path. \n Lester was moving west-northwest at 9 mph. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Tropical Storm Madeline moves toward isles as Lester becomes hurricane"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "A Honolulu police solo bike officer was injured today during escort training when the motorcycle he was riding hit a concrete curb in Ewa Villages, a police spokeswoman said in an email. \n The officer was trying to negotiate a turn when the accident occurred. \n Emergency Medical Services personnel said the man, 40, was injured at 11:40 a.m. at Kapolei Parkway and Renton Road. He was treated and taken to the Queen's Medical Center in serious condition. \n Honolulu police are preparing for the arrival of President Barack Obama on Wednesday with motorcade training. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD motorcycle officer injured in Ewa Villages"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "CARTERSVILLE, Ga. \u00bb Fire officials say several bystanders held up a kiddie roller coaster that had begun to collapse in Georgia, allowing six children and one adult to escape. \n Georgia Insurance and Safety Fire Commissioner spokesman Glenn Allen says the group held the Oriental Express roller coaster in place Thursday evening until wood or cement blocks could be put in place to stabilize it. \n A video posted on social media shows more than a dozen people holding up the coaster at the Bartow County Fair in Cartersville. \n Allen says there were no injuries, and a track malfunction is likely what caused the accident. The ride's been dismantled. \n Allen says Florida-based company Carol Stream operated the fair's rides. The company did not immediately respond to a phone call. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bystanders hold up collapsing roller coaster, save 6 kids"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "A 70-year-old Kilauea woman was medevaced to Queen's Medical Center in critical condition after she was struck by a vehicle in Kapaa. \n The collision occurred at approximately 8:50 p.m. Thursday. Police said a Toyota sport utility vehicle driven by a 40-year-old Kilauea woman was traveling southbound on Kuhio Highway fronting the old Kojima's store when the vehicle struck the pedestrian, who was crossing the highway. \n Police said the pedestrian was not in a marked crosswalk. \n The 70-year-old woman suffered serious injuries and was transported to Wilcox Hospital before she was flown to Queen's. \n Police said the 40-year-old driver did not suffer any injuries. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai woman critically injured in pedestrian crash"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ATLANTA \u00bb Atlanta police investigating a woman's report that she was sexually assaulted by an Uber driver say they now believe the suspect posed as a driver to lure her into his car, the most recent of several attacks by phony Uber drivers around the nation. \n Within the past 12 months, police in Chicago, Washington, D.C., and Orlando, Florida, have issued alerts to warn residents about people pretending to be Uber drivers and preying on unsuspecting customers. \n The 20-year-old woman told officers she was leaving the Park Bench Pub on Atlanta's north side about 2:30 a.m. Aug. 13 when she contacted Uber to get a ride home, police said. \n The woman told officers that instead of taking her home, the driver took her to Chastain Park, about 2 miles away, and assaulted her. Police say the driver eventually pushed her out of the car after she fought back. \n Atlanta police Sgt. Warren Pickard told reporters at a news conference Thursday that some Uber drivers wait outside bars anticipating that people will need rides, much like taxis do. \n \"He just generally picked up on that methodology and it just so happened that she got into the car,\" Pickard said. \n Similar cases have been reported in several cities, including Los Angeles, where a man in April was arrested and accused of luring a woman into his SUV, and then raping her and choking her until she became unconscious. \n The woman fought back and was choked unconscious at least three times before she managed to scream loud enough to alert neighbors, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said. \n In Washington, D.C., police warned residents to be on guard after a woman on Oct. 10 entered a silver sedan, \"which she mistook as an Uber car,\" the Metropolitan Police Department's alert states. The driver had a knife, and sexually assaulted her, police said in the statement. \n Within the past week, University of Florida police warned students that a man in a Chevy Malibu with Uber stickers on the car has been soliciting rides around campus. The driver, who is not affiliated with Uber, \"is specifically targeting female students,\" police said in a statement on Sunday, warning students to be vigilant about their safety. University police said they knew of no criminal activity, but asked that anyone with information about the driver contact them. \n Uber advises that customers take several steps to ensure that their driver is an actual Uber driver, a company spokeswoman said in a statement today to The Associated Press. \n Riders are advised to only ride with drivers they request through the Uber app, not by flagging down cars. Before the trip begins, customers also should double check the vehicle's license plate, the driver's name and photo to make sure they match the information they receive through the app when requesting a ride, the statement said. \n Customers may also share details during the trip with family and friends, such as their estimated time of arrival and specific route, Uber said in the statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police seek man who posed as Uber driver, attacked woman in Atlanta"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Stephen Bannon, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's campaign chairman, attended Trump's Hispanic advisory roundtable meeting in New York on Saturday. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb An ex-wife of Donald Trump's new campaign CEO, Stephen Bannon, said Bannon made anti-Semitic remarks when the two battled over sending their daughters to private school nearly a decade ago, according to court papers reviewed today by The Associated Press. \n That revelation came a day after reports emerged that domestic violence charges were filed 20 years ago against Bannon following an altercation with his then-wife, Mary Louise Piccard. \n In a sworn court declaration following their divorce, Piccard said her ex-husband had objected to sending their twin daughters to an elite Los Angeles academy because he \"didn't want the girls going to school with Jews.\" \n \"He said he doesn't like Jews and that he doesn't like the way they raise their kids to be 'whiney brats,'\" Piccard said in a 2007 court filing. \n Bannon, the former head of Breitbart News, took the helm of Trump's campaign last week in yet another leadership shake-up. The campaign has been plagued by negative stories about staffers, including charges lodged against his former campaign manager following an altercation with a reporter, and questions about his former campaign chairman's links with Russian interests. \n Alexandra Preate, a spokeswoman for Bannon, denied Friday night that he made anti-Semitic remarks about the private school. \"He never said that,\" Preate said, adding that Bannon was proud to send his daughters to the school. \n Trump has previously been criticized for invoking anti-Semitic stereotypes, including tweeting out an anti-Hillary Clinton image that included a Star of David atop a pile of money. \n He also raised eyebrows when he spoke in front of the Republican Jewish Coalition and declared, \"I'm a negotiator like you folks were negotiators.\" \n Clinton has tried in recent days to highlight Trump's popularity with white nationalist and supremacist groups. She delivered a speech Thursday that linked him with the \"alt-right\" movement, which is often associated with efforts on the far right to preserve \"white identity,\" oppose multiculturalism and defend \"Western values.\" \n Trump has pushed back, defending himself and his supporters, and labeling Clinton \"a bigot\" for supporting policies he argues have ravaged minority communities. \n Trump has noted that his daughter, Ivanka, would soon be giving birth to another Jewish child. Ivanka Trump converted to Orthodox Judaism when she married Jared Kushner, a young real estate developer who has become a driving force in his father-in-law's campaign. \n The court filing was among several documents related to Bannon and Picard's voluminous divorce case, filed in 1997, which was revisited several times as Piccard sought support for tuition and other expenses. The documents reviewed by the AP were part of a request for Bannon to pay $25,000 in legal fees and to cover the $64,000 in tuition it cost to send both girls to The Archer School for Girls for the 2007-08 school year. \n Bannon's remarks about Jews followed other comments that caught Piccard's attention when they were visiting private schools in 2000. \n At one school, she said, he asked the director why there were so many Hanukkah books in the library. At another school, he asked Piccard if it bothered her that the school used to be in a temple. \n \"I said, 'No,' and asked why he asked,\" Piccard said. \"He did not respond.\" \n Piccard said Bannon wanted the girls to attend a Catholic school. \n In 2007, when the girls were accepted at Archer, he told Piccard he objected because of the number of Jews in attendance. \n Piccard filed for divorce in January 1997, just over a year after she told police Bannon roughed her up on New Year's Day 1996 following a spat over money, in which she spit on him. \n A police report obtained by The Associated Press said he grabbed her wrist and \"grabbed at\" her neck. When she tried to call 911, she told police that Bannon grabbed the phone and threw it across the room. An officer who responded reported seeing red marks on her wrist and neck. \n Bannon was charged in 1996 with misdemeanor witness intimidation, domestic violence with traumatic injury and battery, according to a Santa Monica, California, police report. The charges were dropped after his estranged wife didn't show up at trial, according to court records. \n Piccard said in her declaration that she skipped the trial after Bannon and his lawyer arranged for her to leave town. She said Bannon had told her the lawyer would make her look like the guilty party if she testified and the attorney told her she'd be broke if Bannon went to jail. \n The Trump campaign declined to comment on the abuse charges. But Preate said police never interviewed Bannon. She added that Bannon has a great relationship with his ex-wife and kids. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-wife says Trump campaign CEO made anti-Semitic remarks"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "An Oahu grand jury has indicted a 50-year-old man for allegedly possessing and distributing child pornography. \n Jeffrey P. Bettis was charged with two counts of promoting child abuse in the second degree, a class B felony. Each count is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. \n A bench warrant was issued Thursday for his arrest. His aggregate bail is set at $11,000. \n According to a news release by the state Department of the Attorney General, Bettis is accused of disseminating eight images of children being sexually exploited. \n He is also charged with possessing 104 images of children being sexually exploited. Of that figure, 29 images were of children under the age of 12. \n Bettis is also accused of possessing 30 videos of children being sexually exploited. Of that, 17 videos depicted children under the age of 12. \n The investigation was conducted by the attorney general's office's Hawaii Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force. \n In the release, Attorney General Chin said, \"Possessing and disseminating child pornography is child abuse. Every time someone views these images, the victim suffers more abuse. The Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force's mission is to prosecute this sick behavior.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Grand jury indicts man on child pornography charges"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "UNIONTOWN, Pa. \u00bb Police say a Pennsylvania woman stabbed her husband with scissors because he drank one of her beers while she slept. \n Forty-five-year-old Tracey Lee Giffin faces charges including aggravated assault. \n Police say the Uniontown couple had been drinking Sunday evening. They say Giffin went to bed but woke up to discover her husband had drunk one of her beers. \n Police say an angry Giffin stabbed him and cut him on the neck, chest and head with the scissors. They say she also bit him on the arms and a thumb. \n Giffin remained in the Fayette County jail unable to post bond Thursday. Her attorney didn't immediately comment on the charges. \n Her preliminary hearing is set for Aug. 31. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman stabbed, bit husband for drinking her beer, police say"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. MARINE CORPS \n Lt. Gen. David H. Berger \n The U.S. Marines are getting a new commander in the Pacific. \n Lt. Gen. David Berger is scheduled to take over at Marine Corps Forces Pacific today. He succeeds Lt. Gen. John Toolan, who is retiring. \n Berger is replacing Lt. Gen. John A. Toolan, who assumed leadership of Marine Forces Pacific in August 2014. \n Pacific Forum CSIS Executive Director Brad Glosserman says Berger will have to ensure his new command's warfighting capabilities remain sharp amid tensions on the Korean peninsula, the East China Sea and the South China Sea. \n From Camp Smith, the commanding general of Marine Forces Pacific is the largest field command in the U.S. Marine Corps, extending from California to Japan and Okinawa. There are approximately 86,000 Marines and sailors under his command. \n Berger was commissioned as an infantry officer in 1981 following graduation from Tulane University. \n He has served as platoon commander in 1st Marine Division, and later as company commander and Battalion Operations Officer in the 2nd Reconnaissance Battalion during Operation Desert Storm. \n Berger commanded the 3rd Battalion, 8th Marines from 2002 to 2004, deploying to Haiti in support of Operation Secure Tomorrow. \n As a colonel, Berger commanded Regimental Combat Team 8 in Fallujah, Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom. \n In 2012, he deployed to Afghanistan as the commanding general of 1st Marine Division. \n Berger served as commanding general of Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center from 2013 to 2014. \n Berger holds a Master of International Public Policy from Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, and an M.S. in Military Studies. \n The Associated Press contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Lt. Gen. Berger taking command at Marine Corps Forces Pacific"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Blood donated in Indianapolis in Aug. 2013. The Food and Drug Administration today recommended that all U.S. blood banks start screening for the Zika virus, a major expansion intended to protect the nation's blood supply from the mosquito-borne disease. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The government told all U.S. blood banks today to start screening for Zika, a major expansion intended to protect the nation's blood supply from the mosquito-borne virus. \n Previously, blood testing was mostly limited to parts of Florida and Puerto Rico, where Zika is spreading. Screening will initially extend to states along the Gulf Coast and a few others. \n The Blood Bank of Hawaii had already announced it would begin screening of all of its blood donations for Zika in September. \n \"There is still much uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of Zika virus transmission,\" Dr. Peter Marks said in a Food and Drug Administration release. \"At this time, the recommendation for testing the entire blood supply will help ensure that safe blood is available for all individuals who might need transfusion.\" \n Blood banks already test donations for HIV, hepatitis, West Nile and other blood-borne viruses. The Zika virus stays in the blood for about one week, but is thought to remain in other bodily fluids longer. \n While Zika is primarily spread through mosquito bites, there have been reports in Brazil of Zika transmission through transfusion. No such cases have been reported in the United States. One Zika-positive blood donation, though, was recently intercepted in Florida, Marks said today. \n \"The donation was identified while the blood bag was still in quarantine, before it was released,\" Marks told reporters on a media call. \"The system worked correctly.\" \n Zika can also be spread through sex, and Marks said that played into the decision to expand testing. Current evidence suggests that infected men can spread the virus for several months through sex, and women can transmit it for several weeks. \n Adding to the challenge is that 4 out of 5 people infected never develop symptoms, such as fever, joint pain and rash. \n The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention today reported the first U.S. case of a man spreading Zika through sex even though he never had any symptoms. The Maryland man had traveled to the Dominican Republic, one of the many countries in the Caribbean and Latin America hit with a Zika outbreak. \n There have been nearly 2,500 cases of Zika in the U.S. linked to travel to outbreak areas. Since February, blood banks have turned away people who had recently visited those regions, under a previous FDA directive. \n While the virus causes only a mild illness in most people, infection during pregnancy can lead to severe brain-related birth defects. \n Blood testing began last month in parts of Florida after the first cases of homegrown Zika occurred in Miami. So far, there have been about 40 cases of Zika caused by mosquito bites in Florida. Health officials, however, don't expect widespread outbreaks to occur in the U.S. \n The FDA has authorized use of two experimental blood screening tests for Zika, one made by Roche and another from Hologic Inc. and Grifols. Several testing sites are already voluntarily using the technology, including blood centers in Texas. The cost of adding Zika testing to the screening process is less than $10 per blood donation, according to officials at South Texas Blood and Tissue Center. \n FDA officials said they do not anticipate any problems supplying the tests throughout the U.S. \n The tropical mosquito that spreads Zika and other viruses is found along the southern U.S. today's directive lists 11 states that will need to begin screening blood in the next month because of their location or because of the influx of travelers from Zika outbreak countries. \n On the list: Alabama, Arizona, California, Georgia, Hawaii, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, New York, South Carolina and Texas. \n All other U.S. states and territories will have three months to comply. \n An executive for America's Blood Centers, which has more than 600 locations in the U.S. and Canada, warned that the amount of work needed to comply with the FDA's timeline is \"titanic.\" \n \"Testing labs and the test vendors are working feverishly to allow testing to start on time in the areas subject to the 12 week timeline,\" said Dr. Louis Katz, in an email. \n The FDA works with other federal agencies to set standards for screening, testing and handling blood donations. Blood banks and donation centers adhere to those guidelines. \n Today's announcement follows recent pressure from members of Congress to expand Zika screening. The move is \"a strong step forward in protecting our nation's blood supply,\" Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FDA expands Zika screening to all U.S. blood centers"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "BERIT ROALD / NTB SCANPIX \n A representative of the Philippine government, Jesus Dureza, 2nd left, Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs Boerge Brende , centre, and a representative of the communist movement the National Democratic Front of the Philippines Luis Jalandoni, 2nd right, during the meeting for the signing of a joint declaration in which both parties undertake unilateral ceasefires without time constraints. \n OSLO, Norway \u00bb Philippine communist rebels on Friday agreed to an indefinite cease-fire in peace talks with government officials aimed at ending one of Asia's longest-running insurgencies. \n After a weeklong meeting in Norway, negotiators for the Maoist rebels and the government issued a joint statement pledging to accelerate the peace process for a conflict that has killed tens of thousands since the late 1960s. \n The rebels said they would extend indefinitely a unilateral cease-fire that was set to end on Saturday, a move that came in response to President Rodrigo Duterte's cease-fire which took effect on Aug. 21. \n \"The joint statement we are signing manifests the historic significance of what we have achieved,\" said Jose Maria Sison, founder of the Philippines Communist Party. \n Philippines presidential peace adviser Jesus Dureza called the statement a \"historic and unprecedented event\" and gave credit to President Duterte. \n In the statement, the two sides reaffirmed previous agreements and agreed to discuss the release of detainees and who should get immunity to take part in the talks. Negotiators said they aim to complete the peace talks in nine to 12 months. \n Although less numerous and less violent than Muslim separatist rebels in the country's south, the Maoists have fought and outlived successive Philippine administrations for nearly 50 years, holding out against constant military and police offensives. They draw support from those dissatisfied with economic inequality, especially in the countryside, and the Philippines' alliance with the U.S. The conflict has left an estimated 40,000 people dead. \n Norwegian Foreign Minister Borge Brende, who facilitated the talks, said all involved had to make sure that a potential peace agreement help people in poor, rural areas improve their lives. \n \"It's a unique opportunity and we all have to contribute,\" he said. \n Negotiators agreed to meet again on Oct. 8-12 in Oslo. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine rebels agree to indefinite cease-fire"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maine Gov. Paul LePage attended a June 7 opioid abuse conference in Boston. LePage is being accused again of making racially insensitive comments, this time by saying photos he's collected in a binder of drug dealers arrested in the state show more than 90 percent of them are black or Hispanic. \n PORTLAND, Maine \u00bb Republican Gov. Paul LePage has unleashed an obscene tirade on a Democratic legislator, leaving him a voicemail message that said \"I am after you\" and telling reporters he wished it were 1825 so he could challenge the legislator to a duel and point a gun between his eyes. \n LePage said in the Thursday morning voicemail that he wanted to talk with Rep. Drew Gattine of Westbrook about the legislator calling him a racist. Gattine has denied calling LePage a racist. \n \"I want you to prove that I'm a racist,\" LePage said, adding that he had spent his life helping black people. \n LePage was accused of making racially insensitive comments Wednesday at a town hall in North Berwick, where he said photos he had collected in a three-ring binder of drug dealers arrested in the state showed that more than 90 percent of them are black or Hispanic. \n House and Senate Democrats and the Maine Democratic Party today questioned LePage's capacity to lead. LePage's office didn't immediately comment. \n After leaving the voicemail, LePage later invited reporters to the governor's mansion, where he confirmed that he had left the message and said he wished he and Gattine could face off in a duel. \n \"When a snot-nosed little guy from Westbrook calls me a racist, now I'd like him to come up here because, tell you right now, I wish it were 1825,\" LePage said, according to the Portland Press Herald. \"And we would have a duel, that's how angry I am, and I would not put my gun in the air, I guarantee you, I would not be (Alexander) Hamilton. I would point it right between his eyes because he is a snot-nosed little runt and he has not done a damn thing since he's been in this Legislature to help move the state forward.\" \n Gattine, who is running for re-election, has clashed with the governor on how to address welfare reform, drug addiction and eligibility for developmental disabilities programs. \n Gattine said he wasn't concerned about his safety, but he called the voicemail a distraction and the latest of LePage's personal vendettas against lawmakers. Gattine shared the voicemail's audio with the Press Herald. \n \"The fact is he sits around fantasizing about having duels with legislators or obsessing over the race of people who are arrested for crimes,\" Gattine said. \n Democratic U.S. Rep. Chellie Pingree said in a statement that it's \"embarrassing\" that LePage is contributing to the \"steady loss of civility in politics.\" \n LePage has a history of drawing attention for his blunt remarks. In January, Paul LePage said drug dealers with names like \"D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty\" are getting Maine's white girls pregnant. He later apologized, saying he meant to say \"Maine women\" and not \"white women.\" \n LePage has compared his style to that of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, whom he supports, though he recently said Trump was his third choice for president after Chris Christie and Jeb Bush. \n \"I was Donald Trump before Donald Trump became popular, so I think I should support him since we're one of the same cloth,\" he told radio show host Howie Carr in February. LePage this week called the father of a dead Muslim U.S. Army captain a \"con artist\" for criticizing Trump. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maine governor leaves obscene tirade on lawmaker's voicemail"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judge Thokozile Masipa, reads her verdict during the state appeal hearing at the high court in Johannesburg, South Africa. \n JOHANNESBURG >> A South African judge on Friday dismissed an appeal by prosecutors for a harsher against Oscar Pistorius who was found guilty of murder for killing his girlfriend in 2013. \n Judge Thokozile Masipa said the state's appeal to extend the six-year sentence against the 29-year-old double amputee Olympic sprinter had a limited prospect of success. \n \"I am not persuaded that there are reasonable prospects of success for an appeal,\" she said in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. \n Pistorius shot Reeva Steenkamp, 29, in the early hours of February 14. He claimed he thought she was an intruder. The state charged that he shot her in anger after an argument. Pistorius was found guilty of murder and sentenced by Masipa to six years in prison. \n The sentence was \"shockingly light\" and that the judge should have used 15-year minimum as starting point as Steenkamp had suffered a \"horrendous death,\" said prosecutor Gerrie Nel. \n Pistorius never offered an acceptable explanation for having fired four shots through the toilet door, he said. \n The fact that Pistorius fired four shots using hollow point bullets that are designed to inflict maximum damage meant the possibility of death was more likely and should have been an aggravating factor, said Nel. \n The state may appeal Masipa's decision at the Supreme Court of Appeals in the city of Bloemfontein, but is yet to indicate whether it will do so. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South African judge denies appeal for harsher Pistorius sentence"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Activists protested outside the French embassy, during the \"wear what you want beach party\" in London on Thursday. The protest is against the French authorities clampdown on Muslim women wearing burkinis on the beach. Writing on the sign reads: 'No to Islamophobia, yes to Burkinis.' \n PARIS \u00bb France's top administrative court overturned a ban on burkinis in a Mediterranean town, in a decision today that should set legal precedent regarding a swimsuit crackdown that has divided the country and provoked shock around the world. \n The ruling by the Council of State today specifically concerns a ban on the Muslim garment in the Riviera town of Villeneuve-Loubet, but the binding decision is expected to impact all the 30 or so French resort municipalities that have issued similar decrees. \n The bans grew increasingly controversial as images circulated online of some Muslim women being ordered to remove body-concealing garments on French Riviera beaches. \n Lawyers for a human rights group and a Muslim collective challenged the legality of the ban to the top court, saying the orders infringe basic freedoms and that mayors have overstepped their powers by telling women what to wear on beaches. \n Mayors had cited multiple reasons for the bans, including security after a string of Islamic extremist attacks, risk to public order, and France's strict rules on secularism in public life. \n The Council of State ruled that, \"The emotion and concerns arising from the terrorist attacks, notably the one perpetrated in Nice on July 14, cannot suffice to justify in law the contested prohibition measure.\" \n It ruled that the mayor of Villeuneuve-Loubet overstepped his powers by enacting measures that are not justified by \"proven risks of disruptions to public order nor, moreover, on reasons of hygiene or decency.\" \n \"The contested decree has thus brought a serious and manifestly illegal infringement on basic freedoms such as freedom to come and go, freedom of conscience and personal freedom,\" the ruling reads. \n Lawyer Patrice Spinosi, representing the Human Rights League, told reporters in Paris that women who have already received fines can protest them based on today's decision. \n \"It is a decision that is meant to set legal precedent,\" he said. \"Today all the ordinances taken should conform to the decision of the Council of State. Logically the mayors should withdraw these ordinances. If not legal actions could be taken\" against those towns. \n But the mayor of the Corsican town of Sisco said he wouldn't lift the ban he imposed after an Aug. 13 clash on a beach. \n \"Here the tension is very, very, very high and I won't withdraw it,\" Ange-Pierre Vivoni said on BFM-TV. \n He said he doesn't know whether a woman was actually wearing a burkini the day a clash occurred that set a group of Corsican sunbathers of North African origin against villagers from Sisco. It took days to untangle the events leading to the violence that many immediately assumed was over a burkini sighting. \n The bans have become a symbol of tensions around the place of Islam in secular France. \n Many officials \u2014including Prime Minister Manuel Valls \u2014 have argued that burkinis oppress women. But critics say the bans were feeding a racist political agenda as campaigning for next year's French presidential elections were kicking off. \n Elaine Ganley and Angela Charlton contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Top French court rules Burkini bans violate basic freedoms"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for three suspects who robbed a man in his Palolo home tonight. \n The unknown suspects allegedly robbed the man at about 7:50 p.m., while one brandished a dangerous instrument, police said. The man suffered minor injuries. \n No further details were released. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police look for 3 suspects who rob man in Palolo home"}

{"date": "August 26, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sister Marjana Lleshi gets emotional during an interview with the Associated Press in Ascoli Piceno, Italy on Thursday. \n ANSA VIA AP \n Sister Mariana, from Albania, checks her mobile phone as she lies near a victim laid on a ladder following an earthquake in Amatrice Italy on Wednesday. \n ASCOLI PICENO, Italy \u00bb She became the face of Italy's earthquake: Sister Marjana Lleshi, blood staining her veil as she texted her family and friends in her native Albania that she was alive. \n In an interview Thursday at the mother house of her religious order, the 35-year-old nun recounted how she thought she would die when her convent walls collapsed. She texted her friends asking that they pray for her soul, only to be rescued by a man she has called her \"angel.\" \n Now safe, Lleshi says she wants nothing more than to go to next week's Rome canonization of Mother Teresa, the ethnic Albanian nun \"who gave hope to those who didn't have any.\" \n Lleshi was sleeping in the Don Minozzi convent beside the Church of the Most Holy Crucifix in Amatrice when the quake struck at 3:36 a.m. Wednesday. She had been there, with six other sisters, caring for five elderly women. Her order, the Sisters of the Handmaidens of the Lord, runs nurseries and homes for the aged. \n She woke up covered in dust and bleeding. Realizing what had happened, she immediately tried to summon help outside her room. \n No one responded. And she couldn't get out. \n \"When I started losing all hope of being saved, I resigned myself to it and started sending messages to friends saying to pray for me and to pray for my soul and I said goodbye to them forever,\" she said outside the order's headquarters in Ascoli Piceno. \n \"I couldn't send a message like this to my family because I was afraid that my father would have an emotional collapse and die hearing something like that.\" \n She said she eventually was rescued by a young man who cared for one of the elderly women at the home. \"In that moment, I heard a voice who called me: 'Sister Marjana, Sister Marjana.'\" \n He pulled her out. With the ground still shaking, she sat on the side of the road and began texting her friends and sisters that she had survived. \n That moment was immortalized in an image taken by a photographer for the ANSA news agency reprinted worldwide. \n Lleshi spent much of Thursday getting medical checks for dust inhalation and her head wound, which required stitches. Once back home, she wept as she thought of her family. \n She still hopes to travel to Rome for the Sept. 4 canonization of Mother Teresa, the Macedonian-born ethnic Albanian nun who ministered to the poor of India. But the chaos and horror of the moment may be too much. Her order lost three sisters and four of the elderly women they cared for, alongside incalculable losses in the wider community. \n \"For me she's the symbol of Albania, of a strong woman,\" she said of Teresa. \"I would have liked to go, but after this I don't think I can.\" \n She can relish the simple fact of still being alive. \n \"I had said 'adieu,'\" she said, \"and in the end it wasn't an adieu.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nun in iconic Italy quake photo texted friends 'adieu'"}

