{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / MAY \n Donald Trump's hands-on, minutiae-obsessed management style will be tested by the presidency. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump looked at hundreds of marble samples before selecting one for the lobby of Trump Tower. He can recall, in painstaking detail even decades later, how he stood in the cold and oversaw the ice-making process at Central Park's rink. And, during the campaign, he personally reviewed every single campaign ad, rejecting some over the smallest of perceived flaws. \n The hands-on, minutiae-obsessed management style that Trump has relied up for decades in the business world will now be tested by the presidency, an overwhelming job in which his predecessor says only the most challenging decisions even make it to the Oval Office. \n \"Somebody noted to me that by the time something reaches my desk, that means it's really hard,\" President Barack Obama has said. \"Because if it were easy, somebody else would have made the decision and somebody else would have solved it.\" \n The president-elect, at times, has been reluctant to delegate. But while his multinational business is indeed vast, the scope of the federal government exceeds any of his previous endeavors. \n Those close to him are gently suggesting that he will have to do some more delegating given the sheer volume of decisions needed to get his administration up and running, according to a person familiar with private discussions but not authorized to speak about them by name. Trump has chafed at that, but he has signaled willingness to relinquish some personal control. \n Over his career, Trump has been highly involved with the decisions he cares deeply about. When building Trump Tower, the Manhattan skyscraper he calls home, he settled upon a rare marble, Breccia Pernice, for the building's lobby. \n But when he inspected the pieces that had been tagged for use, he found some blemishes \u2014 prompting a personal trip to Italy. \n \"So we ended up going to the quarry with black tape and marking off the slabs that were the best,\" Trump wrote in his 1987 book, \"The Art of the Deal.\" \"The rest we just scrapped \u2014 maybe 60 percent of the total. By the time we finished, we'd taken the whole top of the mountain and used up much of the quarry.\" \n At the New York State Republican Dinner in April, Trump stood in front of a group of tuxedo-clad, moneyed, Manhattan peers, confidently pointing out the details in the Grand Hyatt hotel ballroom's ceiling, remembering how he oversaw the construction process. He then recalled his push to fix Central Park's Wollman Rink, going into remarkable detail about the contract negotiations, the depth of the concrete, the need to switch from copper piping to rubber hose to keep the ice frozen, and even the conversation he had with the Montreal Canadiens' head ice-maker to make sure the process went smoothly. \n \"I hope that's an interesting story,\" Trump told the crowd. \"Who the hell wants to talk about politics all the time, right? Politics gets a little boring!\" \n But Trump almost certainly won't be able to exert that same of control over his new employees: The federal workforce is more than 2 million people. \n Obama frequently cites an observation by his first defense secretary, Robert Gates: \"One thing you should know, Mr. President, is that any given moment, on any given day, somebody in the federal government is screwing up.\" While Obama praises federal workers, he adds: \"Even if you're firing at a 99.9 percent success rate, that still leaves a lot of opportunity for things not to go as planned.\" \n Other aspects of Trump's management style may also not easily translate to the White House. His inner circle is famously small, consisting of longtime allies and his grown children, and his first key West Wing hires \u2014 chief of staff Reince Priebus and chief strategist Stephen Bannon \u2014 bring no policy experience to their new roles. \n Trump works long hours and expects those around him to do so as well. He can be quiet and disengaged in discussions about subjects with which he is unfamiliar but is prone to flash his temper and bark at aides. He is also known to go with his gut, is often swayed on positions by the last person he spoke to, and sometimes swoops in late and orders a change in plans, blowing up a travel schedule or policy rollout. \n Aides also often float suggestions to him through the media, knowing that Trump is a voracious watcher of cable TV and might be persuaded by what he sees and hears. \n Trump, whose TV catchphrase was \"You're fired,\" is prone to pitting staffers against each other in both the business world and during his insurgent campaign. Over the summer, he hired Paul Manafort to prepare for the GOP's convention and watched as staffers loyal to his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, repeatedly clashed with Manafort's allies. Lewandowski lost the power struggle and was fired. Later, Manafort was dismissed, too, replaced by Bannon and Kellyanne Conway. \n Trump, in his 2004 book \"How to Get Rich,\" described his intense, loyalty-driven style. \"I rely on a few key people to keep me informed,\" he wrote. \"They know I trust them, and they do their best to keep that trust intact.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's hands-on management style to be tested"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / APRIL \n Fidel Castro clasped hands with his brother, Cuban President Raul Castro, right, and second secretary of the Central Committee, Jose Ramon Machado Ventura, moments before the playing of the Communist party hymn during the closing ceremonies of the 7th Congress of the Cuban Communist Party in April. \n Cuban leader Fidel Castro would always laugh off speculation about his health. \n With an athletic build, and physical stamina that lasted deep into his 70s, it seemed he would continue to rule for many more years. \n Castro's own physician, a specialist in longevity, even suggested in 2004 that the leader could live to 140. \"I am not exaggerating,\" Dr. Eugenio Selman said. \n So Cubans were stunned when their aging, yet seemingly indefatigable leader announced he had undergone emergency intestinal surgery and temporarily relinquished presidential powers on July 31, 2006, 13 days before his 80th birthday. \n He vanished from sight for four years, with videos and photographs of him being released only sporadically. Even his good friend and ally, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, said in early 2009 that he doubted Castro would ever return to the public stage. \n But Chavez was wrong. \n In July 2010, Castro surprised everyone when he was photographed meeting with scientists at a Havana institute, then gave an interview on state television. Soon he seemed to be popping up everywhere, meeting with economists, veterans and even visiting the aquarium. \n He used the publicity to warn the world of what he described as the threat of a nuclear war pitting the United States and Israel against Iran. \n The revolutionary leader looked frail but mentally sharp, and he seemed to gain strength with each appearance. \n By September, Castro was strong enough to give two outdoor speeches under Havana's blazing sun: the first on the steps of Havana University, and the second in front of the capital's former presidential palace. \n That second speech went on for more than an hour and was attended by tens of thousands of people, and Castro felt comfortable enough to poke fun at his long-faded reputation for oratorical endurance. \n \"We haven't even been here two hours,\" he grinned in conclusion. \"But I'm leaving now. It's getting hot.\" \n Castro's reemergence proved short-lived. By 2011 he was seen less and less often. At a brief appearance at a key Communist Party Congress in April 2011, Castro formally resigned as party leader and he appeared unsteady as he was led to his seat by a young aide. \n He had apologized in an article days earlier for not having attended a march marking the 50th anniversary of Cuba's victory at the Bay of Pigs invasion. \n \"Believe me that I felt pain when I saw that some of you were looking for me on the dais,\" Castro wrote. \"I thought everyone understood that I can no longer do what I have done so many times before.\" \n After his resignation, the length of time between Fidel's appearances grew and he appeared older and weaker each time. After a January 8, 2014 appearance at a Havana art exhibit, he did not appear in public for at least a year. Photos of Castro with world leaders appeared only a handful of times in 2014. \n Cuba's government has never said officially what Castro was suffering from when he fell ill, even when he announced in February 2008 that he was resigning for health reasons. But it was widely reported to have been complications involving diverticulitis, an intestinal ailment common in older people. \n Castro gave a few details of just how sick he was in an August 2010 interview with the Mexican newspaper La Jornada, saying his weight fell to 145 pounds (66 kilograms). That's extremely thin for a man known for his large frame. \n \"I was at death's door, but I came back,\" Castro told the paper. \n In the interview, Castro described lying in a hospital room during the illness, hooked up to machines, and wondering how long it would be before his suffering would be over. \n \"Laid out in that bed, I could only see what was around me, machines I did not understand,\" Castro said. \"I didn't know how long this torment would continue. The only thing I could hope for was that the world would stop.\" \n \"But I recovered,\" he added, proudly. \n Months after falling ill, Castro acknowledged he underwent numerous surgeries for his condition and at least one had gone badly, almost killing him. \n Cubans first had to face up to their president's advancing age when, on June 23, 2001, he fainted briefly while giving a speech in the searing sun. \n They were again reminded of his frailty when he fell after giving a speech on Oct. 20, 2004, shattering a kneecap and breaking an arm. \n Although he was back in public within two months, a report in 2005 said Castro suffered from Parkinson's disease. \n On rare occasions, Castro did acknowledge his mortality, especially as he grew older. \n \"I promise that I will be with you, if you so wish, for as long as I feel that I can be useful \u2014 and if it is not decided by nature before,\" Castro said in March 2003, accepting a sixth term as president of Cuba's governing body. \n He died on Friday night. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Secrecy shrouded details of Fidel Castro's health"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cuban President Raul Castro has announced the death of his brother Fidel Castro at age 90 on Cuban state media on Friday, Nov. 25, 2016. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS / 1979 \n Fidel Castro pointed during his lengthy speech before the United Nations General Assembly in New York. Cuban President Raul Castro announced the death of his brother, Fidel, on Cuban state media. \n HAVANA \u00bb Fidel Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory, embraced Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his half century rule of Cuba, has died at age 90. \n With a shaking voice, President Raul Castro said on state television that his older brother died at 10:29 p.m. Friday. He ended the announcement by shouting the revolutionary slogan: \"Toward victory, always!\" \n Castro's reign over the island-nation 90 miles (145 kilometers) from Florida was marked by the U.S.-backed Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961 and the Cuban Missile Crisis a year later that brought the world to the brink of nuclear war. The bearded revolutionary, who survived a crippling U.S. trade embargo as well as dozens, possibly hundreds, of assassination plots, died 10 years after ill health forced him to hand power over to Raul. \n Castro overcame imprisonment at the hands of dictator Fulgencio Batista, exile in Mexico and a disastrous start to his rebellion before triumphantly riding into Havana in January 1959 to become, at age 32, the youngest leader in Latin America. For decades, he served as an inspiration and source of support to revolutionaries from Latin America to Africa. \n His commitment to socialism was unwavering, though his power finally began to fade in mid-2006 when a gastrointestinal ailment forced him to hand over the presidency to Raul in 2008, provisionally at first and then permanently. His defiant image lingered long after he gave up his trademark Cohiba cigars for health reasons and his tall frame grew stooped. \n \"Socialism or death\" remained Castro's rallying cry even as Western-style democracy swept the globe and other communist regimes in China and Vietnam embraced capitalism, leaving this island of 11 million people an economically crippled Marxist curiosity. \n He survived long enough to see Raul Castro negotiate an opening with U.S. President Barack Obama on Dec. 17, 2014, when Washington and Havana announced they would move to restore diplomatic ties for the first time since they were severed in 1961. He cautiously blessed the historic deal with his lifelong enemy in a letter published after a monthlong silence. Obama made a historic visit to Havana in March 2016. \n Carlos Rodriguez, 15, was sitting in Havana's Miramar neighborhood when he heard that Fidel Castro had died. \n \"Fidel? Fidel?\" he said, slapping his head in shock. \"That's not what I was expecting. One always thought that he would last forever. It doesn't seem true.\" \n \"It's a tragedy,\" said 22-year-old nurse Dayan Montalvo. \"We all grew up with him. I feel really hurt by the news that we just heard.\" \n But the news cheered the community of Cuban exiles in Florida who had fled Castro's government. Thousands gathered in the streets in Miami's Little Havana to cheer and wave Cuban flags. \n Fidel Castro Ruz was born Aug. 13, 1926, in eastern Cuba's sugar country, where his Spanish immigrant father worked first recruiting labor for U.S. sugar companies and later built up a prosperous plantation of his own. \n Castro attended Jesuit schools, then the University of Havana, where he received law and social science degrees. His life as a rebel began in 1953 with a reckless attack on the Moncada military barracks in the eastern city of Santiago. Most of his comrades were killed and Fidel and his brother Raul went to prison. \n Fidel turned his trial defense into a manifesto that he smuggled out of jail, famously declaring, \"History will absolve me.\" \n Freed under a pardon, Castro fled to Mexico and organized a rebel band that returned in 1956, sailing across the Gulf of Mexico to Cuba on a yacht named Granma. After losing most of his group in a bungled landing, he rallied support in Cuba's eastern Sierra Maestra mountains. \n Three years later, tens of thousands spilled into the streets of Havana to celebrate Batista's downfall and catch a glimpse of Castro as his rebel caravan arrived in the capital on Jan. 8, 1959. \n The U.S. was among the first to formally recognize his government, cautiously trusting Castro's early assurances he merely wanted to restore democracy, not install socialism. \n Within months, Castro was imposing radical economic reforms. Members of the old government went before summary courts, and at least 582 were shot by firing squads over two years. Independent newspapers were closed and in the early years, homosexuals were herded into camps for \"re-education.\" \n In 1964, Castro acknowledged holding 15,000 political prisoners. Hundreds of thousands of Cubans fled, including Castro's daughter Alina Fernandez Revuelta and his younger sister Juana. \n Still, the revolution thrilled millions in Cuba and across Latin America who saw it as an example of how the seemingly arrogant Yankees could be defied. And many on the island were happy to see the seizure of property of the landed class, the expulsion of American gangsters and the closure of their casinos. \n Castro's speeches, lasting up to six hours, became the soundtrack of Cuban life and his 269-minute speech to the U.N. General Assembly in 1960 set the world body's record for length that still stood more than five decades later. \n As Castro moved into the Soviet bloc, Washington began working to oust him, cutting U.S. purchases of sugar, the island's economic mainstay. Castro, in turn, confiscated $1 billion in U.S. assets. \n The American government imposed a trade embargo, banning virtually all U.S. exports to the island except for food and medicine, and it severed diplomatic ties on Jan. 3, 1961. \n On April 16 of that year, Castro declared his revolution to be socialist, and the next day, about 1,400 Cuban exiles stormed the beach at the Bay of Pigs on Cuba's south coast. But the CIA-backed invasion failed. \n The debacle forced the U.S. to give up on the idea of invading Cuba, but that didn't stop Washington and Castro's exiled enemies from trying to do him in. By Cuban count, he was the target of more than 630 assassination plots by militant Cuban exiles or the U.S. government. \n The biggest crisis of the Cold War between Washington and Moscow exploded on Oct. 22, 1962, when President John F. Kennedy announced there were Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba and imposed a naval blockade of the island. Humankind held its breath, and after a tense week of diplomacy, Soviet leader Nikita Krushchev removed them. Never had the world felt so close to nuclear war. \n Castro cobbled revolutionary groups together into the new Cuban Communist Party, with him as first secretary. Labor unions lost the right to strike. The Catholic Church and other religious institutions were harassed. Neighborhood \"revolutionary defense committees\" kept an eye on everyone. \n Castro exported revolution to Latin American countries in the 1960s, and dispatched Cuban troops to Africa to fight Western-backed regimes in the 1970s. Over the decades, he sent Cuban doctors abroad to tend to the poor, and gave sanctuary to fugitive Black Panther leaders from the U.S. \n But the collapse of the Soviet bloc ended billions in preferential trade and subsidies for Cuba, sending its economy into a tailspin. Castro briefly experimented with an opening to foreign capitalists and limited private enterprise. \n As the end of the Cold War eased global tensions, many Latin American and European countries re-established relations with Cuba. In January 1998, Pope John Paul II visited a nation that had been officially atheist until the early 1990s. \n Aided by a tourism boom, the economy slowly recovered and Castro steadily reasserted government control, stifling much of the limited free enterprise tolerated during harder times. \n As flamboyant as he was in public, Castro tried to lead a discreet private life. He and his first wife, Mirta Diaz Balart, had one son before divorcing in 1956. Then, for more than four decades, Castro had a relationship with Dalia Soto del Valle. They had five sons together and were said to have married quietly in 1980. \n By the time Castro resigned 49 years after his triumphant arrival in Havana, he was the world's longest ruling head of government, aside from monarchs. \n In retirement, Castro voiced unwavering support as Raul slowly but deliberately enacted sweeping changes to the Marxist system he had built. \n His longevity allowed the younger brother to consolidate control, perhaps lengthening the revolution well past both men's lives. In February 2013, Raul announced that he would retire as president in 2018 and named newly minted Vice President Miguel Diaz-Canel as his successor. \n \"I'll be 90 years old soon,\" Castro said at an April 2016 Communist Party congress where he made his most extensive public appearance in years. \"Soon I'll be like all the others. The time will come for all of us, but the ideas of the Cuban Communists will remain as proof that on this planet, if one works with fervor and dignity, they can produce the material and cultural goods that human beings need and that need to be fought for without ever giving up.\" \n Cuba's government announced that Castro's ashes would be interred on Dec. 4 in the eastern city of Santiago that was a birthplace of his revolution. That will follow more than a week of honors, including a nearly nationwide caravan retracing, in reverse, his tour from Santiago to Havana with the triumph of the revolution in 1959. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fidel Castro, who defied US for 50 years, dies at 90 in Cuba"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters against the Dakota Access oil pipeline congregated on Monday near Cannon Ball, N.D. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> The chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe said today that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers plans to close an area where people have been camping for months to protest the Dakota Access oil pipeline.  \n Dave Archambault said in a statement that he received a letter from the Corps, dated today, which says all lands north of the Cannonball River will be closed Dec. 5. \n \"The letter states that the lands will be closed to public access for safety concerns,\" Archambault said. \n Representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers didn't immediately return messages today seeking comment and verification of the letter. \n The letter, provided by the tribe, says: \"To be clear, this means that no member of the general public, to include Dakota Access pipeline protesters, can be on these Corps lands.\" \n It says anyone on land north of the river after Dec. 5 will be trespassing and may be prosecuted. It also says anyone who stays on the land does so at his or her own risk. \n The letter, from Army Corps of Engineers Col. John Henderson, says the closure is necessary to protect the general public from violent confrontations between protesters and authorities and to protect demonstrators from illness, injury or death during North Dakota's harsh winter months. It also says that the area does not have necessary first responder services or facilities to protect people during the winter. \n A free speech zone will be set up south of the river. \n Archambault said the land to be closed includes the Oceti Sakowin camp, a sprawling encampment on Army Corps land about 50 miles south of Bismarck. For months, opponents of the four-state, $3.8 billion pipeline have been camping in the area to protest the pipeline. \n Some of the protests have resulted in violent confrontations and hundreds of arrests. A clash earlier this week near the main protest camp left a police officer and several protesters injured, including Sophia Wilansky, who suffered a serious arm injury and is in satisfactory condition in a Minneapolis hospital. \n The Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes are fighting the Dakota Access project because they fear it will harm drinking water and cultural sites. Pipeline developer Energy Transfer Partners disputes that and says the 1,200-mile pipeline through the Dakotas, Iowa and Illinois will be safe. \n The pipeline is nearly complete outside of a stretch beneath a Missouri River reservoir in southern North Dakota, just to the north of the Standing Rock reservation. \n \"Our Tribe is deeply disappointed in this decision by the United States, but our resolve to protect our water is stronger than ever,\" he said. He's asking pipeline opponents to continue to fight the pipeline's permitting process. \n Meanwhile, the leader of the Cheyenne River Sioux in South Dakota called for pipeline opponents to boycott businesses in North Dakota's capital, a move Bismarck's city administrator says is uncalled for and disappointing. \n The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribal Council voted in September to not spend money in Bismarck and neighboring Mandan, and Chairman Harold Frazier at the time called on all tribal members to join the effort. Earlier this week, he sought to broaden the boycott to make a statement against what he calls \"heavy-handed, illegal and violent oppression\" of people who have protested against the pipeline for months. \n Bismarck City Administrator Keith Hunke said Friday the boycott is disappointing given that the city's businesses aren't involved in the dispute. He said no businesses have reported an impact from boycotts and protest activity in the area is inconvenient, but hasn't cut into business's bottom lines. \n \"We've had some of our streets blocked for a period of time, but generally after a period of time the protesters disband and business gets back to normal,\" he said. \n More than 560 protesters have been arrested since August in the Bismarck-Mandan area and at the main protest camp, including more than 30 at a Bismarck mall today \u2014 one of the busiest days of the year. Police said protesters gathered for a prayer at Kirkwood Mall, and some refused to leave the entrance to a Target store when ordered. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Standing Rock chairman says Army Corps to close camp"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "Kamehameha Highway near Kawela on the North Shore will be closed in both directions tonight from 7 p.m. to around midnight. \n Honolulu police said the closure near 57-496 Kamehameha Highway is needed to replace a utility pole that was knocked down in a traffic accident before 3 p.m. today. The accident knocked down the pole and electricity to about 940 customers. \n Police opened one lane of traffic at about 4:30 p.m. and contraflowed vehicles around the scene. \n A spokesman for Hawaiian Electric. Co. said the accident cut power to about 940 customers in the Kuilima area. By about 7:10 p.m., power had been restored to all but 40 customers, according to a tweet from Hawaiian Electric Co. \n The pole fell on a truck and the Fire Department was at the scene, said Peter Rosegg, a Hawaiian Electric Co. spokesman. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kamehameha Highway closed in both directions to replace utility pole"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Thursday photo, Jamal Hinton, center, and Wanda Dench, right, and her family and friends, have Thanksgiving dinner at Wanda's home, in Mesa, Ariz. \n MESA, Ariz. >> An Arizona woman who accidentally texted a stranger an invitation to Thanksgiving dinner made good on her offer, greeting the teen visitor with a hug and an oven full of food after their story swept through social media. \n \"I'm so happy you came,\" Dench said as they embraced. \n \"I am too,\" Hinton said. \n The mix-up happened after Dench included what she thought was her grandson's number on a group text last week inviting some relatives to dinner. But he had changed his number and forgot to tell her. \n Instead, the text went to Hinton. They realized the mistake after the two exchanged pictures, but Hinton asked if he could \"still get a plate.\" Dench responded, \"Of course you can. That's what grandmas do.\" \n The exchange gained attention after Hinton posted it on Twitter. Dench's phone number was not hidden in the photos, so she learned how many people wanted a place at her table. \n She said about 600 people texted her asking if they, too, could grab a plate this Thanksgiving. \n \"At first it was a slow trickle,\" Dench's daughter, Lisa Dench said. \"But then they came rushing in. I scrolled and scrolled and said to my mom, 'You've got a lot of love. We've got to make this into something.'\" \n Dench and her family said they think people were moved by the feel-good story amid the tension following the presidential election. \n \"We feel like it was fate that this occurred during such a rough time and right before Thanksgiving,\" Lisa Dench said. \n Hinton told the newspaper that Wanda Dench was \"very open and welcoming.\" \n \"I'm thankful for all the nice people in the world,\" he said. \"I never met her \u2026 and she welcomed me into her house, so that shows me how great of a person she is.\" \n They even took selfies together and posted them on social media. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Woman shares Thanksgiving with teen she accidentally texted"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "Hawaii County Police are asking the public to keep an eye out for an antique rifle, chainsaw, old spear guns and antique milk and soda bottles stolen from a vacant house near Honokaa. \n Police said the thief stole the unusual items from a vacant house in Ahualoa between Sept. 1 and Nov. 13. \n The items included a World War II 6.5 millimeter Arisake rifle, 200 antique milk and soda bottles, two old spear guns, ammunition, kitchen knives and an Old McCullough brand chainsaw. \n Police ask anyone with any information about this case or the stolen items to call the Police Department's non-emergency line at 935-3311 or Officer Robert Border at 775-7533. Tipsters can also call Crime Stoppers at ( 808) 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Chainsaw, spearguns, soda bottles among unusual items stolen from home"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "RENO, Nev. >> Police are investigating the shooting death of man Thanksgiving night in the parking lot of a Nevada Wal-Mart as possible self-defense. \n Investigators have questioned a man but have not arrested him, Reno police Lt. Sean Garlock said. \n Officers were looking at road rage as a potential cause of the confrontation in the parking lot near a freeway exit, he said. \n Police believe the 33-year-old man who was killed may have been armed with a stick or a bat and hit a car before the shooting, Garlock said. \n The shooting did not appear to be related to shopping, authorities said. The store was open at the time and remained open today. \n The vehicles and gun have been recovered. Nevada law does not require a concealed-weapons permit for guns kept inside a vehicle, Garlock said. \n The names of those involved were not immediately released. \n Wal-Mart spokesman Randy Hargrove told The Associated Press the company is saddened by the man's death and is cooperating with police. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Road rage suspected in fatal shooting in Reno Wal-Mart parking lot"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU CRIMESTOPPERS \n Nathaniel Foster \n CrimeStoppers and Honolulu police are asking for the public's help in locating a 26-year-old man who is suspected of fatally shooting a 24-year-old man in an illegal game room in McCully Wednesday. \n Police have identified the suspect as Nathaniel Foster. He is wanted for second-degree murder. Foster is described as 5 feet, 11 inches and 180 pounds. \n Police responded to a report of possible gunshots on Poha Lane near South Beretania Street around 9 p.m. Wednesday. Officers were led to an illegal game room on the building's second floor. \n The two men were arguing when Foster shot the victim multiple times, police said. The victim, whose identity has not yet been released, was pronounced dead at the scene. He sustained apparent gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n Foster fled the scene before police arrived. He was armed with a semi-automatic handgun. \n A person at the scene said the two men were game room employees. \n In September, a man allegedly shot two people, a 44-year-old woman and a 25-year-old man, inside Cuties Cafe, an illegal game room on North King Street in Chinatown. The woman died and the man was injured. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police release photo of suspect in fatal McCully shooting"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A student reacted as she was handed a rose by a naked student belonging to a fraternity at the University of the Philippines, the country's premier state university, during a naked run around the campus to condemn last week's burial of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery, Friday, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Students shouted slogans as they burned an effigy of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos during a rally near the Presidential Palace to condemn last week's burial of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery, Friday, in Manila. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Students belonging to a fraternity at the University of the Philippines, the country's premier state university, displayed placards as they ran naked around the campus to condemn last week's burial of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery, Friday, in suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines. \n MANILA \u00bb Thousands of Filipinos, including more than a dozen nude students, protested Friday against the hasty burial of Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos in a heroes' cemetery, in a growing political storm that's lashing the president who allowed the entombment. \n A few thousand activists joined a \"Black Friday\" protest despite rainy weather at Manila's seaside Rizal Park, where they carried Marcos' effigy in a mock coffin. \n While the anger was directed at Marcos and his family, President Rodrigo Duterte was also targeted for allowing the burial of the dictator, who was ousted in a largely peaceful \"people power\" revolt three decades ago. \n Protesters held placards reading \"Digong traitor, a lapdog of the dictator,\" referring to Duterte by his nickname. \n Dozens of students trooped outside the presidential palace in Manila in a separate protest and burned an effigy of Marcos in a mock coffin. \n At the state-run University of the Philippines, a fraternity turned its annual recruitment ritual into a protest with naked student recruits running with placards that read, \"Marcos dictator not a hero.\" \n \"This run is a manifestation of our anger against what we see as the Marcoses trying to revise history, trying to revive their name because they have fallen from grace,\" Alpha Phi Omega fraternity spokesman Toby Roca said. \"We are angry that they are trying to ignore our painful history of human rights abuses under his term.\" \n Duterte, whose father served in Marcos's Cabinet, allowed the burial on grounds that there was no law barring his interment at the Heroes' Cemetery, where presidents, soldiers, statesmen and national artists are buried. It was a political risk in a country where democracy advocates still celebrate Marcos's ouster each year. \n Duterte's decision was upheld earlier this month by the Supreme Court. Marcos opponents had 15 days to appeal the decision, but Marcos's family, backed by Duterte's defense and military officials, buried him in a secrecy-shrouded ceremony with military honors last week at the cemetery. \n The stealthy burial enraged democracy advocates and sparked protests in Manila and other cities. \n Protest leader Bonifacio Ilagan, a left-wing activist detained and tortured under Marcos, said many protesters are young Filipinos who did not experience the brutalities of the dictatorship but \"got assaulted by the surreptitious burial.\" \n Ilagan said he was struck by the message on a placard carried by a college student in a recent rally that said, \"If he was a true hero, why was he buried in secrecy?\" \n Human rights victims who suffered under Marcos's rule asked the Supreme Court this week to order the exhumation of his remains and to hold his heirs and Duterte's officials in contempt for their role in burying the body before the court heard final appeals. \n Marcos's rule was marked by massive rights violations and plunder. After being ousted in 1986, he flew to Hawaii, where he lived with his wife and children until he died in 1989. \n Duterte has allowed the protests to proceed with permits but has stood by his decision to permit the burial. During a speech in southern Zamboanga city, he asked aides how the demonstrations in Manila went. He said past presidents who opposed the burial should have taken steps to prevent it, for example by passing legislation. \n Duterte's deadly crackdown on illegal drugs has been widely criticized but has not sparked widespread protests because many crime-weary Filipinos back the effort despite concerns over the killings of many drug suspects, said political analyst Ramon Casiple, the director of a think tank promoting electoral and political reforms. \n \"Duterte's decision to allow the Marcos burial opened up old wounds,\" Casiple said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nude students, Filipino activists protest dictator's burial"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "A man believed to be in his mid-40s died today after he was found unresponsive in waters off the Kahala Hotel and Resort. \n According to an Emergency Medical Services report, lifeguards used a rescue watercraft to reach the man, a scuba diver, aboard an Island Divers Hawaii boat around 10 a.m. \n Lifeguards began CPR while the patient was brought to a dock. \n Paramedics took over the treatment and provided advanced life support while taking him to the hospital, where he later died. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Scuba diver dies in waters off Kahala"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers cut a tree that fell and killed a boy outside a school in Panama City today. Civil defense officials in Panama said the country has already seen three deaths blamed on late-season Tropical Storm Otto. \n SAN JOSE, Costa Rica \u00bb Tropical Storm Otto killed at least nine people in Costa Rica and then headed into the Pacific Ocean today after making landfall as the southernmost hurricane on record to hit Central America. \n Costa Rican President Luis Guillermo Solis announced that nine people had been killed in the area of Bagaces and Upala, a town south of the Costa Rica-Nicaragua border. Earlier, he said at least six people were missing in the nearby town of Bijagua. \n Solis said as much water fell on the area in a few hours as normally falls in a month, and said some people had been trapped by rising waters. \n The United States sent airplanes and neighboring Panama sent planes and helicopters to aid in the search and rescue efforts in the area, where rain-swollen rivers overflowed their banks. \n Otto made landfall on Nicaragua's Caribbean coast on Thursday as a dangerous Category 2 storm but it faded to tropical storm force before emerging over the eastern Pacific early today. \n Authorities in Nicaragua said the hurricane had damaged houses, but so far there were no reports of casualties. Earlier, heavy rains from the storm were blamed for three deaths in Panama. \n Otto battered Nicaragua's Corn Islands with 10-foot waves and damaged houses, but residents were all safe in refuges, said the archipelago's mayor, Cleveland Rolando Webster. \n The U.S. National Hurricane Center said that by this morning, the storm was centered about 245 miles south-southeast of El Salvador's capital, San Salvador, and had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph. It was moving toward the west at 16 mph. It was projected to keep moving westward away from Central America, further into Pacific. \n The Nicaraguan government earlier declared a state of emergency, and said evacuations would continue because of the continued risk of flooding. Schools were closed. \n Officials in Costa Rica evacuated 2,500 people before the hurricane hit and called off school nationwide for the rest of the week. \n Solis said Otto could damage the country's important coffee and agriculture sectors. Nicaragua also feared damage to coffee crops that are almost ready for harvest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tropical Storm Otto enters Pacific after devastation, 9 dead in Costa Rica"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Donald Trump spoke in Hershey, Pa. on Nov. 4. President-elect Trump holds stock in the company building the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, and pipeline opponents warn that Trump's investments could undercut any decision he makes on the $3.8 billion project as president. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters against the Dakota Access oil pipeline stood on a burned-out truck near Cannon Ball, N.D., on Nov. 21, that they removed from a long-closed bridge a day earlier on a state highway near their camp in southern North Dakota. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump holds stock in the company building the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, and pipeline opponents warn that Trump's investments could affect any decision he makes on the $3.8 billion project as president. \n Concern about Trump's possible conflicts comes amid protests that unfold daily along the proposed pipeline route. The dispute over the route has intensified in recent weeks, with total arrests since August rising to 528. A recent clash near the main protest camp in North Dakota left a police officer and several protesters injured. \n Trump's 2016 federal disclosure forms show he owned between $15,000 and $50,000 in stock in Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners. That's down from between $500,000 and $1 million a year earlier. \n Trump also owns between $100,000 and $250,000 in Phillips 66, which has a one-quarter share of Dakota Access. \n While Trump's stake in the pipeline company is modest compared with his other assets, ethics experts say it's among dozens of potential conflicts that could be resolved by placing his investments in a blind trust, a step Trump has resisted. \n The Obama administration said this month it wants more study and tribal input before deciding whether to allow the partially built pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota. \n The 1,200-mile pipeline would carry oil across four states to a shipping point in Illinois. The project has been held up while the Army Corps of Engineers consults with the Standing Rock Sioux, who believe the project could harm the tribe's drinking water and Native American cultural sites. \n The delay raises the likelihood that a final decision will be made by Trump, a pipeline supporter who has vowed to \"unleash\" unfettered production of oil and gas. He takes office in January. \n \"Trump's investments in the pipeline business threaten to undercut faith in this process \u2014 which was already frayed \u2014 by interjecting his own financial well-being into a much bigger decision,\" said Sharon Buccino, director of the land and wildlife program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. \n \"This should be about the interests of the many, rather than giving the appearance of looking at the interests of a few \u2014 including Trump,\" Buccino said. \n Trump, a billionaire who has never held public office, holds ownership stakes in more than 500 companies worldwide. He has said he plans to transfer control of his company to three of his adult children, but ethics experts have said conflicts could engulf the new administration if Trump does not liquidate his business holdings. \n Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz., senior Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, called Trump's investment in the pipeline company \"disturbing\" and said it fits a pattern evident in Trump's transition team. \n \"You have climate (change) deniers, industry lobbyists and energy conglomerates involved in that process,\" Grijalva said. \"The pipeline companies are gleeful. This is pay-to-play at its rawest.\" \n Besides Trump, at least two possible candidates for energy secretary also could benefit from the pipeline. Oil billionaire Harold Hamm could ship oil from his company, Continental Resources, through the pipeline, while former Texas Gov. Rick Perry serves on the board of directors of Energy Transfer Partners. \n North Dakota Republican Gov. Jack Dalrymple, along with GOP Sen. John Hoeven and Rep. Kevin Cramer, called on President Barack Obama to authorize the Army Corps of Engineers to approve the pipeline crossing, the last large segment of the nearly completed pipeline. \n Kelcy Warren, CEO of Dallas-based Energy Transfer, told The Associated Press that he expects Trump to make it easier for his company and others to complete infrastructure projects. \n \"Do I think it's going to get easier? Of course,\" said Warren, who donated $3,000 to Trump's campaign, plus $100,000 to a committee supporting Trump's candidacy and $66,800 to the Republican National Committee. \n \"If you're in the infrastructure business,\" he said, \"you need consistency. That's where this process has gotten off track.\" \n The Army Corps of Engineers granted Warren's company the permits needed for the crossing in July, but the agency decided in September that further analysis was warranted, given the tribe's concerns. On Nov. 14, the corps called for even more study. \n The company has asked a federal judge to declare it has the right to lay pipe under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir in southern North Dakota. The judge isn't likely to issue a decision until January at the earliest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's stock in Dakota pipeline company raises concern"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Paris prosecutor Francois Molins gave a press conference, in Paris today. Five men arrested this week in two French cities were planning a terror attack in France as early as next week and were receiving their orders from an Islamic State group member based in Iraq or Syria, Molins said. \n PARIS \u00bb Four long-time friends in their 30s, living in the same French city and communicating through a closed phone line, were planning a terror attack in France as early as next week on orders from an Islamic State group member in Iraq or Syria, Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said today. \n The \"commando\" of four arrested on Sunday in the eastern city of Strasbourg plotted to carry out an attack on Dec. 1, but investigators have not yet determined \"the specific chosen target among all those considered by the group,\" Molins said. \n The prosecutor didn't name any targets, but security was tightened this week at the Paris headquarters of France's criminal investigations police, reportedly among the locations studied. French President Francois Hollande said a \"large-scale attack\" was thwarted. \n The night they were arrested, two of the Strasbourg group had just downloaded the Periscope application, which allows people to stream live on Internet with a cell phone. The app activity suggests they were preparing an \"imminent\" attack, Molins said. \n The four Strasbourg suspects also were in possession of guns and ammunition, he said. Among the weapons seized during home searches were two handguns, two automatic rifles, several cartridge clips and dozens of cartridges of different calibers. \n Investigators also found instructions for a money transfer, GPS coordinates and detailed explanations for obtaining more weapons on one suspect's USB stick. \n A fifth suspect was arrested in the southern city of Marseille at the same time as the Strasbourg suspects. Molins told reporters that suspect was not in direct touch with the other four, but was \"given guidance remotely\" from the same IS member. \n All five men had a \"clear will to find and to identify targets to commit an act in the very short term,\" Molins said. \n In addition, the five \"had common instructions to obtain weapons, instructions given by a person from the Iraqi-Syrian zone through encrypted applications popular among terrorists,\" he said. \n Investigators also recovered a notebook that contained 12 pages of writing that referred to an armed jihad, death in martyrdom and Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the Islamic State group leader, the prosecutor said. \n After being held in custody since Sunday, the five were moved today to the Paris courthouse where they were to appear before counter-terrorism investigating judges. The Paris prosecutor asked magistrates to hand the five preliminary charges of taking part in a \"terrorist criminal association\" and to jail them. \n Molins was speaking the day after anti-terrorism authorities took the unusual step of holding the men in custody without charge beyond the normal maximum period, relying on a recent anti-terrorism measure. \n The four arrested in Strasbourg were two French citizens, both age 37; a 36-year-old Franco-Tunisian; and a 35-year-old Franco-Moroccan. Two of them had several criminal convictions in France, Molins said. The man arrested in Marseille was a 26-year-old Moroccan. \n Two of the Strasbourg suspects traveled to the Turkish-Syrian border via Cyprus in March 2015, then prosecutor said. The Marseille suspect left Morocco in 2013 and made multiple trips across Europe with fake ID documents. In 2015, the Turkish authorities prevented him from entering Turkey, he said. \n France remains under a state of emergency imposed after Islamic State attacks in Paris in November 2015 that killed 130 people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "French prosecutor says 4 friends plotted imminent terror attack"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "COPENHAGEN, Denmark \u00bb A Danish restaurant with three Michelin stars has been fined $2,840 for storing fresh shellfish at too high temperatures. \n Crayfish, scallops and oysters were kept in fridges with temperatures up to 48.6 F \u2014 far above the maximum 35.6 F. \n Geranium chef Rasmus Kofoed told public broadcaster DR the errors had been corrected but admitted they may \"have been a bit inattentive.\" \n He didn't believe the fine would any impact on regular customers. In February, the eatery became the first Danish restaurant to be awarded three stars ever. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michelin-starred eatery fined for food safety violation"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marianne Wilson Kuroda offered flowers to her family graves, on Sept. 17, at the Yokohama Foreign General Cemetery in Yokohama, near Tokyo. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marianne Wilson Kuroda held a photo of her father James Vaughn and her mother Vivienne Wilson, on Sept. 9, from late 1940's as she spoke during an interview at her home in Kashiwa, east of Tokyo. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marianne Wilson Kuroda held a photo of her father James Vaughn and her mother Vivienne Wilson from late 1940's as she spoke during a Sept. 9 interview at her home in Kashiwa, east of Tokyo. Red-haired girl Marianne in a Japanese slum knew she was different, but she didn't know why; six decades later, she finally put the last piece of her shattered identity into place. \n KASHIWA, Japan \u00bb At a public bath in a Yokohama slum in the 1950s, a red-haired girl scrubs her skin with a pumice stone, hard, to try to get the white out. \n Other kids sometimes taunt her. \"American, American.\" She yells back, \"I'm Japanese!\" \n There are more hints that she is different. Once a year she's taken to a grave in the cemetery for foreigners. Once she is made to listen to a record of people singing \"Happy Birthday\" in English. The reasons are as unknown to her as the Western-looking couple she sees in photos hidden in a brown leather suitcase in the closet. \n She is told she was abandoned. Only much later would she learn that her family had been a casualty of anti-Asian immigration policy in the United States. Her American father got Congress to pass a special bill that would have allowed her to enter the U.S., yet she would go most of her life without knowing that. \n Her life became headline fodder in two countries \u2014 Japan and Sweden \u2014 as a custody battle waged, yet she would be the one to sort out her own fractured identity. It took decades, and the last piece was put into place only this year. \n \"So many coincidences happened in my life,\" she said in an interview at her house outside Tokyo, reflecting on her 67 years. \"But altogether, you know, I managed to put the whole story, that now I'm settled, and I have peace of mind. Thank goodness that I don't have to live with two people anymore.\" \n Those two people are Mary Ann Vaughn, the girl she was born as, and Marianne Wilson, the girl that fate made her. \n THE MARY ANN YEARS \n Texas-born James Vaughn arrived in Japan in early 1946, a 20-year-old civilian assigned to a U.S. military base in Yokohama. Photos show a handsome lad with a bit of a James Dean look. \n He met 16-year-old Vivienne Wilson working in the PX to help support her family. It was an ill-fated romance. Overseas U.S. personnel needed permission from the military to get married, and Vaughn was denied because Wilson was half-Japanese. U.S. law at the time barred Japanese from becoming citizens or even immigrating to the country. \n Vaughn and Wilson didn't give up. They tied the knot at a Japanese shrine in May 1948. But U.S. military police harassed the couple, and Vaughn returned to the U.S. that August. Wilson gave birth to Mary Ann Vaughn in a Yokohama hospital on April 17, 1949. \n James Vaughn wrote to Congress, which passed a law exempting Wilson from immigration restrictions so she and her daughter could enter the U.S. It was dated Aug. 5, 1950. \n That very day Vivienne Wilson died of tuberculosis. Mary Ann was 16 months old. \n Wilson's family was struggling financially, and asked Mary Ann's nanny to take care of the baby until her father returned to get her. He never did. \n And so Mary Ann ended up trying to peel her whiteness off in a public bath. \"I was wondering what kind of disease I had,\" she said. She hoped she would wake up transformed, her red hair gone to black. \n She became Mary Ann Kizawa, taking the surname of her nanny's first husband. She called him \"Papa.\" They lived in a one-room shack in Yokohama, got water from a shared pump and cooked outside. \n The young girl didn't know she was American \u2014 she was taught to be terrified of Americans. She wasn't sure who or what they were, but would jump into a covered wooden tea crate whenever they came to the neighborhood. They will make you into sausage and eat you, she was told. \n Ultimately, an organization set up to help \"GI babies,\" orphans left behind by American soldiers, found her. In letters to the Swedish consul in Tokyo in 1955, the group reported that Mary Ann's nanny wanted to adopt her, but questioned whether that was advisable, given her impoverished circumstances. Sweden decided it should find a home for her, and a custody battle ensued. \n The media descended on the first-grader. Magazine photo spreads from 1956 show a smiling, pig-tailed girl at school or eating at home. Behind the sometimes impish smiles was a child who didn't understand what was happening to her. \n Her nanny, Fumi, took Mary Ann every Aug. 5 to Vivienne's grave in a mosquito-infested cemetery, without telling her it was her mother. The child couldn't read the English on the tombstone. \n Fumi once took her to the beauty parlor where she worked, so she could use the record player. Mary Ann listened to a recording of \"Happy Birthday\" and \"Mary had a Little Lamb\" without realizing it was her father and his family in America singing. \n The nanny did lay out what was happening after a court ruled in Sweden's favor in 1958. \"I'm going to tell you something very important,\" she told her. \"Sit here and just listen. You're going to quit this school. From September you're going to go to a new school on the bluff where all the A-B-C kids are living. And from now on, your name is going to be Marianne Wilson.\" \n THE MARIANNE YEARS \n It was a name she hated. Marianne is the Swedish version of Mary Ann, and in her 9-year-old mind, it was the source of all her troubles. \n With no English, she was sent back to second grade at the \"A-B-C school\" \u2014 the international school in Yokohama. It was a blow to her ego. She couldn't stomach the strange food \u2014 ham sandwiches and tomato juice \u2014 and threw it away. \n \"I just couldn't understand a single word the teacher was saying,\" she said. \"I couldn't even write my own name.\" \n An excerpt from a recent email captures her confusion: \n \"On my first day, we took the bus to the bluff. To my big surprise came a little boy who looked like me accompanied by a Japanese woman. When I heard the boy addressing a Japanese lady 'Mommy,' my mind just spun with great joy. I had found the same species!\" \n Her joy was dashed when she discovered the father of a similar girl was a tall white man. \n \"Oh my goodness, I was totally confused,\" she wrote. \" \u2026 I expected a little girl who looked like me to have a Japanese mommy and a Japanese daddy! My little head at that time had no idea about mixed-race, and just left me with the great grief that there is no planet for me to live in. I searched for Krypton, a planet which Superman came from, for there might be some aliens existing like me on that planet.\" \n Under a compromise with the Swedish Embassy, Marianne would live with a foreign host family during the week, and stay with her nanny, now remarried as Fumi Yamaguchi, on the weekends. A Swedish company moved them out of the slums and into a house in Tokyo with new wonders for Marianne, from a refrigerator to a vacuum cleaner. \n She transferred to the American School in Japan, and rotated through about half a dozen families during her school years. Now, when she visited that gravestone, she could read \"Vivienne Wilson\" on the marker, and realized it was the same last name as hers. She peeked at the photos in the suitcase. A young man, a young woman. A little boy. How were they a part of her life? \n After high school, she was sent to Sweden, speaking no Swedish. She worked for SAS, the Scandinavian airline, but returned to Japan in 1974, after five years. \n On her deathbed in 1975, Fumi finally told her everything. James Vaughn was her father, and he hadn't abandoned her, but had tried to find her. It was him on the record, singing to her. She gave her the photos, and told her, these are your parents. \n Marianne was not ready to try to track down her father until the 1990s, after she got married and had a son. The U.S. Embassy in Tokyo gave her a list of agencies to try. \n \"Every time an envelope came from America, I thought, 'Yay, they found him,'\" she said. \"Then I would start crying. It didn't work.\" \n An acquaintance suggested the Japanese Red Cross. The answer came by phone in 2004: We found James Vaughn, but unfortunately he died 11 months ago. There is a short obituary. And you have a younger brother in America. \n RECLAIMING MARY ANN \n Marianne Wilson Kuroda was drinking her coffee and shaking, waiting in the kitchen for the phone to ring. It was Steve Vaughn, the son of the father she never got to meet. \n At first she didn't know what to say. \"What was father's favorite color?\" she asked. Then the emotions overflowed. \n \"I thought, 'Gosh, I wish I would have taken care of you,'\" she said. \"I missed him so much as a baby. I could have been big sister to him \u2026 changed his diaper, given him milk. I guess that's what you call family.\" \n Three months later, she was flying to New Mexico. Vaughn, 56, is a doctor at a Veterans Administration clinic outside of Albuquerque. \n \"She got off the plane. I could not look her in the eyes,\" he wrote in response to questions. \"Her father's eyes scrutinized me, stared at me.\" \n It's not clear whether James Vaughn attempted to contact his daughter after the death of Vivienne Wilson in 1950, but his family kept an envelope on which his mother had written, \"May be important some day.\" \n Inside were some photos and a note: \"The baby in these pictures was named Mary Ann. The last time (I) heard about them was 1958. The mother had died, and baby or girl Mary Ann was adopted in Tokyo, Japan, by unknown parents.\" \n Steve Vaughn, whose mother had married James Vaughn in 1956, wasn't told about his half-sister. \n He and Marianne compared photos, and found they had similar ones of their father as a little boy. They visited the grave of their father, who had died on Feb. 3, 2003, at the age of 77. \n \"I had to give him respect, you know. But, um, hmm, it was like, you know, 'Why did you die 11 months ago?'\" Marianne said, her laughter mixed with pangs of regret. \"You could have lived a little bit longer after all these years.\" \n The puzzle was coming together. An uncle remembered something about a law related to her story. Steve Vaughn wrote to the U.S. National Archives and found under Private Laws, Chapter 596, \"An Act, for the relief of Vivienne Joy Wilson and minor daughter Mary Ann Vaughn.\" \n Marianne was stunned. \n \"I saw the name Mary Ann Vaughn, which I was called in my very early childhood, and was shocked that she really existed, and my father was truly an American,\" she said. \n And so was she \u2014 or at least should have been. She decided that she should make it official and claim her citizenship, in his honor. \n It would take 12 years. \n A U.S. Embassy official in Tokyo asked her why she wanted citizenship when she didn't intend to move to the U.S. He gave her a long list of requirements. \n \"He even said it is almost impossible,\" Marianne said. \"He raised my anger to fight for anything to get justice.\" \n She got help, in a way, from her grandmother. Vivienne's mother. She, amazingly, had gone through very much the same struggle. \n 'A MATTER OF JUSTICE' \n To get the bill passed, James Vaughn had written Nevada Sen. Pat McCarran letters pleading for help. Steve Vaughn obtained those letters through the McCarran archives. \n A 1949 letter said that Vivienne Wilson's mother, Helene, had divorced and gotten remarried to a man named John Bouiss and was living in Portland, Oregon. That was something she never knew. \n Searching the internet in 2012, Marianne happened upon a 78-page paper on Helene Bouiss in the New York University Law Review. Half-Japanese and half-German, she had been denied entry on arrival in Seattle and detained because of her ethnicity. She only was admitted after Congress amended the War Brides Act to allow in spouses like her. \n It boggled Marianne's mind. She sought help from the author of the paper, professor Rose Cuison Villazor from the Immigration Law Clinic at the University of California, Davis. \n \"Her case is a consequence of this history of discrimination from immigration law and citizenship law that I thought really needed to be corrected,\" Cuison Villazor said in a telephone interview. \"There was \u2026 this awful history that I felt needed to be addressed as a matter of justice.\" \n Kevin Brosnahan, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department Bureau of Consular Affairs, said that consular officers are required to determine whether a person meets the legal requirements for citizenship that were in effect on her birthdate. \n For Marianne, born in 1949, that meant she had to have established that Vaughn was her father by the age of 21. A later U.S. law allows a qualified person to take an oath to restore her citizenship, Brosnahan said. \n Cuison Villazor, in a submission to the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, argued that the 1949-era requirements are unconstitutional, but that either way, Marianne had met them. \n The U.S. ultimately agreed. A photo posted this June on Facebook shows a smiling Marianne standing outside the embassy holding up the oath of allegiance she had just signed. \n She has one more task before that mission feels complete. She wants to visit a cemetery in the west Texas city of Spur, population 1,300, where her paternal grandparents are buried. \n \"I want to show them my American passport and say, 'Grandpa, Grandma. I'm home.'\" \n ", "author": "By Ken Moritsugu Associated Press", "title": "Japanese woman reclaims dad, U.S. identity in 6-decade journey"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kathleen \"KT\" McFarland is seen at her home in New York in March 2006. President-elect Donald Trump has tapped Fox News analyst McFarland to serve as deputy national security adviser. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump, left, stood with investor Wilbur Ross, Nov. 20, after meeting at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. \n PALM BEACH, Fla. \u00bb President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward with two more administration picks, as failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took new steps to force recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could complicate Trump's push for national unity. \n Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally requested a Wisconsin recount this afternoon, vowing to do the same in the coming days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials confirmed this evening they would move forward with the first presidential recount in state history. There is no evidence of election tampering in the states where Trump scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party spokesman George Martin insisted \"the American public needs to have it investigated to make sure our votes count.\" \n \"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system,\" he said. \n Trump's team ignored questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the presidency in 55 days, he was focused instead on the daunting task of building an administration from scratch. \n Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials. \n He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia \"KT\" McFarland to serve as deputy national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's \"tremendous experience and innate talent\" and said McGhan \"has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character and a deep understanding of constitutional law.\" \n Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none since Ronald Reagan. McGhan, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as Trump's attorney during the campaign. \n Neither position requires Senate confirmation. \n Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter movement. \n Facing external pressure from Stein, there were also signs of internal discord within the president-elect's small inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for secretary of state. \n The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified. \n Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been \"receiving a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn against Romney as sec of state.\" \n Meanwhile, Stein announced on her website she has raised enough money to fund recounts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and was pursuing additional funding to do the same in Michigan. \n Trump's Nov. 8 victory was unexpected and historic, by some measures. \n Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states, however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume the presidency. \n He won in Pennsylvania. He won in Wisconsin, breaking a Democratic winning streak dating back 32 years. He holds a slim lead in Michigan, where a Republican presidential candidate hadn't won since 1988; The Associated Press still hasn't officially called that race. \n Wisconsin, where Trump leads by little more than 22,000 votes, has never before conducted a presidential recount. It will this year, state administrator Michael Haas announced today, citing recount requests by Stein and independent candidate Rocky De La Fuente. \n \"The Commission is preparing to move forward with a statewide recount of votes for President of the United States, as requested by these candidates,\" Haas said, noting that the recount is expected to be completed by the Dec. 13 federal deadline. \n In Michigan, Trump's 10,704-vote lead is expected to be certified by the state elections board Monday. The deadline to ask for a recount is Wednesday. \n A statewide recount would cost Stein roughly $790,000, said Fred Woodhams, a spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. An opposing candidate would have seven days to file objections to the recount petition, after which the board would schedule a public hearing and later issue a ruling on the objections. \n Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing. \n Since arriving at his Palm Beach estate Wednesday, they said, the president-elect has spoken to the prime ministers of Greece, Hungary and Sweden, along with the presidents of Panama and Slovenia. \n He is expected to return to his New York City home on Sunday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump shaping administration as Stein presses for recounts"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin shook hands with U.S. actor Steven Seagal in the Kremlin in Moscow today. Putin gave a Russian passport to Seagal, a regular visitor to Russia in recent years, calling it a sign of a thaw in relations between the two countries. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin held a Russian passport for U.S. actor Steven Seagal during their meeting in the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia today. Putin gave the passport to Seagal, a regular visitor to Russia in recent years, calling it a sign of a thaw in relations between the two countries. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, hosted U.S. actor Steven Seagal in the Kremlin in Moscow today. Putin gave a Russian passport to Seagal, a regular visitor to Russia in recent years, calling it a sign of a thaw in relations between the two countries. \n MOSCOW \u00bb President Vladimir Putin has given a Russian passport to U.S. action film star Steven Seagal, calling it a sign of a thaw in relations with the United States. \n The 64-year old actor has been a regular visitor to Russia in recent years and has accompanied Putin to several martial arts events. \n Seagal also has vocally defended the Russian leader's policies and criticized the U.S. government. \n After awarding Seagal citizenship through a presidential decree earlier this month, Putin hosted the actor at the Kremlin today and handed him the passport. \n Putin told Seagal he hopes the ceremony, which was shown on Russian state television, is \"also a sign of a gradual normalization of the relations between the countries.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Putin gives Russian passport to actor Steven Seagal"}

{"date": "November 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dean Fletcher, left, was escorted by a police officer, Oct. 4, after his initial appearance in the District Court of American Samoa in Pago Pago, American Samoa. \n A U.S. citizen was being held Wednesday in Honolulu for extradition to Tonga, where he's accused of beating his wife to death, escaping police and sailing some 300 miles to American Samoa. \n Kingdom of Tonga officials said Dean Jay Fletcher, 54, was indicted on murder and other charges in the July death of his wife, Patricia Linne Kearney. \n Three diving operators saw Fletcher assaulting his wife on a dinghy after she picked him up July 6 at the Neiafu Port of Refuge, according to provisional arrest documents filed in federal court in Honolulu. \n Fletcher kept kicking and punching Kearney as the couple arrived at another boat, named Sea Oak, which was moored about 100 meters from shore, Tonga officials told U.S. prosecutors. \n One witness reported that he saw Fletcher grab his wife's head while she was in the dinghy, \"slam his knee into her neck and punch her in the head,\" the documents state. \n The next day, Fletcher went to the Neiafu Police Station to report his wife had died when she slipped and fell down stairs on their yacht. \n Fletcher allegedly told an acquaintance that his wife had a nerve disease and had been drunk. The person reported seeing a blood-stained bed sheet in the dinghy, and another person said Fletcher dropped the sheet into the sea, the documents state. \n While in police custody on July 11, Fletcher asked a detective for permission to use the toilet then ran out of the police station and was caught after a brief foot chase, authorities said. \n The records say officers couldn't catch him when he fled again in September and was last seen sailing away in a boat. \n He traveled some 300 miles north to American Samoa, where he was arrested. \n U.S. marshals escorted him to Honolulu Tuesday because there's no federal court in American Samoa. \n American Samoa authorities were tipped off about Fletcher's arrival by a woman who told police he entered Pago Pago harbor aboard his sailboat. \n The woman told police she recognized Fletcher as a man she knew six years ago and that she had read news accounts that he was wanted by police in Tonga, according to court documents. \n A detention hearing is scheduled for Monday in Honolulu. \n Tonga officials have two months to provide authorities in Honolulu with extradition documents. It will be up to the U.S. Department of State to determine if he'll be extradited, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Larry Butrick. \n Fletcher's federal public defender in Honolulu didn't immediately respond to messages for comment. The Sea Oak remained moored in Pago Pago Wednesday, police said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "American accused of killing wife in Tonga, escaping on boat"}

