{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "A Hawaii Island man has been charged with a break-in at a business, in addition to stealing a vehicle. \n Shane Faustina, 21, of Ocean View was charged today with multiple offenses, including second-degree burglary, for a break-in on Feb. 21 at the 92-8700 block of Hawaii Boulevard, Hawaii Island police said. \n Earlier, Faustina was arrested and charged with stealing a Ford Bronco from a home in Ocean View sometime between Feb. 10 and Feb. 11, police said. \n His bail was set at $30,000 in the vehicle incident, and $12,000 in the business burglary. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii island man charged with burglary, stealing vehicle"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus' discussion with FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe sparked outrage among some Democrats, who said he was violating policies intended to limit communications between the law enforcement agency and the White House on pending investigations. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House today defended chief of staff Reince Priebus against accusations he breached a government firewall when he asked FBI Director James Comey to publicly dispute media reports that Trump campaign advisers had been frequently in touch with Russian intelligence agents. \n President Donald Trump's spokesman, Sean Spicer, argued Priebus had little choice but to seek Comey's assistance in rebutting what Spicer said were inaccurate reports about contacts during last year's presidential campaign. The FBI did not issue the statement requested by Priebus and has given no sign one is forthcoming. \n \"I don't know what else we were supposed to do,\" Spicer said. \n The Justice Department has policies in place to limit communications between the White House and the FBI about pending investigations. Trump officials today not only confirmed contacts between Priebus and the FBI, but engaged in an extraordinary public airing of those private conversations. \n Spicer said it was the FBI that first approached the White House about the veracity of a New York Times story asserting that Trump advisers had contacts with Russian intelligence officials during the presidential campaign. Spicer said Priebus then asked both FBI Director James Comey and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe if they would condemn the story publicly, which they declined to do. \n \"The chief of staff said, well, you've put us in a very difficult situation,\" Spicer said. \"You've told us that a story that made some fairly significant accusations was not true. And now you want us to just sit out there.\" \n The FBI would not comment on the matter or verify the White House account. The CIA also declined to comment. \n The White House also enlisted the help of Republicans on Capitol Hill to talk to reporters about the New York Times story. Jack Langer, a spokesman for Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., the chairman of the House intelligence committee, said the White House asked Nunes to speak with one reporter. He said the chairman told the journalist the same thing that he has said publicly many times before \u2014 that he had asked but not received any information from intelligence officials that would warrant a committee investigation of any American citizens' contacts with Russian intelligence officials. \n Langer acknowledged that this could make it harder to convince people that the House investigation into the matter will be independent and free of political bias, but he said the White House did not tell Nunes what to tell the reporter, or give him \"talking points.\" \n The ranking Democrat on the committee, California Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said if the White House indeed contrived to have intelligence officials contradict unfavorable news reports, it threatens the independence of the intelligence community. \n \"Intelligence professionals are not there to serve as the president's PR firm,\" Schiff said, adding, \"For its part, the intelligence community must resist improper efforts like these by the administration to politicize its role.\" \n The Washington Post reported Friday that the chairman of the Senate intelligence committee also was enlisted by the White House. The newspaper quoted Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C., saying he had conversations about Russia-related news reports with the White House and engaged with news organizations to dispute articles by The New York Times and CNN. \n Friday's revelations were the latest wrinkle in Trump's already complicated relationship with the FBI and other intelligence agencies. He's accused intelligence officials of releasing classified information about him to the media, declaring in a tweet Friday morning that the FBI was \"totally unable to stop the national security 'leakers' that have permeated our government for a long time.\" \n House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi accused Priebus of \"an outrageous breach of the FBI's independence\" and called on the Justice Department's inspector general to look into all conversations Priebus and other White House officials have held with the FBI on ongoing investigations. \n \"The rule of law depends on the FBI's complete independence, free from political pressure from the targets of its investigations,\" Pelosi said. \n A 2009 memo from then-Attorney General Eric Holder said the Justice Department is to advise the White House on pending criminal or civil investigations \"only when it is important for the performance of the president's duties and appropriate from a law enforcement perspective.\" \n Ron Hosko, a retired FBI assistant director who oversaw criminal investigations, said the discussions between the FBI and the Trump White House were inadvisable. \n \"It is a very slippery slope,\" Hosko said. \"Do I get in the position of where I'm updating the White House on my priority criminal cases? The answer is no, I should not be doing that.\" \n Other FBI veterans said the interactions between Priebus and the FBI were not unprecedented. Robert Anderson, a retired executive assistant director who served under Comey and oversaw counterintelligence investigations, said contacts between the bureau and White House are \"usually very-well documented\" in order to avoid the perception of inappropriate contacts. \n CNN first reported that Priebus had asked the FBI for help, and a White House official confirmed the matter to The Associated Press Thursday night. On Friday morning, two other senior White House officials summoned reporters to a briefing to expand on the timeline of events. \n The White House officials would only discuss the matter on the condition of anonymity. Two hours later, Trump panned news stories that rely on anonymous sources, telling a conservative conference that reporters \"shouldn't be allowed to use sources unless they use somebody's name.\" \n Spicer later briefed some reporters on the record. The Associated Press declined to participate in that briefing because some major news organizations were not invited, but audio of the briefing was later circulated by reporters who attended. \n Trump has been shadowed by questions about potential ties to Russia since winning the election. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled in the campaign in an effort to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n On Feb. 14, The New York Times reported that intelligence agencies had collected phone records and call intercepts showing frequent communication between Trump advisers and Russian intelligence agents during the campaign. Trump has said he is not aware of such contacts. \n The White House says Priebus was holding a previously scheduled meeting with McCabe the morning after the Times story was published. According to Spicer, McCabe told Priebus in \"very colorful terms\" that the report was inaccurate, prompting the chief of staff to ask if the FBI would make its view known publicly. \n Spicer said McCabe told the White House the bureau did not want to be in the practice of rebutting news stories. A similar message was conveyed to Priebus later in the day by Comey, according to the White House spokesman. \n The White House said McCabe and Comey instead gave Priebus the go-ahead to discredit the story publicly, something the FBI has not confirmed. \n Priebus alluded to his contacts with the FBI over the weekend, telling Fox News that \"the top levels of the intelligence community\" had assured him that the allegations of campaign contacts with Russia were \"not only grossly overstated but also wrong.\" \n During the campaign, Trump and other Republicans strongly criticized a meeting between Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton, husband of Trump's general election opponent. The meeting came as the FBI \u2014 which is overseen by the Justice Department \u2014 was investigating Hillary Clinton's use of a private email address and personal internet server. \n Spicer said he was not aware of an FBI investigation into Trump campaign advisers' contacts with Russia. Administration officials have acknowledged that the FBI interviewed ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn about his communications with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. during the transition. \n Flynn was fired after it was revealed that he misled Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials about the content of those conversations. \n Associated Press writers Vivian Salama, Eric Tucker and Eileen Sullivan contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House adviser asked FBI to dispute Russia reports"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A U.S.-educated former Wall Street banker, the 78-year-old Kuczynski has emerged as an unlikely leader in Latin America, taking a strong stand against President Donald Trump's \"America First\" agenda while many in the region remain silent. Kuczynski will be the first Latin American leader to visit Trump at the White House on Friday. \n LIMA, Peru >> When Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski becomes the first Latin American leader to visit Donald Trump at the White House on Friday it will be a chance for the U.S. president to hear some straight talk about how his anti-trade and anti-immigrant rhetoric is alienating some of America's closest allies. \n A U.S.-educated former Wall Street banker, the 78-year-old Kuczynski has emerged as an unlikely leader in Latin America, taking a strong stand against Trump's \"America First\" agenda while many in the region remain silent. \n Kuczynski harshly criticized Trump during the U.S. presidential campaign, joking he would cut diplomatic relations with the U.S. \"with a saw\" if Trump followed through on his pledge to build a wall with Mexico, which he compared to the Berlin Wall. Leaders in the region, even staunch critics of the U.S. like Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, have largely avoided rallying to Mexico's side for fear of jeopardizing their own relations with the Trump administration. \n Despite such past criticism, it will be hard for Trump to dismiss Kuczynski's advice, said Brian Winter, vice president of the regional group Council of Americas. \n Kuczynski, who renounced U.S. citizenship to run for Peru's presidency, speaks Trump's language, not just flawless English but that of a successful businessman with deep influence in the power circles of New York, where he lived and worked for years. \n He'll also be bolstered by Peru's standout performance creating jobs and growth. Buoyed by high metal prices, Peru's economy has boomed an average 5 percent each year since 2000 \u2014 almost twice the regional average. \n \"This is the positive side of the Latin American story that Trump may be unaware of,\" said Winter. \"Because of his biography, but also the success of Peru, Kuczynski may have more credibility than any other president in Latin America to talk straight to Trump.\" \n Peru is among a handful of South American nations with a free trade agreement with the U.S. and Kuczynski has not hid his admiration for the United States. But despite being ridiculed at home as a \"gringo,\" Kuczynski has said he worries the U.S. has been taking Latin America for granted. Not for nothing, his first trip abroad after taking office last July was to China. \n One area where the two men are likely to see eye-to-eye is Venezuela. \n Kuczynski has been outspoken criticizing Venezuela's socialist government, calling for humanitarian aid to the country and giving visas to exiles. \n The Obama administration was careful not to provoke Venezuela and become a scapegoat for the country's economic mess. But within 30 days of taking office, Trump has already slapped sanctions on Venezuela's vice president for his alleged role in facilitating large cocaine shipments to the U.S., and met with the wife of the country's most-prominent political prisoner. Trump and Kuczynski have already discussed Venezuela's crisis by phone. \n If Kuczynski manages to earn Trump's respect, it could pay bilateral dividends. Earlier this month, Kuczysnki telephoned Trump to ask him to deport former President Alejandro Toledo, who is believed to be in the San Francisco area. Toledo faces an arrest order for allegedly taking $20 million in bribes from a Brazilian construction firm. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Peru's president set to talk tough to Trump during U.S. visit"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Army soldiers stood outside their armored vehicle on a joint base with the Iraqi army south of Mosul, Iraq, on Thursday. \n SOUTH OF MOSUL, Iraq >> U.S. Army Lt. Col. James Browning juggled phone calls on an overstuffed sofa in a small village south of Mosul. His counterparts in the Iraqi army's 9th Division were pushing toward western Mosul, just a few miles away and were coming under mortar fire from the Islamic State group as they moved on a power station. \n Iraqi army Brig. Gen. Walid Khalifa called Browning on a simple Nokia phone to relay the approximate location of the mortar fire. Browning swapped phones to make another call. \n \"Can you tell them that (the 9th Division) is receiving fire?\" he told his coalition colleagues at another forward base overseeing the operation. He asked them to pinpoint where the attack was coming from using coalition aerial surveillance and take it out. \n Just a few months ago, Lt. Col. Browning's phone conversation would have been impossible. Rather than request assistance directly, his call would have likely been routed through a joint command center much farther from the battle zone. \n In the fight against the Islamic State group in Mosul, the United States has adjusted its rules of engagement as American and other international troops are now closer to front-line fighting than before. \n During the push to take Mosul International Airport on Thursday, American and European advisers were embedded with forward Iraqi rapid response and special forces units. \n Coalition officials say the changes are helping speed up Iraqi military gains, but they mark a steady escalation of U.S. involvement in Iraq that also reflects lingering shortcomings on the part of Iraq's armed forces and growing political and military pressure to finish the Mosul operation quickly. \n \"Usually I'm right by his side,\" Browning said between phone calls of his Iraqi army counterpart Brig. Gen. Khalifa. \"When a threat comes in like this, we take it just as seriously as if we are under threat.\" \n This closer relationship is new. \n In the lead-up to the operation to retake Mosul, U.S. forces steadily increased their footprint in Iraq, increasing the number of troops in the country and moving outposts closer to front-line fighting. But the number of U.S. forces on or near the front lines remained relatively small. \n Two months into the campaign to retake Iraq's second-largest city from IS control, Iraqi forces appeared bogged down by weeks of grueling urban combat. Some front lines went stagnant for weeks and Iraqi forces were suffering relatively high casualty rates under fierce IS counterattacks. \n On Dec. 26, U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend issued a tactical directive sending more coalition troops away from the safety of their outposts, deeper into Mosul and closer to front lines to work side by side with their Iraqi counterparts. In January, the Pentagon first confirmed that U.S. forces were at times operating inside the city of Mosul. \n As Iraqi special forces and rapid response units stormed Mosul's airport and the sprawling Ghazlani base on the southern edge of the city's west, coalition forces were embedded with forward units advising them on their plan of attack, according to two Iraqi officers overseeing the operation. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to talk to reporters. \n Inside eastern Mosul, in the weeks leading up to that half of the city being declared \"fully liberated,\" coalition troops became a more common sight on the city streets alongside Iraq's elite military units. \n \"It changed the relationship,\" Browning said of moving closer to the front and spending more time with his Iraqi counterparts. \"It gives me a better understanding of how I can bring to bear the limited capabilities I have.\" \n During his Thursday interview, Browning spoke from a modest forward Iraqi base in a small village south of Mosul where a living room in an abandoned home had been converted into an operations room. \n Under the December directive and an additional directive issued a few weeks ago, Browning said advisers like him embedded at the brigade level are now able to directly deliver support such as airstrikes and artillery fire to the units they're partnered with. \n Previously, such support \"would have gone through a whole bureaucracy and through Baghdad,\" he said. \n The spokesman for the U.S.-led coalition, Air Force Col. John Dorrian, confirmed to The Associated Press the rules of engagement in the fight against IS in Iraq were adjusted by the December directive, explaining that some coalition troops were given the \"ability to call in airstrikes without going through a strike cell.\" \n More coalition forces have been \"empowered\" to have the ability to call in strikes in the Mosul operation, Col. Dorrian told a Pentagon press briefing on Wednesday. \n \"This is something that maintains a very high level of precision, but it also increases the amount of responsiveness for the teams on the ground,\" he said. \n Since the late December directive from Lt. Gen. Townsend, Iraqi forces have secured swifter territorial victories in the fight against IS and in the first days of the renewed push on Mosul's western half, Iraqi forces have sustained relatively low numbers of casualties, compared to the early days of the fight inside Mosul from the eastern front. \n \"There was a lot of focus on a big training effort and I think what (the coalition) realized in Mosul is that (Iraqi security forces) needed more tactical support,\" said Nathaniel Rabkin, managing editor of Inside Iraqi Politics, a political risk assessment newsletter. \n Iraqi and coalition forces are coming under increasing political and military pressure to wrap up the fight for Mosul quickly. Lt. Gen. Townsend has repeatedly said he wants the operations for both Mosul and Raqqa to \"conclude\" within the next six months. \n The Iraqi and American leadership is concerned the humanitarian situation in western Mosul could quickly deteriorate, Rabkin said, and that infighting could break out within the \"fragile\" coalition of anti-IS forces, including Shiite militias, conventional Iraqi military forces and Kurdish fighters. \n \"You want to finish this while there is still good will,\" Rabkin said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. changes rules of engagement for Mosul fight in Iraq"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / FEB. 21 \n Philippine Senator Leila de Lima, a leading critic of President Rodrigo Duterte's deadly anti-drug crackdown, was arrested today. \n MANILA >> A Philippine opposition senator and leading critic of President Rodrigo Duterte's deadly anti-drug crackdown was arrested today on drug charges but professed her innocence and vowed she would not be intimidated by a leader she called a \"serial killer.\" \n Sen. Leila de Lima's arrest came a day after the Regional Trial Court in Muntinlupa city in the Manila metropolis issued the warrant for her arrest along with other officials who have been charged by state prosecutors for allegedly receiving bribes from detained drug lords. \n De Lima has denied the charges, which she said were part of an attempt by Duterte to muzzle critics of his crackdown, which has left more than 7,000 drug suspects dead. She questioned why the court suddenly issued the arrest order when it was scheduled today to hear her petition to void the three non-bailable charges. \n \"If they think they can silence me, if they think I will no longer fight for my advocacies, specially on the truth on the daily killings and other intimidations of this Duterte regime, it's my honor to be jailed for what I've been fighting for,\" she said before policemen took her into custody at the Senate. \n A police convoy, trailed by media vans, took de Lima to the main police camp, where officers will take her photograph and fingerprints before her detention. \n Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella called de Lima's arrest \"a major step forward in the administration's anti-drug war.\" \n When de Lima headed the government's Commission on Human Rights, she tried unsuccessfully to have Duterte prosecuted when he was mayor of Davao city for allegedly unlawful deaths that occurred during an anti-drug crackdown in the city. No witnesses came forward then to testify against the mayor, human rights officials said. \n Duterte expanded the crackdown nationwide after becoming president last June, and de Lima has continued to criticize him after winning a Senate seat last year. \n In one of her strongest statements against the president this week, de Lima called Duterte a \"sociopathic serial killer\" who has not been made to answer for more than 1,000 deaths during his crackdown in Davao city as its mayor and now for the thousands of drug suspects killed in his national fight against illegal drugs. \n She urged Duterte's Cabinet members to declare him unfit to serve as president. Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II warned that such remarks were seditious, but de Lima replied that Aguirre and Duterte are \"the rebels and inciters against a constitutional order that values life and due process above everything else.\" \n Prosecutors allege that de Lima, while she was justice secretary under former President Benigno Aquino III, received bribes from detained drug lords to finance her senatorial campaign, and they say some of the drug lords would testify against her. The bribes were allegedly solicited by her former driver and lover, who was also charged and arrested Thursday in northern Pangasinan province. \n Duterte has lashed out at de Lima with foul language, calling her a sex-crazed immoral woman whose election opened \"the portals of the national government \u2026 to narco politics.\" \n De Lima said the case against her might be the \"wakeup call\" the country needs, referring to the absence of a public outcry in the country over the killings in the anti-drug campaign. \n De Lima said people were starting to fight back, citing recent accounts by a former militiaman and a retired police officer who acknowledged their roles as assassins in the Davao deaths and Duterte's alleged involvement in the killings. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Leading critic of Philippine leader arrested on drug charges"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Caitlyn Jenner is taking President Donald Trump to task for his administration's reversal of a directive on transgender access to public school bathrooms. \n WASHINGTON >> Caitlyn Jenner is taking President Donald Trump to task for his administration's reversal of a directive on transgender access to public school bathrooms. \n Jenner addresses Trump in a video posted Thursday night on Twitter. She says, \"From one Republican to another, this is a disaster.\" \n The Trump White House has ended a directive issued during Barack Obama's presidency that told public schools to let transgender students use bathrooms and locker rooms of their chosen gender. \n Jenner is particularly critical of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, saying, \"Apparently even becoming attorney general isn't enough to cure some people of their insecurities.\" \n Addressing Trump, the former Olympic champion says: \"You made a promise to protect the LGBTQ community. Call me.\" \n Jenner came out as a transgender woman in 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Caitlyn Jenner calls Trump transgender decision 'a disaster'"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL \n Jacob Landon Powers \n A 34-year-old Honolulu man was indicted Thursday on a charge of luring a girl to a meeting to have sex with her. \n Jacob Landon Powers was charged with first-degree electronic enticement of a child. \n \"Luring a minor to have sex is a horrible crime,\" state Attorney General Douglas Chin said Thursday. \"Not only is the act itself criminal, it can damage the child for the rest of that child's life.\" \n Powers is a Hawaii Air National Guard airman. \n Air Force spokesman Lt. Col. Charles Anthony said privacy laws bar him from discussing Powers' case. But he said that in general, a member of the Air National Guard accused of a felony is suspended from drills, pending the outcome of the criminal case. \n The Hawaii Internet Crimes Against Children task force conducted the investigation. \n According to the charges, Powers used his mobile phone to communicate with someone he believed was a 14-year-old girl and arranged to meet her for sex. \n Powers then arrived at the time and place they had agreed upon and was arrested, the attorney general said. \n Conviction on the charge is punishable by 10 years in prison without the possibility of probation, according to the attorney general's office. \n Bail has been set at $11,000. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii Air National Guard airman indicted in child-enticement sting"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer spoke during a daily press briefing at the White House today. \n WASHINGTON >> The Justice Department will step up enforcement of federal law against recreational marijuana, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said today, offering the Trump administration's strongest indication to date of a looming crackdown on the drug, even as a solid majority of Americans believe it should be legal. \n \"I do believe you'll see greater enforcement of it,\" Spicer said in response to a question during a news conference. But he offered no details about what such enforcement would entail. President Donald Trump does not oppose medical marijuana, he added, but \"that's very different than recreational use, which is something the Department of Justice will be further looking into.\" \n A renewed focus on recreational marijuana in states that have legalized pot would present a departure from the Trump administration's statements in favor of states' rights. A day earlier, the administration announced that the issue of transgender student bathroom access was best left to states and local communities to decide. \n Enforcement would also shift away from marijuana policy under the Obama administration, which said in a 2013 memo that it would not intervene in state's marijuana laws as long as they keep the drug from crossing state lines and away from children and drug cartels. \n But the memo carried no force of law and could be rewritten by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who has consistently said he opposes legal marijuana but has not indicated what he might do. \n Eight states and Washington, D.C., have legalized marijuana for recreational use. The Justice Department has several options available should it decide to enforce the law, including filing lawsuits on the grounds that state laws regulating pot are unconstitutional because they are pre-empted by federal law. Enforcement could also be as simple as directing U.S. attorneys to send letters to recreational marijuana businesses letting them know they are breaking the law. \n Washington's attorney general, Bob Ferguson, said he and Gov. Jay Inslee, both Democrats, requested a meeting with Sessions about his approach to legal, regulated marijuana. Ferguson led the states in fighting off Trump's executive order on immigration in court and said Thursday he's prepared to lead the way in defending legal marijuana, too. \n \"We will resist any efforts to thwart the will of the voters in Washington,\" Ferguson said. \n Kevin Sabet, head of the anti-marijuana group Smart Approaches to Marijuana, said pot enforcement is a matter of public safety. \n \"The current situation is unsustainable,\" Sabet said in a statement. \"This isn't an issue about states' rights, it's an issue of public health and safety for communities.\" \n Spicer's comments came the same day as a Quinnipiac poll said 59 percent of Americans think marijuana should be legal and 71 percent would oppose a federal crackdown. \n Pot advocates said they hoped Spicer's prediction would not come to pass. \n \"It is hard to imagine why anyone would want marijuana to be produced and sold by cartels and criminals rather than tightly regulated, taxpaying businesses,\" said Mason Tvert, communications director for the Marijuana Policy Project. \n States have been flouting the U.S. Controlled Substances Act since at least 1996, when California voters approved marijuana for sick people, a direct conflict with federal guidelines barring the use of marijuana for medical purposes. \n And presidents since Bill Clinton have said the federal government unequivocally rejects a state's ability to modify federal drug law. \n However, three presidents over the last 20 years have each concluded that the limited resources of the U.S. Department of Justice are best spent pursuing large drug cartels, not individual users of marijuana. \n Nevada state Senate Majority Leader Aaron Ford said in a statement today that meddling in recreational pot laws would be federal overreach and harm state coffers that fund education. \n In Washington state, sales at licensed pot shops now average nearly $4.4 million per day \u2014 with little evidence of any negative societal effects. That's close to $1 billion in sales so far for the fiscal year that began last July, some $184 million of which is state tax revenue. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House expects Justice crackdown on legalized marijuana"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN VIA AP/ JAN. 11 \n Brad Kent, chief sales and services officer for Visit Dallas, held a sign at a news conference at the state capitol in Austin, Texas, to oppose a Texas \"bathroom bill.\" \n Bills to curtail transgender people's access to public restrooms are pending in about a dozen states, but even in conservative bastions such as Texas and Arkansas they may be doomed by high-powered opposition. \n The bills have taken on a new significance this week following the decision by President Donald Trump's administration to revoke an Obama-era federal directive instructing public schools to let transgender students use bathrooms and locker rooms of their chosen gender. Many conservative leaders hailed the assertions by top Trump appointees that the issue was best handled at the state and local level. \n Yet at the state level, bills that would limit transgender bathroom access are floundering even though nearly all have surfaced in Republican-controlled legislatures that share common ground politically with Trump. In none of the states with pending bills does passage seem assured; there's been vigorous opposition from business groups and a notable lack of support from several GOP governors. \n The chief reason, according to transgender-rights leaders, is the backlash that hit North Carolina after its legislature approved a bill in March 2016 requiring transgender people to use public restrooms that correspond to the sex on their birth certificates. Several major sports organizations shifted events away from North Carolina, and businesses such as PayPal decided not to expand in the state. In November, Republican Pat McCrory, who signed and defended the bill, became the only incumbent governor to lose in the general election. \n \"We don't need that in Arkansas,\" said that state's GOP governor, Asa Hutchinson, earlier this month. \"If there's a North Carolina-type bill, then I want the Legislature not to pass it.\" \n North Carolina's experience also has been evoked in Texas, where a \"bathroom bill\" known as Senate Bill 6 is being championed by GOP Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who founded the Legislature's tea party caucus and oversees the state Senate. Business groups and LGBT-rights supporters have warned that passage of the North Carolina-style bill could cost Texas many millions of dollars, as well as the opportunity to host future pro sports championships. \n Mark Jones, a political science professor at Rice University in Houston, assessed the bill's chances of enactment as \"effectively zero.\" The measure might not even clear the Senate, he said, and would be \"dead on arrival\" if it reached the House of Representatives. \n \"The centrist conservative Republicans in the House, led by Speaker Joe Straus, view SB 6 as an unwanted distraction,\" Jones said. \n In Virginia, South Dakota and Wyoming, bills targeting transgender people already have died this year for lack of high-level support. The South Dakota bill, opposed by GOP Gov. Dennis Daugaard, would have required public school students to use the locker rooms and shower rooms matching their gender at birth. \n In several other states, such as Kansas and Kentucky, bathroom bills remain alive but are gaining little traction. Kentucky's GOP Gov. Matt Bevin, though a staunch social conservative, has dismissed the proposal as unnecessary government intrusion. \n \"Is there anyone you know in Kentucky who has trouble going to the bathroom?\" he asked. \n In Tennessee, two lawmakers promoting a bathroom bill abruptly ended a news conference last week when it was interrupted by protesters, one wearing a T-shirt reading, \"You can pee next to me.\" \n Major Tennessee businesses have joined forces to oppose the bill. And on Thursday, Lt. Gov. Randy McNally said the bill was no longer needed because of the Trump administration's decision to revoke the directive on transgender students' rights. \n There's a bathroom bill pending in Missouri, where an identical proposal didn't even receive a hearing last year. Wisconsin's GOP-controlled Legislature also rejected a bathroom bill last session; its sponsor promises to bring it back this year even though GOP leaders have not made it a priority. \n Other states with pending bathroom bills, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, include Alabama, Illinois, Minnesota, New York, South Carolina and Washington. \n When these types of bills advance to public hearings, the sessions can be emotional. Samantha DeMichieli, a 13-year-old transgender girl in Missouri, started crying when she told lawmakers this week about being bullied; she said the prospect of using a different bathroom was \"horrifying.\" \n Attorney Gary McCaleb of Alliance Defending Freedom, which supports the push for bathroom bills, said politicians need to hear the testimony of students with the contrasting views, such as girls who feel \"embarrassment and humiliation\" for sharing bathrooms with transgender schoolmates. \n As for the Republican leaders who don't embrace the bills, McCaleb suggested they were succumbing to pressure from the business community. \n Looking ahead, McCaleb said it was difficult to predict if any of this year's bathroom bills would pass. \n \"It's tough to know,\" he said. \"There's a lot of moving pieces.\" \n National LGBT-rights groups are closely monitoring the fluctuations, recalling how North Carolina politicians took activists by surprise last year when they passed the divisive bathroom bill in a fast-paced special session. \n \"That experience makes us very wary about when and how legislation will move,\" said Sarah Warbelow, legal director of the Human Rights Campaign. \"On the other hand, the American public has been incredibly vocal against these bills\u2026 so we're hopeful that legislators have learned a lesson from North Carolina.\" \n Even if all the new bathroom bills fail, Warbelow said activists will continue to push for explicit and effective federal protections for transgender students \u2014 protections have been undercut by this week's revocation of the Obama-era guidance. \n \"Students deserve clear concrete protections at the federal level that they can rely on no matter where they go in this country,\" Warbelow said. \"The idea of turning civil rights over to the states is outrageous \u2014 you'll have decisions made school district by school district.\" \n For activists on both sides of the issue, the debate has symbolic and political importance that transcends the presence of transgender students in U.S. schools. According to the Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law, about 150,000 young people in the U.S. \u2014 0.7 percent of those between the ages of 13 and 17 \u2014 identify as transgender. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bills targeting transgender bathroom access are floundering"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "HENRY COUNTY (MO.) SHERIFF'S OFFICE VIA AP \n Adam Purinton \n OLATHE, Kan. >> Witnesses said a man accused of opening fire in a crowded bar yelled at two Indian men to \"get out of my country\" before pulling the trigger in an attack that killed one of the men and wounded the other, as well as a third man who tried to help. \n Hours later, the suspect reportedly told a bartender in another town that he needed a place to hide because he had just killed two Middle Eastern men. \n In India, the father of one of the wounded men called the attack a hate crime, but authorities today declined to discuss a motive as they investigated the shooting, which stoked fears about the treatment of immigrants in the U.S. \n Adam Purinton, 51, was charged with murder and attempted murder in the Wednesday night shooting in the Kansas City suburb of Olathe. \n A bartender at Austins Bar and Grill said Purinton used racial slurs before firing. He was taken into custody about five hours later after speaking with a bartender at an Applebee's some 70 miles away in Clinton, Missouri. \n The Kansas City Star reported Purinton's comments to the bartender. The paper did not cite its sources. \n The men who were shot were identified as Srinivas Kuchibhotla, 32, who died at a hospital, and 32-year-old Alok Madasani and 24-year-old Ian Grillot, who were hospitalized, police said. \n Madasani was released from the hospital Thursday. \n The LinkedIn accounts for Kuchibhotla and Madasani describe them as engineers for GPS device-maker Garmin, which has a large customer-service center just a mile from the scene of the shooting. The company is one of the region's best-known employers. \n The Indian government said its diplomats would monitor the investigation in Kansas. \n FBI spokesman Bridget Patton said the agency had no new information to release today. She said the FBI's role is to work jointly with Olathe police to determine if a civil rights violation occurred. \n Bartender Garret Bohnen told the Kansas City Star that Kuchibhotla and Madasani stopped at Austins for a drink once or twice a week. At the time of the attack, patrons were watching a college basketball game on television. \n \"From what I understand, when he was throwing racial slurs at the two gentlemen, Ian (Grillot) stood up for them,\" Bohnen said. \"We're all proud of him.\" \n Witnesses also told the Star about Purinton's yelling about leaving the country. \n When the gunfire began, Grillot hid under a table until nine shots had been fired. Believing the suspect's magazine was empty, he then chased the gunman in hopes of subduing him. \n \"I guess I miscounted with everything going on. And I got behind him, and he turned around and fired a round at me,\" Grillot said Thursday from his hospital bed in a video from the University of Kansas Health System. \n Grillot said the bullet went through his right hand and into his chest, just missing a major artery but fracturing a vertebra in his neck. \n \"Another half inch, I could be dead or never walk again,\" said Grillot, who was wearing a neck brace. His injured hand remains immobilized. \n He did not describe what led to the shooting, saying only that he felt compelled to intervene in the interest of humanity, \"not about where he (the victim) was from or his ethnicity.\" \n \"I was just doing what anyone should have done for another human being,\" he said. Madasani visited him in the hospital, and they have become friends because of their shared ordeal. \n \"We're definitely going to be spending a little time together,\" Grillot said. \"I don't think it's going to be at the bar, though. Maybe some grilling in the backyard with a beer or two.\" \n Beverly Morris, who has lived next door to Purinton in Olathe for about 20 years, said he never made her feel unsafe. \n \"He seemed like a good guy,\" Morris said, but \"anybody who knew him knew he had a drinking problem.\" \n Olathe Police Sgt. Logan Bonney said officers were interviewing and re-interviewing witnesses today to shore up the case. \n \"We want to present the best case possible and separate fact from fiction for the benefit of the victims and the community,\" he said. \n In India, the attack shock waves through the hometowns of the two Indian men. \n The Indian government said Kuchibhotla was from the southern state of Telangana, and his body was to be transported to the capital city of Hyderabad, where his family lives. \n Mourners poured into Hyderabad. His parents were unable to talk after receiving word of his death. They have another son working in the United States. \n Associated Press Writer Heather Hollingsworth contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Witnesses say Kansas gunman shouted 'get out of my country'"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Malaysian police stood outside the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> The banned chemical weapon VX nerve agent was used to kill Kim Jong Nam, the North Korean ruler's outcast half brother who was poisoned last week at the airport in Kuala Lumpur, police said today. The announcement raised serious questions about public safety in a building that authorities went 11 days without decontaminating. \n The substance, deadly even in minute amounts, was detected on Kim's eyes and face, Malaysia's inspector general of police said in a written statement, citing a preliminary analysis from the country's Chemistry Department. \n \"Our preliminary finding of the chemical that caused the death of Kim Chol was VX nerve,\" said Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar. Kim Chol is the name on the passport found on the victim, but a Malaysian official previously confirmed he is North Korea leader Kim Jong Un's older half brother. \n Khalid told reporters that one of the two women accused of wiping the toxin on Kim's face was later sickened and suffered from vomiting. He declined to say which of the women \u2014 one Indonesian and one Vietnamese \u2014 had gotten sick. \n Khalid said police were still investigating how the lethal agent entered Malaysia. \n Police previously said the airport had not been decontaminated. Asked Friday in a text message whether that was still the case, Khalid said, \"We are doing it now.\" Details were not immediately clear. \n Malaysian police also previously no one besides Kim Jong Nam had been sickened. \n If VX was used, it could have contaminated not only the airport but anyplace else Kim had been, including medical facilities and the ambulance he was transported in. The nerve agent, which has the consistency of motor oil, can take days or even weeks to evaporate. \n The death of Kim Jong Nam, whose daylight assassination in a crowded airport terminal seems straight out of a spy novel, has unleashed a diplomatic crisis that escalates by the day. With each new twist in the case, international speculation has grown that Pyongyang dispatched a hit squad to Malaysia to kill the exiled older sibling of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. \n North Korea has denounced Malaysia's investigation as full of \"holes and contradictions\" and accused the authorities here of being in cahoots with Pyongyang's enemies. \n According to Malaysian investigators, the two female suspects coated their hands with chemicals and wiped them on Kim's face on Feb. 13 as he waited for a flight home to Macau, where he lived with his family. \n He sought help from airport staff but he fell into convulsions and died on the way to the hospital within two hours of the attack, police said. \n The case has perplexed toxicologists, who question how the two women could have walked away unscathed after handling a powerful poison, even if \u2014 as Malaysian police say \u2014 the women were instructed to wash their hands right after the attack. \n Dr. Bruce Goldberger, a leading toxicologist who heads the forensic medicine division at the University of Florida, said even a tiny amount of VX nerve agent \u2014 equal to a few grains of salt \u2014 is capable of killing. It can be administered through the skin, and there is an antidote that can be administered by injection. U.S. medics and military personnel carried kits with them on the battlefield during the Iraq war in case they were exposed to the chemical weapon. \n \"It's a very toxic nerve agent. Very, very toxic,\" he said. \"I'm intrigued that these two alleged assassins suffered no ill effect from exposure to VX. It is possible that both of these women were given the antidote.\" \n He said symptoms from VX would generally occur within seconds or minutes and could last for hours starting with confusion, possible drowsiness, headache, nausea, vomiting, runny nose and watery eyes. Prior to death, there would likely be convulsions, seizures, loss of consciousness and paralysis. \n VX is banned under the Chemical Weapons Convention, which North Korea never signed. The country is believed by outside experts to have the capacity to produce up to 4,500 metric tons of chemical weapons during a typical year, which it could increase to 12,000 tons per year during a period of crisis. Its current inventory has been estimated at 2,500 to 5,000 tons. \n It is suspected of being particularly focused on mustard, phosgene, sarin and V-type chemical agents \u2014 substances including VX that are designed to poison through contact and remain lethal for long periods of time. The North's development of such agents has been of special concern because of fears it might try to put them in artillery shells for an attack on South Korea's capital, potentially threatening the lives of millions. \n Joseph Bermudez, a well-known North Korea analyst, wrote an article for the respected 38 North website in 2013 that said the North is capable of not only employing \"significant quantities and varieties of chemical weapons\" across the Korean Peninsula but also using those weapons worldwide \"using unconventional methods of delivery.\" \n He also said there is a \"growing body of evidence\" indicating the North has shared chemical weapons capabilities with Syria, Iran and others. \n Malaysia has three people in custody in connection with Kim Jong Nam's death, including the two suspected attackers. Authorities are also seeking several other people, including the second secretary of North Korea's embassy in Kuala Lumpur and an employee of North Korea's state-owned airline, Air Koryo. \n The case has marked a serious turnaround in relations between Malaysia and North Korea. While Malaysia isn't one of Pyongyang's key diplomatic partners, it is one of the few places in the world where North Koreans can travel without a visa. As a result, for years, it's been a quiet destination for Northerners looking for jobs, schools and business deals. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Malaysia says nerve agent used in killing of North Korean"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "The Honolulu Fire Department is investigating three suspicious fires that occurred in the same area of Waiawa within an hour Thursday morning. \n Between 7:20 a.m. and 7:35 a.m., firefighters responded to two separate small fires, the first along Farrington Highway near Home Depot and the second inside a rubbish can at a bus stop near the Benjamin \"Ben\" Saguibo Laborer's Apprenticeship & Training Center. \n Firefighters quickly extinguished both fires. \n At 7:54 a.m., 11 units and 35 firefighters responded to the third blaze \u2014 a two-alarm fire at a vacant property at 96-130 Farrington Highway. \n The fire occurred at a 1,000 square-foot, open-air warehouse with a corrugated metal roof. About half of the warehouse was engulfed in flames. Within the warehouse was a small hollow-tile structure that also caught fire, according to Honolulu Fire Battalion Chief Paul Fukuda. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 8:08 a.m. and extinguished it at 8:25 a.m. \n No injuries were reported. \n Fukuda described all three fires as \"suspicious.\" \n Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said investigators are looking into whether there's a link between the three fires. \n The cause of the third fire is under investigation and a damage estimate has yet to be determined. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Three suspicious fires in Waiawa under investigation"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "State officials are warning drivers of lane closures due to road work in Mililani and Kapolei. \n Three northbound lanes of the H-2 freeway will close from 9 p.m. today to 4 a.m. tomorrow between the Pineapple Road Overpass and Kipapa Bridge in Mililani for pavement replacement work. The state Department of Transportation will reopen the lanes after that but will again close them continuously from 9 p.m. Friday through 5 p.m. Sunday. \n The DOT said two northbound lanes will remain open at all times by opening up the shoulder lane. Drivers can use Kamehameha Highway as an alternative to avoid the area. \n In Kapolei, the DOT will close the H-1 freeway eastbound between the Palailai Interchange and the Farrington Highway Overpass nightly from 9 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. starting Sunday through March 3. \n The Kalaeloa Boulevard on-ramp to the H-1 freeway eastbound will also close. Motorists will be detoured to Kalaeloa Boulevard from the Campbell Industrial Park off-Ramp (Exit 1A) and can continue eastbound on Kapolei Parkway, Kamokila Boulevard or the Wakea Street on-ramp. \n Crews will be working on the Kapolei Interchange Complex phase 2 project. Special-duty officers will be stationed along the route. \n Additionally, city crews will be restriping the centerline of Manoa Road from the intersection of East Manoa Road to Oahu Avenue from 8 a.m to 3 p.m. Saturday. The city is advising drivers to avoid the area or use alternate routes. Local traffic will be able to access the area but TheBus Route 5 may be impacted, the city said. \n All road work is weather permitting. \n For more information on DOT roadwork, visit hidot.hawaii.gov/highways/roadwork. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Freeway lane closures planned for Mililani, Kapolei"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police reopened Sierra Drive between Waialae Avenue and Center Street at 2:51 p.m. today. \n The road had been closed at around 2 p.m. because of a synthetic natural gas leak, police said. \n No other details were available regarding the leak as police were still investigating this afternoon. \n Police issued an advisory on the situation shortly after 2 p.m., urging motorists to use other alternative routes. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Sierra Drive reopened after propane leak forced closure"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "A 29-year-old man has been charged for allegedly robbing another man in the Ala Moana area. \n Ressurection C. Filifili, of no local address, has been charged with second-degree robbery and two warrants of violating his probation. He is being held in lieu of $30,000 bail. \n At about 5 p.m. Tuesday, police said Filifili confronted a 35-year-old man and demanded property. When the victim refused, the two men struggled, and Filifili allegedly assaulted the victim before he fled, police said. \n Officers responded and located Filifili about a hour-and-a-half later near Ala Moana Center. \n He has a criminal record of 19 convictions that include felony drugs, abuse of a family or household member, criminal property damage, terroristic threatening and harassment. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged in robbery of another man in Ala Moana"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "Police have arrested three male teenagers at Kalaheo High School after they allegedly made threats on social media. \n The threats were posted from about 7:30 to 7:50 a.m. Wednesday, police said. They did not disclose the nature of the threats. Police said two suspects are 14 and the third is 15. \n Donalyn Dela Cruz, spokeswoman for the state Department of Education, said a parent saw a threat directed at the school on a social media app. The parent notified school administrators, who called police. \n Officers responded and the students were identified. Police arrested the boys at about 10 a.m. on suspicion of first-degree terroristic threatening. They were released pending investigation. \n Dela Cruz said administrators sent a letter to parents to inform them of the threat and that police are investigating. \n Police were on campus again today as a precaution. \n Dela Cruz said \"appropriate action will be taken\" whenever the safety and security of students and staff is threatened. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Teens arrested at Kalaheo High in social media threat case"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A property that was vandalized in last night's protests in Anaheim, Calif., was seen today. An off-duty California officer who didn't want teens walking across his lawn fired his gun during a struggle with a 13-year-old boy and other youths, igniting unruly protests after video of the fight surfaced and two boys were arrested. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters took to Euclid Street, blocking traffic and marching north toward Ball Road, where they congregated in the intersection for several minutes in Anaheim, Calif. on Wednesday. A Los Angeles policeman is under investigation after a video appears to show him firing a single round during an off-duty tussle with a 13-year-old boy. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters marched towards the off-duty officer's home in Anaheim, Calif. on Wednesday. A Los Angeles policeman is under investigation after a video appears to show him firing a single round during an off-duty tussle with a 13-year-old boy. \n ANAHEIM, Calif. >> Anaheim officials pressed for calm after raucous protests followed an incident in which an off-duty policeman scuffled in his front yard with a boy, drew a weapon and fired a shot into the ground after another teen pushed him over a hedge and others surrounded him. \n Mayor Tom Tait said he was \"deeply disturbed\" and angered by what he saw on video of the incident, but he also denounced violence and damage caused by demonstrators. \n \"The video shows an adult wrestling with a 13-year-old kid, and ultimately firing a gun,\" Tait said today. \"This has been a blow to our community.\" \n The street demonstrations five years after unruly protests over two fatal police shootings served as a reminder that the home of Disneyland, dubbed \"The Happiest Place on Earth,\" has the problems of any city with 350,000 residents. \n No one was hurt in the scuffle on a residential street that started Tuesday after the Los Angeles officer took action in an ongoing dispute with students walking after school. The officer had reported the problem in the past to local police, said Anaheim Sgt. Daron Wyatt. \n Police Chief Raul Quezada defended his department's decision to arrest two teens, but not the officer, who detained the 13-year-old boy after believing the boy threatened him. The investigation continues and the chief wouldn't rule out charges against anyone involved. \n Videos shot from different angles and posted on YouTube show the officer clenching the boy's sweatshirt and pulling him across the lawn as they argued about what precipitated the incident. \n The 13-year-old believed the officer, who was not named, had cursed at a teenage girl who had walked across his lawn in the area of single-family homes, many with tidy flower beds and well-pruned trees, about 2 miles west of Disneyland. \n Michael Carrillo, an attorney representing the teenage girl, said she had \"grazed\" the officer's lawn when he began shouting expletives at her. Carrillo said the altercation turned physical after the boy stepped in and told the officer he shouldn't curse at a child. \n In the video, the officer said he had heard the boy say he was going to \"shoot\" him, but the teen insists he said he was going to \"sue\" him. \n At one point, the teen said, \"Let me go. \u2026 I'm only 13.\" \n Another youth rushed the officer, who stumbled back through a low hedge, still holding the 13-year-old. \n A teen then took a swing at the officer. Other kids approached, and the man \u2014 still gripping the 13-year-old with one hand \u2014 pulled a gun from his waistband, crouched and fired a shot. \n Teens shooting video began running down the street and cursing. \n The 13-year-old, who is the stepson of an Anaheim police officer, was booked on suspicion of making a criminal threat and battery. A 15-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of assault and battery. \n Both boys, who weren't named because they're juveniles, were later released, Quezada said. \n The union representing Los Angeles police officers said the officer had a right to self-defense after being physically assaulted. \n If he mistakenly thought the boy said \"shoot\" instead of \"sue,\" he had a reasonable basis to fear for his safety, said Jon Shane, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. \n \"You can always be mistaken about the facts, but you must be right about the law,\" Shane said. \"Shooting and suing are two different things and they clearly have two different outcomes. \u2026 Shooting would provide a reasonable basis for imminent fear of bodily harm. The other not so much.\" \n Carillo has filed a claim against the cities of Anaheim and Los Angeles, the precursor to a civil lawsuit, alleging the incident shows the Los Angeles Police Department was deficient in training officers. \n Attorney Carl Douglas, who is not involved in the case, called it an outrageous use of force and intimidation and questioned the officer's qualifications. \n \"Anyone present could have been killed because of this reckless use of force,\" Douglas said. \"Because someone was walking on his grass, this officer thought the circumstances justified his walking out of his house with his gun in his waistband to confront some teenager.\" \n The LAPD is also investigating the incident. \n Hundreds of people marched through suburban Anaheim streets late Wednesday, some blocking traffic and carrying signs that said \"no shooting zone.\" Police arrested two dozen people, including children, after the crowd ignored orders to disperse. \n The city 24 miles southeast of Los Angeles was roiled in 2012 by demonstrations following the fatal police shootings of two unarmed Latino men. The deaths sparked four days of violent protests resulting in smashed shop windows and dozens of arrests. \n Neighbor Joe Gulrich, 76, said his house was spray-painted during the protest on Wednesday and police told him he should leave for his own safety. When he returned late at night, he found a rock had been thrown through his front window. \n \"He did the right thing,\" Gulrich said. \"If he hadn't done that they would have ganged up on him.\" \n Mike Gutierrez, 35, said he was concerned by the officer's handling of the incident. \n \"What kind of officer goes against a child?\" asked Gutierrez, who lives a few blocks away. \n Associated Press writers Christopher Weber and Andrew Dalton contributed from Los Angeles. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Off-duty officer's fight with teens sets off protests in California"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated image shows an artist's rendering of NASA's Juno spacecraft making a close pass over Jupiter. NASA today said its the spacecraft is stuck making long laps around the gas giant because of sticky valves. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> NASA's Jupiter-circling spacecraft is stuck making long laps around the gas giant because of sticky valves. \n It currently takes Juno 53 days to fly around the solar system's biggest planet. That's almost four times longer than the intended 14-day orbit. \n After repeated delays, NASA decided late last week to scrap an engine firing that would have shortened the orbit. Officials said the maneuver is too risky because of the valve problem. \n Only the second spacecraft to orbit Jupiter, Juno has been circling the planet since July. \n NASA said the quality of science won't be affected and stressed that stunning pictures of Jupiter will keep coming this way. But it will take more time to gather the data, given Juno's longer loops. The mission will have to be extended at tens of millions of extra dollars if scientists are to collect everything under the original plan. It's already a billion-dollar mission. \n On the plus side, according to scientists, Juno now will spend less time in Jupiter's abrasive radiation belts. \n \"The decision to forego the burn is the right thing to do \u2014 preserving a valuable asset so that Juno can continue its exciting journey of discovery,\" NASA's Thomas Zurbuchen, the science mission associate administrator, said in a statement. He added that the pictures from Juno \"are nothing short of amazing.\" \n Juno is able to peer through Jupiter's clouds to see what's going on in the atmosphere. Scientists want to better understand how the planet \u2014 the fifth from our sun, with at least 67 moons\u2014 originated and evolved. \n Every orbit, Juno swoops within 2,600 miles of Jupiter's cloud tops. The most recently completed orbit was three weeks ago; the next close flyby will come at the end of March. \n Whenever Juno's mission does end, the spacecraft will end up diving into Jupiter's atmosphere and burning up, meteor-style. It was launched in 2011 from Cape Canaveral. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA's Jupiter-circling spacecraft stuck making long laps"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A tour bus that fatally struck a female pedestrian this morning was towed away as police investigated the scene on Mahukona Street between Kapiolani Boulevard and Ala Moana Center. \n GOOGLE MAPS \n The fatal accident happened at the intersection of Kona and Mahukona streets, pinpointed in red, near Ala Moana Center. \n A 65-year-old female pedestrian was struck and killed by a tour bus this morning at Mahukona and Kona streets on the mauka-Diamond Head end of Ala Moana Center. \n Honolulu Emergency Medical Services said the woman was hit around 8:20 a.m. and pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics. \n Honolulu police remained at the scene investigating for several hours, and the Travel Plaza Transportation tour bus was towed away from Mahukona Street by late morning. \n Further information was not immediately available because Ala Moana Center security was blocking media access to the site, saying the accident was on a private road. \n \"We are very saddened by the accident that occurred this morning on Mahukona Street,\" Francis Cofran, general manager of Ala Moana Center, said in a written statement this afternoon. \"We extend our sincerest condolences to the family of the victim. Ala Moana Center is cooperating with the Honolulu Police Department as they continue their investigation.\" \n Yujiro Kuwabara, president of Travel Plaza Transportation, issued a similar statement offering condolences and saying the company was cooperating with HPD. \n The company also said that the driver involved has been with TPT since April 2011 and has had a commercial driver license since 1984, with \"no prior incidents on his record.\" \n TPT officials said that the driver was on his way to pick up passengers at the Aqua Palms Waikiki at 9 a.m. There were no passengers on the bus at the time of the accident. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman, 65, fatally hit by tour bus near Ala Moana Center"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters extinguished a structure fire in Waiawa this morning on Farrington Highway. \n The call for the two-alarm fire came in at 7:54 a.m. The first HFD unit arrived at 96-130 Farrington Highway to find the single-story, 1,000-square-foot building fully engulfed in flames, according to Honolulu Fire Department Captain David Jenkins. \n Firefighters brought the blaze under control by 8:08 a.m., and it was fully extinguished by 8:25 a.m., Jenkins said. \n No one was injured in the fire. \n The cause of the fire remains under investigation. A damage estimate is pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters put out blaze in Waiawa"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Then-House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio spoke during a Feb. 2015 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. Boehner today predicted that a full repeal and replacement of \"Obamacare\" is \"not going to happen.\" \n WASHINGTON >> Former House Speaker John Boehner predicted today that a full repeal and replacement of \"Obamacare\" is \"not going to happen.\" \n The Ohio Republican, who was forced out by conservatives in 2015, said he started laughing when he heard President Donald Trump and Republicans promise swift action on undoing and replacing the health law. \n \"Republicans never ever agree on health care,\" Boehner said. \n Congressional Republicans are \"going to fix Obamacare \u2013 I shouldn't call it repeal-and-replace, because it's not going to happen,\" he said. \"Most of the framework of the Affordable Care Act. that's going to be there.\" \n Boehner spoke at a health care conference in Orlando. His remarks were reported by Politico. \n As speaker, Boehner promised numerous times to repeal and replace \"Obamacare\" in full, and even presided over a 2013 government shutdown aimed at taking money away from the law. \n Boehner spokesman Dave Schnittger confirmed the accuracy of the remarks reported by Politico but said they omitted some context. He said Boehner is confident Republicans \"will right the many wrongs of Obamacare, whether your preference is to call it a repair, a replacement, or something else.\" \n \"His point was that the process of doing it from start to finish will not be an instantaneous one, and I think that's already been borne out by recent developments,\" Schnittger said. \n However, Boehner's comments seemed to strengthen the resolve of the House Freedom Caucus, the group of conservatives who caused him endless trouble when he was speaker. The group responded to Boehner over Twitter, saying: \"We made a promise to the American people. The Freedom Caucus remains 100% committed to full repeal & replace.\" \n House Republicans aim to roll out legislation in coming weeks to replace major elements of the Affordable Care Act with a new system involving tax credits, health savings accounts and high-risk pools, but crucial details remain unknown. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former House speaker predicts 'Obamacare' won't be repealed"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, right, accompanied by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, spoke at the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Mexico City, Mexico today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, center, was welcomed by U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Roberta Jacobson, right, and Mauricio Ibarra Ponce de Leon, North America director with Mexico's foreign ministry, as he arrived at the airport in Mexico City on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was welcomed by U.S. ambassador Roberta Jacobson, left, as he arrived at Benito Juarez International Airport in Mexico City on Wednesday. \n MEXICO CITY >> U.S. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly pledged today that America won't enlist its military to enforce immigration laws and that there will be \"no mass deportations.\" \n Only hours earlier, President Donald Trump suggested the opposite. \"It's a military operation,\" Trump said today at the White House. \n Kelly's declarations came as senior Trump administration officials sought to temper Latin American concerns about a new U.S. immigration crackdown. \n Speaking in Mexico City after he and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson met with their Mexican counterparts, Kelly said all deportations will honor human rights and the U.S. legal system. That includes multiple appeals offered to those facing deportation. Kelly said the U.S. approach will involve \"close coordination\" with Mexico's government. \n \"There will be no use of military forces in immigration,\" Kelly said. \"There will be no \u2014 repeat, no \u2014 mass deportations.\" \n Trump said the U.S. is \"getting really bad dudes out of this country at a rate nobody has ever seen before.\" \n He said it's a military operation \"because what has been allowed to come into our country, when you see gang violence that you've read about like never before and all of the things, much of that is people who are here illegally. And they're rough and they're tough, but they're not tough like our people. So we're getting them out.\" \n Mexico and other Latin American nations have been on edge over Trump's plan to target millions of people in the U.S. illegally for potential deportation \u2014 including many Mexicans. \n Trump spoke during the presidential campaign about using a \"deportation force,\" and his Homeland Security Department at one point considered using the National Guard to help with deportations, although the White House has said that idea has been ruled out. \n Kelly, Tillerson and their Mexican counterparts spoke before the two Americans planned to meet with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, an outspoken opponent of Trump's immigration plans, which include making Mexico pay for a border wall along the border. \n Tillerson acknowledged the disputes that have damaged U.S.-Mexico relations in recent weeks. But he said the two countries were committed to working through their disagreements. \n \"In a relationship filled with vibrant colors, two strong sovereign countries from time to time will have differences,\" Tillerson said. \"We listened closely and carefully to each other as we respectfully and patiently raised our respective concerns.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kelly: No use of U.S. military to enforce immigration"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n A section of the northbound lanes of Kunia Road were closed this morning due to an accident investigation. \n Police have reopened a section of Kunia Road northbound after a critical accident. \n A tow truck driver was struck by another vehicle and suffered injuries to both legs, according to Emergency Medical Services. The accident occurred at 6:28 a.m. at the intersection of Lyman and Kunia roads. Paramedics transported the 25-year-old man to the hospital in critical condition. \n The northbound lanes of Kunia Road from Anounui Street to Lyman Gate were closed following the accident as police conducted their investigation. The lanes reopened around 9:47 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man critically injured in vehicle accident on Kunia Road"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement vehicles arrived at the closed Dakota Access pipeline protest camp near Cannon Ball, N.D., today, where dozens of people remain. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fire set by protesters burned in the background as opponents of the Dakota Access pipeline left their main protest camp, Wednesday, near Cannon Ball, N.D. Most of the pipeline opponents abandoned their protest camp Wednesday ahead of a government deadline to get off the federal land, and authorities moved to arrest some who defied the order in a final show of dissent. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Police in full riot gear began arresting Dakota Access pipeline opponents who remained in a protest camp in North Dakota today in defiance of orders to leave. \n Most protesters left peacefully Wednesday, when authorities closed the camp on Army Corps of Engineers land in advance of spring flooding, but some refused to go. \n Eighteen National Guardsmen and dozens of law officers entered the camp from two directions shortly before midday today, along with several law enforcement and military vehicles. A helicopter and airplane flew overhead. \n Officers checked structures and began arresting people, putting them in vans to take to jail. The number of arrests wasn't immediately known. \n The operation began shortly after authorities said Corps officials had met with camp leaders. They didn't divulge the outcome of those talks. \n The camp \u2014 known as Oceti Sakowin \u2014 near the Standing Rock Indian Reservation has since August been the main site for demonstrators trying to thwart construction of the final section of the $3.8 billion pipeline. The Standing Rock Sioux and Cheyenne River Sioux, whose reservation is downstream, say Dakota Access threatens their drinking water and cultural sites. Dallas-based pipeline developer Energy Transfer Partners disputes that. \n When complete, the pipeline will carry oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. \n Police also had a SWAT vehicle on hand today in case of what Highway Patrol Lt. Tom Iverson described as a worst-case \"SWAT scenario\" \u2014 an armed person barricading themselves in a structure in the camp. \n American Indian elders have told police there are people willing to resort to drastic measures to stay in the camp, Iverson said. Similar sentiments have been expressed by protesters on social media, Iverson said. \n \"We're doing everything we can to avoid that kind of a situation,\" he said. \"We don't want it to reach a flash point, but at some point, enough is enough.\" \n At its peak, the camp was home to thousands of protesters. Gov. Doug Burgum estimated Wednesday night that as many as 50 people remained in the camp. Police early today said an additional 15 crossed a frozen river and entered the camp on foot. \n Before authorities moved in, Burgum had said those remaining at the camp still had a chance to leave without facing charges. The state sent a bus to the site at midday to transport anyone to Bismarck, where officials were doling out basic necessities, along with hotel and bus vouchers. \n Corps Col. John Henderson has said the taxpayer-funded cleanup of the site could take about a month and cost as much as $1.2 million. The Corps had warned that the protesters need to leave the site before the spring melt floods the land and spreads debris from the camp downriver. \n Early Wednesday, protesters burned some wooden structures on site in what they described as a leaving ceremony. Authorities said about 20 fires were set and a 7-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl were taken to hospitals to be treated for burns. \n Shortly before the 2 p.m. deadline to leave, about 150 people marched out of the soggy camp, singing and playing drums as they walked down a highway, carrying an American flag hung upside-down. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police begin making arrests in pipeline protest camp"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This 2014 image released by Fox News shows radio and television host Alan Colmes. \n NEW YORK >> Alan Colmes, the radio and television host and commentator best known as the amiable liberal foil to the hard-right Sean Hannity on the Fox News Channel, has died. \n Fox spokeswoman Dana Klinghoffer confirmed his death today. Fox also aired a tribute to Colmes, narrated by Hannity, and a statement from his family saying that he died this morning after \"a brief illness.\" Colmes was 66 and is survived by his wife, Jocelyn Elise Crowley, the sister of longtime Fox contributor Monica Crowley. In a statement issued through Fox, Hannity called Colmes \"one of life's most decent, kind and wonderful people.\" \n Colmes was a New York City native and Hofstra University graduate who worked for years in radio, notably on WABC and WNBC, and standup comedy before joining Fox in 1996. That same year he and the conservative Hannity began a 12-year run as co-hosts of the popular \"Hannity & Colmes\" program, which brought Colmes both fame and ridicule. Admittedly a minority voice on the conservative channel, Colmes was often mocked as too nice and easily overshadowed by the ever-aggressive Hannity. The liberal media watchdog Fairness and Accuracy in Media likened him to the hapless Washington Generals, the dependable losers to basketball's Harlem Globetrotters. Al Franken, in his best-selling \"Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them,\" imagined Colmes earning his salary by \"adding toner to the copiers and printers, loofah-ing Roger Ailes in his personal steam room, and ordering Chinese food for editors working on misleading video packages.\" \n Colmes was aware of the criticism, but said that getting mean was not his style. \n \"People say to me, 'Why don't you fight fire with fire?'\" he told The Associated Press in 2003. \"You fight fire with water, not fire.\" \n Colmes continued to appear as a commentator on Fox after his show with Hannity ended. He also was an author, his books including \"Thank the Liberals\" and \"Red, White & Liberal.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alan Colmes, liberal voice on Fox, dies at 66"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "LIHUE >> A planned dairy farm in Hawaii has taken a step back by withdrawing parts of its application to allow more time for discussion of its likely environmental impact. \n Opponents of the dairy see a chance to stop its construction and hope to meet with owner HDF Pierre Omidyar and his staff. \n Bridget Hammerquist, president of the citizen group Friends of Mahaulepu, said her group wants to share its research data with HDF leaders before they proceed with \"a project that significantly threatens our water, fresh and ocean, our health, our economy and our daily life style.\" \n HDF may have to restart the two-year process in order to get a new Final Environmental Impact Statement approved by the state Department of Health. But the process is still being worked out since it is the first time the health department has handled an environmental impact statement. \n Department spokeswoman Janice Okubo says officials need some time to determine the legal language before continuing to the next steps. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Planned Kauai dairy farm delays approval process"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A sniper with the Iraqi federal police aimed at an Islamic State position from the rooftop of a house in the town of Abu Saif on Wednesday. The battle for Mosul, backed by the U.S.-led coalition, has already driven the militants from the eastern half of the city, which is divided roughly in half by the Tigris River. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke rose from the western side of Mosul following a U.S.-led coalition airstrike, in Abu Saif, outside the western side of Mosul, Iraq on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Iraqi Federal police deployed after regaining control of the town of Abu Saif, west of Mosul, Iraq on Wednesday. Iraq's government-sanctioned paramilitary forces, made up mainly of Shiite militiamen, launched a new push to capture villages west of the city of Mosul from Islamic State militants. \n BAGHDAD >> Iraqi forces backed by the U.S.-led international coalition fought their way today into a sprawling military base outside of Mosul and onto the grounds of the city's airport, taking control of the runway amid fierce exchanges of fire with Islamic State group militants. \n The two-pronged advance is part of a major assault that started earlier this week to drive IS from the western half of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city \n Iraqi federal police units, backed by regular army forces, entered the airport this morning, according to two police officials who said heavy clashes were underway hours later with IS militants hunkered down inside several airport buildings. \n The officials said coalition troops were with the advancing forces, though they didn't specify the nationalities of the foreign forces. They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to reporters. \n Private broadcaster Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen aired live footage from the Mosul airport perimeter, showing a military helicopter buzzing overhead and firing at IS positions as gunfire rattled. \n By early afternoon, federal police commander Maj. Gen. Raid Shakir Jawdat told Iraqi state TV that his troops have control of \"more than half\" of the airport complex. Jawdat added that about 200 families were evacuated to safe areas in government-controlled areas. \n Separately, Iraqi special forces entered the Ghazlani military base next to the airport on the southern edge of the city, the spokesman of the Joint Military Operation Command, Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool, told the AP. \n Rasool said heavy clashes were underway inside the base. He did not provide more details. \n On Sunday, after weeks of preparations, Iraqi forces officially launched the operation to take Mosul's western half, with the Iraqi regular army and federal police forces taking part in the initial push. Since then, the military says they have retaken some 120 square kilometers \u2014 nearly 50 square miles \u2014 south of the city. \n Today marked the first time the Iraqi special forces, which played a key role in securing the eastern half of the city, joined the fight for western Mosul. \n \"The counterterrorism forces will be an additional force, which will expedite the liberation of Mosul's western side,\" Rasool said. \n Also today, another counterterrorism unit captured a key village southwest of Mosul from where Islamic State group snipers and shelling had been slowing the government offensive, Rasool said. IS had used Tell al-Rayan to position snipers and fire off rockets and mortar rounds to derail the advance of the Iraqi troops, he said. \n Another special forces officer said IS targeted the advancing troops with a suicide car bomb and dozens of bombs dropped from a drone. The officer, who also spoke on condition of anonymity as he was not authorized to brief the media, said his troops sustained at least a dozen casualties, but many were light injuries. \n Making up for a lack of fighters, IS militants are increasingly relying on modified commercial drones to guide suicide car bombers to their targets and to launch small-scale airstrikes on Iraqi forces. \n Among those who fled the fighting was Hamad Khalaf, who walked out of Maamoun neighborhood south of Mosul along with his wife and four children as convoys of Iraqi vehicles passed by. \n \"There are many injured still inside,\" said a dust-covered Khalaf of his neighborhood south of Mosul. \n \"We've been walking since the morning,\" his wife Badriya said as she held her 1 \u00bd-year-old daughter. A few meters behind them a mortar fired from inside Mosul hit a nearby hill. \n In January, Iraqi authorities declared the eastern half of Mosul \"fully liberated\" from IS. The battle for western Mosul, the extremist group's last major urban bastion in Iraq, is expected to be most daunting yet. \n The streets are older and narrower in the western section of the city, stretching west from the Tigris River that divides Mosul into the eastern and western half. The dense urban environment will likely force Iraqi soldiers to leave the relative safety of their armored vehicles. The presence of up to 750,000 civilians also poses a challenge. \n Mosul fell to IS in the summer of 2014, along with large swaths of northern and western Iraq. But the Sunni militant group has since consistently lost territory as the U.S.-led coalition proved to be critical for Iraqi government efforts to claw back territory lost to the extremists. \n IS has suffered losses in Syria as well: Turkish troops and Syrian opposition forces seized the center of the Islamic State-held town of al-Bab today, breaking a weeks-long deadlock between the two sides at the periphery of the town, Turkey's state news agency and opposition activists said. The northern Syrian town in Aleppo province is one of the militants' last urban strongholds in Syria west of Raqqa, the Islamic State group's de facto capital. \n Also part of the Mosul battle but on its fringes, are government-sanctioned paramilitary forces, made up mainly of Shiite militiamen. \n The militias this week launched their own new push to capture IS-held villages west of Mosul. The efforts by the militias, an umbrella group known as the Popular Mobilization Forces, are likely coordinated with government efforts. \n The capture of Mosul International Airport and the adjacent Ghazlani base would be a major boost for the Iraqi forces in the fight for western Mosul. The Shiite militias already hold a small airport outside Tal Afar, a city located west of Mosul toward the Syrian border. \n Associated Press writers Susannah George south of Mosul and Zeina Karam in Beirut contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.-backed Iraqi forces enter Mosul airport, military base"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 28, 2015, file photo, Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Carlos Ghosn delivers a speech during the Japanese automaker's presentation at the Tokyo Motor Show in Tokyo. Ghosn, who leads Nissan and Renault, has tapped Hiroto Saikawa, a veteran Japanese executive at Nissan, to replace him as chief executive at the Japanese automaker, although Ghosn will stay on as chairman. \n TOKYO >> Carlos Ghosn, who leads the Nissan-Renault-Mitsubishi alliance, is handing over the helm at Nissan to Hiroto Saikawa, a veteran Japanese executive at Nissan, but Ghosn is staying on as chairman. \n Saikawa will become chief executive at Nissan Motor Co., based in Yokohama, effective April 1, and up for shareholders' approval in June, the company said Thursday. \n The move does not signal a smaller role for Ghosn. Besides leading the Nissan-Renault alliance, Ghosn is also chairman at scandal-ridden Japanese automaker Mitsubishi Motors Corp., in which Nissan took a controlling stake last year. And Ghosn said he needs to focus on the expanded three-automaker alliance. \n Ghosn, sent in by Renault SA of France in 1999, led near-bankrupt Nissan to a turnaround. He has said for years he hoped to hand over the running of Nissan. \n \"I will continue to supervise and guide the company, both independently and within the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance. This planned change will also allow me to devote more time and energy to managing the strategic and operational evolution and expansion of the alliance,\" he said. \n Saikawa was groomed for the role, serving as co-CEO with Ghosn since late last year. A graduate of the prestigious University of Tokyo, he has overseen various operations at Nissan, which makes the March subcompact, Leaf electric car and Infiniti luxury models. \n \"I am confident that the management team I have developed at Nissan over the past 18 years has the talent and experience to meet the company's operational and strategic goals,\" Ghosn said. \n After joining Nissan in 1977, he has managed Nissan's U.S. and European businesses and its supply chain and customer satisfaction. More recently, he had complete control over its research, design and other overall operations. \n Rebecca Lindland, executive analyst for Kelley Blue Book, stressed Ghosn remains very much in command. \n \"After years of playing maestro to a multi-cultural, multi-branded behemoth, Mr. Ghosn is focusing solely on orchestrating the strategic and operation success of his latest alliance, the symphony of Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi,\" she said. \n \"He's leaving the day-to-day tasks of Nissan to Saikawa-san, and there's no indication Mr. Ghosn is contemplating hanging up his baton,\" she added, using the honorific \"san\" for Japanese names. \n It is still unclear what Ghosn specifically has in mind for Mitsubishi, under the alliance. But the brand, although tarnished over scandals that go back decades, is believed to have potential in Southeast Asia. \n Nissan stepped in after Mitsubishi was found inflating fuel economy figures for its minicar models, also sold under the Nissan brand. Buyers were compensated with cash rebates. \n In an earlier scandal, Mitsubishi's reputation was hammered by a massive cover-up of defects that surfaced in the early 2000s, and had been going on for decades. \n Bigger manufacturers are often better placed to ride out intense competition in the auto industry and Ghosn has said he grabbed at an opportunity to gain scale as Mitsubishi shares nose-dived after the mileage scandal surfaced. \n Combining global vehicles sales for the three brands, Ghosn's alliance is among the biggest groups in the industry, although it still trails Volkswagen AG, at No. 1, Japanese rival Toyota Motor Corp., and Detroit-based General Motors Co. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japanese Nissan executive tapped to replace Ghosn as CEO"}

{"date": "February 23, 2017", "text": "INDIANAPOLIS >> An Indiana lottery official says the sole winning ticket for an estimated $435 million Powerball jackpot was sold in an Indiana city. \n Hoosier Lottery spokesman Dennis Rosebrough says the name of the business in Lafayette where the winning ticket was sold will be announced today. Lafayette is about 60 miles northwest of Indianapolis. \n Rosebrough says the winner has 180 days to claim the prize and can claim anonymously in Indiana through a limited liability corporation or other means. Rosebrough says the single winning ticket means \"no one will have to share.\" \n The winning numbers in Wednesday's drawing were 10-13-28-52-61 and Powerball 2. \n Powerball is played in 44 states, plus Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. \n The top prize falls to $40 million for the next drawing Saturday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Winning ticket for $435 million Powerball sold in Indiana"}

