{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Metro general manager Paul Wiedefeld inspects maintenance work being done in a tunnel on Metro's orange line in northern Virginia. \n WASHINGTON >> Paul Wiedefeld stood on an overcrowded platform at Union Station, watching as trains came and went, too full to pick up more commuters. Metro was making him \u2014 the general manager of Washington's subway system \u2014 late for a meeting about customer service. \n Wiedefeld was just another rider that day, angered by Metro's inability to perform basic functions. He was even more frustrated about the apparent apathy of subway workers and police officers who watched the situation unfold. When he finally reached Metro's headquarters, he stormed into the meeting and demanded changes. \n \"What concerned me was, it was business as usual \u2014 the whole response,\" Wiedefeld told The Associated Press in an interview. \"It was just being handled as a normal day. I let them know that was not acceptable.\" \n Wiedefeld, 60, is determined to do what many observers say is impossible \u2014 improve safety and reliability while reversing a slide in ridership, all without the added funding advocates say Metro needs to survive. \n The nation's second-largest transit network opened 40 years ago as a point of pride for Washington and its suburbs, but after decades of deferred maintenance, it has deteriorated into an example of failing infrastructure in America's cities. \n Wiedefeld says he's confident he can fix things with his $1.8 billion operating budget. \n Congress made it clear in a hearing on Metro's safety woes this spring that the system won't get another dime until he does. \n \"He really has, more than anyone imaginable, the capability and the experience and the vision to make this work,\" said former Maryland Gov. Parris Glendening, a Democrat and longtime advocate for transit and smart growth. \n Providing more than 700,000 daily trips, Metro is governed by an unwieldy board of directors with competing interests in the federal government, the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, which contribute operating funds based on where riders live and how much they use it. \n All jurisdictions must agree on any changes to the governing structure or funding formulas, making an overhaul unlikely, although Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., said he wouldn't rule out seeking more federal money if Wiedefeld produces results. \n \"I believe very strongly that the challenges facing the whole Metro system are too great for any one person under the current structure,\" Glendening said. \n Persuading federal, state and local governments to cede control to an entity as powerful as, say, the New York-New Jersey Regional Transit Authority, isn't part of Wiedefeld's portfolio \u2014 that job goes to board Chairman Jack Evans, who also serves as a D.C. Council member. \n Wiedefeld's moves have been bold, if not glamorous: Shutting down the entire subway system for daylong emergency inspections and repairs, a nine-month maintenance blitz that paralyzes stations for weeks, firing operators who run red lights, and proposing a permanent end to late-night service on weekends. \n Unfortunately for the unassuming public servant, these decisions have raised his profile. Now he's recognized constantly around the capital. \n \"The goal here is to be as boring as possible,\" he said. \n He wants to run Metro like a public works department, not a construction company. Previous bosses were mainly focused on expansion, rather than operations, maintenance or safety, Wiedefeld said. \n That inattention to maintenance has had catastrophic consequences. Eight passengers and an operator were killed in 2009 when two 1970s-era rail cars collapsed into each other on impact. Those outdated cars still haven't been completely phased out. \n In January 2015, an electrical fire in a tunnel filled a train with smoke, killing one passenger and sickening dozens. Metro's general manager had already announced his retirement, and left four days after that disaster. \n Choosing a replacement took months. Some board members wanted a traditional transit executive; others, a corporate turnaround specialist. After their first choice withdrew, they turned to Wiedefeld, who twice ran Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport and had led the Maryland Transit Administration. \n \"He didn't come in from somewhere else around the country to sort of make his mark and move on. He's grounded in making this region successful,\" said Beverley Swaim-Staley, Maryland's former transportation secretary and a friend. \n The second choice turned out to be the better one, Evans said. \n \"He's a real nuts-and-bolts guy,\" Evans said. \"We don't need a turnaround financial specialist as much as we need someone, first of all, to do what Paul's doing: Oversee the reconstruction of the system.\" \n Wiedefeld's grasp of details was evident during a sweltering summer day's tour on the orange line, where he interacted easily with workers replacing worn-out rail fasteners and rotting ties. \n The visit bolstered his argument that temporarily closing tracks is essential: Otherwise, crews spend most of their time moving heavy equipment between midnight and 5 a.m., when trains aren't running. \n One worker cleaned debris from a concrete trough by hand. \"That's what we want to see,\" Wiedefeld said, pointing his flashlight over a grate. \"The water's flying down.\" \n Another looming challenge is negotiating a contract with Metro's 13,000 workers. Wiedefeld and the union haven't been outwardly antagonistic, but he's trying to draw the line against a union effort to reinstate a worker fired for falsifying records about a fan in the tunnel that filled with smoke in January 2015. \n Metro riders who frequently gripe on social media have been giving Wiedefeld the benefit of the doubt. Stephen Repetski, an engineer and regular rider who blogs about Metro, said he's has been a solid leader but that Metro needs to give riders more information about repairs and unexpected problems. \n \"The communication of the organization really hasn't improved,\" Repetski said. \n Wiedefeld is one of six children of a Baltimore firefighter and considered becoming one himself, but he wore glasses and recruits with poor vision usually weren't taken. He studied political science at Towson University and earned a master's in urban planning at Rutgers. \n Now, his wife and family stay in Towson while he spends weeknights in a northeast Washington apartment. \n The youngest of their three children \u2014 23, 20 and 16 \u2014 was on his mind when he ordered the daylong shutdown in March, after a fire similar to the fatal one last year. \n Wiedefeld applied his \"Alice rule\": If his daughter shouldn't ride the trains, nobody else would, either. \n \"It was the right thing to do,\" he said. \"My children ride the system, my wife rides the system. Why would I put your children at risk?\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Ben Nuckols on Twitter at https://twitter.com/APBenNuckols . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fate of crumbling DC subway rests with 'nuts-and-bolts guy'"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "SACRAMENTO BEE / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Multi-agency fire crews battle the Clayton Fire as structures catch on fire in Lower Creek on Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Damin Pashilk, seen here in a poster on display at a press briefing at Twin Pines Casino in Middletown, Calif., was arrested Monday on arson charges for allegedly sparking a wildfire that exploded over the weekend in the Northern California town of Lower Lake. \n LAKEPORT, Calif. \u00bb As residents of the tiny Northern California town of Lower Lake began returning to their destroyed or damaged homes, the man accused of setting the Clayton fire appeared Wednesday in a Lakeport courtroom to face charges that he started not only that destructive blaze, but many others in the same vicinity.  \n The Lake County courtroom was packed with area residents and reporters as arson charges were formally read in Lake Superior Court against Damin Anthony Pashilk, 40, a construction worker with a history of criminal charges in Lake and Napa counties stretching back at least two decades, most either for drug possession or driving on a suspended license. \n Pashilk entered the hushed courtroom shackled and hiding his face from the television cameras. He faces 19 charges, including aggravated arson, arson of forest land and arson with damages in excess of $7 million. He also faces a count of methamphetamine possession and a charge of driving on a suspended license. \n Pashilk did not enter a plea Wednesday. He is being held at the Lake County Jail with bail set at $5 million. His next court appearance is scheduled for Sept. 7. \n Lake County prosecutors allege Pashilk set a dozen fires, including the Clayton fire and July 2015's Long fire, set on forest land at Highway 20 east of New Long Valley Road, and attempted to set a 13th, all between July 2, 2015, and last weekend. Investigators have tallied the damage wrought in the Clayton fire at more than $7 million. \n \"We are very confident that this is our guy,\" said Scott MacLean, spokesman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, the agency investigating the blaze at a news conference following the afternoon arraignment. He called Pashilk a \"serial arsonist.\" \n \"When something like this happens, it devastates us all,\" he said. \n Pashilk learned his firefighting skills while serving time at the California Correctional Center in Susanville. \n At the afternoon news conference, MacLean acknowledged Pashilk received two months of fire training while in prison in 2007 on drug and firearms charges, but said the man \"never went out on the line, never fought any fires.\" The Cal Fire spokesman also brushed aside speculation that Pashilk's training motivated the alleged arson. \n \"It may have given him knowledge of fire behavior,\" MacLean said, \"but it's not a motive behind the fire.\" \n Fire crews continue to gain ground on the blaze, which roared to life Saturday and Sunday and tore through the tiny, economically depressed town of Lower Lake, destroying 175 structures and forcing thousands of residents from their homes. \n Some Lower Lake residents returned to their homes Wednesday to begin assessing the damage. \n They asked each other about looters and tried to protect boats and cars that somehow escaped a blaze that consumed houses. So far, a heavy presence of firefighters and PG&E repair crews had reassured residents their properties were safe. \n Jamie Gekas, 63, lost five houses and several barns on a 30-acre property that had been in his wife's family since 1962. He built the family's main house in 1985. It was a two-story Victorian-style home that had vanished from the landscape in the fire. \n \"We were more or less the library for the family,\" keeping photographs and toys that had been in the family for generations, he said. \n They're all gone. \n \"Everything we wanted to keep is gone,\" said his daughter, Tarin Benson, 36. \"My kids won't have anything for us to pass on to them.\" \n The family also lost one of its nine horses. Another miniature pony is at the University of California, Davis veterinary hospital receiving treatment for burns and damage to his lungs. \n Benson reached the horse Sunday while flames licked the family's property. She brought water to the animals and held the injured pony for most of the night. \n She's the principal at Lower Lake Elementary School. One of its classrooms was destroyed and five more were damaged. Her staff members had a meeting Wednesday to prepare for the first day of school this week. \n They've received donations of full backpacks stuffed with supplies from neighboring towns. It's not clear yet how many of her students have been displaced by the fire. \n The family met with an insurance representative Wednesday. They're bracing for a long period of rebuilding but acknowledged they're better off than some neighbors. \n \"At least we have a daughter to take care of us,\" said Gekas, who is staying at Benson's home. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Sacramento Bee (Sacramento, Calif.)  \n ", "author": "By Darrell Smith and Adam Ashton The Sacramento Bee", "title": "Man suspected of setting Clayton fire in Northern California appears in court"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ALEPPO MEDIA CENTER VIA AP \n In this frame grab taken from video provided by the Syrian anti-government activist group Aleppo Media Center, a child sits in an ambulance after being pulled out or a building hit by an airstirke, in Aleppo, Syria on Wednesday. \n BEIRUT \u00bb Syrian opposition activists have released haunting footage showing a young boy rescued from the rubble in the aftermath of a devastating airstrike in Aleppo. \n The image of the stunned and weary looking boy, sitting in an orange chair inside an ambulance covered in dust and with blood on his face, encapsulates the horrors inflicted on the conflicted northern city and is being widely shared on social media. \n Doctors in Aleppo on Thursday identified the boy as 5-year-old Omran. Osama Abu al-Ezz confirmed he was brought to the hospital known as \"M10\" Wednesday night following an airstrike on the rebel-held district of Qaterji with head wounds, but no brain injury, and was later discharged. \n Doctors in Aleppo use code names for hospitals, which they say have been systematically targeted by government airstrikes. Abu al-Ezz said they do that \"because we are afraid security forces will infiltrate their medical network and target ambulances as they transfer patients from one hospital to another.\" \n In the video posted late Wednesday by the Aleppo Media Center, a man is seen plucking the boy away from a chaotic nighttime scene and carrying him inside the ambulance, looking dazed and flat-eyed. \n The boy then runs his hand over his blood-covered face, looks at his hands and wipes them on the ambulance chair. \n Opposition activists said there were eight casualties overall from the air strike on Qaterji, among them five children. \n The image of Omran in the orange chair is reminiscent of the image of Aylan Kurdi, the drowned Syrian boy whose body was found on a beach in Turkey and came to encapsulate the horrific toll of Europe's migrant crisis. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Haunting image of Syrian boy rescued from Aleppo rubble"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "A 48-year-old man apparently drowned today in the same area of the ocean off the North Shore where a snorkeler was fatally injured Tuesday. \n The man was apparently swimming when he was found unresponsive about 4:40 p.m. in the area of Three Tables Beach near Waimea Point, an EMS report said. \n Good Samaritans started CPR until first responders arrived and took over. The man died at the scene. \n The Medical Examiner's Office today identified the 60-year-old Colorado visitor who was found unresponsive while snorkeling at Three Tables as Stuart McPherson. The victim was found unresponsive at 9 a.m. Tuesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man drowns at same North Shore beach where snorkeler was fatally injured Tuesday"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Australian singer Patricia Amphlett, better known as Little Pattie, third from left, poses for photos with fans after she was not allowed to perform by local authorities in Vung Tau, Vietnam. \n VANG TAU, Vietnam >> Under pressure from top Australian officials, Vietnam on Thursday lifted its sudden ban on veterans who had traveled to the country to mark the 50th anniversary of Australia's most costly battle of the Vietnam War, with the government allowing low-key commemorations. \n More than 1,000 Australian veterans and their families traveled to Vietnam to commemorate the anniversary of the Battle of Long Tan at a cross marking the site where 18 Australian soldiers and hundreds of North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops died in a rubber plantation on Aug. 18, 1966. \n The reversal over the ceremony, which drew some Australian veterans back to the Communist country for the first time since the war, comes after Vietnam told Australia late Tuesday that the event was canceled. \n That decision prompted urgent talks between foreign ministers of both countries, with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull speaking to his Vietnamese counterpart by phone. \n On Thursday, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that small groups of people would be allowed into the site, but visitors were banned from wearing medals or uniforms and from carrying banners or flags. \n Groups of up to 50 people were taking turns entering the site, and were allowed to stay for no longer than 15 minutes. The Australian Ambassador to Vietnam, Craig Chittick, and two other embassy officials were scheduled to lay a wreath at the cross. \n \"Our hope is now that our veterans and their families will be able to travel to the site and pay their respects to the fallen and to all those who served in a very dignified way,\" Veterans' Affairs Minister Dan Tehan told Australia's Nine Network. \n Australian Ernie Gimm, who served at Long Tan as an air controller in 1966 and 1967, planned to visit the cross on Thursday, saying he felt it was still worthwhile for him to pay his respects despite the strict conditions. \n \"We are not here to celebrate, but to remember those who died at war, from both sides,\" said Gimm, of Queensland state. \n On Wednesday, Tehan said Vietnam's abrupt cancellation of the ceremony was \"a kick in the guts.\" He told reporters the veto reflected \"deep sensitivities\" within Vietnam and was not a response to problems in the bilateral relationship. \n The Long Tan anniversary is Australia's official Vietnam Veterans Day and has been commemorated by Australians at the battle scene since 1989. \n In the fighting, a company of 105 Australian soldiers plus three New Zealanders supported by artillery survived a rain-drenched, three-hour battle by driving off wave after wave of attacks by more than 2,000 enemy troops. \n On Thursday, hundreds of veterans and their families gathered in the Australian capital to mark the anniversary at the Australian War Memorial. \n Australia deployed more than 60,000 military personnel to Vietnam between 1962 and 1973, of whom 521 were killed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Vietnam lifts ban on Australian commemoration of 1966 battle"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jenna Galgano successfully grabs a stuffed toy animal while playing a claw machine game at an arcade in Atlantic City, N.J. The game is an arcade and amusement park staple with a dedicated fan base. \n ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. >> It's an amusement park staple with a dedicated fan base. But how often does anyone really win at the claw machine? \n One New Jersey lawmaker has the same question and wants the state to consider more oversight over the game. \n Critics maintain the game is easy to rig. They say operators can set the payout odds and control the strength of the joystick-controlled claw to determine whether a prize can be retrieved. \n They also claim that players rarely capture any of the \"big prizes\" that the games offer. \n But industry officials dispute those allegations. They say it's in arcades' best interests to have customers win prizes, because if they're not getting anything over time they likely won't want to play the games. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Retracting the claw game: Lawmaker targets arcade favorite"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n On Friday evening, breakouts from the east side of lava flow \"61g\" provided good viewing for visitors who walked in from the Kalapana viewing area. \n USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n This close-up view of lava entering the eastern Kamokuna ocean entry was taken using a zoom lens from a safe distance. \n USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The beauty of Kilauea Volcano's eastern Kamokuna ocean entry can be enjoyed from a safe distance upwind of where lava flows into the sea. The eastern entry site has created a lava delta that is now about 5 acres in size; as this delta grows larger, so does the risk of a sudden collapse. \n USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n Should the lava delta at Kilauea's Kamokuna ocean entry collapse, fragments of molten lava and blocks of hot rock would be thrown both inland and seaward, potentially impacting people on the cliff above the ocean entry and in the boat in front of the delta. \n Geologists and national park officials are warning people not to get too close to the lava entering the ocean because of the danger of a lava delta or bench collapse and explosion. \n Lava has been entering the sea since July 26, creating about five acres of new land called a lava delta or a lava bench. \n The lava delta is unstable, supported by loose rubble, and could collapse without warning, sending fragments of molten lava and hot rocks to the cliffs above the ocean entry, officials said during a media briefing Tuesday. \n In addition, the white plume formed by the interaction of lava and seawater contains hydrochloric acid and tiny particles of volcanic glass, which can irritate the lungs. \n Officials urge people hiking to the ocean entry to stay upwind of the plume and far enough away from the cliff to view the scene safely. \n There are two ways to hike to the flow \u2014 from the end of Chain of Craters Road in the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and from the county viewing area in Kalapana. Both hikes are long \u2014 about 10 to 12 miles round trip and are not for everyone. \n Hikers should bring plenty of water and proper footwear and clothing. Bring a flashlight and extra batteries if planning to walk back in the dark. \n Hikers are also urged to respect the Hawaiian culture and not to poke the lava with sticks or roast marshmallows or other food on the lava. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Officials warn of explosion danger if lava delta collapses"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "THE DAILY PRESS VIA AP \n A San Bernardino County Fire captain looks for a better place for his crew while fighting the Bluecut Fire, today in Cajon Pass, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A helicopter drops fire retardant and water over a wildfire in the Cajon Pass near San Bernardino, Calif., today. \n SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. \u00bb A wildfire with a ferocity never seen before by veteran California firefighters raced up and down canyons, instantly engulfing homes and forcing thousands of people to flee, some running for their lives just ahead of the flames.  \n By today, a day after it ignited in brush left bone dry by years of drought, the blaze had raged across 40 square miles, though by the end of the day the first foothold was gained and more than 1,500 firefighters had the blaze 4 percent contained. \n Authorities could not immediately say how many homes had been destroyed, but they warned that the number will be large. \n \"There will be a lot of families that come home to nothing,\" San Bernardino County Fire Chief Mark Hartwig said after flying over a fire scene he described as \"devastating.\" \n \"It hit hard. It hit fast. It hit with an intensity that we hadn't seen before,\" he said. \n No deaths were reported, but cadaver dogs were searching the ruins for anyone who was overrun by the flames. \n The cause of the fire wasn't immediately known. \n Five years of drought have turned the state's wildlands into a tinder box, with eight fires currently burning from Shasta County in the far north to Camp Pendleton just north of San Diego. \n \"In my 40 years of fighting fire, I've never seen fire behavior so extreme,\" Incident Commander Mike Wakoski said a day after the latest blaze broke out Tuesday in Cajon Pass, a critical highway and rail corridor through mountain ranges that separate Southern California's major population centers from the Mojave Desert and Las Vegas. \n Residents like Vi Delgado and her daughter April Christy, who had been through a major brushfire years before, said they had never seen anything like it either. \n \"No joke, we were literally being chased by the fire,\" a tearful April Christy said in a voice choked with emotion as she and her mother sat in their minivan in an evacuation center parking lot in Fontana. They did not go inside because their dogs, three Chihuahuas and a mixed-breed mutt, were not allowed. \n \"You've got flames on the side of you. You've got flames behind you,\" Christy said, describing a harrowing race down a mountain road. She was led by a sheriff's patrol car in front while a California Highway Patrol vehicle trailed behind and a truck filled with firefighters battled flames alongside her. \n She and her mother, onsite caretakers at the Angels and Paws animal rescue shelter in Devore Heights, said it was only moments after they smelled smoke that flames exploded all around them. They grabbed their pets and tried to rescue nine other shelter dogs and three cats, but a sheriff's deputy told them there was no time. \n \"You won't make it. Save yourself. Take your truck and leave,\" Delgado said the deputy shouted at her, adding that he and others would try to rescue the animals. She learned later that authorities did save the animals, but officials could not tell her if her home survived. \n More than 34,000 homes and about 82,000 people were under evacuation warnings as firefighters concentrated their efforts on saving homes in the mountain communities of Lytle Creek, Wrightwood and Phelan. They implored residents not to think twice if told to leave, but it appears many were staying. \n \"From reports that we were hearing, possibly up to half didn't leave,\" said Lyn Sieliet, a U.S. Forest Service spokeswoman. \n \"It does change the way that we can fight fire,\" she added, \"Now we have to worry about the people in there as well as trying to protect the structures and trying to build a line of defense as the fire comes toward that area.\" \n Six firefighters were briefly trapped by flames during the fire's early hours, when occupants of a home refused to leave and the crew stayed to protect them. \n Hundreds of cars packed with belongings and animals left the town. The air for miles around the blaze was filled with smoke. \n Although there was no official count on how many homes were lost, Eric Sherwin of the San Bernardino County Fire Department said Tuesday that he had seen at least a dozen buildings go up in flames, some of them homes. Among them was the Summit Inn, a historic Route 66 diner near Interstate 15. Countless big rigs were parked along both sides of the highway on Wednesday, waiting for it to reopen. \n Less than 24 hours after the blaze began 60 miles east of Los Angeles, authorities had assembled a fleet of 10 air tankers, 15 helicopters and an army of 1,500 firefighters, many of them just off the lines of a wildfire that burned for 10 days just to the east. \n At a dawn briefing, half the firefighters raised their hands when asked how many had just come from one of the other infernos burning across California. In all, 10,000 firefighters are fighting the eight ongoing blazes. \n One major fire, north of San Francisco, was fading, and about 4,000 people in the town of Clearlake were allowed to return home. \n Their relief was tempered by anger at a 40-year-old man authorities believe set the blaze that wiped out several blocks of the small town of Lower Lake over the weekend. That fire destroyed 175 homes and other structures in the working-class community. \n Damin Pashilk is charged with 14 counts of arson in connection with 12 separate fires dating back to July 2015 and one count of attempted arson. He appeared in court today, but he did not enter a plea. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wildfire burns with ferocity never seen by fire crews"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ORLANDO SENTINEL / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Serge Rene, owner of Rene's Security and Training, on Aug. 5 in Orlando, Fla. Central Florida has more than 380 licensed gun dealers and, despite laws prohibiting it, at least a half dozen have felony and domestic violence convictions. \n ORLANDO, Fla. \u00bb Florida's barbers, construction workers and talent agents face tougher oversight than gun dealers, who in Florida are only monitored by a short-staffed federal agency. \n Cosmetologists and other licensed professionals in the Sunshine State are required, for instance, to self-report felony and misdemeanor convictions within 30 days. In addition, state law enforcement alerts Florida's licensing agency about any drug trafficking convictions of licensed professionals. \n Unlike 13 states that license gun dealers, Florida's firearms retailers have no state oversight. Dealer licensing and monitoring falls under the watch of the federal Bureau of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. \n Oversight of dealers has gained more attention in recent months because of their role in helping vet potential buyers. A dealer in Jensen Beach, for example, turned away Omar Mateen, who later purchased a semi-automatic rifle just days before he shot and killed 49 people at Pulse nightclub on June 12. \n University of Central Florida professor Jay Corzine, who has studied homicides and firearms, said state licensing would not eliminate problematic dealers, but it would better safeguard the public from corrupt dealers. \n \"I don't care if my barber has a checkered past, but people selling firearms is another story,\" he said. \"There are dealers who have committed felonies but not been arrested, so there is no fail-safe system. But state licensing could provide an added layer of protection.\" \n There are 386 licensed gun dealers in Orange, Osceola, Seminole and Lake counties. \n In Florida, to get a dealer license and renewal after three years, applicants must go through the ATF. A federal licensing center reviews applications and fingerprint cards. It also conducts background checks. Field officers interview applicants and recommend approval or denial. \n In addition to denying applicants for felony and domestic violence convictions, ATF can deny them for failure to comply with state or local laws, including zoning infractions. \n Across the U.S., the denial rate was one for every 636 applicants in 2014. \n Florida's contractors, Realtors and other professional licensees face renewal every two years. State licensing also gives Florida officials some control over who conducts business in the state. The state Department of Business and Professional Regulation, for instance, solicits complaints about licensees and publicizes disciplinary actions against them. \n And Florida's Office of Financial Regulation, another state licensing agency, requires collection agencies to renew their license every year and the agency is notified immediately if a licensee is arrested. \n The state gives its licensed professionals 30 days to report misdemeanor and felony convictions. If a licensee does not report, he can face disciplinary action up to revocation of the license. When a licensee is convicted of a crime related to drug trafficking, the state immediately suspends his license. \n There is no self-reporting mechanism for gun dealers. \n \"We educate them on what's prohibited, but there's no self-reporting procedure in place,\" said Mary Harmon Salter, area supervisor for the ATF's Tampa area office. Dealers, she added, undergo background checks initially, when they move and when they renew their license. \n For years, the agency has had to do more with less. \n During a recent five-year period, the agency's staffing shrunk by 1.5 percent. It lost 81 staffers between 2009 and 2014 but its responsibilities grew, with a 22 percent increase in federal firearms licensees, which includes dealers, pawn shop brokers, collectors and others. \n In 2009, the agency inspected one in every 5.3 dealers. Five years later, it inspected one in every 7.4 dealers, according to the agency's most recent report on firearms commerce. \n ATF spokesman Kevin Richardson said the agency has to prioritize. Among other things, it focuses on dealers who sell guns that end up at crime scenes. \n \"Just because they haven't been inspected doesn't mean they are doing something wrong,\" Richardson said. \n In states across the country, gun dealer licensing and other firearms-related measures generally win support of Democrats and face opposition from Republicans. New York, Indiana and California are among more than a dozen states that have some form of state licensing. \n Gun store sales clerks in Indiana must have a state license and law enforcement officials must attest to their \"good character and reputation.\" In California, dealers must obtain about a half-dozen licenses or permits by local and state regulators. In New York, dealers have to be licensed and maintain records of sales. \n In Georgia in 2014, the state repealed gun control measures including state licensing of dealers. The legislation was driven from concern that residents were losing their constitutional rights to own firearms. \n In Florida, Rep. Randolph Bracy, an Orlando Democrat who served this year on the state's House Civil Justice Committee, said he would introduce a bill calling for state licensing next year if he wins a state Senate seat he is seeking. \n Senate President Andy Gardiner, R-Orlando, meanwhile, requested his staff to take a closer look at dealer licensing. However, in the past he has not supported more regulations to require state licensing for that group.  \n Serge Rene, a licensed dealer and co-owner of Rene's Security and Training in Orlando, said he is not convinced an extra layer of regulation from the state is needed but added that it's nothing to fear. \n \"I'm not against more regulation,\" the retired assistant principal said. \"Anything that will help to ensure the safety of the public, I'm in general favor of. The good citizens should never be afraid of more regulation. They will always pass that litmus test.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Orlando Sentinel (Orlando, Fla.)  \n ", "author": "By Mary Shanklin and Charles Minshew Orlando Sentinel", "title": "Florida's barbers, cosmetologists face stricter oversight than gun dealers"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jack Conger dives at the start of his heat in the men's 100-meter butterfly semifinals at the U.S. Olympic swimming trials in Omaha, Neb., on July 1. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The father of the United States' Ryan Lochte said today his son arrived back in the United States before a Brazilian judge ordered that Lochte stay in Brazil as authorities investigate a robbery claim involving the athlete during the Olympics. \n RIO DE JANEIRO \u00bb Two Olympic swimmers were taken off their flight from Brazil to the U.S. today by local authorities amid an investigation into a reported robbery targeting Ryan Lochte and his teammates. \n U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman Patrick Sandusky confirmed Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz were detained but had no other details. \n Representatives from the U.S. consulate arrived at the airport shortly after the swimmers were held. \n The action comes amid increasing tension between Brazilian authorities and the American swimmers over their account of the robbery. \n Lochte said he was with Conger, Bentz and Jimmy Feigen when they were robbed at gunpoint in a taxi by men with a police badge as they returned to the athletes village from a party, several hours after the last Olympic swimming events were held Sunday. \n Police have found little evidence so far to support their accounts, and say the swimmers were unable to provide key details in police interviews. \n NBC reported tonight that Lochte backed off some of his earlier claims. He now says the taxi wasn't pulled over but that they were robbed after making a stop at a gas station. \n He also said the assailant pointed a gun at him rather than putting it to his head. \n The investigation intensified today as the swimmers started heading home to the U.S., and a Brazilian judge ordered the seizure of Lochte and Feigen's passports. \n The U.S. Olympic Committee said police went to the athletes village to try to collect the passports, but the swim team had already moved out. \n Lochte has already returned to the U.S., and Conger and Bentz boarded a plane later today only to be removed by the authorities. Feigen's whereabouts are not known, though he told the San Antonio Express-News he was still in Brazil. \n Steve Bentz, father of Gunnar Bentz, when reached by phone late Wednesday night, said: \"I really don't want to say anything,\" and hung up. \n Lochte's father, Steve Lochte, told The Associated Press by phone from his Florida home that his son called him Tuesday after arriving in the United States. The 32-year-old swimmer was going to pick up his car and buy a new wallet to replace the one that he said was stolen in the robbery. \n \"I'm just happy he's safe,\" the elder Lochte said. \"It was an unfortunate experience for him and the other three. I don't know what all the controversy is. They were basically taken out of the taxi and robbed. The main thing is he's very lucky that he's safe and that all they got was his cash and wallet.\" \n The elder Lochte said his son's Olympic credential and cell phone weren't taken during the incident early Sunday morning. He said he was sure Ryan had his passport or he would not have been allowed to board a plane. \n Associated Press reporters waiting outside Lochte's home in North Carolina did not see the 12-time medalist. \n Lochte's attorney, Jeff Ostrow, did not immediately return messages seeking comment. \n A police official with knowledge of the investigation told the AP that police cannot find their taxi driver or witnesses from the robbery. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. \n The group did not call police, authorities said, and officers began investigating once they saw media reports in which Lochte's mother spoke about the robbery. Police interviewed Lochte and one other swimmer, who said they had been intoxicated and could not remember what type and color of taxi they rode in or where the robbery happened, the police official said. The swimmers also could not say what time the events occurred. \n Ostrow has said there is no question the robbery occurred. \n \"Why would anybody fabricate anything?\" Steve Lochte said. \"It's just ridiculous.\" \n Lochte swam in two events at the Rio Games, winning gold in the 4\u00d7200-meter freestyle relay. Bentz, 21, and Conger, 20, also earned gold for swimming in the preliminary heats of the 4\u00d7200 relay. Feigen, 26, received gold for swimming in the heats of the 4\u00d7100 free relay, which was won by the U.S. \n Lochte described the incident to NBC's \"Today\" show. \n \"We got pulled over, in the taxi, and these guys came out with a badge, a police badge, no lights, no nothing just a police badge and they pulled us over,\" Lochte said. \"They pulled out their guns, they told the other swimmers to get down on the ground \u2014 they got down on the ground. I refused, I was like we didn't do anything wrong, so \u2014 I'm not getting down on the ground. \n \"And then the guy pulled out his gun, he cocked it, put it to my forehead and he said, 'Get down,' and I put my hands up, I was like 'whatever.' He took our money, he took my wallet \u2014 he left my cellphone, he left my credentials.\" \n Lochte told USA Today that he and his teammates didn't initially tell the U.S. Olympic officials about the robbery \"because we were afraid we'd get in trouble.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 Lochte teammates in robbery probe pulled off plane"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "PALM BEACH POST / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Michelle Karen Mishcon and John Joseph Stevens III were killed at their home in Tequesta, Fla., on Monday night. \n PALM BEACH POST / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Austin Harrouff is seen in these 2015 Suncoast High School yearbook photos during his senior year. Harrouff played nose tackle for the varsity football team and was a member of the wrestling team. \n MIAMI \u00bb Until he exploded in cannibalistic rage late Monday night, Austin Kelly Harrouff appeared to be a gentle giant: a good student at Suncoast High School in Riviera Beach, a powerful athlete on the wrestling and football teams. He was about to enter his sophomore year at Florida State University, where he was studying exercise science. \n \"Austin used to be a quiet kid,\" a fellow student at Suncoast and FSU who knew Harrouff at both schools said in an email today. \"He's actually nice, which is why this is so shocking to everyone \u2026 not the type of person you would expect this from. Overall his life seemed healthy and on the right track.\" \n But there were also signs of trouble for the 19-year-old student. A YouTube channel containing multiple videos of Harrouff contains the statement: \"I've got a psycho side and a normal side. I've lost my mind help me find it.\" \n \"I know what's right for me. I don't need drugs,\" Harrouff says in a video on bodybuilding on the channel, which also contains music videos under the name AustiFrosti. A friend confirmed that the videos were of Harrouff. \n On Monday evening Harrouff stormed out of the Duffy's restaurant where he was having dinner with his parents in Jupiter, then trekked 3 1/2 miles in the August heat to viciously murder a middle-aged couple, John Stevens and Michelle Mishcon Stevens, whom he encountered in their garage hangout in their Tequesta home. Three police deputies had to wrestle down Harrouff, grunting and making animal-like noises as he gnawed at Stevens' face. \n Today Harrouff, according to a spokesperson for the Martin County Sheriff Department, was stable and conscious and under armed guard in an unidentified Palm Beach County hospital, where he had hand surgery. Martin County Sheriff spokesperson Tricia Kukuvka said they were working to charge Harrouff with two counts of first-degree murder and aggravated battery on a Good Samaritan \u2014 Jeff Fisher, a neighbor of the Stevens whom Harrouff stabbed multiple times when he tried to help the couple. \n The Sheriff's Department said in a release that initial tests showed no sign of street drugs such as marijuana or cocaine. Harrouff's blood, DNA and hair have been sent to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for further testing, for substances including the synthetic drug Flakka. Test results normally take one to three weeks, although the Sheriff's Department said deputies asked for expedited results. Autopsies of the victims showed the cause of death as multiple injuries and blunt force trauma. \n There were signs of trouble leading up to Monday night's breakdown. Harrouff's parents are divorced, and neighbors of the home where Harrouff was living with his father, dentist Wade Harrouff, this summer say he seemed aggressive and rowdy. One neighbor told the Miami Herald they often saw Austin partying with friends in the backyard. Another said father and son had screaming fights in front of the house. \n Harrouff's mother, Mina, called 911 after her son abruptly left the restaurant Monday. Harrouff's mother told police her son had gotten into an argument with his father at Duffy's and that he had been acting strangely for approximately a week, saying that he had \"super powers\" and \"was here to protect people,\" according to the Jupiter police report. \n But Mina also told police her son did not have a history of mental problems and was not a heavy drug user; the mother as well as Harrouff's sister told police he was a \"nice young man who would not hurt himself or anyone else.\" \n That gentle portrait clashes violently with what happened Monday night. Martin County Sheriff William Snyder said Harrouff attacked the couple, who were relaxing in what they had called their \"Garage-Ma-Hall,\" at random. The muscular student stabbed the 50-something pair multiple times with a large pocket knife he often carried, as well as other instruments he found in the garage. When police arrived, Michelle was already dead, and Harrouff kept tearing at Stevens despite multiple Taser shots and a police K-9. \n Harrouff gave a very different impression in a statement on a college athletic recruiting website during his senior year, while he was attending a rigorous International Baccalaureate program at Suncoast, a highly rated U.S. high school. He said that he had a 3.35 grade point average, was 6 feet 2 inches and weighed 200 pounds, and could bench press 365 pounds. He wrote that he was \"one of the strongest\" on the school's football team, where he played offense and defense. He was on the weightlifting team and captain of the wrestling team.  \n \"I would be a great asset to your football team,\" he wrote. \"I love the competitiveness of the game and I have the drive to improve.\" \n But at FSU, home of the Seminoles, one of the country's top college football teams, Harrouff did not play football or participate in any other sports team. He joined the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity, where the Instagram account for the FSU chapter features a video of a wild-looking \"Animal House\" party last April. A Twitter account registered to AustinHarrouff has only eight entries. But the FSU freshman became more outgoing. \"He went from not saying a word to anyone to smiling and saying hi and talking,\" writes his friend. \n Harrouff's father, an implantology and cosmetic dentist, has been disciplined four times by the State of Florida Board of Dentistry, for misdiagnosing or mistreating patients, with consequences that include fines and remedial courses. Wade Harrouff also has been arrested twice for DUI, in 2011 in Juno Beach and in 2012 in Lantana. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Miami Herald  \n ", "author": "By Alex Harris and Jordan Levin Miami Herald", "title": "Accused FSU face-eater: 'I've got a psycho side and a normal side'"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "A 33-year-old woman and her child are in critical condition after a single-car crash Tuesday night on Kauai. \n Police said the woman was driving a Nissan sedan northbound on Kuhio Highway in Kilauea and apparently veered off the roadwayshortly before 9 p.m.. The vehicle struck a guardrail before it slammed into a tree. \n Police said the woman and her daughter, 6, who was in the back seat, suffered severe injuries and were transported to Wilcox Hospital.The child was later medevaced to Queen's Medical Center. \n Police said alcohol appears to be a factor in the crash. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman, daughter critically injured in Kauai crash"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York Police officers struggled as they pulled a man through a window as he scaled the east side of Trump Tower using suction cups on Aug. 10 in New York. \n NEW YORK \u00bb A Virginia man who scaled the all-glass face of Trump Tower last week using suction cups planned his climb, ordering equipment on Amazon, practicing ahead of time and waiting until his parents were away before traveling to New York City, according to prosecutors. \n Stephen Rogata, 19, dressed in blue hospital garb, answered a judge's questions but made no other comments during his court appearance today via video linkup from a Manhattan psychiatric hospital. \n \"This was a well-thought-out, planned stunt,\" said Pierre Griffith, an assistant district attorney, noting Rogata waited until his parents went on vacation before driving from Great Falls, Virginia, to New York ahead of the Aug. 10 climb. \n Rogata's hourslong climb of Donald Trump's 58-story namesake Manhattan skyscraper was streamed live by various news organizations and bystanders who watched gleefully as he slowly ascended floor after floor using a harness and climbing ropes. \n At one point, a laptop he was carrying in his backpack fell out, crashing on the ground below as he plodded along from a fifth-floor atrium to the 21st floor, where he was hauled in through an open window by police detectives, Griffith said. \n Rogata also politely rejected a police detective's efforts to persuade him to end his efforts, saying, \"No, thanks, I don't want the rope,\" when the investigator lowered a line down for Rogata to attach himself to, Griffith said. \n Rogata's attorney, Tara Collins, said her client was receiving much-needed mental health treatment. \n \"At best he was doing something profoundly stupid,\" she told the judge, noting he made no threats and was hoping to sit down with someone \"he could never meet.\" \n Trump Tower is home the Republican presidential candidate's campaign headquarters, his business empire and his personal residence. He was not in the tower on the day of Rogata's climb. \n Rogata was held on $10,000 bail following an arraignment on four misdemeanor charges, including reckless endangerment and trespassing. \n After he was arrested, Griffith said, Rogata told a police officer that he had practiced using the suction cups on a three-story building in Virginia, scoped out Trump Tower ahead of his climb and intended to get to the roof. \n \"I want to get a message to Donald Trump,\" he told a Secret Service agent at the hospital, according to Griffith. The content of the message was unclear. \n Rogata, whose birth name is Michael Joseph Ryan, ran away from home in 2014 after his internet privileges were revoked for spending too much time on a \"blog on government issues in the United States,\" according to a police report in Fairfax County, Virginia. \n His father, a career Navy officer, and his mother, a New Jersey native, were with their son and coordinating his treatment back in Virginia, said Collins, noting there \"is concern of an ongoing or burgeoning mental health issue.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutors: Trump Tower climber had planned it, practiced"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n This map shows the location of a magnitude 3.4 earthquake off the coast of Hawaii island this morning. \n A minor, deep earthquake stuck off the coast of Hawaii island, but was not widely felt. \n The magnitude 3.4 earthquake struck at 11:07 a.m., about 35 miles west of Honaunau and 34 miles west-northwest of Milolii at a depth of 27 miles. \n It did not cause a tsunami. \n The USGS \"Did you feel it?\" website reported only 4 responses following the earthquake. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Magnitude 3.4 earthquake recorded in ocean off Hawaii island"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK >> An attempt by McDonald's to get kids moving isn't working out so great: The chain said it will no longer distribute activity trackers in its Happy Meals after reports that they might cause skin irritations. \n The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said Wednesday it received limited reports of potential skin irritations that may be associated with the bands, which look like step counters. Terri Hickey, a McDonald's representative, said in an email that McDonald's is \"fully investigating this issue\" and that restaurants are \"offering our youngest guests an alternative Happy Meal toy.\" \n Hickey declined to provide further details. \n The fitness bands, which were available in the U.S. and Canada, were seen as an odd promotion in some circles because of McDonald's reputation for serving fattening junk food. The chain has been trying to shed that image over the years, particularly with parents, in part by tweaking its Happy Meals to include fruit. \n At one New York City location, the activity tracker bands, which look like watches, were available earlier Wednesday. The bag says the activity bands were made in China. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "McDonald's to stop distributing Happy Meal activity trackers"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK STATE POLICE \n The New York State Police released this mugshot of Alexandria Duval, who was arrested on Monday for drunk driving in New York. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Anastasia, left, and Alexandria Duval, known as Alison and Ann Dadow before they changed their names, stand in the window of their yoga studio in West Palm Beach, Fla. \n MAUI COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This June booking photo released by the Maui County Police Department shows Alexandria Duval. Prosecutors say Duval, who is also known as Alison Dadow, intentionally caused the death of her identical twin sister, Anastasia Duval, also known as Ann Dadow. The incident took place on May 29. \n MAUI COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This June booking photo released by the Maui County Police Department shows Alexandria Duval. Prosecutors say Duval, who is also known as Alison Dadow, intentionally caused the death of her identical twin sister, Anastasia Duval, also known as Ann Dadow. The incident took place on May 29. \n A Maui woman who drove through a rock retaining wall and over a 200-foot cliff on the Hana Highway in May, killing her identical twin, was arrested again in upstate New York for drunk driving. \n New York State Police said Alexandria Duval, 37, nearly hit a police investigator's vehicle before she was pulled over in the Village of Stamford in Delaware County, New York Monday afternoon. \n Police said Duval was driving with a Hawaii driver's license and had a blood alcohol content of .26, more than three times the legal limit. \n Police said officers saw Duval driving too closely to another vehicle, nearly hit a police investigator's vehicle and cross the center line of State Route 23 at about 4:25 p.m. \n Duval was arraigned in the Town of Stamford court for aggravated drunk driving and other traffic violations. She was taken to the Delaware County jail in lieu of $5,000 cash bail or $10,000 property bond and is scheduled to return to court on Aug. 23. \n Duval and her sister, Anastasia, ran what were once the hottest yoga studios in the upscale Palm Beach, Fla., area. \n In court documents, a witness reported the sisters were arguing before the crash and the vehicle's air bag control module shows the driver didn't try to brake before the Ford Explorer accelerated, made a hard left turn and crashed through a wall before plunging over the cliff. \n Anastasia Duval's lawyer, Todd Eddins, said the incident was a tragic accident. \n Anastasia Duval was pronounced dead at the scene. Alexandria Duval was hospitalized in critical condition \n The sisters, then known as Alison and Ana Dadow, declared bankruptcy in 2014 and left town, leaving unpaid employees and hundreds of clients with unrefunded memberships. \n The sisters moved to Utah and opened a yoga studio in the high-end ski town of Park City. They had several run-ins with the police during the two years they lived in the state, and faced charges including drunken driving, intoxication and leaving the scene of an accident. \n In January 2014, they were kicked out of a restaurant when their drinking got out of hand, according to police. Officers said the twins fought with each other and with police who arrived after their car slid into a ditch. \n The twins legally changed their names in Utah in 2014 to write a book together, according to court documents. Both women filed for bankruptcy at about the same time and reported around $150,000 in debts each, including two 2013 Porsche Boxsters. \n Looking for a new start, they moved to Maui in December and planned to open yoga studios, according to Eddins. But they were soon charged with disorderly conduct and terroristic threatening over a Christmas Eve incident. \n \u2014\u2014- \n Star-Advertiser reporter Michael Tsai and the Associated Press contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman accused of killing twin in Maui crash arrested for DUI in New York"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testified on Capitol Hill in Washington before the House Financial Services Committee hearing on U.S. monetary policy on June 22. According to their meeting minutes, Federal Reserve officials believed in July that near-term risks to the U.S. economy had subsided and that an interest rate increase could soon be warranted. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Federal Reserve officials believed last month that near-term risks to the U.S. economy had subsided and that an interest rate increase could soon be warranted. But they did not indicate when they would likely raise rates. \n The minutes of their July 26-27 meeting show that officials were encouraged by a rebound in job growth. They also took note of a stabilization of financial markets after a bout of turbulence triggered by Britain's June 23 vote to leave the European Union. \n The Fed officials believed those developments had lessened the risks for the economy in the short run. The minutes show that as a result, the officials thought a rate increase \"was or would soon be warranted.\" \n But a key factor holding the Fed officials back was the stubbornly slow rate of inflation, which has been running below the central bank's 2 percent target for more than four years, according to the minutes. \n The minutes released today closely parallel the message the Fed sent in a statement it released after its July meeting. \n In that statement, the Fed noted that the job market had rebounded from a brief slump. Still, it said it planned to monitor global economic threats and financial developments to ensure that they don't slow the economy. \n This week, William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and a close ally of Fed Chair Janet Yellen, said in a television interview that a September rate hike is \"possible.\" Dudley said he thought that solid job growth would continue and that the sluggish pace of the U.S. economy would pick up. \n But, as the Fed itself as done repeatedly, Dudley stressed that any policy action would depend on the health of the most recent economic data. \n Though some economists say they think the Fed will be ready to raise rates next month, most have said they think the policymakers will take no action before December. \n The Fed's July decision to leave rates alone was backed by a 9-1 vote. Esther George, president of the Kansas City Fed, dissented in favor of an immediate rate increase. \n In December last year, the Fed raised its benchmark lending rate from a record low near zero, where it had stood since the depths of the 2008 financial crisis. But in recent months, turbulence in financial markets and concerns about China and weakening global growth have persuaded the Fed to keep rates on hold. \n Fed officials have also expressed concern about the tepid pace of U.S. growth, weakness in worker productivity, excessively low inflation and the long-term consequences of Britain's vote in June to leave the European Union. \n Investors will be paying close attention to a speech that Yellen will give on Aug. 26 to an annual conference of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, for any further clues about the Fed's timetable for a rate hike. \n The minutes said \"a couple\" of officials had advocated a rate increase at the July meeting. However, the majority of the group agreed that waiting would give them more time to assess whether the economy was strong enough to withstand the potential aftershocks when the Fed does raise rates. \n But Fed officials also noted the risks of waiting too long. If labor market conditions tightened so much that inflation pressures jumped, the Fed would have to respond with a more rapid series of rate hikes that could jeopardize the recovery. \n Although near-term concerns associated with Britain's vote to leave the EU had dwindled, officials mentioned other threats that needed to be closely monitored, including the possibility that growth in Britain and the EU could be slower than expected. Some Fed officials also expressed concerns that weak capital positions and sizable non-performing loans at some European banks could also weigh on the continent's growth prospects. \n In addition to lingering problems in Europe, some officials noted weakness in other parts of the global economy, including uncertainties over China's currency policies and the growth in Chinese debt. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fed minutes: Conditions could 'soon warrant' a rate hike"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "The Medical Examiner's Office has identified the 60-year-old Colorado visitor who was found unresponsive while snorkeling on the North Shore as Stuart McPherson. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine cause of death. \n The victim was found unresponsive in the water at Three Tables in Pupukea at 9 a.m. Tuesday. \n Paramedics took him in critical condition to the hospital where he died. The victim was from Castle Pine, Colo. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man's body found in water off Pupukea identified"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "A 66-year-old Oahu Community Correctional Center inmate died Friday of blunt impact to his head and body, according to the Medical Examiner's Office. \n The inmate was identified by the Medical Examiner's Office as James Wrath. His death was classified as a suicide. \n Paramedics took Wrath to the hospital in serious condition from the Dillingham Boulevard prison at 7 a.m. Friday. \n He died at the hospital several hours later. \n Wrath was serving time breaking into a home and was eligible for release this month. \n Police said there is no evidence of foul play. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Medical examiner IDs OCCC inmate who died in suicide"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Danelle Keim, who was a key witness in the case against former St. Charles Parish District Attorney Harry Morel before she died of a drug overdose in 2013, posed with her son Tyler in an undated family photo. \n NEW ORLEANS \u00bb A former Louisiana prosecutor was sentenced today to three years for obstructing justice, though prosecutors accused him of soliciting sex from women in exchange for favorable treatment. \n Seventy-three-year-old Harry Morel was sentenced in federal district court. The judge also gave him a $20,000 fine. \n Judge Kurt Engelhardt announced the sentence prior to asking whether anyone wanted to speak on Morel's behalf, saying no statements would have made a difference in the sentence. \n Engelhardt also said Morel would be on supervised released for a year once he is released from prison. The judge said he would leave it up to the Federal Bureau of Prisons to determine where Morel will serve the time. \n Morel was district attorney for 33 years in St. Charles Parish, about 20 miles west of New Orleans. \n At a news conference when his plea agreement was announced in April, prosecutors and investigators called him a sexual predator. But he was never charged with a sexual crime. \n U.S. Attorney Kenneth Polite said that was because time limits had passed on some crimes, and prosecutors faced both significant problems with evidence and victims whose personal histories might lead jurors to doubt them. \n And a key witness was dead. \n Defense attorney Ralph Capitelli has accused prosecutors of a smear campaign to influence sentencing. \n The FBI began investigating Morel in April 2010, after a woman accused of drunken driving called 911 and accused him of sexually assaulting her at her home. \n Agents wired Danelle Keim for video. Authorities say one video shows him coming to Keim's house with two bottles of wine, discussing her case, and then starting to grope her. \n But Keim died of a drug overdose in 2013, less than 24 hours after The Times-Picayune newspaper reported that the FBI was investigating whether Morel had been trading leniency for sex with defendants or their relatives. \n Morel's guilty plea admitted to telling Keim to destroy photographic evidence of their meetings. \n Keim's sister, Tessie Keim, spoke in the hall outside the courtroom today and said she had conflicting feelings about the three-year sentence. \n Tessie Keim said justice was not served because Morel \"didn't get charged with what he should have been.\" \n \"We're just excited that he got anything. We're very happy the judge gave him the full sentence.\" \n She praised Engelhardt, saying, \"He at least abides by the law \u2026 And sticks to his vows.\" \n But she said her family also is excited that he got any prison time and is happy that the judge gave him the maximum. \n Engelhardt repeated several times that he couldn't give Morel more than three years. \n The decision wasn't difficult, he said. \n \"It is difficult to imagine justification for less than the maximum.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 years for Louisiana ex-prosecutor accused of seeking sex for leniency"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "The Medical Examiner's Office has identified the 49-year-old Honolulu man who died after colliding with a semi-truck Monday in Kalihi as Shane Botelho. \n Botelho and a semi-truck driven by a 53-year-old man from Mililani were traveling east on Sand Island Island Access Road at 5:56 p.m. when the collision occurred. \n An autopsy will be done to determine to cause of death. \n This was Oahu's 35th traffic fatality, compared to 32 at the same time a year ago. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man who died in crash with semi-truck identified"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters Tuesday were called to extinguish five separate early morning fires involving abandoned cars, one of which was believed to be intentionally set. \n The first alarm was called in at 2:43 a.m. in Kula on Pulehu Road, just above the Y with Omaopio Road. Firefighters found a vehicle fully involved by fire on the shoulder of the road. The cause of the fire was undetermined. \n An hour later at 3:45 a.m., two more vehicle fires were reported on East Waiko Road in Waikapu. One was roughly 400 yards west of the Waiale Road intersection, and the other was about 300 yards east of the intersection. \n At 3:53 a.m., a Kahului engine and tanker crew arrived at the entrance to the former Maui Scrap Metal Co. site east of the Waiale Road intersection, and found a vehicle fully engulfed in flames. The cause of the fire was undetermined. \n Wailuku firefighters crew found a truck on the shoulder of Waiko Road west of the Waiale Road intersection fully engulfed by fire, which spread into the brush. Firefighters quickly brought the fire under control, but not before it burned a 50-by-200-foot area of brush and caused roughly $3,000 in damages to a nearby fence. The brush and vehicle fires were called extinguished at 4:34 a.m. \n A fire investigator determined that that fire was intentionally set and originated in the bed of the truck, where a pile of car tires were believed to have been discarded. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Rash of vehicle fires plagues Maui overnight"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "A Kula house fire that destroyed a one-story home Tuesday and displaced eight people caused $712,500 in damage, Maui firefighters said today. \n The fire was reported at 6:48 p.m. Tuesday on Kamehameiki Road and destroyed a 3,000-square-foot, one-story farm dwelling. Firefighters said damage included $600,000 to the structure, $2,500 to the siding of a greenhouse 20 feet away, and $10,000 to a nearby tractor. \n Firefighters extinguished the fire at 10:37 p.m. Tuesday but returned about 5:40 a.m. Wednesday after the fire rekindled on the roof. \n Firefighters extinguished the flare up at 2:40 p.m. \n Firefighters determined the fire originated under a covered storage area attached to the home. The cause was still undetermined. \n Eight residents living in the dwelling for farm workers were home at the time and escaped without injury. The American Red Cross is assisting them. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire causes $700K damage to Kula house"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Harley Quinn Smith, left, and her father, Kevin Smith, attend the world premiere of \"Suicide Squad\" at the Beacon Theatre in New York on Aug. 1. Kevin Smith took to Facebook on Aug. 15 to slam an online troll for criticizing his daughter. \n Director Kevin Smith is taking on an online troll who called his daughter \"ugly\" and \"talentless\" and wished her dead on Instagram. \n Smith posted on Facebook the comment he says his 17-year-old daughter, Harley Quinn Smith, received after posting a picture of herself on Instagram. Smith writes that his daughter took the comment in stride and was \"bemused by the bitterness.\" \n He says the commenter would be better off making his \"own dreams come true, instead of slamming others for doing the same.\" \n Smith directed his daughter in \"Yoga Hosers,\" which is set for wide release next month. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Director Kevin Smith slams online criticism of his daughter"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "NASA / WALLOPS \n NASA successfully launched the RockSat-X education payload on a Terrier-Improved Malemute suborbital sounding rocket this morning from the Wallops Flight Facility in Virgina. The rocket flew to an altitude of 95 miles, but the payload was not recovered as planned. \n NASA today said it lost the payload of a suborbital rocket carrying student experiments \u2014 including one designed by University of Hawaii students \u2014 as it returned to Earth, a rare occurrence that's being investigated. \n The 20-foot-long tube carried high-definition cameras, various gauges and antennas from eight universities and community colleges from across the country. It was launched atop a rocket from the Wallops Flight Facility near Chincoteague Island, Va., and reached an altitude of about 95 miles before it descended toward the Atlantic Ocean. \n NASA spokesman Keith Koehler said data was received from most of the experiments during the flight. A parachute was supposed to open around 20,000 feet, but it's unclear if that happened, he said. \n Typically, such payloads float in the ocean and are spotted by aircraft before a ship recovers them, Koehler said. \n \"We don't know why we couldn't find it,\" he said. \"It's a big ocean. They're going to have go through the data and determine what happened.\" \n Sixteen students from Honolulu, Windward, Kapiolani and Kauai community colleges had spent the past year designing and building a small experiment package, or payload, for launch into space, as part of Wednesday's launch. Hawaii's payload, dubbed Project Imua, contained six different experiments and was outfitted with five microcomputers \u2014 ranging from the size of a credit card to the size of a stick of gum \u2014 and tiny cameras capable of capturing images and video. \n Half of the team of students traveled to Virginia for the launch. \n Project manager Joe Ciotti, a professor of physics, astronomy and mathematics at Windward Community College, said he doesn't view the mission as a failure. \n \"This is real rocket science. There are great risks involved, calculated risks,\" he said from Wallops. \"It's part of the field that we're in. If you're not willing to take risks, then you're not an explorer.\" \n Ciotti said the project was \"literally priceless, given the amount of ingenuity and sweat\" poured in by the students. But by one financial measure, it cost the team $14,000 to \"buy\" a spot on the rocket. \n Project Imua is funded by a two-year $500,000 grant awarded to the Hawaii NASA Space Grant Consortium by the NASA Space Grant Competitive Opportunity for Partnerships With Community Colleges and Technical Schools. \n Koehler, the NASA spokesman, said payloads have been lost before, although such events are unusual. For instance, he said NASA launched some instruments to study the atmosphere from Puerto Rico in the 1990s. They weren't recovered until five years later when they washed ashore. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "NASA rocket with UH experiments loses payload"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this April 1977 file photo, San Francisco supervisor Harvey Milk sits in the mayor's office during the signing of the city's gay rights bill in San Francisco. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The Navy is naming a ship in honor of the late gay rights leader Harvey Milk, who served in the Navy for four years before he began a career in San Francisco city government. \n Navy Secretary Ray Mabus said Tuesday that Milk displayed tremendous courage fighting for the rights of the LGBT community. The ship is one of a new fleet of replenishment oilers that will be built in San Diego. \n Milk's career as a Navy officer, however, ended with an \"other than honorable\" discharge, due to allegations of fraternization with enlisted personnel. \n Some argue that Milk was forced out of the military because he was gay. A defense official said Tuesday that Milk accepted the other than honorable discharge to avoid possible disciplinary action. \n Fraternization with enlisted personnel by an officer is against military regulations \u2014 whether they are the same or different genders. The official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n The ban on gays serving openly in the U.S. military was formally ended in September 2011. \n Milk became one of the first openly gay candidates elected to public office. He was serving on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1978 when a former political colleague, Dan White, assassinated him and Mayor George Moscone at City Hall. \n Mabus said Milk \"offered hope for millions of Americans who were being ostracized and prosecuted just for who they loved.\" \n Speaking in San Francisco during the announcement, Mabus said it was important to honor those like Milk who have fought in a different way, battling \u2014 and sometimes dying \u2014 for freedom and equality. \n Chad Griffin, the president of the advocacy group the Human Rights Campaign, lauded the Navy honor for Milk, calling it \"further evidence of the profound progress on LGBTQ equality we continue to make as a nation.\" \n \"In his bold and unabashed advocacy, Milk inspired LGBTQ people for generations,\" Griffin said in a statement. \n Five other replenishment oilers will bear the names of civil and human rights leaders: Sojourner Truth, Chief Justice Earl Warren, Robert F. Kennedy, suffragist Lucy Stone and Rep. John Lewis of Georgia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Navy names ship after gay rights advocate Harvey Milk"}

{"date": "August 17, 2016", "text": "Hawaii County police are asking for the public's help in identifying a red-haired man whose body was found in the ocean today off the Hamakua Coast. \n Police received a report about a body floating in the water about a mile north of Honolii Point at 1:11 p.m., police said. \n Firefighters found the caller in a 13-foot Boston Whaler with the body floating about 15 feet away, firefighters said. \n Firefighters recovered the man's body, which was taken to the Hilo Medical Center. An autopsy has been scheduled. \n Police described the man as slim, in his mid-30s, with red medium-length hair and a red goatee. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek help in identifying man's body found off Hamakua Coast"}

