{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Stephen DeMont, center, embraces Madeline Dahl as Zach Forcade looks on at the University of Washington Medical Center Wednesday. \n SEATTLE >> If your heart is going to stop, right outside a hospital is not a bad place for it. \n And if 41 people within a 330-yard radius have a cellphone app alerting them to your distress, so much the better. \n That's what happened in Seattle last week when Stephen DeMont collapsed at a bus stop in front of University of Washington Medical Center. \n While a medical student rushed over and began chest compressions, a cardiac nurse just getting off her shift at the hospital was alerted by her phone, sprinted outside and assisted until paramedics arrived. \n Five days later, DeMont, 60, is walking, smiling and talking about how the PulsePoint app helped save his life. \n Seattle officials say the rescue shows the potential the free download has for connecting CPR-trained citizens with patients who urgently need their help. It's being used in 2,000 U.S. cities in 28 states. \n \"I put it on my phone yesterday,\" said DeMont's wife, Debi Quirk, a former registered nurse. \"He would not be here as we see him today.\" \n Seattle officials hope DeMont's story will help persuade thousands more people to sign up for notifications; so far, about 4,000 people in Seattle have downloaded PulsePoint since the city adopted it earlier this year with financial support from an employee charitable fund at Boeing. The goal is to have 15,000 using it. \n Developed by a former fire chief in Northern California, Richard Price, the app works through a city's 911 system. When a call comes in, operators alert people within a certain radius that CPR assistance is needed, along with the location of the nearest portable defibrillator. \n About 900,000 people around the country have downloaded and carry the app, and 34,000 people have been activated to respond, he said, adding that alerts have been issued in 13,000 cardiac events. \n He came up with the idea in 2009, he said. He was in a restaurant when he heard sirens from his crews at the San Ramon Valley fire department. As he wondered where they were going, they arrived at the restaurant. \n \"The patient was unconscious, unresponsive. I was 20 feet away on the other side of the wall,\" Price said. \"The whole time I was listening to that siren, I could have been making a difference.\" \n It occurred to him that at any given time, two-thirds of his staff was off duty \u2014 in restaurants, out in the community. If there was a way to alert them to such emergencies by phone, it could save lives, Price said. \n It's not clear how many lives have been saved thanks to the app. Patient confidentiality laws often prevent hospitals from disclosing a patient's outcome. \n Madeline Dahl, a 23-year-old cardiac nurse at the University of Washington Medical Center, said she downloaded the app about a month ago after reading a news story that mentioned it. Last Friday morning was the first time she'd ever received an alert. She bolted down a couple flights of stairs and ran outside into the rain, where she found 27-year-old medical student Zach Forcade performing chest compressions. \n Forcade had been on his way into the hospital for a lecture when he saw DeMont, who was just getting off his bicycle, slump over. \n \"I hadn't responded to a cardiac arrest before,\" Forcade said. \"I thought, 'Did he just fall?' \u2026 Even being in the medical field, I thought, 'Oh, man, who's going to step up?'\" \n He told another passerby to call 911, which triggered an alert sent out to 41 responders nearby. It was reassuring when Dahl arrived to provide any needed backup, help check for a pulse and otherwise make sure Forcade was responding correctly, he said. \n For DeMont, it was about more than just being lucky. A contract technical writer at Expedia, he said he has a love-hate relationship with technology \u2014 \"You see all these things about people falling off cliffs texting, people are so disconnected\" \u2014 but the response from Forcade, Dahl and the use of PulsePoint reaffirmed his belief in its power to make a positive difference. \n \"There's hope,\" DeMont said. \n He's due to have a defibrillator implanted on Thursday. Now he just has to figure out how to pay the $100,000 tab without insurance. \n For that, his family has turned to a program with a different app: GoFundMe. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "App helps save Seattle cardiac patient"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is greeted by his family on stage after the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump needed a game changer. Instead, he landed a jaw dropper. \n When the Republican nominee for president refused to say he would accept the results of the election, he rattled American democracy and openly flirted with the notion of a contested transition of power. He overshadowed an otherwise improved debate performance. And, with an almost-flip, five-word sentence, he created a headache for every Republican running for re-election who will be asked again and again to either defend or reject their nominee. \n \"I'll keep you in suspense,\" Trump said, when asked at Wednesday night's third and final debate if he would vow to accept the results. \n It was a moment that could have been expected but was stunning nonetheless. Trump has been railing for weeks about a \"rigged\" system tilted to favor Democrat Hillary Clinton. As he slips further behind Clinton in the polls, Trump has alternately blamed, with no evidence, a corrupt media, fraud at the polls and government officials trying to protect his rival. \n The rhetoric has vexed a GOP already riven by his candidacy and fretting about its future. Before the debate, Trump's vice presidential running mate, his campaign manager and his daughter all had said he would accept the election results. His effort to stir doubts about the outcome drew condemnation from President Barack Obama, who called it \"unprecedented.\" \n But under the bright lights of prime time, Trump showed he will not be clipped by criticism or convention from any corner. As he has throughout the campaign, Trump chose to channel the sort of loose talk and frustration of disaffected Americans, consequences aside. \n \"She shouldn't be allowed to run. It's crooked \u2014 she's guilty of a very, very serious crime. She should not be allowed to run,\" Trump said, of his rival, pointing to no crime. \n Clinton called Trump's response \"horrifying.\" \n \"That is not the way our democracy works. We've been around for 240 years,\" she said. \"We've had free and fair elections. We've accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them. And that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a debate stage during a general election.\" \n Trump's campaign and allies quickly tried to cast his comments as no different than Vice President Al Gore waiting to concede his defeat in the 2000 election until December, after a Supreme Court decision and the recount in Florida. But Trump made no exception for such extraordinary circumstances. \n Other Republicans quickly bemoaned the comment: \"He should have said he would accept the results of the election. There is no other option unless we're in a recount again,\" tweeted conservative commentator Laura Ingraham. \n Barring an unexpected implosion, Clinton walked into the debate on track to win 270 electoral votes \u2014 and then some. Trump arrived needing a performance that would stabilize his campaign \u2014 if not for his own prospects, but for the good of his party. \n In recent weeks, Senate races in Nevada, Florida, New Hampshire and Missouri appear to have tightened. Republican incumbents in Pennsylvania and North Carolina are fighting for their political lives in states where Clinton appears to be pulling ahead. \n Republicans hoped he would prove he was serious about trying to win as many votes as possible in the most important places \u2014 and not, as some of his rhetoric about the \"rigged\" election indicates, merely trying to spin his impending loss. \n For roughly an hour, Trump showed he was serious. He and Clinton conducted largely substantive and focused policy debate on issues that have received short shrift in previous face offs, including abortion, gun control and immigration. \n The Republican businessman effectively branded Clinton with 30 years of \"bad experience\" and raised, for the first time in a debate, the hacked emails that have illustrated a gap between her private and public positions, particularly on Wall Street banks and trade. \n But Clinton's preparation and skill at the podium also showed through. She effectively managed to dodge a question about her support for free trade, instead drawing Trump into sharp exchange over Russia's role in the hack and alleged meddling in the election. \n When moderator Chris Wallace asked the candidates about allegations of sexual harassment and assault \u2014 in Clinton's case, allegations against her husband \u2014 Clinton used the moment to stand up for women, voters Trump has struggled to win, while ignoring the question of Bill Clinton's infidelities. \n \"Donald thinks belittling women makes him bigger. He goes after their dignity, their self-worth, and I don't think there is a woman anywhere who doesn't know what that feels like,\" she said. \n The reemergence of sexual assault and misconduct allegations proved to be turning point in the night. Trump continued to issue flat, broad denials, but from that moment on became increasingly agitated as the conversation moved on to issues like Social Security. \n \"Such a nasty woman,\" he blurted, in a remark that on any other night may have stood out for its caustic tone. \n But on Wednesday it was only the second most memorable comment of the night. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Analysis: Trump needed debate reset, instead riles GOP"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Iraqi soldiers advance towards the city of Mosul, Iraq, Wednesday, Oct. 19, 2016. A senior Iraqi general on Wednesday called on Iraqis fighting for the Islamic State group in Mosul to surrender as a wide-scale operation to retake the militant-held city entered its third day. \n KHAZER, Iraq >> Iraqi special forces charged into the Mosul battle Thursday with a pre-dawn advance on a nearby town held by the Islamic State group, a key part of a multi-pronged assault on eastern approaches to the besieged city. \n The addition of the elite troops, also known as counterterrorism forces, marked a significant intensification of the fight for Iraq's second-largest city. As they advanced, attack helicopters fired on the militants and heavy gunfire echoed across the plains. \n Maj. Gen. Maan al-Saadi said the elite Counterterrorism Forces advanced on the town of Bartella with the aid of U.S.-led coalition airstrikes and heavy artillery on the fourth day of a massive operation to retake Iraq's second-largest city. \n \"God willing, we will take this town today,\" he said. \n The militants fought back, unleashing at least four suicide car bombs against the advancing forces, one of which blew up after it was struck by tank fire. It was not immediately clear if there were any casualties from the fighting. \n The special forces are expected to lead the way into Mosul, where they will face fierce resistance in an urban landscape where IS militants are preparing for a climactic battle. The offensive is the largest operation launched by Iraqi forces since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion, and is expected to take weeks, if not months. \n The Kurdish forces known as peshmerga, who are also taking part in the offensive, announced a \"large-scale operation\" to the north and northeast of Mosul on Thursday. \n \"The operation will be in three fronts,\" the peshmerga said in a statement, and follows recent gains by the peshmerga to the east of Mosul and Iraqi security forces to the south. \n Peshmerga forces stationed on mountains northeast of Mosul descended from their positions and charged toward the front line. \n They used bulldozers and other heavy equipment to fill trenches and moved armored vehicles into the breach after about an hour of mortar and gunfire at IS positions below in the village of Barima. \n Military operations also appeared to be underway in the town of Bashiqa, northeast of Mosul. Thick smoke could be seen billowing from the town early Thursday. \n A day earlier, Bashiqa was pounded by airstrikes and mortar fire from Kurdish peshmerga positions high above. \n The approaches to Mosul run through clusters of mostly abandoned villages where IS militants have planted roadside bombs and other booby traps. Bartella, a traditionally Christian town which fell to IS two years ago, is believed to be empty of civilians. \n \"Our intelligence tells us the district is full of IEDs,\" al-Saadi said, referring to the homemade explosives IS has planted in huge numbers during past campaigns. \n Amer al-Jabbar, a 30-year-old soldier with the Iraqi special forces, said he was happy to be taking part in the attack and hoped to avenge two brothers killed while fighting for the Iraqi security forces. \n \"I had one brother who became a martyr in 2007 and another who became a martyr in 2014,\" he said. \"I want to avenge them and I'm ready to die.\" \n Another soldier called in coordinates for airstrikes by Iraqi attack helicopters hovering overhead. One of the helicopters was struck by a sniper, but managed to land safely. \n An intense gun battle erupted as the convoy of some 1,000 special forces made its way toward Bartella. A road sign said the Mosul city center was 27 kilometers (17 miles) away. \n The Islamic State group captured Mosul during a lightning advance across northern Iraq in 2014, and IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi announced the formation of a self-styled caliphate from the pulpit of a Mosul mosque. Mosul is the largest city controlled by the extremist group and its last major urban bastion in Iraq. \n Iraq's U.S.-trained special forces are seen as far more capable than the mainstream security forces that crumbled as IS advanced in 2014. They have played a central role in liberating several cities and towns over the past year, including Ramadi and Fallujah, in the western Anbar province. \n More than 25,000 forces, including the Iraqi army, the peshmerga, Sunni tribal fighters and Shiite militias are taking part in the Mosul offensive, which began Monday after months of preparation. They will be advancing on the city from several directions. \n The special forces advanced in some 150 Humvees decked with Iraqi flags and Shiite religious banners. Ali Saad, a 26-year-old soldier, said the Kurdish forces had asked them to take down the religious banners, but they refused. \n \"They asked if we were militias. We said we're not militias, we are Iraqi forces, and these are our beliefs,\" he told The Associated Press. \n Mosul is a Sunni majority town, and many fear the involvement of the Shiite militias in the operation could stoke sectarian tensions. The Shiite militias have said they will not enter the city itself, but will focus on retaking the town of Tel Afar to the west, which had a Shiite majority before it was captured by IS. \n The U.S. military is carrying out airstrikes and artillery shelling in support of the operation. More than 100 U.S. forces are embedded with the Iraqis, and hundreds more are playing a supporting role in staging bases. \n Maj. Gen. Gary Volesky, the top commander of U.S. land forces in Iraq, said Wednesday that U.S. Army Apache attack helicopters are striking IS targets in support of the operation. The deployment of U.S. attack helicopter crews brings added risk for American troops. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iraqi special forces join Mosul offensive against IS"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified a 70-year-old man who died in a single-truck crash earlier this month as Juanito Torres Sr., of Kalihi. \n His cause of death was deferred, pending investigation, the office said. \n Police said Torres was driving a 2000 GMC pickup on Poko Road in Aiea about 8:35 p.m. Oct. 3 when he veered off the road and crashed into a rock wall on Kealaluina Drive. \n He was taken to Pali Momi Medical Center where he died on Oct. 7. \n Torres was the 43rd traffic fatality on Oahu this year compared to 39 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Single-truck crash victim identified"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk unveils the company's newest products, in Hawthorne, Calif. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Tesla Motors is starting to build its electric cars with all the sensors, cameras and other gear needed to drive completely on their own when regulations allow the technology to take over that responsibility. \n The announcement made late Wednesday by Tesla CEO Elon Musk marks the Silicon Valley automaker's next step toward selling cars that can navigate the roads without the help of a human. \n Google, ride-hailing service Uber and an assortment of other automakers also are working on a range of self-driving cars in an effort to ultimately turn the steering wheel over to robots. \n Tesla has offered an automatic steering and braking system called Autopilot in its cars since last year, but that technology is meant to be monitored at all times by a driver. \n After additional testing and getting the necessary regulatory clearance, all the cars rolling off Tesla's assembly lines will have the equipment needed to be fully autonomous, Musk said. By auto-industry standards Tesla is small, making about 100,000 cars a year, although hopes to increase its production to 500,000 vehicles per year by 2018. \n Musk predicted the technology will be twice as safe as a human driver. But adding the protection will jack up prices on Tesla vehicles that already can run over $80,000 depending on what features a buyer wants. Adding the software and activating the hardware needed for a fully autonomous car will cost an additional $8,000 \u2014 a more than 20 percent increase on the cost of Tesla's $35,000 Model 3 sedan that is scheduled to be delivered next year. \n Musk said he thinks the price will prove to be a pittance if he meets his goal of improving the technology so it's eventually 10 times safer than a human driver. The cars with the fully self-driving technology will get those improvements in upgrades delivered online. \n Tesla's future cars will have eight cameras instead of the single one currently on the vehicles running the less-sophisticated Autopilot system. They will have sensors with twice the range as the current vehicles and have 40 times more computing power capable of performing 12 trillion operations per second, according to Musk. \n \"It will basically be a supercomputer in a car,\" he said. \n But it's an open question when federal and state regulators in the U.S. will settle on laws that allow robots to drive cars. \n Even if regulations were to allow it now, Tesla is conceding it's not ready to flip switch yet, saying it still needs to do more testing and gather more data. For that reason, safety features such as automatic emergency breaking, collision warning, lane holding and active cruise control that are currently available in current cars using the first generation of Autopilot won't be immediately be turned on in the vehicles designed to be fully autonomous. \n Those limitations make buying Tesla's autonomous cars a \"vanity purchase\" akin to buying a TV offering ultrahigh-definition 4K pictures when relatively little programming is available in that format, said Edmunds.com analyst Jessica Caldwell. \n \"There's also a risk that by the time all these self-driving features are fully tested and activated, other manufacturers may be ready to roll out more advanced hardware with better capabilities,\" Caldwell said. \n Consumer watchdogs have questioned whether Tesla's first Autopilot system was ready to be on the road after a driver earlier this year using the system was killed when his Model S sedan struck a tractor-trailer in Florida. Tesla maintains Autopilot wasn't at fault. Government regulators are investigating the circumstances of the accident. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tesla equipping cars to drive completely on their own"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump debated Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton during the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas on Thursday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Donald Trump painted an inaccurately dark portrait of manufacturing in America while Hillary Clinton stretched credulity in boasting that her spending plans won't add to the country's debt. As well, both struggled in the presidential final debate to explain comments from their past. \n A look at some of the claims in the debate and how they compare with the facts: \n The problem is that it takes fewer people to produce more. The United States has lost more than 7 million factory jobs, a drop of nearly 40 percent, since the 1979 manufacturing employment peak. \n Factory production, minus the cost of raw materials and certain other expenses, reached $1.91 trillion last year, according to the Commerce Department, which uses 2009 dollars to adjust for inflation. That's a notch below the record set on the eve of the Great Recession in 2007. Factories have used robotics and computers to increase output even with fewer workers. The U.S. still produces plenty of autos, planes, steel and other metals, and large industrial machinery. \n Clinton said in the speech that \"my dream is a hemispheric common market, with open trade and open borders, sometime in the future with energy that is as green as sustainable as we can get it, powering growth and opportunity for every person in the hemisphere.\" The remarks suggest a broad interest in open trade but were not necessarily evidence that she would support the unfettered movement of people, as Trump suggested. \n Clinton would have the government pay for in-state tuition at public colleges and universities for students from families earning less than $125,000 a year. Students would still need to foot the bill for housing and food, which makes up more than half of the average $18,943 sticker price at a four-year public university, according to the College Board. \n But Trump is correct that government would shoulder higher costs with Clinton's plan. \n Her plan would cost the federal government an estimated $500 billion over 10 years, with additional costs possibly for state governments. \n Two-thirds of her proposed increases would hit the top 0.1 percent of richest Americans, the center estimates. The main components of her tax plan: a minimum 30 percent tax on those earning at least $1 million a year, and a 4 percent tax surcharge for those earning more than $5 million a year. She would also cap the value of tax deductions and exclusions for wealthier taxpayers. \n Hacked emails from Clinton's campaign, released Wednesday by WikiLeaks, showed that Jake Sullivan, her top foreign policy adviser, called her a \"big champion\" of the deal and worried about how to handle the issue in the face of Sen. Bernie Sanders' opposition. She later flip-flopped into opposition during the Democratic primaries against Sanders. \n Clinton says she no longer backs the proposed trade deal as written because it does not provide enough protections for U.S. workers on wages, jobs and the country's national security. Yet the final deal also includes some of the strongest labor protections of any U.S. trade agreement. \n But it was built, contrary to Trump's assertion. Nearly 700 miles of fencing was put in place during President George W. Bush's second term and the beginning of President Barack Obama's first term. \n The fencing is placed largely in urban areas along the nearly 2,000-mile frontier. It is not the type of solid wall that Trump has pledged to construct at Mexico's expense. The fence has miles-long gaps and gates built in to allow landowners access to their property on the south side of the fencing. Immigrants have been known to go over and around the fence. \n But China and India aren't any better off than the U.S., said former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in an analysis released Wednesday. On a per-capita basis, China has just 10 percent of the United States' income. India has about 6 percent. \n Factoring in life expectancy, inequality and leisure, Bernanke notes that the United States comes off even better. \n During Obama's first term hundreds of thousands of immigrants were deported annually, following a trend of increasing deportations started under President George W. Bush. The administration set a record in 2014 when more than 409,000 people were sent home. During his second term, deportations have steadily declined as he has opted to focus immigration enforcement on deporting serious criminals and those who pose a threat to national security or public safety. \n Trump also claims that \"nobody knows about it, nobody talks about it\" and that's not so. Obama has been dubbed \"the deporter in chief\" by immigration advocates and opponents of his immigration enforcement policies. \n Russia has denied accusations that it was behind the effort. \n The full impact of next year's premium increases is going to take time to sort out, and will vary across the country. Full information will be available Nov. 1 when the HealthCare.gov market goes live. \n A study this summer by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation looked at 14 metro areas with complete information and found premiums were rising in 12 of them. The average increase for a popular option called the \"lowest-cost silver plan\" was 11 percent. \n Since then, some states have reported higher numbers. California's marketplace projected an average increase of 13.2 percent. The three insurers in Tennessee's market got increases of 44 percent, 46 percent, and 62 percent on average. In Minnesota customers will see increases ranging from 50 percent to 67 percent. \n Many consumers receive subsidies that will offset the rising premiums, but an estimated 9 million people buy individual policies outside the health law's markets and pay full freight. Many will be shocked when they get their renewal notices. \n The 2010 health care law was partly financed with cuts in future payments to hospitals, insurers and other Medicare service providers. According to projections at the time, that extended the solvency of the Medicare trust fund to 2029. Otherwise Medicare would have been unable to fully pay its bills in 2017. \n Republican budgets since then have kept Obama's Medicare cuts. \n But the health care law did not solve Medicare's financial problems. The trust fund is currently projected to be exhausted in 2028. The program's trustees have repeatedly warned Congress and the president that action is needed to sustain Medicare over the long haul. \n A 2012 report from the Pew Charitable Trusts found that 24 million voter registrations on the books were either no longer valid or inaccurate in some way. Some were failures to remove names of people who had died or moved, blamed on \"antiquated\" state registration systems. But the report didn't find or even discuss any evidence of voting fraud. \n Associated Press writers Cal Woodward, Mary Clare Jalonick, Robert Burns, Deb Riechmann, Chad Day, Stephen Braun, Jeff Horwitz, Alicia A. Caldwell and Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact Check: Trump, Clinton and their debate claims"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, center, walks with Chinese President Xi Jinping during a welcome ceremony outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, Thursday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte speaks during a press conference in Beijing, China, Wednesday. \n BEIJING >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte met with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping in Beijing as part of a charm offensive aimed at seeking trade and support from the Asian giant by setting aside a thorny territorial dispute. \n Duterte was greeted by Xi with full military honors at the Great Hall of the People, the seat of the ceremonial legislature in the heart of Beijing. The two leaders are due to oversee the signing of a raft of agreements between their governments following their discussions. \n China has hailed Duterte's visit as a step toward ending years of estrangement between the countries. Tensions ran high after the Philippines won a major arbitration lawsuit against Beijing's massive territorial claims in the South China Sea just three months ago. \n Duterte has walked a tightrope in trying to mend damaged relations with China while defending his country's claims in the disputed South China Sea. \n In Beijing, the Philippine leader known for his devil-may-care, profanity-laden speeches said Wednesday he would not raise the issue that has angered China unless his Chinese counterpart first brought it up, out of \"courtesy\" to his host. \n \"As a matter of courtesy and in the Oriental way, you always wait,\" Duterte said ahead of a meeting with members of the Filipino business community in Beijing on Wednesday. \"Because I am a visitor, I can't destroy the goodwill by just blurting out something.\" \n He also signaled a major shift in reliance on the U.S., the Philippines' long-standing defense treaty ally, telling the Filipino community members: \"So it's about time to say good-bye, my friend. Your stay in my country was for you own benefit.\" \n He has already said he wants U.S. visiting troops to leave the southern Mindanao region and to President Barack Obama \"you can go to hell.\" He has also said he would terminate joint combat exercises between Filipino and U.S. troops. \n \"No more American interference. No more American exercises. What for?\" he said Wednesday night. \"I will not go to America anymore. We will just be insulted there.\" \n In interviews with Chinese state media published and aired this week, Duterte has said \"only China can help\" his country, urging the country not to leave out the Philippines from a regional trade initiative and to give his country a railroad \"if you find it in your heart.\" \n But the overtures have drawn criticism of Duterte at home in the Philippines, where the public is wary of taking a deferential attitude to a country regarded as a bully. \n His visit is being watched by Washington for signs of just how seriously the new Philippine leader intends to pursue a shift away from Washington and toward Beijing, a move that could have a major impact on regional power dynamics. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines president cozies up to China after talking tough about the U.S."}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump talks with members of the audience after the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton speaks as Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump listens during the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas tonight. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A worker leaves the Thomas & Mack Center ahead of the third presidential debate between Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump at UNLV in Las Vegas today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump refuses to say he will accept election results"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n On Wednesday, a government panel said preteens need only get two doses of HPV vaccine instead of three, a move some hope will raise languishing HPV vaccination rates. \n NEW YORK >> It's now easier for preteens to get the cervical cancer vaccine. \n The government on Wednesday quickly adopted a recommendation that preteens get two shots instead of three and space them further apart. Health officials hope that will boost the number of girls and boys who get vaccinated. \n \"It will be simpler now for parents to get their kids the HPV vaccine series, and protect their kids from HPV cancers,\" said Dr. Nancy Messonnier of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. \n The vaccine protects against human papillomavirus \u2014 or HPV \u2014 which can cause cervical cancer, certain other cancers and genital warts. It is commonly spread through sex and, in most cases, the virus doesn't cause any problems. But some infections gradually lead to cancer. \n Health officials want kids to get HPV vaccinations at age 11 or 12, well before most first have sex and before they could be infected. \n But less than one-third of 13-year-old U.S. boys and girls have gotten three doses. Busy parents have struggled with the old schedule, which called for three trips to the doctor within six months. \n \"I know people who say 'I can't do that. Why even start?'\" said Cynthia Pellegrini, a March of Dimes official who sits on the panel. \n Recent studies have shown two doses of the current HPV vaccine \u2014 Gardasil 9 \u2014 work just as well in kids ages 9 to 14. The Food and Drug Administration two weeks ago said it could be given in two doses. \n What's more, two doses apparently work better when spaced six to 12 months apart. That means they could be given at annual checkups. \n The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices made the recommendation at a meeting in Atlanta. \n The panel stuck with three doses for anyone who doesn't get their first shot until they turn 15. That's because they didn't have enough data on how well two doses worked in older kids. \n The vaccine was first recommended in 2006 for girls, and then for boys in 2011 \u2014 partly to reduce the spread of HPV to girls. \n Vaccination rates have risen very slowly, and health officials have lamented the underuse of a potent cancer prevention tool. \n Too many doctors have been timid about promoting the shots, experts say. That's at least partly because some parents have worried the vaccination seems like they are greenlighting their kids to have sex. \n But the onerous schedule sure didn't help. \"I think it was the icing on the cake\" for parents already hesitant about HPV shots, said Dr. William Schaffner, a vaccines expert at Vanderbilt University. \n Until recently, there were three HPV vaccines on the market. Now there's only one \u2014 Merck & Co.'s Gardasil 9. This month, the company stopped selling an older version. GlaxoSmithKline phased out its vaccine, Cervarix, in the U.S. because of poor sales. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Preteens need only 2 HPV shots not 3, CDC says"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Retired Honolulu police sergeant Anson Kimura has been ordered to 60 days in jail Wednesday for accidentally shooting a bartender when his gun went off at a Honolulu bar while he was off duty. \n A state judge ordered retired Honolulu police sergeant Anson Kimura to 60 days in jail Wednesday for accidentally shooting a bartender when his gun went off at a Honolulu bar while he was off duty. \n The 60-day jail term is part of a four-year probation sentence Circuit Judge Colette Garibaldi handed Kimura for second-degree assault. Kimura, 57, pleaded guilty to the charge in August. \n Garibaldi also ordered Kimura to perform 200 hours of community service. \n Honolulu police said Kimura and the woman, a bartender at the South King Street bar, are friends and that Kimura shot her in the stomach in April last year when his gun went of accidentally. Kimura retired the following month, before the Honolulu Police Department completed its internal investigation into the shooting. \n Kimura's lawyer told Garibaldi that the gun went off while Kimura was checking to see if it was loaded. \n ", "author": "Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Former HPD sergeant gets 60 days for accidental shooting"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n The inversion layer hung thick with vog, as seen from 10,500 ft. from Mauna Kea on Jan. 12. A $1.4 billion project to build one of the world's largest telescopes is up against intense protests by Native Hawaiians and others who say building it on Mauna Kea mountain will desecrate sacred land. \n A $1.4 billion project to build one of the world's largest telescopes is up against intense protests by Native Hawaiians and others who say building it on Mauna Kea mountain will desecrate sacred land. \n Hearings for the project's construction permit are set to begin Thursday and expected to last until next month. It's the second time the project has faced the proceedings. \n This time, numerous parties are participating, including a group of Native Hawaiians who support the telescope, and dozens of witnesses are expected to testify. It's not clear when the retired judge overseeing the hearings would issue a ruling. \n Here are things to know about the embattled telescope: \n THIRTY METER TELESCOPE \n A group of universities in California and Canada plan to build the telescope with partners from China, India and Japan. Its primary mirror will measure 30 meters in diameter and be made up of 492 individual segments. Compared with the largest existing visible-light telescope in the world, it will be three times as wide, with nine times more area. \n Scientists say the telescope would allow them to see into the earliest years of the universe. The telescope could find planets around other stars in the \"habitable zone,\" where liquid water is possible on a planet's surface, the project's website says. The 13 telescopes already on Mauna Kea have played major roles in discoveries considered among the most significant to astronomy. Partners would receive a share of observing time, along with University of Hawaii scientists. \n THE LOCATION \n Telescope officials say Mauna Kea, a dormant volcano, is the best location in the world for astronomy. It's Hawaii's tallest volcano and its summit provides a clear view of the sky for 300 days a year, with little air and light pollution. Opponents say the project will desecrate land held sacred by Native Hawaiians and that there are already too many telescopes on Mauna Kea. All of the highest points in the islands are considered the home of deities, said Kealoha Pisciotta, one of the leaders in the telescope fight. \n POWER OF PROTESTERS \n Protests disrupted a groundbreaking and Hawaiian blessing ceremony at the site two years ago. After that, the protests intensified. Construction stopped in April 2015 after 31 protesters were arrested for blocking the work. A second attempt to restart construction a few months later ended with more arrests and crews retreating when they encountered large boulders in the road. The telescope has become one of the most divisive issues in the state, with some telescope supporters saying they are afraid to publicly express their stance on the project. \n HOW WE GOT HERE \n The telescope's board of directors held public meetings before selecting Mauna Kea as the preferred site in 2009. In 2011, opponents requested so-called contested-case hearings before the state land board approved a permit to build on conservation land. The hearings were held, and the permit was upheld. Opponents then sued. In December 2015, the state Supreme Court revoked the permit, ruling the land board's approval process was flawed. That meant the application process needed to be redone, requiring a new hearing. \n WHAT'S AT STAKE \n If the project dies, not only will that be bad for Hawaii astronomy, but for any high-tech industry considering Hawaii, said Paul Coleman, a Native Hawaiian astrophysicist at the University of Hawaii's Institute for Astronomy. The partners invested $170 million through the end of 2015, Thirty Meter Telescope Executive Director Ed Stone said. The project promises to create 300 construction jobs and employ 140 staff when operational. Earlier this year, telescope officials began looking for alternate sites in case the telescope can't be built in Hawaii. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Divisive bid to build telescope on Mauna Kea faces new hearing"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ROSEMARIE BERNARDO / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Firefighters pulled an 88-year-old man out of a burning Waipahu home early Friday morning. \n The city's Medical Examiner Office has identified the 88-year-old man who died after a fire at his Waipahu home as Manuel Baptista. \n The cause of death was not available at this time, officials said today. \n Firefighters responded to a two-alarm fire at Baptista's single-family home on Kipou Street Friday morning. Neighbors called 911 after seeing smoke coming from his living room window and flames inside. \n Firefighters responded and neighbors informed them that Baptista was still inside. Firefighters found him inside the living room, trying to escape. \n They brought him outside and treated him until paramedics arrived. The blaze was extinguished at 6:24 a.m. \n A battalion chief said Baptista was conscious and breathing at the time. But his condition worsened and he was in critical condition when Emergency Medical Services personnel took him to a hospital, where he died Sunday. \n The cause of the blaze is under investigation, said Honolulu Fire Department spokesman David Jenkins. Damage to the structure and its contents is estimated at $60,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waipahu man who died after house fire identified"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chief of Surgery Dr. Dean Richardson, right, and Medical Director Dr. Barbara Dallap Schaer guided a horse into a room to undergo a computerized tomography scan on Sept. 15 at the University of Pennsylvania's New Bolton Center Hospital for Large Animals in Kennett Square, Pa. \n KENNETT SQUARE, Pa. \u00bb Veterinarians hope an innovative type of CT scan can advance medical care for horses and possibly be adapted for humans, eliminating the need for people to lie still inside a tube. \n Robotic CT at the University of Pennsylvania's veterinary school allows a horse to remain awake and standing as scanners on two mechanical arms move around it. The resulting high-quality images, including some in 3D, for the first time offer detailed anatomical views of the animal in its normal, upright state. \n That's a huge difference from the standard CT for a horse, which requires administering anesthesia, placing the animal on its side and maneuvering a scanning unit around the affected area. Not all body parts fit in the machines. \n Robotic CT \"is much less stressful,\" said Dr. Barbara Dallap Schaer, medical director of Penn Vet's New Bolton Center. \"It's a pretty athletic event for horses to recover from general anesthesia.\" \n The New York-based company 4DDI created the Equimagine system with components from robot manufacturer ABB. First unveiled at Penn last spring, 4DDI now has orders for more than a dozen units at equine facilities around the world, according to CEO Yiorgos Papaioannou. \n \"The word is spreading,\" Papaioannou said. \n At Penn, the large white robotic arms are installed at a barn at New Bolton Center, the vet school's hospital for large animals in the Philadelphia exurb of Kennett Square. Horses are given a mild sedative and walked into the facility for a scan that lasts less than a minute. \n CT, or computed tomography, gives pictures of soft tissues that X-rays can't. While traditional CT requires the subject to be still, this new system compensates for slight movement. Eventually, vets hope they'll be able to capture CT images of a horse running on a treadmill. \n The ease of imaging means more horses can get preventive scans, said Dr. Dean Richardson, chief of surgery at New Bolton. As it stands, he said, many owners are reluctant to have their horses anesthetized for a diagnostic procedure because recovery can be treacherous. As the animals emerge from unconsciousness and woozily struggle to find their footing, they risk catastrophic injury if they stumble. \n \"So the whole beauty of this technology, we hope, is that we're going to be able to scan much greater numbers of patients much, much earlier in the process of things like stress-related injuries in a racehorse,\" Richardson said. \n For humans, the technology could be helpful when dealing with squirming children or claustrophobic adults. Doctors could also get clearer views of, say, spinal problems in a standing patient instead of relying on CT performed while the person is lying down. Penn's translational research team has partnered with other hospitals to look at the possibilities. \n \"This is an interesting concept \u2014 the ability to image in your natural state,\" said Dr. Raul Uppot, an assistant professor of radiology at Harvard Medical School who is not involved in the research. \"It does offer something that doesn't currently exist in the market (for humans).\" \n Equimagine's base cost is $545,000, according to Papaioannou, though he said some new customers are getting the equipment in exchange for a per-scan fee. The company plans to make another version of the system for smaller animals, he said. \n Penn's system was made possible through a donor, said Dallap Schaer, noting the cost was comparable to standard CT scanners. Overall cost for the images will be less than CT scans that require anesthesia, she said. \n Dennis Charles, of Allentown, brought his horse Bert to Penn Vet for an MRI earlier this year, before robotic CT was available. The procedure required anesthesia, and Charles said he was incredibly nervous watching a wobbly Bert regain consciousness afterward. \n Last month, the horse again needed imaging but was able to have robotic CT. Charles, who described the robotic system as looking like something out of \"Star Wars,\" said the scans assured him Bert's leg injury had healed. \n \"They get really precise images,\" he said. \"I think it's a tremendous piece of equipment.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Robotic scan for horses could hold promise for human health"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Health officials encourage the public to consider getting the hepatitis A vaccination. \n The state Department of Health has confirmed another case of hepatitis A involving a food service worker on Oahu. \n The infected employee of the McDonald's at 4618 Kilauea Ave. in Kahala worked on Sept. 20-21, 23-24, and 27-29 and Oct. 1, 4-5, 7, and 11, health officials said today in a news release. \n The case is one of two more cases of the contagious virus reported by the Health Department today, increasing the total number of people diagnosed with the disease to 291. The onset of illness has ranged between June 12 and Oct. 9. Seventy-three people have required hospitalization. \n In August, officials confirmed the source of the hepatitis A outbreak was contaminated frozen scallops imported from the Philippines. They were served raw at Genki Sushi restaurants on Oahu and Kauai. The Health Department halted all sales and distribution of the product and ordered affected Genki restaurants to shut down. They reopened three weeks later after the restaurants were thoroughly sanitized and all employees were medically screened and cleared. \n State Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Park said the McDonald's worker case \"was identified and reported to us later in their illness but had their symptom onset within the 50-day maximum incubation period from the date the scallops were embargoed.\" \n \"The department will continue to investigate all reported cases of hepatitis A and remain alert for other late-presenting cases as well as secondary cases,\" she said. \n Health officials say the chance of customers getting hepatitis A from an infected food-service worker is \"very low,\" but they make the information public as a precaution. \n They encourage people to consider getting vaccinated and to thoroughly wash their hands, especially after using the bathroom and before preparing foods. A statewide list of vaccinating pharmacies is available at http://808ne.ws/vaccinationslist or by calling the Aloha United Way information line at 211. \n The outbreak of the infectious liver disease in Hawaii, described to be the largest outbreak in the state in at least 25 years, began this summer. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Health officials confirm hepatitis A case in worker at Kahala McDonald's"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Firefighters battle a blaze after a gas explosion in Portland, Ore., today. \n PORTLAND, Ore. \u00bb A powerful natural gas explosion rocked a busy Portland, Oregon, shopping district today, injuring eight people and igniting a fire that sent a huge plume of smoke over the heart of the city. \n Three firefighters, two police officers and three civilians were hurt, and one of the firefighters was still in surgery late Wednesday for a broken leg, fire Chief Mike Myers said at a news conference. None of the injuries appeared to be life-threatening. \n A building that housed a bagel shop and a beauty salon in the popular NW 23rd Street shopping district was reduced to rubble, and its smoldering roof was splayed across the road. \n The windows of a nearby building were blown out and debris was everywhere. Firefighters swarmed the scene and dumped water from ladder trucks onto the smoking wreckage. \n NW Natural released a timeline saying the explosion occurred at 9:38 a.m. \u2014 a time when many businesses were still closed. \n City officials said a catastrophe was averted by speedy work from firefighters and police who responded to a reported gas leak and cleared the area of people before the blast. \n \"There are a lot of people alive\" who might not be \"but for the excellent work by our first responders,\" Mayor Charlie Hales said. \n One young fire lieutenant in particular \u2014 the same one with the badly broken leg \u2014 made several critical decisions that likely saved lives, Myers said. \n Fire Lt. Peter St. John positioned fire trucks and hoses in such a way that they were out of the blast zone and ran into the building to pull fire alarms when firefighters realized not everyone had evacuated as ordered, Myers said, adding that the man was new to the fire department. \n \"That man saved the lives of a lot of people today and a lot of firefighters,\" the chief said. \n Firefighters also donned their air packs and masks before the blast, an unusual move for a routine gas leak call, but one that also prevented serious facial injuries, he said. \n Portland's NW 23rd Street \u2014 nicknamed \"Trendy Third\" \u2014 is packed with boutiques, bars and restaurants. Many are on street level with pricey apartments on the upper levels and a day care facility in the vicinity. \n The utility said it got a call at 8:55 a.m. saying a construction crew had hit a gas line. Authorities and utility workers responded in 15 minutes and evacuated the building, NW Natural said in its statement. \n People in the neighborhood reported smelling gas as they were evacuated and later felt the explosion. \n The utility hasn't determined what caused the gas to ignite, but NW Natural CEO David Anderson said it was a rare event that required a certain amount of ambient gas, an enclosed space and an ignition source. \n An employee at a nearby kitchen accessories store said he was in the washroom when he felt a huge explosion and emerged to find thick smoke and haze. Scott Bergler said 15 windows in the first-floor store were blown out. \n As he evacuated the Kitchen Kaboodle shop, Bergler saw a firefighter on the ground who had been knocked flat by the blast. \n \"He was obviously in shock and crawling and having a hard time standing up,\" said Bergler, who remained shaken by the ordeal as he gathered with co-workers in a parking lot. \n Nicole Christiansen climbed exterior stairs to a rooftop of a nearby building so her 2-year-old son, Theo, could see everyone was safe. \n The child had been evacuated from his day care center just before the blast, but he heard the explosion and was scared, she said. He looked on with wide eyes and clutched a crumpled napkin from an unfinished snack as firefighters poured water on the building. \n \"I saw the smoke from way down the hill, and I realized he was impacted,\" she said. \"He has to go home.\" \n About 2,000 people remained without power and authorities weren't allowing people back into apartments, homes and businesses overnight. \n \"They're going to be displaced for a long time and there are great little businesses that are going to be closed for a long time,\" Hales said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spokesman: 2 firefighters, 2 others injured in Oregon blast"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amy Schumer attended the VH1 Big In 2015 with Entertainment Weekly Award Show in Nov. 2015, held at the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, Calif. \n NEW YORK \u00bb Amy Schumer has issued a sarcastic apology days after some people walked out of a Tampa, Florida, show in which she criticized Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. \n The comedian read a \"Dear Tampa\" letter during her show Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden in New York. She questioned how she could think it was \"OK to spend five minutes having a peaceful conversation with someone with different views.\" She also said she's sending herself \"to a rehab facility\" that will teach her \"how to make all people happy.\" \n A Tampa Bay Times reporter who saw Schumer's show Sunday estimated about 200 people walked out after she criticized Trump and questioned one of his supporters on stage. Schumer also discussed her support for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Amy Schumer issues sarcastic apology over Trump comments"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Employees sat in the contol center of the European Space Agency (ESA) inDarmstadt, Germany, today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An artist impression of the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) right, and its entry, descent and landing demonstrator module, Schiaparelli, center, approaching Mars. \n BERLIN \u00bb The European Space Agency says its experimental probe has entered the atmosphere of Mars but it doesn't yet have confirmation that the craft touched down. \n Don McCoy, the ExoMars project manager, said some data had been received from the Schiaparelli lander confirming its entry today and the deployment of its parachute \u2014 but it was too early to say more about the state of the lander at this stage. \n At the same time, ESA put Schiaparelli's mother ship, the Trace Gas Orbiter, into orbit around the red planet. \n Landing a spacecraft on Mars is notoriously difficult and several past missions have failed, including the European Space Agency's previous attempt in 2003 with the rover Beagle 2. It made it to Mars but its solar panels didn't unfold properly. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mars probe enters atmosphere; word on landing awaited"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man takes cover as strong winds and rain topple trees while Typhoon Haima lashes Narvacan, Ilocos Sur, northern Philippines on Thursday. \n NOAA/NASA's MODIS RAPID RESPONSE TEAM \n Super Typhoon Haima's cloud-filled eye was clearly visible and surrounded by thick bands of powerful thunderstorms in this satellite image taken today. \n NARVACAN, Philippines \u00bb Super Typhoon Haima weakened and blew out to sea Thursday after smashing the northern Philippines with ferocious wind and rain overnight. Flooding, landslides and power outages were evident, but large casualties appeared to have been averted after nearly 100,000 people fled to safer ground. \n Haima's blinding winds and rain had rekindled fears of the catastrophe wrought by Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, but there were no immediate reports of any major damage. Several villages are cut off by fallen trees, landslides and floods, impeding communications and aid. \n Although storms are a part of life in the country's north, many villagers were still horrified by Haima's fury. \n \"In my age, I'm 60 years old, this is the strongest typhoon I have ever seen,\" village councilor Willie Cabalteja told The Associated Press in Vigan city in Ilocos Sur province. \"We haven't slept. Trees were forced down, houses lost their roofs and fences and metal sheets were flying around all night.\" \n At least seven people were killed in the storm, officials said. But the evacuations from high-risk communities helped prevent a larger number of casualties. \n Two construction workers died when a landslide buried their shanty in La Trinidad town in the mountain province of Benguet, officials said, while two villagers perished in another landslide and another was swept away in a river and remains missing in Ifugao province, near Benguet. A 70-year-old man died apparently of a heart attack in an emergency shelter while another man died after being pinned by a fallen tree in Isabela province. One other typhoon-related death was reported in northern Ilocos region but details were not immediately available. \n Haima, with sustained winds of 225 kilometers (140 miles) per hour, hit northeastern Cagayan province late Wednesday then barreled northwestward before blowing out into the South China Sea with sustained winds of 150 kilometers (93 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 185 kph (115 mph), according to forecasters. \n Although weakening, the typhoon was expected to blow toward China, Filipino forecasters said. \n After dawn, the extent of damage in Cagayan \u2014 about 500 kilometers (310 miles) north of Manila \u2014 and nearby regions became evident, with overturned vans, toppled or leaning electric posts and debris blocking roads. Most stores, their window panes shattered and canopies shredded by the wind, were close. \n In northern Ilocos Sur province, ricefields resembled brown lakes under waist-high floodwaters, although cleanup operations had started. \n \"Search, rescue and retrieval operations are ongoing,\" Office of Civil Defense administrator Ricardo Jalad said in a statement. \n The region is still recovering from a typhoon last weekend that killed two people and displaced tens of thousands of villagers. \n President Rodrigo Duterte, on a state visit to China, urged people to heed orders by disaster agencies. Duterte is to fly home Friday. \n About 20 typhoons and storms lash the Philippines each year, adding to the burdens in a country also at risk of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. \n In November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan struck the central Philippines with ferocious power, leaving more than 7,300 people dead and displacing more than 5 million others after leveling entire villages. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Typhoon Haima leaves at least 7 dead in northern Philippines"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "U.S. MARINE CORPS \n U.S. Marines prepare to refuel a UH-1Y Venom during an aircraft delivered ground refueling training event as part of the Rim of the Pacific exercise on July 25. \n A U.S. Marine helicopter struck a power line and made an emergency landing on the North Shore Tuesday night. There were no injuries to the flight crew or civilians. \n The UH-1Y, belonging to the III Marine Expeditionary Force, was flying in an authorized training area when it struck the line about 7:45 p.m., according to Capt. Tim Irish, spokesman for the Marine Corps Base Hawaii. The aircraft was conducting a scheduled flight in the area. \n The Honolulu Police Department said officers responded to Comsat Road, which is mauka of Sunset Beach, to assist with traffic management. \n Irish said the helicopter is still on site but does not know if or when it will be moved. The cause of the incident is under investigation. \n According to the Hawaiian Electric Co., there was a report of damage to a line, but there were no power outages. \n Joanna Perez said she and her family heard sirens and saw at least six emergency vehicles drive up Comsat Road between 9:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Perez, who is staying with her son at his house on Comsat Road, said when her family left around 8:30 a.m. today, police were blocking access to Comsat Road. She said residents had to provide officers with their addresses to get in. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Marine helicopter hits power line before landing near Sunset Beach"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "KAILUA-KONA \u00bb A former Big Island police officer has died two days before he was scheduled to change his plea in an assault case. \n Smith was charged with second-degree assault for an alleged 2014 attack on a man in police custody. He was accused of dragging the suspected squatter by his hair, slamming him against a police vehicle and assaulting him inside the car. \n Smith had been off duty at the time. \n It's unclear if Smith's proposed plea change, scheduled for Tuesday, would be to guilty or no contest. \n Deputy Prosecutor Kauanoe Jackson says she couldn't comment on the plea agreement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former Big Isle officer charged in 2014 assault found dead"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Janelle Newcomb \n DENNIS ODA/ JULY 25, 2014 \n Tower 4 at the Oahu Community Correctional Center is seen behind barbed wire in this 2013 photo. \n Honolulu police recovered a hand gun today that disappeared from a restroom at Oahu Community Correctional Center. \n Honolulu police and state deputy sheriffs earlier launched a search for a woman identified as a \"person of interest\" in connection with the missing firearm. \n An OCCC adult correctional officer left a .38-caliber revolver in a public unisex restroom at the main entrance at about 1 p.m. When the officer went back to get it, the firearm was gone, said Toni Schwartz, Department of Public Safety spokeswoman. \n A former pretrial detainee, Janelle Newcomb, 35, was seen in the area and was identified as a person of interest, according to a DPS news release. \n She was located and arrested, and the gun was recovered Wednesday evening, Schwartz said. \n Newcomb had been released from OCCC on Oct. 13 when her case for harassment, liquor in a public place and unauthorized possession of confidential personal information was dismissed. She was picking up personal belongings at OCCC today. \n Schwartz said an administrative investigation has been opened, but the investigation was ongoing and she could not provide information on the officer and any possible disciplinary actions. \n \"This situation is one that we take very seriously,\" said DPS Director Nolan Espinda in a statement. \"A full investigation is being conducted so we can make sure safeguards are in place to prevent this from happening again.\" \n Schwartz said only correctional officers working outside the secured perimeter are permitted to carry firearms. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Guard's gun missing from prison is recovered"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "CHRISTINA CHUN / JAN. 2014 \n Honolulu city lights, facing Diamond Head Crater, as seen from Puu Ualakaa State Park on Round Top Drive. \n Hawaiian Electric Co. launched a pilot program for residential customers who want to be charged less for their energy use during the day and more for their energy use at night. \n The state's largest electric utility announced today that up to 5,000 customers have the option to be a part of HECO's time-of-use program, which charges three different electric rates throughout the day. Oahu residents who enroll in the time-of-use program will pay: 14.9 cents for every kilowatt-hour from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 37.3 cents for every kWh from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.; and 23.7 cents for every kWh from 10 p.m. to 9 a.m. \n That compares to the current flat rate on Oahu of 24.1 cents for every kWh. Traditionally, HECO, Maui Electric Co. and Hawaii Electric Light Co. offer one rate, which does not change based on time of day. \n In September, the Public Utilities Commission ordered HECO and its sister companies to offer residential customers a time-of-use rate program. The PUC said the time-of-use rates would encourage residents to shift their energy use to the day time when the most solar power is produced, which will allow more renewable energy to be added to the grid. \n HECO said customers who do laundry, cook, or heat water during the day could save money. Residential customers who charge electric vehicles during the day or own energy storage systems could also save money by opting into the program, HECO said. \n The program will run for two years. \n Participating customers will receive information on their bills that compares their costs under the time-of-use program and the normal residential rate for electricity. HECO said customers have the option to stop using the program before the two-year pilot is complete. \n Oahu: (808) 548-7311 \n Maui: (808) 871-9777 \n Molokai and Lanai: 1-877-871-8461 \n Hilo: (808) 969-6999 \n Kona: (808) 329-3584 \n Waimea: (808) 885-4605 \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HECO offers cheaper daytime, costly night rates"}

{"date": "October 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Azalea, whose Korean name is \"Dallae\", a 19-year-old female chimpanzee, lights a cigarette at the Central Zoo in Pyongyang, North Korea. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> Pyongyang's newly opened zoo has a new star: Azalea, the smoking chimpanzee. \n According to officials at the newly renovated zoo, which has become a favorite leisure spot in the North Korean capital since it re-opened in July, the 19-year-old female chimpanzee, whose name in Korean is \"Dallae,\" smokes about a pack a day. Dallae is short for azalea. \n They insist, however, she doesn't inhale. \n Thrown a lighter by a zoo trainer, the chimpanzee lights her own cigarettes. If a lighter isn't available, she can light up from lit cigarette if one is tossed her way. \n Though such a sight would be cringe-worthy in many other locales, it seemed to delight visitors who roared with laughter on Wednesday as the chimpanzee, one of two at the zoo, sat puffing away as her trainer egged her on. The trainer also prompted her to touch her nose, bow thank you and do a simple dance. \n The zoo is pulling in thousands of visitors a day with a slew of attractions ranging from such typical fare as elephants, giraffes, penguins and monkeys to a high-tech natural history museum with displays showing the origins of the solar system and the evolution of life on Earth. \n Another of the most popular attractions that might come as a surprise to foreign visitors is the dog pavilion, which has everything from German shepherds to Shih Tsus. The zoo also has performances featuring other animals trained to do tricks, including a monkey that slam dunks basketballs, dogs trained to appear as though they can do addition on subtraction on an abacus and doves that fly around and land on a woman skating on an indoor stage. \n Renovations for the new zoo began in 2014, as part of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's efforts to create more modern and impressive structures and leisure centers around the capital. The zoo actually dates back to 1959, when Kim Il Sung, the nation's first leader and the grandfather of Kim Jong Un, ordered it built on the outskirts of the city. \n According to its official history, the zoo started off with only 50 badgers. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Meet Azalea the smoking chimp, new star at Pyongyang zoo"}

