{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he worked with the International Refugee Assistance Project to help secure a government visa waiver of Trump's order. \n NEW YORK >> New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said today that an Iranian infant banned from entering the United States for life-saving heart surgery under President Donald Trump's executive order will now be allowed to travel for the emergency procedure. \n The family had an appointment in Dubai to get a tourist visa, but it was abruptly canceled earlier this week after Trump announced his executive order on immigration banning travel to the U.S. by people from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iran. Four-month-old Fatemeh Reshad was forced to return home. \n Iranian doctors told the child's parents weeks ago that she needed at least one urgent surgery \u2014 and maybe several \u2014 to correct serious heart defects, or she will die, according to her uncle, Samad Taghizadeh, a U.S. citizen who lives in Portland. \n Cuomo said Manhattan's Mount Sinai Medical Center had offered to perform the critical surgery, but the family finally chose to do it in Portland, Ore., both because of the hospital's pediatric cardiology expertise and proximity to the baby's uncle and grandparents. \n \"This evening we were pleased to learn that the federal government has now granted Fatemeh Reshad and her family boarding documents to come to the United States,\" the governor said in a statement. \"We will continue to work with the International Refugee Assistance Project and their partners to ensure this baby receives the treatment she needs, and fight for those being unfairly shut out of America's gates by this policy.\" \n Cuomo said he worked with the organization to help secure a government visa waiver of Trump's order. \n \"Bizarrely, the federal ban would prevent this child from receiving medical care and literally endanger her life,\" Cuomo said. \"It is repugnant to all we believe as Americans and as members of the human family.\" \n Doctors in Iran sent the results of an echocardiogram and other records that show Fatemeh has structural abnormalities and two holes in her heart, said Jennifer Morrissey, a Portland attorney helping with the case. She said the infant is expected in Portland early next week. \n The issue is time, Taghizadeh told the AP. \"She's in an emergency situation and if it takes a long time, they're going to lose her.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iranian baby will be allowed into U.S. for life-saving surgery"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protestor burned a poster depicting U.S. President Donald Trump during a rally outside the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia. \n JAKARTA, Indonesia >> Indonesian and Filipino students on Saturday protested President Donald Trump's immigration policy outside the U.S. embassies in their capitals. \n In Jakarta, dozens of students and activists from several rights groups called on the Indonesian government and the international community to help stop Trump's order that temporarily banned travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries. They do not include Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, and the Philippines, a key U.S. ally. \n However, Indonesia is home to nearly 14,000 refugees seeking resettlement in third countries, and Trump's ban will significantly impact their chances of going to the U.S., said rights activist Veronica Koman, who organized the protest. \n A U.S. judge today imposed a nationwide hold on Trump's ban on travelers and immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Libya and Yemen, siding with two states that had challenged the executive order that has launched legal battles across the country. \n \"We are here to protest Trump's xenophobic and Islamophobia policies,\" Koman said. \n Protesters waved banners such as \"I'm angry with Trump\" and \"No ban, no wall.\" \n \"Actually this is not only for Muslims but this is war against humanity because the immigrants or refugees around the world, not only from Muslim countries, don't have to be treated like this,\" said activist Filza Inanuma. \"Everybody should have rights to go everywhere they want for their protection, for their life.\" \n A similar rally was held outside the seaside U.S. Embassy in the Philippine capital, Manila, where protesters burned a portrait of Trump. No violence was reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indonesians, Filipinos protest Trump's immigration policy"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Japanese Defense Minister Tomomi Inada met in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said Saturday the U.S. cannot afford to ignore destabilizing moves by Iran, but has no plans to respond by increasing American military forces in the Middle East. \n Mattis spoke at a joint news conference in Tokyo with his Japanese counterpart, Tomomi Inada. Mattis held a series of high-level meetings in Seoul and Tokyo this week on his first overseas trip as Pentagon chief. He was returning to Washington Saturday. \n Asked about U.S. concern about China's militarization of artificial islands in the South China Sea, Mattis was critical of China's moves but said U.S. military action was not appropriate. \n In an opening statement at his news conference, Mattis also explicitly stated that the Trump administration will stick to the previous U.S. stance that the U.S.-Japan security treaty applies to defending Japan's continued administration of the Senkaku islands in the East China Sea, which are contested by China. \n In response, China's Foreign Ministry reasserted its claim of sovereignty over the tiny, uninhabited islands and called on the U.S. to cease \"making wrong remarks\" over the issue. \n Saturday's news conference was Mattis' first since taking office Jan. 20. He is the first career military officer to serve as defense secretary since George C. Marshall, a former Army chief of staff, in 1950-51 during the Korean War. Mattis served 41 years in the Marine Corps, including a stint on Okinawa. \n Mattis' task in South Korea and Japan was to assure each government that the Trump administration will stick by its treaty obligations. President Donald Trump had said during the campaign that the alliances were a bad deal for America because the allies do too little for U.S. security. \n Mattis addressed this head-on. \n \"Japan has made noteworthy contributions to regional security and to the alliance, and the United States deeply appreciates Japan's contributions,\" he said. \"But make no mistake: In my meeting with Japanese leaders, both our nations recognize that we must not be found complacent in the face of the challenges we face.\" \n The U.S. has 28,500 troops in South Korea and about 50,000 in Japan. \n On the Iran issue, Trump administration officials have said they were actively considering a \"range of options,\" including economic measures and increased support for Iran's regional adversaries. \n Today, the administration ordered sanctions against more than two dozen people and companies from the Persian Gulf to China in retaliation for Iran's recent ballistic missile test. Those targeted by the Treasury Department include Iranian, Lebanese, Emirati and Chinese individuals and firms involved in procuring ballistic missile technology for Iran. \n The Trump White House has left unsaid whether military action would be part of intensifying pressure on Iran. \n Iran \"is the single biggest state sponsor of terrorism in the Middle East,\" Mattis said Saturday. \"I think it is wise to make certain that Iran recognizes that what it is doing is getting the attention of a lot of people.\" \n He added: \"It does no good to ignore it. It does no good to dismiss it. At the same time, I don't see any need to increase the number of forces we have in the Middle East at this time.\" \n During his tenure as commander of U.S. Central Command, which ended in 2013, Mattis was known to have pushed for more aggressive actions against Iran than the Obama White House would tolerate. He has called Iran the biggest threat in the Middle East. \n One of the few specifics Mattis offered at his Senate confirmation hearing on combatting the Islamic State group in Syria was that he believed the campaign to take Raqqa should be accelerated. Since then he has said little on the subject. \n The Obama administration had set a limit of about 500 US troops in Syria, a policy derived from then-President Barack Obama's resistance to getting drawn into another war in the Middle East. \n U.S. special operations troops have been working in small groups with local Syrian opposition fighters, both Kurdish and Arab, as part of a strategy to gradually retake Raqqa, the Islamic State group's declared capital. The U.S. also has been conducting airstrikes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pentagon chief says U.S. has no plans to increase Mideast forces"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Defense Secretary Jim Mattis was disappointed Vincent Viola withdrew his name from consideration. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's nominee for Army secretary, businessman Vincent Viola, has withdrawn his name from consideration for the post. \n Defense Secretary Jim Mattis was disappointed but understood and respected Viola's decision, a Pentagon statement said. Mattis will recommend to Trump another candidate soon, the statement said. \n A Trump administration official confirmed tonight that Viola had withdrawn. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the official wasn't authorized to speak publicly. \n The Military Times reported that Viola said in a statement he was \"deeply honored\" to be nominated but cited his inability to successfully navigate the confirmation process and Defense Department rules concerning family businesses. \n Viola was the founder of several businesses, including the electronic trading firm Virtu Financial. He also owns the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers and is a past chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange. \n A 1977 West Point graduate, Viola trained as an Airborne Ranger infantry officer and served in the 101st Airborne Division. In 2003, he founded and helped fund the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's nominee for Army secretary withdraws his name"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson spoke to reporters following a hearing in federal court in Seattle today. \n SEATTLE >> A U.S. judge today imposed a nationwide hold on President Donald Trump's ban on travelers and immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, siding with two states that had challenged the executive order that has launched legal battles across the country. \n U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle ruled that Washington state and Minnesota had standing to challenge Trump's order, which government lawyers disputed, and said they showed their case was likely to succeed. About 60,000 people from the affected countries had their visas cancelled. \n \"The state has met its burden in demonstrating immediate and irreparable injury,\" Robart said. \"This TRO (temporary restraining order) is granted on a nationwide basis \u2026\" \n It wasn't immediately clear what happens next for people who had waited years to receive visas to come to America, however an internal email circulated among Homeland Security officials told employees to comply with the ruling immediately. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer released a statement late today saying they \"will file an emergency stay of this outrageous order and defend the executive order of the President, which we believe is lawful and appropriate.\" Soon after, the White House sent out a new statement that removed the word \"outrageous.\" \n \"The president's order is intended to protect the homeland and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to protect the American people,\" the statement said. \n Trump's order last week sparked protests nationwide and confusion at airports as some travelers were detained. The White House has argued that it will make the country safer. \n Washington became the first state to sue over the order that temporarily bans travel for people from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Libya and Yemen and suspends the U.S. refugee program. \n State Attorney General Bob Ferguson said the travel ban significantly harms residents and effectively mandates discrimination. Minnesota joined the lawsuit two days later. \n After the ruling, Ferguson said people from the affected countries can now apply for entry to the U.S. \n \"Judge Robart's decision, effective immediately \u2026 puts a halt to President Trump's unconstitutional and unlawful executive order,\" Ferguson said. \"The law is a powerful thing \u2014 it has the ability to hold everybody accountable to it, and that includes the president of the United States.\" \n Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, said the agency doesn't comment on pending litigation. The judge's ruling could be appealed the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. \n The judge's written order, released late today, said it's not the court's job to \"create policy or judge the wisdom of any particular policy promoted by the other two branches\" of government. \n The court's job \"is limited to ensuring that the actions taken by the other two branches comport with our country's laws.\" \n Robart ordered federal defendants \"and their respective officers, agents, servants, employees, attorneys and persons acting in concert or participation with them are hereby enjoined and restrained from\" enforcing the executive order. \n A State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity because the matter is under litigation, said today: \"We are working closely with the Department of Homeland Security and our legal teams to determine how this affects our operations. We will announce any changes affecting travelers to the United States as soon as that information is available.\" \n Federal attorneys had argued that Congress gave the president authority to make decisions on national security and immigrant entry. \n The two states won a temporary restraining order while the court considers the lawsuit, which aims to permanently block Trump's order. Court challenges have been filed nationwide from states and advocacy groups. \n In court, Washington Solicitor General Noah Purcell said the focus of the state's legal challenge was the way the president's order targeted Islam. \n Trump has called for a ban on Muslims entering the country, and the travel ban was an effort to make good on that campaign promise, Purcell told the judge. \n \"Do you see a distinction between campaign statements and the executive order,\" Robart asked. \"I think it's a bit of a reach to say the president is anti-Muslim based on what he said in New Hampshire in June.\" \n Purcell said there was an \"overwhelming amount of evidence\" to show that the order was directed at the Muslim religion, which is unconstitutional. \n When the judge questioned the federal government's lawyer, Michelle Bennett, he repeatedly questioned the rationale behind the order. \n Robart, who was appointed the federal bench by President George W. Bush, asked if there had been any terrorist attacks by people from the seven counties listed in Trump's order since 9/11. Bennett said she didn't know. \n \"The answer is none,\" Robart said. \"You're here arguing we have to protect from these individuals from these countries, and there's no support for that.\" \n Bennett argued that the states can't sue on behalf of citizens and the states have failed to show the order is causing irreparable harm. \n Robart disagreed. \n Up to 60,000 foreigners from the seven majority-Muslim countries had their visas canceled because of the executive order, the State Department said Friday. \n That figure contradicts a statement from a Justice Department lawyer on the same day during a court hearing in Virginia about the ban. The lawyer in that case said about 100,000 visas had been revoked. \n The State Department clarified that the higher figure includes diplomatic and other visas that were actually exempted from the travel ban, as well as expired visas. \n Ferguson, a Democrat, said the order is harming Washington residents, businesses and its education system. \n Washington-based businesses Amazon, Expedia and Microsoft support the state's efforts to stop the order. They say it's hurting their operations, too. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge temporarily blocks Trump's travel ban nationwide"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Munther Alaskry, accompanied by his wife Hiba, son Hassan, and daughter Dima arrived at New York's JFK International Airport. \n NEW YORK >> Munther Alaskry first bonded with American Marines over a shared love of Metallica. He later cleared roads of bombs for U.S. troops and translated for them, helping the military navigate his war-torn country. \n The 37-year-old Iraqi engineer spent nearly a decade working for the U.S. government in his home country and received death threats for doing so. \n A bespectacled Alaskry, his wife and children stepped onto American soil to begin new lives today. His arrival ended an anxiety-filled week in which he was initially banned from the United States because of President Donald Trump's immigration order. \n His life, he said, had suddenly turned into a feel-good film. \n \"I don't believe this is real,\" he said. \"We always watch American movies, and this is just like my life is in one now. I'm speechless.\" \n Alaskry waited seven years for a special visa to the United States. But the last week seemed the longest: He and his family were booted off the final leg of their U.S.-bound flight only hours after Trump's Jan. 27 executive order halted travel from Iraq and six other Muslim-majority countries to the United States for 90 days. \n His wife was shaking as she was escorted off the plane in Turkey. Their children were crying. \n When they returned to Baghdad, the ordeal kept him up at night. Alaskry thought their hopes of living free from death threats had been shattered. Then the U.S. Embassy called and told Alaskry he would be welcome. \n After arriving in New York at last, the family filled out paperwork for five hours. Alaskry said he felt like emotionally he had gone between \"hell and heaven.\" \n Less than a week ago, he struggled to console his 7-year-old daughter, who had asked him through tears \"Why the Americans don't want us?\" \n Today, his daughter clutched a colorful paper sign covered in hearts and the words \"Welcome Munther and family.\" It was given to the girl by a woman from a New York synagogue who volunteered to give the family a ride to a hotel. \n \"I'm so excited,\" Alaskry said at the hotel, where his children were playing with Legos, blocks and other toys given to them by New Yorkers who turned out to help. \n Alaskry was among nearly a dozen Iraqi interpreters who told the Associated Press they were taken off planes or were told their flights were cancelled after Trump's order, which also banned refugees from Syria indefinitely. \n The ban outraged combat veterans who credited the Iraqis with saving their lives. The Pentagon recommended that Iraqis who had supported the U.S. mission be let in. \n Days after the order, U.S. Embassy officials in Baghdad began contacting Iraqis who had received special immigrant visas because they worked for the U.S. government during the war. Among them were Alaskry and a 26-year-old man who had worked for the State Department vetting Iraqi contractors. \n Alaskry first started working for the U.S. military in 2003 after meeting Marines in the streets of Baghdad. He translated for the Army and National Guard and then cleared away bombs. In 2005, he fled to Jordan after a threatening letter was left hanging from his car door. \n He returned to Iraq and got a job with an Iraqi company that supported K-9 teams for the U.S. mission and later worked for a U.S. government-funded project that provided information on health care and trauma to Iraqis displaced by the fighting. \n All the while, he waited for his visa to the U.S., hoping to raise his children in a safe place. He applied when his daughter was a year old and was still waiting four years later when his son was born. \n Meanwhile, he and his family limited their outings, afraid of the violence and crime. After hundreds of emails, multiple interviews and medical exams, he got the call in December. The visas were ready. \n Alaskry promised his daughter that she would finally see Disneyland. He quit his job, sold his car and other belongings and bought their plane tickets, spending more than $5,000. \n After he and his family were pulled from the plane in Turkey, he had to buy four more tickets to return to Baghdad. \n They sat in silence in a taxi as they went to his in-laws' home. \n \"I felt so alone,\" Alaskry said. \n Then he turned on the TV and saw the protests at U.S. airports. \n \"Every time I see those people protesting on the news, I cry,\" Alaskry said. \"It's touching to me. These people don't know me. They don't know my story, though there are hundreds like me who supported the American troops.\" \n When Trump was elected, Alaskry said, he was happy because he believed he would help Iraq get rid of the Islamic State group. \n \"I just want to tell Mr. Trump, President Trump: 'We are your allies,'\" he said. \"Please let us be your friends. We want to be your friends. Don't let the Iraqi people down. We look to America like it is our big brother.\" \n In the end, he said, U.S. veterans, including the veteran-run No One Left Behind organization, came to his rescue during what he felt were his life's darkest moments after his return to Baghdad. \n \"When I lost hope, they told me they would fight for me, and that's what they did,\" he said. \n Now he can fulfill his daughter's dream of going to Disneyland. But first on his list was a different tourist site: the Statue of Liberty. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iraqi interpreter who helped American Marines arrives in U.S."}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "KXMB VIA AP \n Aerial image taken from a video by KXMB in Bismarck, N.D., showed law enforcement officers lined up against protesters during the eviction of about 40 Dakota Access pipeline opponents from a camp on Feb. 1. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >>The developer of the Dakota Access pipeline will have to present evidence at a hearing to prove the company didn't willfully violate North Dakota rules when it failed to provide details of how it planned to avoid disturbing Native American artifacts during construction, state regulators said. \n Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners last October diverted construction of the $3.8 billion pipeline around artifacts without running the plan by the Public Service Commission, which oversees pipelines. Commission staffers say that warrants a fine of at least $15,000, even though the artifacts weren't disturbed. \n ETP maintains it didn't intentionally violate state rules and that public comments in November by Public Service Commission Chairwoman Julie Fedorchak illustrate the minor nature of the incident. Fedorchak said she was \"disappointed\" with the developer's conduct but acknowledged it might have resulted from miscommunication within the company. \n The three-member commission on Tuesday rejected the company's request to dismiss the complaint, saying whether there was a willful violation should be determined at a hearing. The commission's order also contends Fedorchak's comments aren't relevant. \n \"Commissioner Fedorchak has the ability to speak for herself, but only the Commission can speak for the Commission,\" the order states. \n The Associated Press left a message for ETP spokeswoman Vicki Granado asking for comment Friday. \n An administrative law judge will oversee the hearing, but the commission will make the final decision on a fine. The hearing wasn't immediately scheduled. \n The four-state, 1,200-mile pipeline would transport North Dakota oil to Illinois. Work is stalled due to a dispute over whether Energy Transfer Partners has permission to lay pipe under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota that's the source of drinking water for the Standing Rock Sioux. The Army this week began reviewing an earlier decision not to grant permission until more study is done about the tribe's fears that a pipeline leak would contaminate its water. \n Protests against the pipeline have resulted in nearly 700 arrests in southern North Dakota since August. The most recent came Wednesday, when American Indian activist Chase Iron Eyes and 73 others were arrested after a group of protesters set up teepees on land that authorities say is owned by the pipeline developer. Protesters said they were peacefully assembling on land they believe rightfully belongs to American Indians. \n Iron Eyes was charged today with inciting a riot, a felony that carries a maximum punishment of five years in prison. He also faces a misdemeanor count of criminal trespass. Iron Eyes, who made an unsuccessful bid for Congress last fall, told the Associated Press that he feels he was unfairly targeted because he's a public figure and has been a vocal opponent of the pipeline. He said he will plead not guilty and fight the charges. \n The Army Corps of Engineers said on Friday that it notified remaining protesters camped near Lake Oahe that the government-owned land will be closed beginning Feb. 22 because of a threat of injury or death from flooding. The Corps said there also is a danger of debris and waste from the camp polluting the Cannonball River and the lake. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Proposed fine against Dakota Access company to get hearing"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Gov. David Ige appointed First Circuit Chief Judge Derrick H.M. Chan to the Intermediate Court of Appeals. \n Gov. David Ige has appointed First Circuit Chief Judge Derrick H.M. Chan to the Intermediate Court of Appeals, the governor's office announced Friday. \n The 61-year-old Chan fills the vacancy left by Associate Judge Daniel R. Foley, who retired in December. \n Chan was chosen from a list of six nominees provided by the Judicial Selection Commission on Jan. 4. The Senate must confirm his appointment. \n \"In his years on the bench, Judge Chan has adjudicated cases in both family and drug courts, in criminal and civil trials, and in probate court,\" Ige said in a written statement. \"As an attorney, he represented individuals, organizations and the state. I have full faith in his ability to continue his service in the judicial system at the Intermediate Court of Appeals.\" \n The Intermediate Court of Appeals hears almost all appeals from the trial courts. \n Chan was appointed a Circuit Court judge on Aug. 25, 2000. He served as Kauai County's first deputy prosecutor, and as attorney for the Hawaii Carpenters Union. He was a state public defender and a law clerk to Judge Wilfred Watanabe. \n He also served as state deputy attorney general. Chan graduated in 1985 from the California Western School of Law. \n \"I'm honored that the governor has the confidence in me to fill this position,\" Chan said in written statement. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Governor makes Intermediate Court of Appeals pick"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tracy Ryan, a transgender activist, talked today at the Hawaii Capitol about why she's pushing a bill to legalize prostitution. \n Hawaii lawmakers are considering decriminalizing prostitution in the state after the speaker of the House introduced a bill that would also legalize buying sex and acting as a pimp. \n The proposal also would end a state law that says police officers cannot have sex with prostitutes in the course of investigations. \n Transgender activist Tracy Ryan said she is trying to convince state lawmakers to pass the bill because transgender women are overrepresented in the sex trade and therefore disproportionately affected by criminalization laws. \n House Speaker Joseph Souki said in an interview that he does not have a position on the bill and he introduced it as a favor for Ryan. \n \"I don't like seeing people sent to jail that don't belong there,\" Ryan said. \n But longtime anti-sex-trafficking advocate Kathryn Xian said that legalizing the selling, promoting or buying of sex would make it harder to police the industry. \n \"If this bill passes and everything was no crime whatsoever, then abuses against women and children would just shoot through the freaking roof,\" Xian said. \"It would be exponentially harder to prove violence in the industry. It would be almost impossible to prove any sort of labor abuse.\" \n Asked about the part of the bill that strikes language preventing police from having sex with prostitutes during investigations, Souki said: \"No, again I have nothing to say about the bill.\" \n Hawaii has an unusual history with prostitution investigations. Until 2014, it was legal for police officers to have sex with prostitutes as part of investigations, but state lawmakers changed that after The Associated Press highlighted the loophole in a story. \n The Honolulu Police Department did not immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment about the bill. \n Ryan wants to preserve the law preventing police from having sex with prostitutes to arrest them if the bill does not pass, but \"if they can't arrest them anyway because it's no longer illegal, it's a moot point,\" she said. \n Honolulu Prosecuting Attorney Keith Kaneshiro said the bill would make it harder to address global sex trafficking because \"it would be more difficult to find the bad actors, more difficult to get witnesses to make cases.\" \n Michael Golojuch Jr., chairman of the LGBT caucus of the Democratic Party of Hawaii, said transgender women are overrepresented compared with other women in the sex trade because the discrimination they face leads some to feel it's the only kind of work they can get. \n Golojuch personally supports the idea of decriminalizing prostitution, but he said he and the caucus had not yet taken an official position on the bill. \n \"My dream job would be union organizer for consensual sex workers,\" Golojuch said. \"It would be great for people who want to do that work to unionize them and empower them so that they are taken care of.\" \n Not everyone thinks legalizing prostitution would benefit sex workers. \n \"By normalizing sexual exploitation and recasting it as a career choice that has no harms attached, we're creating a setting and a system where we are OK with objectifying women, where we're OK with buying other human beings' bodies, and that has effects that are far-reaching in terms of how women are treated,\" said Khara Jabola, chapter coordinator of Af3irm Hawaii, a feminist group. \n The bill and another to decriminalize marijuana may be part of a push to reduce the prison population, House Majority Leader Scott Saiki said. \n But any decriminalization bills are unlikely to pass before the Legislature gets a report from a working group that has been meeting on the topic. That report isn't expected before the session ends, Saiki said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii bill would legalize prostitution industry"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump held up an executive order after signing it in the Oval Office of the White House today in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump launched his long-promised attack today on banking rules that were rushed into law after the nation's economic crisis, signing new orders after meeting with business and investment chiefs and pledging further action to free big banks from restrictions. Wall Street cheered him on, but Trump risks disillusioning his working-class voters. \n He directed his Treasury secretary to review the devilishly complex 2010 Dodd-Frank financial oversight law, which was signed by President Barack Obama to overhaul regulations after the financial and housing crisis of the past decade. It aimed to restrain banks' from misdeeds that many blamed for the crisis. \n The new president also signed a memorandum instructing the Labor Department to delay an Obama-era rule that requires financial professionals who charge commissions to put their clients' best interests first when giving advice on retirement investments. \n While the order on Dodd-Frank, named after its Democratic sponsors, won't have an immediate impact, Trump's intent is clear. The law has been a disaster in restricting banks' activities, he said earlier this week. \"We're going to be doing a big number on Dodd-Frank.\" \n During a meeting with business leaders, including JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon on Friday, he said, \"Frankly I have so many people, friends of mine that have nice businesses that can't borrow money. They just can't get any money because the banks just won't let 'em borrow because of the rules and regulations of Dodd-Frank.\" \n Those regulations unnecessarily cramp the U.S. economy and job creation, he declared. But many Democrats see it differently, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who was behind the formation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, formed as part of the Dodd-Frank law. \n \"Donald Trump talked a big game about Wall Street during his campaign \u2014 but as president, we're finding out whose side he's really on,\" Warren said in a statement. \"The Wall Street bankers and lobbyists whose greed and recklessness nearly destroyed this country may be toasting each other with champagne, but the American people have not forgotten the 2008 financial crisis \u2014 and they will not forget what happened today.\" \n The crisis touched off the worst recession since the 1930s Great Depression, wiping out $11 trillion in U.S. household wealth and leaving about 8 million Americans jobless. U.S. taxpayers funded multibillion-dollar bailouts of Wall Street mega-banks, smaller banks across the country and other financial firms. \n Eight years on, the economy's recovery has been halting, a situation that contributed to Trump's election. Beyond being fed up with bailouts, consumers have an interest in the Financial Protection Bureau, which expanded regulators' ability to police a wide array of financial products and services. \n During his campaign, Trump pledged to repeal and replace the law, but he also railed against Wall Street excess and vowed to hold the industry accountable for the crisis. His rhetoric left questions about how closely he would align with the financial services industries' years-long fight to undo regulations they view as burdensome. \n Since winning the White House, Trump has cleared up some of those questions. He has filled his administration with millionaires and financiers and signed the orders after meeting with top CEOs and banking executives. \n In his other action Friday, Trump's presidential memorandum on financial advisers delayed implementation of the past administration's \"fiduciary rule,\" aimed at blocking consultants from steering clients toward investments with higher commissions and fees that can eat away at retirement savings. The rule was to take effect in April. \n The financial services industry argues that the rule would limit retirees' investment choices by forcing asset managers to steer them to low-risk options. \n Meanwhile, unwinding most of Dodd-Frank will require legislation, and on Capitol Hill the Republicans' yearning to cut it down is as strong as ever. But tax reform, reworking \"Obamacare\" and other issues are more immediate priorities, some Republicans suggest. Further, the big Wall Street banks already have baked in many of the Dodd-Frank rules and aren't clamoring to unwind all of them. \n Aiming lower, in the pre-dawn hours of Friday, Congress passed and sent to Trump for his signature legislation striking down a rule that requires oil and gas companies to disclose payments to the U.S. or foreign governments for commercial development. \n Critics warn that rolling back the Dodd-Frank regulations would put the economy at risk. \n \"You can blow up the financial system and really crush the American economy. I think that's where they're headed,\" said Michael S. Barr, a former assistant treasury secretary for financial institutions and a key architect of the law. \n The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a prime target within the law for Republican lawmakers, who have long accused it of overreach. But there are political risks in Trump taking a hatchet to a watchdog agency focused on protecting ordinary consumers against abusive practices by banks, mortgage companies, credit card issuers, payday lenders, debt collectors and others. \n Over five years, the agency says, it has recovered $11.7 billion that it returned to more than 27 million harmed consumers. \n \"You could expect pushback, that this is about favoring Wall Street over Main Street,\" said Phillip Swagel, an assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush administration. \n Going after the bureau, Barr said, would likely hurt consumers, \"including some of President Trump's strongest supporters.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n Follow Colvin on Twitter at https://twitter.com/colvinj \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump launches his attack on banks' financial restraints"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters cheered as an Iranian citizen with a valid U.S. visa arrived at Los Angeles International Airport on Thursday. An Iranian man turned away from Los Angeles International Airport under President Donald Trump's executive order barring people from seven Muslim-majority nations arrived back in the U.S. under a federal judge's order. \n WASHINGTON >> Up to 60,000 foreigners from seven majority-Muslim countries had their visas canceled after President Donald Trump's executive order blocked them from traveling to the U.S., the State Department said Friday. \n That figure contradicts a Justice Department lawyer's statement Friday during a court hearing in Virginia about the ban. The lawyer in that case said that about 100,000 visas had been revoked. \n The State Department clarified that the higher figure includes diplomatic and other visas that were actually exempted from the travel ban, as well as expired visas. \n Trump's order, issued last Friday, temporarily bans travel for people from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Libya and Yemen. It also temporarily halts the U.S. refugee program. \n The hearing was focused on Virginia's efforts to join a legal challenge from legal permanent residents. Erez Reuveni, a lawyer with the Justice Department's Office of Immigration Litigation, urged U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema to keep the lawsuit focused only on lawful permanent residents, who were the subject of the initial lawsuit. Virginia sought to intervene in the case and expand it to include other people traveling to the U.S. on visas. \n Brinkema asked Reuveni how many people were affected by the executive order. He said the number of cases involving lawful permanent residents is very small. But including all visas covered by the order, he said, \"over 100,000 visas have been revoked.\" He did not provide details. \n Will Cocks, a spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs, clarified the figure after the court hearing. \n \"Fewer than 60,000 individuals' visas were provisionally revoked to comply with the executive order,\" Cocks said. \"We recognize that those individuals are temporarily inconvenienced while we conduct our review under the executive order. To put that number in context, we issued over 11 million immigrant and nonimmigrant visas in fiscal year 2015. As always, national security is our top priority when issuing visas.\" \n Simon Sandoval-Moshenberg, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers, said after the hearing that \"there is no legal justification to cancel all these visas.\" \n Brinkema decided to let Virginia join the case, transforming a lawsuit that had been focused on a narrow sliver of those affected into a battle that could affect the rights of tens of thousands of would-be immigrants and visitors. \n Associated Press reporters Matthew Barakat in Alexandria, Virginia, and Matthew Lee in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State Dept: Fewer than 60,000 visas canceled by Trump order"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shipyard workers attended the decommissioning ceremony of the USS Enterprise aircraft carrier at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport News, Va. today. It served more than 50 years, playing a role in the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A sailor attended the decommissioning ceremony of the USS Enterprise aircraft carrier at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport News, Va. today. It served more than 50 years, playing a role in the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Following a decommissioning ceremony, two shipyard workers rode their bicycles by the USS Enterprise aircraft carrier at Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport News, Va. today. It served more than 50 years, playing a role in the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. \n NEWPORT NEWS, Va. >> The U.S. Navy has officially decommissioned the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. \n During today's ceremony at a Newport News shipyard, the USS Enterprise was described as a \"legendary\" vessel that helped shape history. It served more than 50 years, playing a role in the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. \n Affectionately called the \"Big E,\" the ship retired from service in 2012. The Navy has spent the past few years defueling its reactors. The ship will eventually be taken apart and its metal recycled. \n One of the Enterprise's original sailors was 77-year-old Ray Godfrey of Bigfork, Montana. He said the ceremony was emotional for him realizing that \"she's done.\" \n But he said, \"We started something really good.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Navy decommissions 'legendary' carrier that shaped history"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n State Attorney General Doug Chin, seen here in a July 2015 photo, today announced that the state of Hawaii has filed a lawsuit against President Donald Trump over his ban on immigrants from seven majority-Muslim nations. \n The state of Hawaii is suing President Donald Trump over his executive order temporarily banning immigration from seven majority-Muslim countries and suspending the admission of all refugees to the United States, Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin announced today during a news conference. \n \"We did so for one simple reason: everyone in the United States, including the president, must follow the law and follow the Constitution,\" said Chin. \"The executive order that President Trump issued last Friday keeps Hawaii families apart, it blocks Hawaii residents from traveling, it harms Hawaii's tourism industry, it establishes a religion in Hawaii in violation of the Constitution, it blocks Hawaii businesses and universities from hiring as they see fit. Most importantly, it degrades the values that Hawaii has worked so hard to protect.\" \n The lawsuit was filed this morning in Hawaii federal court. \n Trump's order banned immigration for 90 days from seven majority-Muslim countries: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The admission of Syrian refugees was indefinitely suspended, while the admission of all other refugees was suspended for 120 days. \n Washington and Minnesota have also filed lawsuits over the executive order, while a number of other states have joined in a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii sues Trump over immigration ban"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The HealthCare.gov 2017 website homepage as seen on Oct. 24, in Washington. Republicans are increasingly talking about repairing President Barack Obama's health care overhaul, a softening of tone that comes as their drive to fulfill a keystone campaign promise encounters disunity, drooping momentum and uneasy voters. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans are increasingly talking about repairing President Barack Obama's health care overhaul, a softer tone that comes as their march to fulfill a keystone campaign promise encounters disunity, drooping momentum and uneasy voters. \n GOP lawmakers insist they haven't abandoned their goal of repeal, though they face lingering disputes about whether that should come before, after or simultaneously with a replacement effort. \n Republicans triumphantly shoved a budget through Congress three weeks ago that gave committees until Jan. 27 to write bills dismantling the law and substituting a Republican plan. Everyone knew that deadline meant little, but now leaders are talking about moving initial legislation by early spring. \n And as the party struggles to translate its long-time political mantra into legislation that can pass Congress, some Republicans are using gentler language. \n \"It's repairing the damage Obamacare has caused. It's more accurate\" than repeal and replace, said Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., who chairs the Senate health committee. He noted that President Donald Trump and many Republicans like popular provisions like requiring family policies to cover children up to age 26 and said, \"We're not repealing all of Obamacare.\" \n Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said Republicans are \"laying the foundation to rebuild America's health care markets as we dismantle Obamacare.\" \n The refined phraseology is endorsed by Frank Luntz, the longtime GOP rhetoric guru. He credited Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., with the idea, saying by email, \"He was right. Americans want the ACA repealed and repaired,\" using the Affordable Care Act's acronym. \n The shifting language comes with battles raging over Trump's Supreme Court and Cabinet nominees. That and controversies surrounding his temporary refugee ban have sapped energy from the health care drive. \n It also comes with polls spotlighting GOP risks. A recent Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll found 53 percent want to keep Obama's law in some form, and 56 percent concerned that repeal means many will lose insurance. \n Vice President Mike Pence stood by the tougher sounding \"repeal and replace\" language on FOX News Channel's \"Hannity\" Thursday, saying \"We are absolutely committed\" to doing both simultaneously. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., says Republicans want to \"rescue\" the health system and Thursday embraced all of the competing phraseology. \n \"The best way to repair a health care system is to repeal and replace Obamacare,\" he said. \n Talk of repair dismays other Republicans, including hard-line conservatives. They say the GOP pledge since Democrats enacted the 2010 law was to repeal it, later amended to \"repeal and replace.\" \n \"You've got to repeal the law that's the problem. That's what we told the voters we were going to do,\" said Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, a leader of the conservative House Freedom Caucus. \n Jordan cites problems that have accompanied the statute, including rising premiums and deductibles and diminished choices in some individual insurance markets. He says health care would improve if Obama's law vanishes. \n \"If you start from that premise, repair shouldn't be your mindset,\" Jordan said. \n Democrats say the GOP's evolving language signals retreat. They say Republicans will threaten health care's availability and raise rates, angering the 20 million people who gained insurance under the law and tens of millions of others who benefit from the statute's coverage requirements. \n \"It puts the burden on them to come up with the so-called repairs,\" said No. 2 Senate Democratic leader Richard Durbin of Illinois. \"What a departure from repeal it, walk away from it and America will be a better place.\" \n Republicans continue shaping proposals to void Obama's statute. Potential targets include the law's requirement that people without coverage from work buy policies, the subsidies many of them receive and the tax increases on higher-income people and the health industry. \n Some Republicans want to reshape and cut Medicaid, which provides health coverage to lower-earning people, but others represent states that expanded it under Obama's statute. Most want language blocking federal payments to Planned Parenthood but some don't, and some would let states choose to keep Obama's law intact. \n There are also disputes over how to provide money so people don't abruptly lose coverage and to entice insurance companies fearing losses to keep selling policies. \n With insurers crafting their 2018 rates over the coming two months, the industry's leading trade group expressed its jitters to Congress this week. Marilyn Tavenner, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, told Alexander's committee that insurers must know soon whether lawmakers will continue federal payments that let companies reduce out-of-pocket costs for many lower-earning customers. \n Losing those subsidies \"would further deteriorate an already unstable market and hurt the millions of consumers who depend on these programs,\" she warned. \n At a hearing Thursday before a House health subcommittee, Republicans revealed four drafts of potential bills. One would let insurers charge older customers higher rates. Another would replace the law's unpopular individual mandate with a requirement that people maintain \"continuous\" coverage if they want to avoid more expensive policies. \n AP Congressional Correspondent Erica Werner contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP mulls 'repairing' Obamacare law it vowed to repeal"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington today. The Trump administration imposed sanctions on 13 people and a dozen companies in response to Iran's recent ballistic missile test, increasing the pressure on Tehran without directly undercutting a landmark nuclear deal with the country. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration ordered sanctions against more than two dozen people and companies from the Persian Gulf to China today in retaliation for Iran's recent ballistic missile test, increasing pressure on Tehran without directly undercutting a landmark nuclear deal with the country. \n Those targeted by the Treasury Department include Iranian, Lebanese, Emirati and Chinese individuals and firms involved in procuring ballistic missile technology for Iran. They are now prohibited from doing any business in the United States or with American citizens. The overall impact is likely to be minimal on Iran's economy, though some of the people and companies have relationships with Iran's hard-line Revolutionary Guard military forces. \n \"The days of turning a blind eye to Iran's hostile and belligerent actions toward the United States and the world community are over,\" Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump's national security adviser, said in a statement. \n Although White House spokesman Sean Spicer acknowledged that much of the legwork had occurred under President Barack Obama, he told reporters the Trump administration \"acted swiftly and decisively\" after Iran's recent missile test and Iranian-backed rebels in Yemen firing on a Saudi naval vessel. \n It is Trump's first package of penalties against Iran, reflecting his insistence on a tougher stance toward Tehran. Throughout his election campaign, Trump accused the Obama administration of being weak on Iran, and he vowed to crack down if elected. \n Iran has acknowledged that it conducted a missile test. But it insists the test didn't violate the 2015 nuclear accord it reached with the United States and five other world powers, or a subsequent U.N. Security Council resolution extending an eight-year ban on ballistic missiles \"designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons.\" Washington, under Obama and Trump, and its Western allies agree the matter is separate from the nuclear pact but maintain that the missile tests violate the U.N. ban. \n Iran already has a formidable arsenal of thousands of short- and medium-range ballistic missiles capable of reaching Israel and other U.S. allies in the Middle East, as well as American bases, and has undertaken a series of tests in the year and a half since the nuclear agreement. The U.S. said the latest launch was of a medium-range missile, and an American defense official described it as failing re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. \n In a tweet this morning, Trump wrote, \"Iran is playing with fire \u2014 they don't appreciate how 'kind' President Obama was to them. Not me.\" \n Despite the tough talk, the new sanctions represent a continuation of the Obama administration's limited punishment for Iran's ballistic missile activity and avoid a direct showdown with Tehran over the nuclear deal itself. The sanction targets were drawn up before Obama left office and don't affect Iran Air, a big Iranian bank or any major government entity, making it unclear how effective they'll prove as deterrents. \n None of the new penalties reversed Obama's suspension of sanctions under the nuclear pact. Obama himself promised after the deal to continue going after Iran with non-nuclear penalties in response to missile launches, terror support or human rights abuses, and did so in January and March of last year. \n \"This is part of a much broader strategy and merely a sign of coming attractions,\" said Mark Dubowitz, CEO of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, who advises the administration and Congress on Iran-related issues. \"The focus is clearly on missile procurement networks and represents a first step in the administration's escalation against Iran's missile program support for terrorism and other malign activities.\" \n Iran said it would be undeterred. \n Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted today that his country was \"unmoved by threats as we derive security from our people. We'll never initiate war, but we can only rely on our own means of defense.\" \n \"Our missile drills are a show of our might,\" added Tehran prayer leader Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami. \"We are living in a world of wolves \u2014 wolves such as the arrogant government of America. In this world of wolves, should we remain unarmed and they do whatever damn things they want? No way! This will never happen!\" \n At times, Tehran's leaders have argued that any new U.S. sanctions would violate the nuclear deal. \n The agreement compelled Iran to curtail its enrichment of uranium, a material that can be used in atomic bombs, and other nuclear-related activity. In exchange, Iran received broad relief from U.S. and international sanctions that were crippling its economy. Trump has ridiculed the arrangement as a terrible deal, but America's closest allies in Europe as well as Russia and China are committed to it. \n In the final days of the nuclear negotiations, Tehran agreed to an eight-year extension of a ban on ballistic work. That understanding was codified in a U.N. Security Council resolution passed in parallel, but separately, to the nuclear accord. \n In Washington, lawmakers who have sought a sterner policy toward Iran applauded Trump's decision. \n \"It is a new day in U.S.-Iran relations,\" said Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. \n Associated Press writers Josh Lederman and Julie Pace contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump hits Iran with new sanctions for missile test"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Fiji \n CANBERRA, Australia >> Fiji outraged rights groups today by forcing an Iranian refugee back to Papua New Guinea where he had spent more than three years under Australia's tough asylum seeker policies and where he said he feared persecution. \n Loghaman Sawair's plight shines a spotlight on the human suffering behind Australia's harsh policy of banishing asylum seekers to remote Pacific islands at a time the United States considers giving hundreds of them homes. \n Sawari, 21, flew to Fiji last week to apply for a protection visa but was deported before he could lodge that application with Fijian immigration officials at the capital Suva, said lawyer Aman Ravindra-Singh, who was with Sawari when he was arrested outside Suva. \n \"He's scared of ending up in Manus in a hell hole,\" Ravindra-Singh said, referring to Manus Island where Papua New Guinea's mosquito-infested immigration camp is located. \n The Fijian government said Sawari had been legally obliged to apply for political asylum without delay, but he had failed to do so during his 10 days in Fiji. \n Sawari would have become the first asylum seeker to apply for protection from a country where Australia has been banishing refugees for more than more than three years despite United Nations objections. \n His plight has prompted rights groups to call on Australia to accept hundreds of refugees who are languishing on Manus Island and on the Pacific atoll of Nauru. Australia refuses to accept asylum seekers who try to reach its shores by boat and pays the two impoverished Pacific islands nations to keep them. \n The United States had agreed to resettle an undisclosed number of refugees among more than 1,200 asylum seekers \u2014 mostly Muslims from Africa, the Middle East and Asia \u2014 on Manus and Nauru. \n Another 370 asylum seekers who were brought to Australia for medical treatment then took court action to prevent their return to the remote islands would also be eligible for resettlement to the United States under the deal struck between Australia and the Obama administration. \n But the deal has been condemned by President Donald Trump and now appears to be in doubt. \n Australia sent Sawari to the men-only camp on Manus as a 17-year-old in August 2013. He was accepted as a refugee and had lived in Papua New Guinea outside the camp. But he complained he had been physically attacked by locals, threatened, harassed and had lived for a period in poverty on the street. \n He pleaded for international help and protection for asylum seekers on Nauru and Manus in a video posted on social media from Fiji. \n \"Australia took me in 2013 to PNG by force and I don't want to settle in PNG,\" he said, referring to Papua New Guinea. \"We need just freedom. Please, we are not slaves, we are human beings.\" \n Sawari had arrived at Port Moresby on an Air Niugini flight this afternoon and was being interviewed by Papua New Guinea immigration officials, a police statement said. \n Ravindra-Singh said he had arranged on Tuesday a meeting in Suva today for Sawari to claim asylum. The pair where in their way to that meeting when their car was intercepted by six police and four immigration officers who took Sawari to an airport, the lawyer said. \n \"The Fijian government shows no respect for human rights or international law or even its own laws,\" Ravindra-Singh said. \n Fijian Attorney-General Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum said Sawari had broken local laws by arriving in Fiji on a Papua New Guinea passport \"obtained by fraudulent means.\" Sayed-Khaiyum did not elaborate. \n Amnesty International said it had grave concerns for Sawari's welling being and called on Australia to take responsibility for him. Fiji's Humans Rights and Anti-Discrimination Commission director Ashwin Raj said Sawari's deportation could expose him to \"inhuman and degrading treatment.\" \n A coalition of 69 Australian organizations and community groups today released a statement demanding that Australia evacuate the Pacific camps to end a humanitarian crisis. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fiji forces Iranian refugee back to Papua New Guinea"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "A 42-year-old Hilo woman has died from injuries sustained in a January single-vehicle crash that occurred in Captain Cook. \n She has been identified as Chantel Kaaumoana. \n Shortly before 9:30 p.m. on Jan. 23, police said a 1981 Jeep driven by a 34-year-old Captain Cook woman was traveling west on Haku Nui Road when the driver lost control of the vehicle. \n The Jeep overturned and Kaaumoana was thrown from the vehicle. \n Police said she was taken to Kona Community Hospital and flown to Queen's Medical Center where she died Wednesday. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine the exact cause of death. \n The Hawaii Police Department's Traffic Enforcement Unit have opened a negligent homicide investigation. \n Anyone with information on the crash is asked to call police officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hilo woman dies after vehicle crash on Big Isle"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marine One, with President Donald Trump aboard, landed at Dover Air Force Base, Del. on Wednesday. Trump traveled to Dover AFB to meet with family members Chief of Special Warfare Operator William \"Ryan\" Owens, 36, of Peoria, Ill, the U.S. service member who was killed in a raid in Yemen, and who's remains were returned Wednesday. Owens is the first known combat death of a member of the U.S. military under Trump's administration. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House on Thursday insisted that the risky ground raid personally approved by President Donald Trump against al-Qaida targets in Yemen was a \"successful operation,\" despite the death of a Navy SEAL and the Pentagon's conclusion that civilians, including children, were \"likely\" killed in the operation. \n \"This was a very, very well thought-out and executed effort,\" White House press secretary Sean Spicer said. He called it \"a successful operation by all standards.\" \n Spicer stressed that while the operation was the first counterterrorism raid approved by Trump, planning had occurred on President Barack Obama's watch. He said the Defense Department had approved the raid on Dec. 19 and set it to proceed on the next moonless night, which did not happen until after Trump's inauguration. \n Some U.S. military officials reportedly were disputing the Trump administration's claims, saying that \"almost everything went wrong\" in a botched covert mission that the president gave the green light to without sufficient intelligence or ground support. \n Former Vice President Joe Biden's national security adviser Colin Kahl tweeted on Thursday that the Trump administration's claim that Obama cleared the operation was \"false,\" adding that it was \"deferred to Trump so he could run a deliberate process.\" \n Team Trump claim that Obama cleared Yemen raid false;was deferred to Trump so he could run a deliberate process. Instead, he hosted dinner. \n The Pentagon says the operation in Yemen's Baida province against al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP, killed 14 militants and seized \"valuable and actionable intelligence,\" including documents and computers. \n But what was supposed to be a lightning raid led to the death of a Navy SEAL, identified as 36-year-old William \"Ryan\" Owens, in a nearly hour-long firefight. Three more service members were injured when an MV-22 Osprey, sent in to evacuate the wounded, crash-landed after losing power. The damaged $70 million aircraft was later destroyed by a U.S. airstrike so it would not fall into the hands of the militants, according to the Pentagon. \n Late on Wednesday, the U.S. Central Command said in a statement that it had concluded that civilians \"were likely killed\" in the midst of the \"ferocious firefight,\" and that \"casualties may include children.\" The statement said the military was looking into whether there \"were any still-undetected civilian casualties.\" \n Medics in the region and local media reported 30 casualties, including at least 10 women and children. The London-based human rights group Reprieve, which monitors civilian casualties of drone strikes, on Thursday said it had obtained evidence of 23 civilian casualties, including a newborn and 10 children. \n One of the civilian casualties was the 8-year-old daughter of Anwar al-Awlaki, a senior U.S.-born al-Qaida leader who was killed by a U.S. drone strike in 2011, according to posts by her family on social media. Nawar al-Awlaki, who was known as Nora, also was a U.S. citizen. Her brother, 16-year-old Abdulrahman al-Awlaki, also died in a drone strike authorized by Obama. \n The Pentagon initially denied that there had been civilian casualties. Later, Pentagon spokesman Jeff Davis acknowledged that an unspecified number of women could have been killed because \"there were a lot of female combatants who were part of this.\" \n International monitoring groups have expressed concern that the death of civilians, especially children, is likely to be used for propaganda, with photos spread on social media in the aftermath of a raid. \n \"The first military actions by the Trump administration in Yemen bode poorly for the prospect of smartly and effectively countering AQAP,\" the International Crisis Group, an independent Brussels-based crisis research center, said in a report on Thursday. \n \"The use of U.S. soldiers, high civilian casualties and disregard for local tribal and political dynamics \u2026 plays into AQAP's narrative of defending Muslims against the West and could increase anti-U.S. sentiment and with it AQAP's pool of recruits,\" the group said. \n When he was running for president, Trump said he backed killing family members of terrorist suspects. \n \"The other thing with the terrorists is you have to take out their families, when you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families,\" the presidential candidate said on Fox News in 2015. \n The operation was the first U.S.-led ground raid in Yemen since 2014, although U.S. forces have conducted airstrikes against al-Qaida in the country. Since a Saudi-led coalition launched air strikes in Yemen in 2015, more than 10,000 people have died and 40,000 have been wounded, according to the United Nations. \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "White House stands by Trump's first military raid, despite civilian, U.S. casualties"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testified on Capitol Hill, Jan. 17, in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> Betsy DeVos cleared a major hurdle in the Senate to become the next education secretary despite vigorous opposition from Democrats. \n Senators voted 52-48 to cut off debate at dawn today, setting the stage for a final confirmation vote next week on President Donald Trump's nominee. \n DeVos, a billionaire Republican donor, has faced fierce criticism from labor unions for her promotion of school choice. Democrats and labor unions have accused her of seeking to dismantle public education and divert funds to charter schools and have criticized her support for taxpayer-funded private school vouchers. \n Two key Republican senators have vowed to oppose her nomination, throwing it into jeopardy. If Democrats all vote against DeVos, they need only one more dissenting Republican to kill the nomination. \n Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, praised DeVos's work in reforming the school system through charter schools. \n \"Teachers have more freedom and parents have more choices, they are public schools and Betsy Devos is in the forefront of helping create that opportunity for public education,\" Alexander said shortly after the vote. He added that DeVos will seek to diminish federal control over education and give more power to states and locales. \n \"We will be swapping a national school board for what she believes in, which is a local school board,\" said Alexander, who served as education secretary under President George H.W. Bush. \n But Sen. Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the committee, said she strongly opposes DeVos because of her tangled finances and potential conflicts of interest, her lack of experience in public schools and knowledge of basic education issues. Murray complained that her confirmation hearing was rushed and that DeVos didn't answer all the questions from Democrats. \n \"Betsy DeVos is committed to privatizing public schools, and diverting public funds into private taxpayer-funded vouchers that would leave far too many students behind,\" Murray said. \n In addition to the statements of opposition by the two Republican senators, billionaire philanthropist and public education backer Eli Broad has also come out against her. \n DeVos, 59, is the wife of Dick DeVos, heir to the Amway marketing fortune. She has spent more than two decades advocating for charter schools in her home state of Michigan and elsewhere around the country. Her support of anti-LGBT and her advocacy for conservative religious values has also caused concerns that she will be a weak advocate for the LGBT community and other minorities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos clears Senate hurdle toward becoming ed secretary"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "PARIS >> A knife-wielding man shouting \"Allahu akbar\" attacked French soldiers on patrol near the Louvre Museum Friday in what officials described as a suspected terror attack. The soldiers first tried to fight off the attacker and then opened fire, shooting him five times. \n The attack at an entrance to a shopping mall that extends beneath the museum sowed panic and again highlighted the threat French officials say hangs over the country, which was hit repeatedly by extremist attacks in 2015 and 2016. \n A police union official said the attacker was carrying two backpacks and had two machetes. He said the man launched himself at the soldiers when they told him that he could not bring his bags into the Carrousel du Louvre shopping mall underneath the world-famous museum where the \"Mona Lisa\" hangs. \n \"That's when he got the knife out and that's when he tried to stab the soldier,\" said the official, Yves Lefebvre. \n The four soldiers first tried to fight off the attacker before opening fire, said Benoit Brulon, a spokesman for the military force that patrols Paris and its major tourist attractions. \n The French interior ministry said anti-terrorism prosecutors are investigating. There were no immediate details about the identity of the attacker. \"Allahu akbar\" is the Arabic phrase for \"God is great.\" \n The patrols \u2014 numbering about 3,500 soldiers in the Paris area \u2014 were instituted following the January 2015 attacks on Paris' satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and reinforced after Nov. 13 suicide bomb and gun attacks that left 130 people dead at the city's Bataclan concert hall and other sites. \n The attacker slightly injured one of the soldiers, in the scalp, officials said. Another soldier opened fire, gravely wounding the attacker. \n \"He is wounded in the stomach,\" said police chief Michel Cadot. \"He is conscious and he was moving.\" \n Checks of the man's two backpacks found they didn't contain any explosives, he said. \n Cadot said a second person who was \"acting suspiciously\" also was arrested but appears not to have been linked to the attack. \n Restaurant worker Sanae Hadraoui, 32, was waiting for breakfast at the Louvre's restaurant complex when she heard the first gunshot, followed by another and then a couple more. \n \"I hear a shot. Then a second shot. Then maybe two more. I hear people screaming, \"Evacuate! Evacuate!\" \n \"They told us to evacuate. I told my colleagues at the McDonalds. We went downstairs and then took the emergency exit.\" \n Hadraoui, who has worked at the Louvre for seven years, said the evacuation was orderly. She was smoking a cigarette when her managers told her people were going back inside. \n The museum in the center of Paris is one of the French capital's biggest tourist attractions. Police sealed off entrances around where the attack took place and closed the area to vehicles, snarling traffic in a busy part of central Paris. Officers shooed away confused tourists. \n Interior Ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said about 1,000 people were inside the actual museum and were held inside in safe areas before the all-clear was given and they were allowed to move around as normal again. \n Exterminator Olivier Majewski says he was just leaving his scooter in the parking lot beneath the Louvre when he saw a crush of people running and screaming \"there's been a terror attack.\" The 53-year-old says he hid for about 15 minutes before gingerly making his way upstairs. \n \"They were panicked,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man shot, wounded after attacking soldiers outside Louvre"}

{"date": "February 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, followed by Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, left, walked into the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington on Wednesday. \n A top aide to President Donald Trump said today she misspoke when she cited a 2011 \"massacre\" in Kentucky that never happened. \n A day earlier, during an interview with MSNBC's Chris Matthews, Kellyanne Conway defended Trump's temporary ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority nations by saying that former President Barack Obama instituted a similar policy for Iraqi refugees in 2011. \n \"President Obama had a six-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized, and they were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre,\" Conway said. \"Most people don't know that because it didn't get covered.\" \n It didn't happen. \n Conway tweeted this morning that she meant to say \"Bowling Green terrorists\" during the interview. \n Her description of the 2011 Obama administration policy as a ban was also a mischaracterization, which she didn't correct. \n Obama never banned Iraqi refugees or other Iraqi travelers from coming to the United States. His administration did slow down the processing for Iraqis seeking Special Immigrant Visas, which are given to translators and interpreters who worked with the U.S. in that country. \n The slowdown was prompted by the May 2011 arrest of two men in Kentucky charged with plotting to send weapons and money to al-Qaida operatives abroad. Waad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi were mistakenly admitted to the U.S. as Iraqi refugees in 2009 and resettled in Bowling Green, Ky. \n Alwan and Hammadi are in prison after pleading guilty. They were never accused of plotting to launch attacks inside the U.S. \n According to State Department data, 9,388 Iraqi refugees were admitted to the United States during the 2011 budget year. The data also show that Iraqi refugees were admitted every month during the 2011 calendar year. \n In addition, more than 7,800 Iraqis were allowed into the United States on nonimmigrant visas, including tourists, during the 2011 budget year, government data show. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump aide says she misspoke on 'massacre'"}

