{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson stands with 10th District officers as he talks with reporters about charging the first of several juvenile offenders from the March 19 criminal sexual assault incident broadcast on Facebook, during a press conference. \n CHICAGO >> A second teenager suspected in the sexual assault of a Chicago teenager that was streamed live on Facebook turned himself in to police this afternoon. \n Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said the mother of a 15-year-old boy who was being sought on an arrest warrant issued Sunday brought him to a police station. Guglielmi said the boy would be later brought to a juvenile detention center where a 14-year-old boy who was arrested in the case over the weekend is being held. \n Each teen faces felony counts of criminal sexual assault, manufacturing of child pornography and dissemination of child pornography, Guglielmi said. \n Police have not provided details about what exactly happened on March 19 when they said five or six males participated in sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl after she was lured inside a residence by one of the suspects. But they have said that besides the cellphone camera that recorded the incident and streamed it live on Facebook, others at the scene also recorded the sexual assault. \n Police say they expect other juveniles and an adult to be charged. Police haven't released the names of any suspects. \n Police have said the assault was watched live by about 40 viewers, none of whom called authorities to report what was happening. The girl's mother later told The Associated Press that the girl and the family were being taunted online and ridiculed and harassed by children in their neighborhood. \n Police say they are investigating the online comments and have executed a number of \"social media search warrants.\" \n Police have moved the girl, whom they describe as \"traumatized,\" to a home outside the neighborhood. In a brief interview, the girl's mother said that her daughter remains at what police called the \"safe place\" and has not returned to school. \n The AP generally does not identify potential victims of sexual assault and is not identifying the mother so as not to identify the girl. \n Also today, a juvenile court hearing for the teenager who was arrested over the weekend was postponed until April 28. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2nd teen suspect in Facebook assault case turns himself in"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson stands with 10th District officers as he talks with reporters about charging the first of several juvenile offenders from the March 19 criminal sexual assault incident broadcast on Facebook, during a press conference. \n CHICAGO >> A second teenager suspected in the sexual assault of a Chicago teenager that was streamed live on Facebook turned himself in to police this afternoon. \n Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said the mother of a 15-year-old boy who was being sought on an arrest warrant issued Sunday brought him to a police station. Guglielmi said the boy would be later brought to a juvenile detention center where a 14-year-old boy who was arrested in the case over the weekend is being held. \n Each teen faces felony counts of criminal sexual assault, manufacturing of child pornography and dissemination of child pornography, Guglielmi said. \n Police have not provided details about what exactly happened on March 19 when they said five or six males participated in sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl after she was lured inside a residence by one of the suspects. But they have said that besides the cellphone camera that recorded the incident and streamed it live on Facebook, others at the scene also recorded the sexual assault. \n Police say they expect other juveniles and an adult to be charged. Police haven't released the names of any suspects. \n Police have said the assault was watched live by about 40 viewers, none of whom called authorities to report what was happening. The girl's mother later told The Associated Press that the girl and the family were being taunted online and ridiculed and harassed by children in their neighborhood. \n Police say they are investigating the online comments and have executed a number of \"social media search warrants.\" \n Police have moved the girl, whom they describe as \"traumatized,\" to a home outside the neighborhood. In a brief interview, the girl's mother said that her daughter remains at what police called the \"safe place\" and has not returned to school. \n The AP generally does not identify potential victims of sexual assault and is not identifying the mother so as not to identify the girl. \n Also today, a juvenile court hearing for the teenager who was arrested over the weekend was postponed until April 28. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2nd teen suspect in Facebook assault case turns himself in"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman lights a candle at an entrance to Sennaya subway station after an explosion in St.Petersburg subway in St.Petersburg, Russia, Monday. \n ST. PETERSBURG, Russia >> St. Petersburg residents on Tuesday laid flowers outside the city's subway where a bomb blast a day earlier killed at least 11 people and wounded more than 40. Thousands of miles to the east, authorities in the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan identified one suspect as a Kyrgyz-born Russian citizen. \n There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, which came while President Vladimir Putin was visiting the city, Russia's second biggest and Putin's hometown. \n Kyrgyzstan's State Committee for National Security said in a statement that one suspect behind the bombing is a Kyrgyz-born Russian national it identified as Akbarzhon Dzhalilov. The Kyrgyz intelligence agency said Russian authorities informed them about the man, aged between 21 and 22, but they were not aware of his specific role in the bombing. The intelligence agency said it is cooperating with Russian authorities to help the investigation. \n Neither authorities in Russia nor in Kyrgyzstan have specified whether the attack was a suicide bombing or whether the bomber got away. The Interfax news agency on Monday said authorities believe the suspect was linked to radical Islamic groups and carried the explosive device onto the train in a backpack. \n St. Petersburg, like Moscow, is home to a large diaspora of Central Asian migrants who flee poverty and unemployment in their home countries for jobs in Russia. While most Central Asian migrants in Russia have work permits or work illegally, thousands of them have received Russian citizenship in the past decades. \n Russian authorities have rejected calls to impose visas on Central Asian nationals, hinting that having millions of jobless men across the border from Russia would be a bigger security threat. \n In the past two decades, Russian trains and planes have been frequent targets of attack, usually blamed on Islamic militants. The last confirmed attack was in October 2015 when Islamic State militants downed a Russian airliner heading from an Egyptian resort to St. Petersburg, killing all 224 people on board. \n Within two hours of the blast, authorities had found and deactivated another bomb at another busy station, the anti-terror agency said. That station is a major transfer point for passengers on two lines and serves the railway station to Moscow. \n The entire St. Petersburg subway system was shut down and evacuated, but partial service resumed after about six hours. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "St. Petersburg subway bomber identified as Kyrgyz man"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Saturday photo provided by the Oregon State Police, a family of ducklings swims to safety after two of the babies were rescued from a storm drain in Salem, Ore. by Oregon State Police Sr. Trooper Hunter, of the agency's fish and wildlife division, and city workers. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Saturday photo provided by the Oregon State Police, Oregon State Police Sr. Trooper Hunter, of the agency's fish and wildlife division, holds a duckling he helped rescue from a storm drain in Salem, Ore. \n SALEM, Ore. >> To protect and serve and \u2026 rescue ducklings? \n An Oregon State Police trooper got some attention today after he helped pluck two ducklings from a storm drain where they were stranded over the weekend. \n The agency says in Twitter and Facebook postings that the mother duck and her 10 ducklings were crossing the street at an intersection in Salem Saturday when two ducklings were swept into the drain. \n City workers removed several storm grates and a manhole cover so the trooper could reach the ducklings with a net. \n State police say the other eight ducklings successfully navigated the drain pipe and emerged in a nearby canal. \n They were reunited with their mother and siblings and waddled away apparently unharmed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon State Police help rescue 2 ducklings from storm drain"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated booking photo provided by the Sonoma County Sheriff shows Timothy Marble, who was arrested on charges of kidnapping, sexually abusing a minor and child abuse. \n BODEGA BAY, Calif. >> A 13-year-old girl jumped from a moving car Saturday to escape a man suspected of kidnapping and raping her and cutting his name into her skin, California officials said. \n Police arrested Timothy Marble, 50, on charges of kidnapping, sexually abusing a minor and child abuse, the Santa Rosa Press Democrat reported. \n The girl told officials that she ran away from home after she got in an argument with her mother. Police believe Marble picked her up at a gas station Friday in the wine country city of Napa. \n Police found the girl more than 50 miles away in the small Pacific Ocean coastal town of Bodega Bay, took her to a hospital and reunited her with her mother. \n Marble smoked marijuana with the girl before he raped her multiple times, injected her with methamphetamine and used a razor blade and knife to cut her leg and scratch his name in a span of 27 hours, according to investigators. \n Marble called 911 after he could not find her, authorities said. \n When deputies reached the scene, the girl came out from hiding and told officials about her ordeal, officials said. \n Marble is scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday on eight felony crimes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Kidnapped California girl jumps from car after rape"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / DEC. 1 \n China President Xi Jinping's meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump will be closely watched for signs of how relations between the world's top two economies will proceed. \n BEIJING >> Chinese President Xi Jinping probably won't give President Donald Trump a round of golf during their first face-to-face meeting this week, but he may find it worthwhile to ensure his American counterpart does not feel like he's leaving empty-handed. \n Some view the informal venue of the summit Thursday and Friday \u2014 Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida \u2014 as a sign that neither side anticipates important outcomes. Trump, however tweeted last week that he expects \"a very difficult\" meeting, and on Friday said: \"We're going to get down to some very serious business,\" referencing what he believes is China's negative impact on the U.S. economy, especially manufacturing jobs. \n China, for its part, has remained largely sanguine about the event, with Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang telling reporters that \"both sides look forward to a successful meeting so that a correct direction can be set for the growth of bilateral relations.\" \n Like many nations, China is still grappling with Trump's mercurial nature after the relative transparency and predictability of the bilateral relationship under Trump's predecessor Barack Obama. Both during his campaign and after his victory, Trump complained repeatedly over China's allegedly unfair trade practices, its perceived lack of assistance in reining in North Korea's nuclear ambitions and its drive to cement control over the South China Sea. \n Some analysts believe Xi might be willing to hand Trump a symbolic victory on trade to put a positive spin on the meeting. \n \"Xi probably can't accommodate Trump on sovereignty and security issues, but he has a lot of leeway on economics,\" said Robert Sutter, a China expert at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. \n Yet even if Xi is able to offer Trump deliverables, he will still have to deal with \"a restless U.S. president valuing unpredictability and seeking advantage for his agenda going forward,\" Sutter said. \n Trump was seen as moving trade even more to the forefront when he signed a pair of executive orders Friday focused on reducing the trade deficit. Coupled together, the orders appeared to be a symbolic shot at China, which accounted for the vast bulk \u2014 $347 billion \u2014 of last year's $502 billion trade deficit. \n While aides insisted the timing was coincidental, the administration touted the moves as evidence of it taking an aggressive but analytical approach to closing a trade gap that is largely due to the influx of goods from China. \n Still, Trump told the Financial Times newspaper that during his meeting with Xi, he doesn't \"want to talk about tariffs yet, perhaps the next time we meet.\" \n Having suffered a major blow with the failure of health care reform, Trump will be seeking to claim some kind of victory in his encounter with Xi, said June Teufel Dreyer, professor of political science at the University of Miami. \n Trump's comments on trade and other issues \"portend some hard bargaining,\" Dreyer said. She added, however, that slowing economic growth in China could limit Xi's options for negotiating on trade. \n \"So the stage is set for a battle royal,\" Dreyer said. \n Meanwhile, China continues to oppose the tough measures demanded of it to address former close ally North Korea, fearing a collapse of the Pyongyang regime would bring a crush of refugees and possibly U.S. and South Korean troops on its border. \n Trump told the Financial Times the U.S. is prepared to act alone if China does not take a tougher stand against North Korea's nuclear program. \n \"China has great influence over North Korea,\" Trump said. \"And China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they won't. And if they do that will be very good for China, and if they don't it won't be good for anyone.\" \n Add to the mix the issue of the South China Sea, where China has built and armed man-made islands despite the concerns of neighboring countries; and Taiwan, the self-governing island democracy that China claims as its own territory, and that some in Trump's administration would like to build a stronger relationship with. \n Despite such divisions, Beijing seems committed to establishing a positive relationship between the two leaders. \n \"It is fundamental for them to improve understanding between each other,\" said Xiong Zhiyong, a professor at Peking University's School of International Relations. \"Both sides have shown their willingness to cooperate and they are expected to make a commitment for cooperation.\" \n China, Xiong said, realizes that Trump \"is a leader with a strong personality.\" \n So far, few details of the summit's agenda have been released. China has said only that Trump and his wife, Melania, would host Xi and his wife, famed songstress Peng Liyuan, at a welcoming banquet. \n As personalities, Xi and Trump are a study in contrasts. A lifelong Communist Party apparatchik and son of a former vice premier, Xi has built his career with a cautious approach, avoiding controversial reforms and rarely speaking out in ways that would distract from his core message. His nearly five years as head of the ruling party have been defined by a campaign to achieve the \"Chinese dream\" of increasing prosperity while tackling endemic corruption. \n While Trump is an avid golfer, Xi has never been known to hit the links. In fact, his administration has actually pursued a crackdown on golf-course development, pushing instead for mass participation in soccer. \n Still, outwardly cordial relations with U.S. presidents are also a longstanding Chinese tradition, in recognition of the importance of the relationship. Xi had taken pains to appear at ease in the company of Obama, avoiding the rancor that characterized the relationship between the American leader and Russian President Vladimir Putin. \n That approach has been borne out in pronouncements by Chinese officials and state media that have been moderate in tone. \n Responding to Trump's tweet about the trade deficit, the foreign ministry's Zheng portrayed the issue as one in which the two countries had an equal stake. \n \"China will continue to work with the United States to think creatively and keeping pushing for greater balance in China-U.S. trade,\" Zheng said. \n At its nub, the summit is more about establishing a working relationship than making progress on any particular issue, said Su Hao, a professor of diplomacy at China Foreign Affairs University. \n \"The most important thing is that the top leaders are able to have direct communications on the most important major issues and candidly exchange views,\" Su said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump-Xi meeting watched for clues of future relationship"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration issued a stern warning to U.S. companies as they began applying for coveted skilled-worker visas today, cautioning that it would investigate and prosecute employers that overlook qualified American workers for the jobs. \n The message came on the opening day of applications for American employers seeking visas known as H-1B, which are used mostly by technology companies to bring in programmers and other specialized workers from other countries. \n \"U.S. workers should not be placed in a disfavored status, and the department is wholeheartedly committed to investigating and vigorously prosecuting these claims,\" Tom Wheeler, acting head of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, said in a statement. \n The Obama administration sued companies for violating the Immigration and Nationality Act's anti-discrimination provisions, including businesses that favored foreigners over U.S. workers. But today's warning in a news release at the start of the visa process appeared to be a first-of-its kind signal to employers not to put American workers at a disadvantage. \n U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also announced that it would step up its reviews of employers that use H-1B visas, saying \"too many American workers who are qualified, willing and deserving to work in these fields have been ignored or unfairly disadvantaged.\" \n The statements were the latest indication that even legal immigration will be scrutinized under the Trump administration. \n While enforcement of visa abuses is not new, the aggressive position on the H-1B program is a different approach. White House spokesman Sean Spicer also addressed the issue at the beginning of his daily press briefing, saying the administration will crack down on businesses that discriminate against U.S. workers by using the visa program to hire foreigners. \n Yet, the crackdown comes as no surprise. President Donald Trump promised to \"end forever the use of the H-1B as a cheap labor program.\" A draft proposal circulated in January promised to review existing regulations, find ways to allocate visas more efficiently and ensure that beneficiaries are \"the best and the brightest.\" \n Trump has yet to issue that order; the enforcement effort announced today could be an interim measure while a broader overhaul is worked out. \n The H-1B program is open to a broad range of occupations, including architects, professors and even fashion models. Companies must affirm that the job requires a specialty skill that cannot be filled by a U.S. worker, but critics say safeguards are weak. They argue the program routinely lets in foreign workers with minimal skills, even though these visas are supposed to be reserved for highly specialized jobs that are difficult to fill with U.S. workers. \n The tech industry insists the H1-B program is vital. Proponents say the program encourages students to stay in the U.S. after getting their degrees in high-tech specialties. He said many of them go on to start companies and hire U.S. workers. \n Critics called the announcement and increased enforcement a step toward reform. \n \"While the laws/regs are chock full of major loopholes, the U.S. government hasn't vigorously enforced them,\" longtime critic Ron Hira, a Howard University professor, said in an email. \"I suspect that many H-1B dependent firms are not complying with good faith recruiting promises. DHS investigations would help shed light on this.\" \n The crackdown didn't surprise the Computing Technology Industry Association, a trade group that represents Apple, Google, Microsoft and other major companies. Critics say that many of the available H-1B spots go to lower-paid foreign workers employed by consulting firms that let U.S. companies contract out their tech departments. \n \"If it helps preserve the program and frees up more spots for truly exceptional people to continue innovation in this country, then it's a good thing,\" said Todd Thibodeaux, the association's CEO. \"And if it squeezes out people out at the bottom, then so be it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. tells companies not to overlook qualified Americans"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> After his press secretary blasted it as an example of rampant government overreach, President Donald Trump signed a bill into law today that could eventually allow internet providers to sell information about their customers' browsing habits. \n The bill scraps a Federal Communications Commission online privacy regulation issued in October to give consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share that information. Critics have argued that the rule would stifle innovation and pick winners and losers among internet companies. \n The regulation was scheduled to take effect later this year, but Congress used its authority under the obscure Congressional Review Act to wipe it from the books. \n With a Republican president in the White House, the GOP-controlled Congress has turned to the 20-year-old law to scrap numerous regulations that Republicans say are costly, burdensome or excessive, many of which were finalized in the closing months of Democrat Barack Obama's presidency. \n Internet companies like Google don't have to ask their users for permission before tracking what sites they visit, a discrepancy that Republicans and industry group have blasted as both unfair to companies and confusing to consumers. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer said last week that the president's support for the bill was part of a larger effort \"to fight Washington red tape that stifles American innovation, job creation and economic growth.\" \n \"The president pledged to reverse this type of federal overreach in which bureaucrats in Washington take the interest of one group of companies over the interest of others,\" picking the winners and losers, he said. \n Supporters of the privacy measure argued that the company that sells an internet connection can see even more about consumers, such as every website they visit and whom they exchange emails with, information that would be particularly useful for advertisers and marketers. \n Undoing the regulation leaves people's online information in a murky area. Experts say federal law still requires broadband providers to protect customer information \u2014 but it doesn't spell out how or what companies must do, which is what the online privacy rule aimed to do. \n The absence of clear privacy rules means companies that supply internet service, and who can monitor how consumers use it, can continue to mine that information for use in their own advertising businesses. Consumer advocates also worry that the companies will be a rich target for hackers. \n Ajit Pai, the agency chairman appointed by Trump, has said he wanted to roll back the broadband privacy rules. Pai and other Republicans want a different federal agency, the Federal Trade Commission, to police privacy for both broadband companies like AT&T and internet companies like Google. \n Broadband providers don't fall under the trade commission's jurisdiction, and advocates say that agency historically has been weaker than the communications commission. \n Trump signed three other bills today, including one that eliminates a rule that prohibited the use of tactics like baiting and shooting bears from the air on the National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump signs bill blocking online privacy regulation"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President Mike Pence spoke at DynaLab, Inc. in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, on Saturday. Pence and a few other White House officials made a new offer to conservative House Republicans late today on the GOP's failed health care bill. \n WASHINGTON >> White House officials made a new offer to conservative House Republicans late today on the GOP's failed health care bill, hoping to resuscitate a measure that crashed spectacularly less than two weeks ago. \n Vice President Mike Pence and two top White House officials made the offer in a closed-door meeting with members of the House Freedom Caucus, according to a participant. Opposition from the hard-line group, which has around three dozen conservative Republicans, contributed to circumstances that forced House Speaker Paul Ryan to withdraw the bill from a March 24 vote that would have produced a certain defeat. \n Under the White House offer, states would be allowed to apply for waivers from several coverage requirements that President Barack Obama's 2010 health care law imposed on insurers. \n These include an Affordable Care Act provision prohibiting insurance companies from declining to write policies for people with serious diseases. Conservatives have argued that such requirements have the effect of inflating insurance costs. \n Freedom Caucus members said they wanted to see the White House offer in writing \u2014 which is expected Tuesday \u2014 before deciding whether to accept it. \n Also at today's meeting were White House chief of staff Reince Priebus and budget director Mick Mulvaney. The participant spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the private strategy session. \n Another participant \u2014 Freedom Caucus chairman Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C. \u2014 said the group would make no decisions until it reviews the language but called the session a \"good meeting\" in a text message. \n But Meadows also said, \"There is no deal in principle\" at this time. \n It was unclear whether GOP moderates would accept the proposed changes. When Ryan, R-Wis., pulled the legislation from the House last month, he also faced opposition from moderate GOP lawmakers upset that it went too far with cuts in Medicaid coverage for the poor and higher premiums for many low earners and people in their 50s and 60s. \n Rep. Tom MacArthur, R-N.J., a leader of the moderate House Tuesday Group, was among moderate lawmakers who met with officials at the White House today, a GOP aide said. \n The Freedom Caucus has drawn the most wrath from the White House for its opposition to the bill. Some fellow House Republicans have also criticized members of the conservative group, accusing them of inflexibility that led to the downfall of the bill to replace \"Obamacare,\" a top GOP legislative priority. \n Six days after the House bill crashed, Trump tweeted that the Freedom Caucus \"will hurt the entire Republican agenda\" if they don't start cooperating. He added, \"We must fight them\" in 2018, a reference to their re-election campaigns. \n Several caucus members, who tend to represent safely Republican districts, tweeted back defiantly. But some have stressed a desire to move the legislation along if provisions are added that they believe would contain insurance costs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House officials offer change to health care bill"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE \n Robin Shahini in an undated file photo from the \"Bring Robin Home\" Facebook page. \n DUBAI, United Arab Emirates >> An Iranian-American serving an 18-year prison sentence in Iran for \"collaboration with a hostile government\" has been released on bail after staging a weeks-long hunger strike protesting his imprisonment alongside other dual nationals targeted by hard-liners, activists said today. \n Robin Shahini of San Diego was freed from prison in recent days on bail of 2 billion rials, which is about $62,000, said Hadi Ghaemi, the executive director of the New York-based Center for Human Rights in Iran. \n It's unclear whether Shahini can leave the country. \n \"Shahini's release on bail is good news as his prosecution did not produce any credible evidence justifying charges against him,\" Ghaemi told the Associated Press. \"He is an innocent man who appeared to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and his detention and prosecution was motivated by his dual nationality more than anything else.\" \n Iranian officials and state media did not comment on Shahini receiving bail. The Iranian mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to requests for comment. \n The U.S. State Department said it was aware of reports of Shahini being granted bail, but declined to comment further. \n Shahini went to Iran to see his mother, who has Alzheimer's disease, and was detained on July 11. He left Iran in 1998 and has lived in San Diego for 16 years. He graduated in May 2016 from San Diego State University with a degree in international security and conflict resolution and had been accepted to SDSU's graduate program in homeland security. \n At his trial, prosecutors apparently used social media pictures of Shahini standing near prominent Iranian exiles to secure his conviction. Hard-liners have been using such cases to challenge the administration of moderate President Hassan Rouhani ahead of the presidential election in May. Rouhani is expected to be a candidate. \n Iran does not recognize dual nationalities, meaning such detainees cannot receive consular assistance. In most cases, dual nationals have faced secret charges in closed-door hearings before Iran's Revolutionary Court, which handles cases involving alleged attempts to overthrow the government. \n Analysts and family members of those detained have suggested that hard-liners in the Islamic Republic's security agencies want to negotiate another deal with the West to free the detainees. A prisoner exchange in January 2016 that freed Washington Post journalist Jason Rezaian and three other Iranian-Americans also saw the U.S. make a $400 million cash delivery to Iran the same day. \n Among the dual nationals held are Iranian-American businessman Siamak Namazi and his octogenarian father, Baquer Namazi, who are serving 10-year prison sentences for \"cooperating with the hostile American government.\" Another is Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian woman sentenced to five years in prison on allegations of planning the \"soft toppling\" of Iran's government while traveling with her young daughter. \n Yet to be tried is Iranian-American Karan Vafadari, an art gallery manager held along with his Iranian wife. Iranian-Canadian national Abdolrasoul Dorri Esfahani, a member of the country's team that negotiated the nuclear deal, is believed to have been indicted. \n Still missing is former FBI agent Robert Levinson, who vanished in Iran in 2007 while on an unauthorized CIA mission. \n Shahini began a hunger strike on Feb. 15 to contest his incarceration. \n \"My only sin was that as a responsible human being, I expressed my views about my homeland, which is the right of every citizen,\" he wrote in a letter to his family published by the Center for Human Rights in Iran. \"Don't let me remain in this prison as an innocent man.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "American held in Iran released on bail amid 18-year sentence"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump listens during a meeting Friday with the National Association of Manufacturers in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n CAMBRIDGE, Mass. >> The Massachusetts city of Cambridge has passed a resolution calling for an impeachment investigation into President Donald Trump. \n The Cambridge City Council passed the resolution this evening by a 7-1 vote. One council member abstained from voting. \n The resolution calls on the U.S. House of Representatives to review whether Trump's many business interests violate the foreign emoluments clause or the domestic emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution. The clauses prohibit the president from profiting from foreign governments, the federal governor or state governments, other than his salary. \n Cambridge voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election. \n The city is across the Charles River from Boston, and is home to Harvard University. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Massachusetts city calls for Trump impeachment probe"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee ranking member Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., center, is seen leaving the White House complex in Washington, Friday. \n WASHINGTON >> After weeks on the defensive, President Donald Trump has stepped up his efforts to dispute, downplay and distract from revelations stemming from the investigations into the Kremlin's interference in last year's election and possible Russian ties to his campaign associates. \n The White House says the real story is not about Russia \u2014 it's about how Obama administration officials allegedly leaked and mishandled classified material about Americans. Trump and his aides have accused former officials of inappropriately disclosing \u2014 or \"unmasking\" \u2014 the names of Trump associates whose conversations were picked up by U.S. intelligences agencies. \n \"Such amazing reporting on unmasking and the crooked scheme against us by foxandfriends,\" Trump tweeted Monday. 'Spied on before nomination.' The real story.\" \n The White House has not pointed to any hard evidence to support such allegations, and instead has relied on media reports from some of the same publications Trump derides as \"fake news.\" \n The truth is buried somewhere in classified material that is illegal to disclose. Here's a look at what the White House believes is the real story. \n THE FLYNN AFFAIR \n Trump fired national security adviser Michael Flynn following news reports that Flynn misled the White House about his contacts with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. But the White House says the problem is that Flynn's conversations were in the news at all. \n \"The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington?\" Trump tweeted after firing Flynn in February. \n The White House has called for investigations into the disclosure of multiple intercepted conversations that Flynn had with Ambassador Sergey Kislyak before the inauguration. The government routinely monitors the communications of foreign officials in the U.S. It's illegal to publicly disclose such classified information. \n Officially, the White House said Flynn was forced to resign because he had given inaccurate descriptions of the discussions to Vice President Mike Pence and others in the White House. But Trump has continued to defend Flynn, suggesting he was only fired because information about his contacts came out in the media. \n \"Michael Flynn, Gen. Flynn is a wonderful man,\" Trump said. \"I think he's been treated very, very unfairly by the media.\" \n THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION \n White House officials say some Obama holdovers are part of a so-called deep state out to tear Trump down. \n Last week, the White House latched onto a month-old television interview from an Obama administration official who said she encouraged congressional aides to gather as much information on Russia as possible before the inauguration. \n Evelyn Farkas, the former deputy assistant secretary of defense, said she feared that information \"would disappear\" after President Barack Obama left office. She was no longer in government at the time, having left the Pentagon about a year before the election. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer called Farkas' comments \"devastating\" and said they \"raised serious concerns on whether or not there was an organized and widespread effort by the Obama administration to use and leak highly sensitive intelligence information for political purposes.\" \n On Monday, Spicer suggested there should be more interest in a Bloomberg report in which anonymous U.S. officials said that Susan Rice, Obama's national security adviser, asked for the identities of people related to Trump's campaign and transition dozens of times. \n Spicer remarked that he was \"somewhat intrigued by the lack of interest\" in the Rice revelations. But he added: \"I do think that it's interesting, the level, or lack thereof, of interest in this subject.\" \n As national security adviser, Rice would have regularly received intelligence reports and been able to request the identities of Americans whose communications were intercepted. \n THE HILL WEIGHS IN \n The White House has embraced a top Republican's assertion that information about Trump associates were improperly spread around the government in the final days of the Obama administration. It appears the White House played a role in helping House intelligence committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., acquire some of that information. \n Nunes announced last week that he had seen intelligence reports showing that Trump aides' communications were picked up through routine surveillance. But he said their identities may have been improperly revealed. The California congressman later said he viewed the reports at the White House. \n The White House contends that Nunes' information \u2014 which has not been made public \u2014 validates Trump's explosive claim that his predecessor wiretapped his New York skyscraper. Nunes has disputed that but still says he found the reports \"troubling.\" \n The White House's apparent involvement in helping Nunes access the information has overshadowed what Trump officials contend are real concerns about how much information about Americans is disseminated in intelligence reports. Trump has asked the House and Senate intelligence committees to include the matter in their Russia investigations. \n CAMPAIGN MODE \n Trump won the election, but thinks it's his vanquished opponent whose ties to Russia should be investigated. \n Some of the White House's allegations against Clinton stem from her four years as secretary of state, a role that gave her ample reasons to have frequent contacts with Russia. \n To deflect questions about Trump's friendly rhetoric toward Russia, the White House points to the fact that Clinton was a central figure in the Obama administration's attempt to \"reset\" relations with Moscow \u2014 an effort that crumbled after Vladimir Putin took back the presidency. \n \"When you compare the two sides in terms of who's actually engaging with Russia, trying to strengthen them, trying to act with them, trying to interact with them, it is night and day between our actions and her actions,\" Spicer said. \n Rex Tillerson, Trump's secretary of state, has deep ties to Russia from his time running ExxonMobil and cutting oil deals with Moscow. \n The White House has also tried to link Clinton to Russia's purchase of a controlling stake in a mining company with operations in the U.S., arguing that she was responsible for \"selling off one-fifth of our country's uranium.\" \n The Clinton-led State Department was among nine U.S. government agencies that had to approve the purchase of Uranium One. According to Politifact, some investors in the company had relationships with former President Bill Clinton and donated to the Clinton Foundation. However, the fact checking site says most of those donations occurred well before Clinton became secretary of state and was in position to have a say in the agreement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump steps up effort to dispute and distract on Russia"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "A 17-month-old Kailua girl who died after her mother backed into her with an SUV on Friday was the third child to be fatally struck by a reversing vehicle since late 2015, Honolulu police said. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office identified the girl in Friday's incident as Leilani Steele, of Kailua. \n Her death was determined to be an accident and the cause of her death was multiple blunt force injuries, the office said. \n Police said the 36-year-old mother was reversing a 2007 Honda CRV when the girl stepped into the driveway. Another child was in the SUV at the time, police said. No one else was hurt. \n The incident occurred at about 4:30 p.m. at the girl's home. \n Lt. Carlene Lau, of the Honolulu Police Department's Vehicular Homicide Section, said the case was an emotionally difficult one for police to investigate and the third such case in about 16 months. \n In December 2015, a 1-year-old girl was fatally struck by a woman backing out of her driveway on Noholio Road in Waianae. \n In November, a 1-year-old boy was backed over by a 36-year-old man driving a Toyota 4Runner in Kapalama. The fatality occurred in the driveway of 1518 Auld Lane. \n Lau said all three children were about the same age, and none of the vehicles had a rearview camera. \n She said sometimes parents or caretakers do not realize how quick children can be at that age, and there should always be someone keeping an eye on them or holding their hand. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kailua toddler who died after being backed over by SUV identified"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Investigators with Metropolitan Police Department examine the scene after a pursuit in Washington. According to Capt. David Sledge with the Metropolitan Police Department, officers arrested a man after the pursuit and rescued a girl who was reported missing from a Charlotte, N.C., home. \n WASHINGTON >> An 11-year-old girl who was allegedly kidnapped from North Carolina cried out \"Help me\" when police officers in the U.S. capital found her wedged between the driver's and front passenger's seat after the car she was in crashed, court documents showed. \n The documents were released late Monday. They describe the police pursuit Sunday of the car allegedly driven by 36-year-old Curtis Atkinson Jr. of Charlotte, North Carolina. Atkinson is the uncle of 11-year-old girl Arieyana Forney. He is charged with killing his parents, who were Arieyana's grandparents and guardians, in North Carolina. \n Police describe Atkinson leading them on a chase, which ended when the car rear-ended another vehicle in Washington. \n Officers say the force of the collision was so great that the child, two adults and a dog were all thrown to the front seat. \n Court documents made available Monday said that an officer who chased the vehicle in Washington was told that the occupants of the vehicle \"had a handgun and they were not scared to hurt the kidnapped child in the vehicle.\" \n Arieyana was taken to a hospital for evaluation. \n Atkinson's first cousin Nina Chandler told The Associated Press that family members also don't know why Atkinson was found with his Arieyana, his late brother's daughter, after fleeing the North Carolina home where Atkinson's parents were found dead Sunday. \n In a telephone interview, Chandler said that Atkinson and his parents shared an enthusiasm for football and basketball, attending NFL games of the Carolina Panthers and Charlotte's former NBA team, the Hornets. \n \"They loved their boys. And Curtis Jr. loved his dad,\" said Chandler, of Upper Marlboro, Maryland. \"We can't get our hands on it. We don't know what went wrong.\" \n In court documents filed Monday ahead of the planned court appearance, authorities said Atkinson Jr. was charged in North Carolina with homicide. \n Police in North Carolina had said earlier that they planned to seek charges against Atkinson in the deaths of his parents, Ruby Atkinson, 62, and Curtis Atkinson Sr., 63. \n Nikkia Cooper, 25, the third person in the car stopped Sunday, is also facing charges. Court records released Monday in Washington identified her as Nakkia Cooper and said she was wanted in North Carolina for kidnapping. She also faces a drug charge in Washington. \n Both Atkinson Jr. and Cooper appeared in court Monday and are being held in jail. \n The court documents said authorities intend to extradite Atkinson Jr. and Cooper to North Carolina. \n Arieyana's grandparents became her guardians after her father, 29-year-old Micah Atkinson, was killed in a still-unsolved slaying in 2013, Chandler said. \n Curtis Atkinson Jr. has a criminal record including convictions for drug dealing and possessing stolen goods dating to 1999, according to state prison records. He served 11 months in prison before being released in 2011, those records show. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alleged kidnap victim cried out \"Help me\" after car crash"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "A jury has found a woman guilty of bribing federal agents in exchange for protecting her Hawaii massage parlor from prostitution raids and help with the U.S. citizenship test. \n Biyu Situ was found guilty today of two counts of bribery. \n She was arrested after Homeland Security investigators said she offered money for raid protection, citizenship help and recruitment of prostitutes. \n According to court documents she made the offer after two Chinese women at her massage parlor were arrested for prostitution. \n Assistant U.S. Attorney Larry Butrick says jurors heard recordings of Situ saying she wanted the same arrangement her friend had with police. \n She faces deportation to China and up to five years in prison when she's sentenced in July. \n Situ's attorney Thomas Otake declined to comment on the verdict. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman guilty of bribing agents for massage parlor protection"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Exterior view of the New York state Capitol as legislative leaders work on the state budget in Albany, N.Y. \n ALBANY, N.Y. >> New York state avoided a government shutdown Monday when reluctant lawmakers passed an emergency two-month spending measure proposed by Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo after he and the Legislature failed to strike a deal on a spending plan. \n The stopgap measure will fund state operations through May 31, though lawmakers say it shouldn't take them that long to come to an agreement on a one-year budget. Lawmakers won't be paid until that happens, giving them one more reason to reach a consensus. \n Few lawmakers expressed enthusiasm for the short-term bill, known as a budget 'extender,' which Cuomo introduced after he and lawmakers blew through a Saturday budget deadline. \n \"Passing this extender isn't a punt of our duties,\" Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, D-Bronx, told reporters. \"I'm just trying to make sure that government isn't shut down.\" \n One key sticking point in the budget remains a proposal known as \"raise the age,\" which would end the state's practice of prosecuting and incarcerating 16- and 17-year-old offenders as adults. The change is a priority for Heastie and other Democrats, but it has raised concerns among Senate Republicans. Lawmakers in North Carolina, the only other state where 16- and 17-year-old offenders are prosecuted as adults, also are considering legislation to raise the age. \n Negotiations in Albany were also bogged down over how to divide increased education funding, the details of an affordable housing and development tax credit in New York City and whether to increase the number of authorized charter schools. \n \"I believe we can get there,\" Republican Senate Leader John Flanagan, R-Long Island, said of the work to craft the more than $150 billion spending plan. \n Senate Minority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, D-Yonkers, said the $40 billion extender will allow government workers to be paid while lawmakers continue to wrangle out agreements, including on an effort to raise the age of adult criminal responsibility from 16 to 18. \n \"We should be mindful that this extender, which does keep our government running \u2026 is really again for all of us a signal for the growing dysfunction here in Albany,\" Stewart-Cousins said. \n Others who voted against the measure held firm to declarations made by Democratic leadership that members would not sign off on any budget item without the juvenile justice reforms. Some also criticized Cuomo for continuing the long tradition of backroom negotiations, or of not including legislative pay in the extender. \n Cuomo said Sunday night that he is unwilling to accept lesser versions of key budget proposals including raising the age and measures to boost affordable housing. \n \"Raise the Age and affordable housing are especially controversial politically, but necessary governmentally,\" he said in a statement. \"I will not accept 'half a loaf' on these issues.\" \n The governor, who is mentioned as a possible contender for the White House in 2020, has cited the likelihood of federal spending cuts as one reason to delay the budget, saying waiting until late May would give the state time to understand how they might impact state finances. Lawmakers from both parties dismissed that as an excuse. \n \"This guy (Cuomo) should look in the mirror as to why this budget is late,\" said Assemblywoman Steve McLaughlin, R-Troy. \"He ran his mouth for months about the dysfunction in Washington and this guy cannot get a budget done in time.\" \n The extender mostly continues current spending levels but does include some new initiatives and $16 billion in new projects, including $2.5 billion in funding to upgrade the state's aging water infrastructure and funding for economic development and transportation projects. \n Cuomo introduced his $152 billion budget proposal in January. The proposal would keep the status quo when it comes to taxes, add $1 billion in new public education spending and include expanded child care tax credits and a new initiative making state college tuition free for students from families earning $125,000 or less annually. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New York avoids government shutdown with budget extension"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor gestures during a speech at the University of California at Berkeley in Berkeley, Calif. Sotomayor and her fellow judges sometimes disagree about decisions, but are collegial because they respect each other's passion for the law, she told students at Albany Law School in New York. \n ALBANY, N.Y. >> U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor talked to law students about her family, the collegial relationship among her fellow justices and the roles of passion and empathy in a legal career, but she made no mention of the U.S. Senate confirmation hearings of Neil Gorsuch in an appearance at Albany Law School this evening. \n \"We can disagree about the best answer, but it's all born from the same passion about the law,\" Sotomayor said in response to a student's question about whether anger over differing judicial opinions makes it hard to have a collegial court. \"What gets people to listen to you is your passion, not your anger.\" \n Sotomayor roamed through the lecture hall, at times embracing a student or posing for a group photo, as she talked about growing up in an extended Puerto Rican family in the Bronx and being a role model for young people. But she steered clear of politics. \n Sotomayor was given with the school's Kate Stoneman Award, presented annually to people in the legal profession who have demonstrated a commitment to seeking change and equal opportunities for women. \n Sotomayor has two more Albany-area appearances on Tuesday. She's slated to receive an honorary doctorate from the Sage Colleges and will hold an interactive discussion of her memoir, \"My Beloved World,\" at an evening appearance at the University at Albany. \n Sotomayor was nominated by President Barack Obama in 2009. She's the third woman and first Latina to serve on the Supreme Court. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Justice Sotomayor talks to law students; no Gorsuch mention"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Seattle Mayor Ed Murray applauds another speaker at a news conference detailing a proposed property-tax levy to raise $275 million over five years to fight homelessness in Seattle. \n SEATTLE >> Seattle Mayor Ed Murray has scrapped a multimillion-dollar proposed city property tax hike to combat homelessness in favor of pursuing a county sales tax increase to pay for services in the region. \n Murray and King County Executive Dow Constantine announced Monday that they would put a ballot measure to King County voters in 2018 that would raise the county sales tax by 0.1 percent to fight homelessness. \n Seattle and King County rank third among 50 major cities and counties in the number of people experiencing homelessness \u2014 nearly 11,000 people, according to a November 2016 report by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The region was behind New York and the Los Angeles area. \n The number of people living on the streets in Seattle and the county has also increased in recent years with as many as 4,500 people living outside in 2016, according to an annual one-night count. In late 2015, Murray and Constantine both declared states of emergencies as the homeless problem grew. \n After the mayor pitched the proposed property-tax measure, some balked, saying the city already spends millions to combat homelessness, and things appear to have gotten worse, not better. Some say the higher tax bills are pricing out working- and middle-class families. Others are demanding accountability. \n Murray said postponing a vote until next year would give the city and county more time to make headway on reforming their homeless-services systems \n A 0.1 percent bump in the county sales tax would generate about $68 million in revenues in the first year, raising hundreds of millions of dollars over seven years. By state law, the levy would sunset after seven years if it's not renewed. A joint county-city task force will determine how the money would be spent. \n In late February, Murray pitched the idea of a Seattle property-tax hike as a way to raise $55 million a year in new taxes to fight homelessness. Campaign backers have collected thousands of signatures in the past couple of weeks with the goal of putting that citizens' initiative to Seattle voters in August. \n But Murray said he and others were pulling that initial proposal in favor of a coordinated countywide effort that could raise millions more and recognizes that the problem of homelessness is a regional one. \n \"I'm convinced that being bolder, going bigger and acting regionally is the only credible response to this growing crisis,\" Murray said at a news conference. He noted that the crisis has roots in many issues, including mental health issues, skyrocketing rents, drug addiction and other problems. \n \"We know homelessness is an emergency not contained in Seattle. We know that acting collectively must mean acting regionally,\" he added. \n Seattle currently spends about $60 million a year on homeless services, everything from emergency shelters to rental subsidies. King County spends about $78 million a year in housing and homeless, Constantine said. \n \"We're doing well with what we have. But it is simply not enough,\" Constantine said. \"Homelessness is not normal. It's not inevitable. And it cannot be acceptable.\" \n King is the largest county in Washington state with nearly 2.2 million people. It encompasses Seattle and 38 other smaller cities. \n Sales tax in the county varies depending on the location of the sale. The total sales tax rate in Seattle is currently at 10.1 percent. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seattle mayor drops city tax, pursues county measure"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carter Page, then adviser to U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, speaks at the graduation ceremony for the New Economic School in Moscow, Russia. A foreign policy adviser to Donald Trump's presidential campaign met with a Russian intelligence operative in 2013 and provided him documents about the energy industry, according to court filings. \n WASHINGTON >> A foreign policy adviser to Donald Trump's presidential campaign met with a Russian intelligence operative in 2013 and provided him documents about the energy industry, according to court filings. \n The Russian, Victor Podobnyy, was one of three men charged in connection with a Cold War-style Russian spy ring. According to the court documents, Podobnyy tried to recruit Carter Page, an energy consultant working in New York at the time, as an intelligence source. Page is referred to in the filing as \"Male-1.\" \n Page briefly served as a foreign policy adviser to Trump's campaign, though he split from the campaign before the election and the White House says the president has no relationship with him. He's among the Trump associates under scrutiny as the FBI and congressional committees investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. \n When contacted Monday by The Associated Press, Page said he was not available for comment. He confirmed to BuzzFeed News, which first reported on the filings, that he was \"Male-1.\" \n Trump has vigorously denied that he or his associates were in contact with Russia during the election. He's blasted the focus on his possible Russia ties as a \"ruse\" and has insisted that the real story is the leaking of information to the media and allegations that he and his associates were improperly surveilled by the Obama administration. \n \"The real story turns out to be SURVEILLANCE and LEAKING! Find the leakers,\" Trump wrote in a tweet Monday morning. \n Page's contacts with Podobnyy happened about three years before Trump listed him as a foreign policy adviser to the campaign. Trump and his advisers have been vague about how Page became connected with the campaign. \n The court filings include a transcript of Podobnyy speaking with Igor Sporyshev, who was also charged in the spy ring, about Page. \n \"I like that he takes on everything,\" Podobnyy says. \"For now his enthusiasm works for me. I also promised him a lot.\" \n Separately, The Washington Post reported Monday that the United Arab Emirates arranged a secret meeting in January between an American businessman supporting Trump and a Russian close to President Vladimir Putin as part of an apparent effort to establish a back-channel line of communication between Moscow and the incoming president. \n Citing U.S., European and Arab officials, the Post reported that the UAE agreed to broker the meeting in part to explore whether Russia could be persuaded to curtail its relationship with Iran, including in Syria, a Trump administration objective that would be likely to require major concessions to Moscow on U.S. sanctions. The full agenda remains unclear, the newspaper said. \n The meeting took place nine days before Trump's inauguration and involved businessman Erik Prince, the Post reported. Prince, the founder of the security firm Blackwater and now the head of the Hong Kong-based company Frontier Services Group, has ties to Trump chief strategist Steve Bannon and is the brother of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. \n U.S. officials said the FBI has been scrutinizing the meeting in the Seychelles islands in the Indian Ocean as part of the broader probe of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and alleged contacts between associates of Putin and Trump, the Post reported. The FBI declined to comment, the newspaper said. \n The officials said Prince presented himself as an unofficial envoy for the president-elect to high-ranking Emiratis involved in setting up his meeting with the Putin confidant, the Post reported. The officials did not identify the Russian. \n Prince was a high-dollar campaign donor \u2014 he and his family reportedly gave more than $10 million to GOP candidates and super PACs in 2016 \u2014 and was a frequent critic of both President Barack Obama and Trump's opponent, Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n In response to the Post story, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said \"we are not aware of any meetings\" and a Prince spokesman said the meeting \"had nothing to do with President Trump.\" Both said Prince had no role in the Trump transition. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump campaign adviser met with Russian intel operative"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump announces the approval of a permit to build the Keystone XL pipeline, clearing the way for the $8 billion project in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Amid the turmoil over staff shake-ups, blocked travel bans and the Russia cloud hanging overhead, President Donald Trump is steadily plugging away at a major piece of his agenda: Undoing Obama. \n From abortion to energy to climate change and personal investments, Trump is keeping his promises in methodically overturning regulations and policies adopted when Barack Obama was president. \n It hasn't all been smooth sailing. \n Trump recently failed to fulfill his pledge to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, which continues to stand as Obama's most recognizable domestic policy achievement. Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan couldn't persuade enough fellow Republicans to back new health care legislation last month. Ryan pulled the measure just before a scheduled House vote. \n Trump has had better outcomes in other areas. \n CLIMATE CHANGE \n Trump signed an executive order last week to deliver on his pledge to unravel Obama's efforts to curb global warming. The order launched a review of the Clean Power Plan, Obama's chief effort to curb carbon emissions by restricting greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants. Trump also lifted a 14-month-old halt on new coal leases on federal lands. The Obama administration had imposed a three-year freeze on such leases in January 2016. \n The executive order covers a range of other Obama-era rules, including requirements to factor the \"social cost\" of carbon emissions into all regulatory actions and to crack down on methane emissions at oil and gas wells. Business groups had complained to Trump, himself a businessman, that the rules were intrusive and expensive. \n INTERNET PRIVACY \n Trump is expected to sign a measure soon to block online privacy regulations the Federal Communications Commission issued during Obama's final months in office. It's a first step toward allowing internet providers to sell information about their customers' browsing habits. The FCC rule was designed to give consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies. \n ABORTION/FAMILY PLANNING \n Trump is expected to sign legislation erasing another Obama rule, one that barred states from withholding federal family planning funds from Planned Parenthood affiliates and other clinics that provide abortions. The rule was finalized shortly before Obama left office in January. \n The measure cleared the Senate last week with Vice President Mike Pence, who is also president of the Senate, casting the tie-breaking 51st vote in the 100-member chamber. \n KEYSTONE XL OIL PIPELINE \n Trump greenlighted the long-delayed project on March 24, reversing Obama's decision less than 18 months earlier. After Trump invited TransCanada, the Canadian company building the $8 billion pipeline, to resubmit its application, the State Department approved the project, saying it would advance U.S. national interests. Obama had said the project would not. \n Approval came nearly a decade after TransCanada applied to complete the 1,700-mile (2,735 kilometers) pipeline to carry oil from tar sands in Alberta, Canada, to refineries along the Texas Gulf Coast. \n Trump says the project will reduce costs and reliance on foreign oil, and create thousands of jobs. Obama had said it would undercut U.S. credibility in international efforts to tackle climate change. \n DAKOTA ACCESS PIPELINE \n Under Obama, the Army Corps of Engineers had declined in December to allow pipeline construction under South Dakota's Lake Oahe on grounds that alternate routes needed to be considered. Native American tribes had sued to block construction, arguing that the pipeline threatened their water supply and cultural sites. \n The project has moved forward again under Trump, who acted shortly after taking office. In February, the Army Corps of Engineers abandoned further study and granted an easement that was needed to complete the pipeline. Energy Transfer Partners immediately began drilling under the lake. \n FUEL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS \n The Trump administration is re-examining federal requirements governing the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks. In 2012, the Obama administration set fuel economy regulations for model years 2017-2025 and agreed to complete a midterm evaluation by next year. Then, days before Obama left office, the Environmental Protection Agency decided to keep stringent requirements it had set in place for model years 2022-2025. \n The auto industry balked. Trump announced in Michigan that he's putting the midterm review back on track. His decision has no immediate effect but requires the EPA to determine no later than April 2018 whether the 2022-2025 standards are appropriate. \n TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP \n Obama was his administration's biggest cheerleader for the sweeping agreement involving the U.S. and 11 other Pacific Rim nations. But the Senate needed to ratify it, and bipartisan opposition basically doomed it before he left office. \n As a candidate, Trump railed against the agreement and pledged to withdraw from it, saying he was a better negotiator and could strike better deals. Shortly after taking office, he directed the U.S. trade representative to withdraw and said he would pursue individual deals with the other countries. \n ABORTION/MEXICO CITY POLICY \n Trump reinstated a ban on providing federal money to international groups that perform abortions or provide information about them. Obama had lifted the ban when he took office in 2009. \n Known as the \"Mexico City Policy\" or, by critics, as the \"global gag rule,\" the regulation has been a political volleyball, instituted by Republican administrations and rescinded by Democratic ones since 1984. Trump signed it one day after the 44th anniversary of the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision that legalized abortion in the United States. The policy also prohibits taxpayer funding for groups that lobby to legalize abortion or promote it as a family planning method. \n PERSONAL FINANCE \n Trump has instructed the Department of Labor to delay an Obama-era rule that would require financial professionals who charge commissions to put their clients' best interests first when advising them on retirement investments. The \"fiduciary rule\" was aimed at blocking consultants from steering clients toward investments with higher commissions and fees that can eat away at retirement savings. The rule was to take effect this month. The financial services industry argued that the rule would limit retirees' investment choices by forcing asset managers to steer them to low-risk options. \n Undoing the rule was part of a promised assault by Trump on banking rules enacted after the Great Recession. He has directed the Treasury secretary to review the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial oversight law, which he has said is a disaster. The law's aim was to keep banks from repeating practices that many blamed for the financial meltdown. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump plugs away at his central goal: undoing Obama's work"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue workers help rescue a dog out of a well in the mountains outside of Malibu, Calif. Los Angeles County Fire Department spokesman Brian Jordan said that a 13-year-old Welsh terrier named Lucy fell into the dirt well on Sunday while on a hike with her owners. \n MALIBU, Calif. >> Rescuers in Southern California have saved a dog that fell into a 30-foot well. \n The department's urban search-and-rescue team lowered a firefighter into the well to grab the dog, which wasn't hurt in the fall. \n Video posted by the department shows the firefighter and the dog being lifted out of the well by a rope. The department also shared a picture afterward of the healthy-looking dog. \n Firefighters urge pet owners to keep their pets on a leash during hikes through the mountains. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Firefighters hoist dog out of 30-foot well in California"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jared Kushner, U.S. President Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser, flew to Iraq with the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Gen. Joseph Dunford. \n BAGHDAD >> President Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, and Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Gen. Joseph Dunford met Monday in Baghdad with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi. \n The visit marks an early foray for the Trump administration into the situation in Iraq. It comes against the backdrop of an ongoing investigation into civilian deaths in an area of Mosul near the site of an air-strike by U.S.-led coalition forces last month. \n Dunford invited Kushner and Thomas P. Bossert, a presidential assistant for homeland security and counterterrorism, on the trip to meet with Iraqi leaders and U.S. forces and receive an update on the fight against the Islamic State group. Capt. Greg Hicks, a spokesman for Dunford, said Kushner was \"traveling on behalf of the president to express the president's support and commitment to the government of Iraq and U.S. personnel currently engaged in the campaign.\" \n The meeting with al-Adabi came after some confusion regarding Kushner's whereabouts Monday morning. \n Kushner's travel plans initially were revealed late Sunday by a Trump administration official who said Kushner wanted to see the situation there for himself and show support for Baghdad's government. \n The official said Kushner had already arrived. But when presented with information indicating that was not accurate, the official said the timing of his arrival was unclear but confirmed that Kushner was scheduled to be in Iraq on Monday. Such visits from high-ranking officials are typically kept secret out of security concerns. \n The administration official who provided the information late Sunday wasn't authorized to speak about confidential meetings by name and demanded anonymity. \n Kushner's West Wing portfolio is robust. He has been deeply involved with presidential staffing, recently launched a task force meant to modernize government using lessons drawn from the private sector, and has played the role of shadow diplomat, advising on relations with the Middle East, Canada and Mexico. \n And though Kushner had no previous diplomatic or government experience, Trump also tasked him with trying to broker a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. \n \"If you can't produce peace in the Middle East, nobody can,\" Trump told Kushner at a gala a few days before his inauguration. \n Kushner was also the latest Trump associate to be swept up into the ongoing probe into contacts with Russian officials. The White House confirmed last week that he had volunteered to be interviewed by the Senate intelligence committee. North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr, the committee's chairman, said that Kushner would likely be under oath and would submit to a \"private interview\" about arranging meetings with the Russian ambassador and other officials. \n Kushner is married to Trump's oldest daughter, Ivanka. He was expected to have a major role in meetings later this week between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping at Trump's winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. \n His visit came just two weeks after al-Abadi said he was assured by the president the U.S. will accelerate its support for his country's struggle against the Islamic State group. \n Al-Abadi met with Trump and Kushner in Washington recently and said he had the impression that the United States would take a more aggressive approach, although he did not say what that might entail. \n Defense Secretary Jim Mattis recently presented Trump with the outlines of a comprehensive approach to defeating IS and other extremist groups on a global scale, but specifics have yet to be worked out. Officials have indicated that the approach is unlikely to depart radically from the Obama administration's strategy, at least with regard to ongoing efforts in Iraq and Syria. \n Iraq was part of the Trump administration's original travel ban but was removed from the revised version after a request from the Pentagon and the State Department highlighting Iraq's key role in fighting the Islamic State. The second travel ban, which restricts immigration from six Muslim-majority countries, has been halted by a federal court. The U.S. Justice Department has announced an appeal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kushner, Dunford meet with Iraqi prime minister"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fox contributor Julie Roginsky, left and then Fox News head Roger Ailes. Roginsky said that a promised position on the Fox show \"The Five\" never happened after she rejected Ailes' sexual advances. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Fox News contributor Wendy Walsh and Fox News personality Bill O'Reilly appears on the set of his show, \"The O'Reilly Factor\" on Oct. 1, 2015 in New York. Walsh says she lost a segment on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" after she refused to go to O'Reilly's bedroom following a 2013 dinner in Los Angeles. \n NEW YORK >> A Fox News contributor came forward today to level more sexual harassment allegations against deposed chief executive Roger Ailes, two days after it was revealed that the network's most popular on-air personality, Bill O'Reilly, has settled multiple complaints about his own behavior with women. \n O'Reilly was due to return to the air today following a weekend report in The New York Times that he and his employer had paid five women a total of $13 million to settle allegations of sexual harassment or other inappropriate conduct by Fox's ratings king. \n Meanwhile, the lawyer for another woman who says she was punished for rebuffing O'Reilly's advances called on New York City's Human Rights Commission to investigate O'Reilly's behavior. \n The new lawsuit against Ailes was brought by Fox's Julie Roginsky and is notable because it accuses Fox's current management of trying to cover up for Ailes. \n Roginsky said that Ailes, who lost his job last summer following sexual harassment complaints that he has denied, suggested she have sex with \"older, married, conservative men.\" She said Ailes would insist upon a kiss hello at their meetings, requiring Roginsky to bend over so he could look down her dress. \n She was seeking a permanent role on Fox's show \"The Five.\" But after a meeting in April 2015 where she turned down Ailes' advances, he wouldn't meet with her again, and she never got the regular role on the late afternoon show, she said. \n Later, she said, she was pressured to join \"Team Roger,\" a group of people who publicly defended Ailes when the first harassment complaint made public against the Fox boss was brought by Gretchen Carlson last summer. Roginsky refused. \n She said that even though Fox executives knew she had her own harassment allegations against Ailes, she was never encouraged to speak to the law firm hired by Fox News parent 21st Century Fox to investigate claims against him. And she said Fox never looked into her charges. Her lawyer would not say why Roginsky never contacted the firm on her own. \n Roginsky said that during a meeting in December, new Fox top executive Bill Shine told her that he didn't believe the allegations against Ailes until recently. But the lawsuit alleges that Shine and other top Fox executives should have known about Ailes' behavior much earlier. \"Shine and other senior executives kept Ailes' conduct secret and enabled it,\" said the lawsuit, filed in state court in New York. \n Fox News representatives did not immediately return messages for comment. \n Roginsky said she believes that Shine hasn't given her an opportunity for advancement in retaliation for her harassment complaint and her refusal to speak out against Carlson. \n At a Los Angeles news conference today, lawyer Lisa Bloom detailed allegations against O'Reilly by Wendy Walsh, a regular guest on the prime-time show \"The O'Reilly Factor.\" \n Bloom said that O'Reilly had told Walsh that he would recommend her for a paid contributor role on the network. Walsh and O'Reilly had dinner in Los Angeles in 2013, but when Walsh refused his invitation to come to his hotel room, his attitude changed and she was soon dropped from the show, according to Walsh. \n Walsh said she came forward because she was told by a Times reporter that many of the women who have accused O'Reilly of harassment are bound by gag orders. She said she is not bound by any such agreement, and the statute of limitations for suing has run out. \n \"Nobody can silence me because my voice is not for sale,\" Walsh said. \"Nobody can buy my voice.\" \n O'Reilly said over the weekend that he is vulnerable to lawsuits from people who threaten to cause him bad publicity unless they get paid. He said he had \"put to rest any controversies\" to spare his children. \n O'Reilly is host of Fox's most popular program, and his ratings have gone up over the past year with the intense interest in politics. Independent studies show he generates more than $100 million in advertising revenue per year for TV's top-rated cable news network. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill O'Reilly and ex-Fox chief are hit with more allegations"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / DEC. 2015 \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson \n U.S. government attorneys want Hawaii's lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump's travel ban paused while a ruling blocking key sections is appealed. \n The Department of Justice filed a motion today asking U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson to pause proceedings in Hawaii's lawsuit pending resolution of the government's appeal. \n The government is appealing Watson's ruling that put an indefinite hold on Trump's executive order to suspend new visas for people in six Muslim-majority countries and halt the U.S. refugee program. \n The state attorney general's office didn't immediately comment on the suspension request. \n According to the motion, it would be helpful to know the outcome of the appeal before proceeding in the lawsuit. \n The government wants to suspend upcoming deadlines in the case, including a scheduling hearing set for April 18. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Feds seek pause on Hawaii suit against travel ban while appeal plays out"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Wagoner County Sheriff Chris Elliott spoke to media about Elizabeth Rodriguez, the getaway driver in a failed burglary resulting in the deaths of three teens, at the Wagoner County Courthouse today, in Wagoner, Okla. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Elizabeth Marie Rodriguez, of Oolagah, Okla. Rodriguez, who is charged with driving three teenagers to a home in the Tulsa, Okla., suburb of Broken Arrow on March 27, where they were fatally shot during a break-in said she feels guilty, but not responsible for their deaths. \n OKLAHOMA CITY >> An Oklahoma prosecutor said today no charges will be filed against a 23-year-old man who fatally shot three teenage intruders in his home, but that the woman who drove them there is being charged with first-degree murder. \n Authorities say Zachary Peters was home alone when he shot Maxwell Cook, Jacob Redfern and Jakob Woodruff with an AR-15 rifle on March 27 at his home just outside the Tulsa suburb of Broken Arrow. \n \"It is the opinion of this office that Zachary Peters acted justifiably \u2026 when he used deadly force to defend his home,\" said Wagoner County Assistant District Attorney Jack Thorp. \"It was clear he operated completely within the law when he used deadly force,\" Thorp later told The Associated Press. \n The spellings of the names and the ages of the teens differ in some public records, but Wagoner County Deputy Nick Mahoney said the latest information is that Cook and Redfern were 18 and Woodruff was 15. \n Wagoner County Sheriff Chris Elliott said he supports the decision not to charge Peters. \n \"We support the right of our citizens, the right to bear arms and to defend their homes,\" Elliott said. \"In this such case, we feel strongly that's what took place here.\" \n Oklahoma is one of 24 states which have laws allowing citizens to shoot someone if they believe the person threatens their safety, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. \n However, an Oklahoma City pharmacist was convicted of first-degree murder in the 2009 fatal shooting of a 16-year-old robber inside the pharmacy. Prosecutors said the teenager was left unconscious by one shot from the pharmacist, who then chased another robber outside the store before returning inside, picking up a second gun and shooting the still unconscious teen several more times. \n Thorp also said Elizabeth Marie Rodriguez, 21, of Oologah, was charged today with three counts of first-degree murder and two counts of burglary in the case and is jailed without bond. Oklahoma law allows a person to be charged with murder if they take part in a crime in which people are killed, even if the person does not take part in the slaying. \n Court records do not list an attorney for Rodriguez, but she has acknowledged driving the three to the home and waiting in a vehicle outside, and said while she understands Peters was protecting his home, she believes he could have shot the three in the legs. \n \"I won't take responsibility for the murders, I won't. I feel guilty, but I don't feel responsible,\" Rodriguez said in an interview last week with ABC's \"World News Tonight with David Muir.\" \n Elliott said the three were wearing masks, hoodies and gloves and that brass knuckles and a knife were found among their possessions. \n Elliott said the group had gone to the property earlier the same day and stole liquor and electronic equipment from a garage apartment, then returned to steal more items. \n \"We do know at this time that Rodriquez had some indirect knowledge of the Peters' home and she believed there were expensive items inside the house,\" Elliott said, while declining to elaborate. \n Rodriguez has said another person was with her outside the home, but would not identify the person. \n Mahoney said investigators have found and questioned that person, but have made no arrest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "No charges against Oklahoma man who killed 3 intruders"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "A woman who was shot by an off-duty Honolulu police officer has filed a federal lawsuit alleging the officer's supervisors knew the officer had drinking and emotional problems but failed to take steps to prevent him from carrying a firearm. \n Police said the shooting was accidental and placed Kimura, 58, on restricted duty while investigations were underway. The officer retired about a month after the shooting before any investigations were completed. \n Kimura's lawyer had said his client was checking his department-approved personal firearm to see if it was loaded when the gun went off. \n Kimura later pleaded guilty to assault and recklessly causing serious bodily injury and spent two months behind bars. He was also sentenced to four years of probation. \n Park's lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court on Thursday, says the Honolulu Police Department failed to immediately discipline Kimura and the other officers he was drinking with at the time of the shooting. It also points to a department policy that prohibits officers from handling firearms when they are drinking. \n The department didn't respond to requests for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman shot by HPD officer at bar sues department"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump walks with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi at the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> The National Archives and Records Administration has told the White House to keep each of President Donald Trump's tweets, even those he deletes or corrects, and the White House has agreed. \n The head of the archives, David S. Ferriero, told two Democratic senators in a letter last week that the White House has assured him it's saving all Trump's Twitter blasts. \n The archives contacted the White House about the matter because the Presidential Records Act requires such correspondence to be preserved for history. Ferriero did not say when the agency contacted White House officials to remind them about the records requirement, but officials briefed the White House counsel's office about the law on Feb. 2, according to the archivist's letter to Sens. Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Tom Carper of Delaware. \n The archivist's letter, dated March 30, doesn't describe precisely how the White House is saving Trump's tweets. The Obama administration used an automated system to keep copies of President Barack Obama's tweets. \n McCaskill and Carper raised the issue of Trump's tweets in early March following a spate of instances in which Trump had deleted or altered earlier tweets. The two senators had previously raised concerns about Trump's tweets in a letter to White House counsel Don McGahn. \n The two senators also pressed the archives for information about reports that some White House staffers had been ordered to avoid emails or use smartphone apps that do not preserve emails because of Trump administration concerns about leaks to the media. Ferriero told them he was aware of those press reports but said that White House guidance \"to all employees expressly forbids the use of such apps.\" Ferriero also said he was not aware of government officials who have been instructed to avoid using email as a method of work-related communication. \n Trump's almost-daily use of his official White House Twitter account and his separate private Twitter account has been heavily scrutinized by the media and by political friends and foes since his November election and even more so since his inauguration. \n Three minutes before he took the oath of office in January, Trump tweeted from his private account that he was \"honered to serve you, the great American people, as your 45th President of the United States.\" The misspelled word in the tweet was later altered to \"honored\" and then the tweet was deleted entirely. \n Unlike the archives' clear guidance on saving Trump's tweets, the agency has not provided any guidance to government agencies about preserving communications to and from Trump's smartphones and agencies have not requested guidance, Ferriero said. \n The two senators raised concerns with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis about whether communications from Trump's old smartphone were being preserved. Trump reportedly replaced his old unsecured Android smartphone with a secured iPhone but continued using the unsecured phone for tweeting through late March. \n The senators had also written to McGahn in February, asking about reports that at least four senior Trump White House officials \"maintained active email accounts on a private email system.\" Newsweek had reported in January that senior adviser and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner, chief strategist Steve Bannon, counselor Kellyanne Conway and press secretary Sean Spicer all were using private email accounts on a Republican National Committee system. \n Trump repeatedly criticized Democratic president opponent Hillary Clinton for her extensive use of private emails when she was secretary of state in the Obama administration. \n According to an agenda of the Feb. 2 briefing with White House officials, archives general counsel Gary M. Stern and John Laster, director of the agency's presidential materials division, explained that the president and White House counsel were \"solely responsible for managing presidential records.\" \n The role of the archives, they added, is mostly advisory, but presidential records can only be disposed of after the White House consults the archivist in writing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "National Archives to White House: Save all Trump tweets"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, left, and Harpers Ferry National Historic Park Superintendent Tyrone Brandyburg, hold up a check during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, April 3, 2017. President Donald Trump gave his first quarter salary to the National Park Service. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is donating the first three months of his salary to the National Park Service. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer handed an oversized check for $78,333.32 to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke during today's briefing. \n The billionaire businessman turned president had promised to forgo his presidential salary. By law he must be paid, so he is donating the money. \n Zinke says he's \"thrilled\" at the president's decision to give money to an Interior agency, something he says Trump informed him about Sunday night. He says he will use the money to help on long-deferred maintenance projects on the nation's 25 battlefields. \n Trump's has proposed cutting $120 million \u2014 or 12 percent \u2014 from the Interior Department's budget. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump donates first 3 months of salary to Park Service"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., left, and Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., questioned the Republican side as the panel met to advance the nomination of President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, today, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supreme Court Justice nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch on March 21 explained \"mutton busting,\" an event held at rodeos similar to bull riding or bronc riding, in which children ride or race sheep, as he testified on Capitol Hill in Washington during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, from left, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., and Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., questioned the Republican side as the panel met to advance the nomination of President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, today, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> A deeply divided Senate panel favorably recommended Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch today, sending the nomination to the full Senate for what is expected to be a partisan showdown \u2014 and eventual confirmation. \n The 11-9 committee vote for President Donald Trump's nominee, strictly along party lines, came shortly after Democrats secured enough votes to block the nomination in the full Senate. But that Democratic success was virtually certain to be a short-lived political victory, as Republicans vowed to change Senate rules to put Gorsuch on the court and score a much-needed win for their party. \n Delaware Sen. Chris Coons said before the vote that he would vote with his fellow Democrats to block the nomination later this week, giving them the 41 votes needed. Once they do block it, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky is likely to change Senate rules so that Gorsuch can be confirmed with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber instead of the 60 votes now required. \n The starkly divided Senate panel weighed Gorsuch's nomination, with Republicans casting the Denver-based appeals court judge as fiercely independent and Democrats complaining that his ambiguous testimony makes him the wrong choice. \n Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, strongly defended Gorsuch as a fair and independent man. He said Democrats had worked to try and find fault with him, but \"that fault will not stick.\" \n \"He's a mainstream judge who's earned the universal respect of his colleagues on the bench and in the bar,\" Grassley said. \"He applies the law as we in Congress write it_as the judicial oath says, without respect to persons. And he refuses to compromise his independence.\" \n However, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the panel, said Gorsuch's answers during two days of questioning before the committee were \"diluted with ambiguity.\" She announced her opposition to the nominee. \n \"Judge Gorsuch's views were difficult to discern because he refused to answer questions, even basic questions that had been answered by previous nominees,\" Feinstein said. \n Democrats are angry in part because McConnell and Grassley last year blocked President Barack Obama's pick for the job after the February 2016 death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Even before Obama nominated Judge Merrick Garland, McConnell said the next president should choose the nominee, and Grassley's committee never held a hearing on Garland. \n \"This action by my colleagues was unacceptable and has scarred this process and this body,\" Coons said before announcing his opposition. Coons said he hoped the Senate could still find agreement on a way to avoid the rules change, but the chances of such a deal were slim. \n With Coons' announcement, 40 Democrats and one independent have announced they will vote to block the nomination on a procedural cloture vote \u2014 a parliamentary step to advance the nomination \u2014 and oppose the choice. \n Sens. Coons, Feinstein, Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Mark Warner of Virginia all said for the first time today that they'd vote to block. On Sunday, Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., who is up for re-election next year in a state Trump won handily, announced his opposition. \n But another Democrat in a Republican-dominated state up for re-election next year, Joe Donnelly of Indiana, announced he would support the president's nominee Sunday. Donnelly called Gorsuch, 49, \"a qualified jurist who will base his decisions on his understanding of the law and is well-respected among his peers.\" \n Donnelly is one of three Democrats who is supporting the nomination. Sens. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Manchin of West Virginia have also said they will vote for him. \n The majority of Senate Democrats have vowed to support Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who has led the effort to block the nominee. Republicans argue the action is exceedingly rare for Supreme Court choices. \n Although a change in Senate rules might seem procedural or obscure, it is known on Capitol Hill as the \"nuclear option\" because it would amount to a dramatic departure from Senate norms of bipartisanship and collegiality. It could also mean that Trump and future presidents will not have to be as concerned about compromising with the minority party when nominating Supreme Court justices. \n It would not be unprecedented. In 2013, Democrats were in the majority and upset about appellate court nominees being blocked by Republicans. They pushed through a rules change lowering the vote threshold on all nominees except for the Supreme Court from 60 votes to a simple majority. \n In addition to Gorsuch, the Judiciary Committee approved two other nominations \u2014 Rod Rosenstein to be deputy attorney general and Rachel Brand to be associate attorney general. If confirmed, they will be the No. 2 and No. 3 officials at the Justice Department under Attorney General Jeff Sessions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate panel recommends Gorsuch for Supreme Court"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Self-described \"body hacker\" Jowan Osterlund from Biohax Sweden, held a small microchip implant, similar to those implanted into workers at the Epicenter digital innovation business ccenter during a party at the co-working space in central Stockholm on March 14. \n STOCKHOLM >> The syringe slides in between the thumb and index finger. Then, with a click, a microchip is injected in the employee's hand. Another \"cyborg\" is created. \n What could pass for a dystopian vision of the workplace is almost routine at the Swedish startup hub Epicenter. The company offers to implant its workers and startup members with microchips the size of grains of rice that function as swipe cards: to open doors, operate printers, or buy smoothies with a wave of the hand. \n The injections have become so popular that workers at Epicenter hold parties for those willing to get implanted. \n \"The biggest benefit I think is convenience,\" said Patrick Mesterton, co-founder and CEO of Epicenter. As a demonstration, he unlocks a door by merely waving near it. \"It basically replaces a lot of things you have, other communication devices, whether it be credit cards or keys.\" \n The technology in itself is not new. Such chips are used as virtual collar plates for pets. Companies use them to track deliveries. It's just never been used to tag employees on a broad scale before. Epicenter and a handful of other companies are the first to make chip implants broadly available. \n And as with most new technologies, it raises security and privacy issues. While biologically safe, the data generated by the chips can show how often an employee comes to work or what they buy. Unlike company swipe cards or smartphones, which can generate the same data, a person cannot easily separate themselves from the chip. \n \"Of course, putting things into your body is quite a big step to do and it was even for me at first,\" said Mesterton, remembering how he initially had had doubts. \n \"But then on the other hand, I mean, people have been implanting things into their body, like pacemakers and stuff to control your heart,\" he said. \"That's a way, way more serious thing than having a small chip that can actually communicate with devices.\" \n Epicenter, which is home to more than 100 companies and some 2,000 workers, began implanting workers in January 2015. Now, about 150 workers have them. A company based in Belgium also offers its employees such implants, and there are isolated cases around the world where tech enthusiasts have tried this out in recent years. \n The small implants use Near Field Communication (NFC) technology, the same as in contactless credit cards or mobile payments. When activated by a reader inches away, a small amount of data flows between the two devices via electromagnetic waves. The implants are \"passive,\" meaning they contain information that other devices can read, but cannot read information themselves. \n Ben Libberton, a microbiologist at Stockholm's Karolinska Institute, says hackers could conceivably gain huge swathes of information from embedded microchips. The ethical dilemmas will become bigger the more sophisticated the microchips become. \n \"The data that you could possibly get from a chip that is embedded in your body is a lot different from the data that you can get from a smartphone,\" he says. \"Conceptually you could get data about your health, you could get data about your whereabouts, how often you're working, how long you're working, if you're taking toilet breaks and things like that.\" \n Libberton said that if such data is collected, the big question remains of what happens to it, who uses it, and for what purpose. \n So far, Epicenter's group of cyborgs doesn't seem too concerned. \n \"People ask me; 'Are you chipped?' and I say; 'Yes, why not,'\" said Fredric Kaijser, the 47-year-old chief experience officer at Epicenter. \"And they all get excited about privacy issues and what that means and so forth. And for me it's just a matter of I like to try new things and just see it as more of an enabler and what that would bring into the future.\" \n The implants have become so popular that Epicenter workers stage monthly events where attendees have the option of being \"chipped\" for free. \n That means visits from self-described \"body hacker\" Jowan Osterlund from Biohax Sweden who performs the \"operation.\" \n He injects the implants \u2014 using pre-loaded syringes \u2014 into the fleshy area of the hand, just next to the thumb. The process lasts a few seconds, and more often than not there are no screams and barely a drop of blood. \"The next step for electronics is to move into the body,\" he says. \n Sandra Haglof, 25, who works for Eventomatic, an events company that works with Epicenter, has had three piercings before, and her left hand barely shakes as Osterlund injects the small chip. \n \"I want to be part of the future,\" she laughs. \n Matti Huuhtanen in Helsinki contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cyborgs at work: employees getting implanted with microchips"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Damage to the roof of a box company in St. Louis could be seen today after a boiler exploded and flew before crashing through the roof of a nearby laundry business. \n KANSAS CITY, Mo. >> Three people were killed and four others injured today when an explosion launched a boiler the size of a van through the roof a St. Louis box company and slammed much of it down hundreds of feet away in a neighboring laundry business, the fire chief said. \n One person died in the blast about 8 a.m. at the Loy-Lange Box Co. and two more were killed when a large piece of the boiler crashed into the Faultless Healthcare Linen building's office area, Fire Chief Dennis Jenkerson said. \n Investigators were trying to pinpoint what caused the boiler to explode at the building in a largely industrial area of south St. Louis, Jenkerson said. \n Two of four survivors are critically injured, including a linen company worker who was found pinned beneath the boiler, which Jenkerson said was roughly 4 feet in diameter and 10 feet long (1.2 meters in diameter and 3 meters long). \n He said the boiler was still hot when rescuers arrived and that it had traveled up to 500 feet (150 meters). \n None of the victims' names have been released. \n A third building was damaged when a piece of pipe \u2014 about 8 feet (2.5 meters) long \u2014 linked to the explosion went through its roof, Jenkerson said. \n While at least initially believing the explosion was accidental, Jenkerson said investigators will seek out and review the boiler's inspection and maintenance records. \n It was not immediately clear if anyone was working on the boiler at the time of the blast. \n The phone rang unanswered at Loy-Lange Box Co., and an email message by The Associated Press to the company wasn't immediately returned. \n The company is described on its website as a \"full-service corrugator and custom box manufacturer.\" \n Investigators from the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration were on the scene, OSHA spokesman Scott Allen said. \n The agency's online records show that Loy-Lange was cited last year for an unspecified \"general requirement\" and paid a $3,741 fine, half of what OSHA initially assessed. The company also paid a $6,566 fine in 2015, and a $2,450 fine the year before that for what OSHA classified as \"serious\" violations. \n No details of those violations were listed in the online records, including whether any of them related to the boiler or other equipment. \n The explosion happened in an industrial portion near St. Louis' historic Soulard area, among the city's oldest neighborhoods. Located near the Anheuser-Busch brewery and home to St. Louis' yearly Mardi Gras festivities, Soulard features an eclectic mix of red brick townhomes, restaurants, shops and a sprawling farmers market. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 die, 4 hurt when boiler explodes in St. Louis"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police investigate a Tuesday morning shooting at Club Sun at 532 Cummings St. in Kakaako. \n Police arrested two men in connection with a recent shooting in Kakaako that left a 46-year-old man in critical condition. \n Officers arrested a 21-year-old man and 22-year-old man Saturday night on suspicion of attempted second-degree murder and first-degree robbery. Charges are pending. \n At about 4 a.m. at 532 Cummins St. Tuesday, the victim suffered a gunshot wound to the chest following an altercation. Police said officers discovered the 46-year-old man inside a unit above a strip club, Club Sun. \n Emergency Medical Services transported the victim to the hospital in critical condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "2 men arrested in Kakaako shooting"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rye spikes are seen in a field near Bad Muenstereifel, western Germany, during the morning sun in July 2008. Scientists in Germany have for the first time mapped the entire genome of rye, a cereal known for its hardy properties. \n BERLIN >> Scientists in Germany have for the first time mapped the entire genome of rye, a cereal known for its hardy properties. \n Eva Bauer, a plant researcher at the Technical University of Munich and lead author of the study, says rye has received less attention than wheat, barley and maize, which are more widely cultivated. \n This meant there was less funding from industry to sequence the rye genome, which is about 2\u00bd times the size of the human genome. \n Bauer said today that rye's ability to cope with droughts, poor soil and resist frost \u2014 which makes it popular in the colder climates of Central and Eastern Europe \u2014 is of particular interest for future research. \n The draft genome will be made freely available to scientists worldwide. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "German researchers sequence rye genome for first time"}

{"date": "April 3, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian police and emergency service officers stand near fire trucks near the entrance of Sennaya Square subway station in St. Petersburg, Russia, Monday, April 3, 2017. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A subway train hit by an explosion stays at the Tekhnologichesky Institut subway station in St.Petersburg, Russia today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Blast victims lay near a subway train hit by an explosion at the Tekhnologichesky Institut subway station in St.Petersburg, Russia today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Blast victims lay near a subway train hit by an explosion at the Tekhnologichesky Institut subway station in St.Petersburg, Russia today. \n ST. PETERSBURG, Russia >> A bomb blast tore through a subway train deep under Russia's second-largest city today, killing 11 people and wounding about 40 in a chaotic scene that left victims sprawled on a smoky platform. Hours later, anguish and fear rose again when police found and defused a shrapnel-packed explosive device at another St. Petersburg station. \n There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, which came while President Vladimir Putin was visiting the city, his hometown. In the past two decades, Russian trains and planes have been frequent targets of terrorism, usually blamed on Islamic militants. \n News reports said police were searching for two suspects, and Russian state television showed a photo of one suspect wearing what appeared to be a skullcap characteristic of Russia's Muslim regions. \n The Investigative Committee, the country's top criminal investigation body, said it had begun a probe based on the assumption that it was terrorism but added that other possibilities were being considered. \n St. Petersburg, a major tourist destination famed for its imperial palaces and lavish art museums, had been spared previous attacks. \n \"From now on, I will be scared to take the subway,\" said Marina Ilyina, 30, who brought flowers to the station where the train stopped after the bombing. \"We in St. Petersburg thought we wouldn't be touched by that.\" \n The explosion occurred in midafternoon as the train traveled between stations one of the city's north-south lines. The driver chose to continue on to the next stop, Technological Institute, a decision praised by the Investigative Committee as aiding evacuation efforts and reducing the danger to passengers who would have had to walk along the electrified tracks. \n The National Anti-Terrorism Committee said the death toll was 11, with another 45 people being treated for wounds in hospitals. \n Amateur video broadcast by Russian TV showed people lying on the platform of the Technological Institute station, and others bleeding and weeping just after the damaged train pulled in. \n \"Everything was covered in smoke. There were a lot of firefighters,\" Maria Smirnova, a student on a train behind the stricken one, told independent TV station Dozhd. \n Within two hours of the blast, authorities had found and deactivated another bomb at another busy station, Vosstaniya Square, the anti-terror agency said. That station is a major transfer point for passengers on two lines and serves the railway station to Moscow. \n Russian law enforcement agencies confirmed the device was loaded with shrapnel, and the Interfax news agency said it contained up to 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of explosives. \n The entire St. Petersburg subway system was shut down and evacuated, but partial service resumed after about six hours. \n Security was immediately tightened at all of the country's key transportation sites, Russia's National Anti-Terrorist Committee said. Moscow officials said that included the subway in the Russian capital. \n Putin, who meeting with the president of Belarus at the Constantine Palace on the city's outskirts, offered condolences on national television. \n \"Law enforcement agencies and intelligence services are doing their best to establish the cause and give a full picture of what happened,\" a somber-looking Putin said. \n Some residents of St. Petersburgh, a city of 5 million, responded with both dismay and determination. \n \"They won't succeed in breaking up our country. We are all citizens of one country despite various political views and religious beliefs,\" said 24-year-old Alexander Malikov, who brought flowers and candles to an improvised memorial outside one of the stations. \n The bombing drew widespread condemnation. \n President Donald Trump said it was \"absolutely a terrible thing.\" White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said the U.S. was prepared to offer assistance to Russia. \n Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group, which is backing Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces along with Russia, says the incident was the type of \"terrorism\" Russia was fighting in Syria. \n Most of the terrorist attacks in Russia have been connected to the insurgency in Chechnya and other Caucasus republics in the southern part of the country. \n The last confirmed attack was in October 2015 when Islamic State militants downed a Russian airliner heading from an Egyptian resort to St. Petersburg, killing all 224 people on board. \n The Dec. 25, 2016, crash of a Russian plane near the southern city of Sochi that killed 92 people, including members of the Red Army Choir, is widely believed to have been due to a bomb, but no official cause has been given. \n Two female suicide bombers killed 40 people and wounded more than 100 in the Moscow subway on March 29, 2010. Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov claimed responsibility for the attack, warning Russian leaders that \"the war is coming to their cities.\" \n A Moscow-to-St. Petersburg train was bombed on Nov. 27, 2009, in an attack that left 26 dead and 100 injured. Umarov's group also said he ordered this attack. \n Russian airports also have been targeted. On Jan. 24, 2011, a suicide bomber blew himself up at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport, killing 37 people and wounding 180. The same airport in August 2004 saw Islamic suicide bombers board two airplanes and bring them down, killing a total of 90 people. \n Vladimir Isachenkov and Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Blast on Russian subway kills 11; 2nd bomb is defused"}

