{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Andrea Aguilera sits at the Erie Neighborhood House in Chicago, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. Aguilera, 20, a student at a suburban Chicago college, said she feels uncertain since the election. She was brought to the country illegally as a child and has been able to get a work permit and avoid deportation through a federal program called, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. She said she doesn't know what will happen next with the program. \n CHICAGO >> Immigration hotlines are buzzing. Legal clinics are seeing an influx of clients. Public schools are fielding frantic questions from parents and students. \n Since the election, Donald Trump's tough talk on immigration has stirred anxiety nationwide among immigrants regardless of legal status. They are turning to lawyers, schools, advocacy groups and congressional offices for help. \n \"We're operating with a lot of unknowns, and a certain amount of fear comes with that,\" said Vanessa Esparza-L\u00f3pez, a managing attorney at the Chicago-based National Immigrant Justice Center. \n In Chicago, a hotline run by the state's largest immigrant-rights group received more than 330 calls in the week after the election, compared with the usual 100 or so. Denver school officials sent a letter to parents in response to questions about the election's effect on students living in the country illegally. \n The New York Legal Assistance Group said it's receiving 40 to 60 daily calls about immigration, up from 20 to 30. The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles reported 19 walk-ins on a single day, all with citizenship questions. \n The most urgent inquiries have been from young people benefiting from a 2012 federal program started by President Barack Obama's administration that allows immigrants brought to the country illegally as children to avoid deportation and get work permits. About 740,000 people have participated in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals system. \n Attorneys say the program is vulnerable because it was created by executive order, not by law, leaving new potential applicants second-guessing whether to sign up. \n Andrea Aguilera, a 20-year-old college student in suburban Chicago, feels in limbo with her DACA paperwork expiring next year. \n She was brought across the Mexican border illegally as a 4-year-old and largely kept her immigration status secret until she was able to get a work permit through DACA four years ago. She's since worked as a grocery store cashier and intern at a downtown financial company. Two of her siblings are in the program; another is a U.S. citizen. \n \"It's been hard to focus on school,\" Aguilera said. \"I just don't know what's going to come next for us.\" \n During the campaign, Trump pledged to deport the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally and to build a border wall. The Republican president-elect has not detailed how he will proceed and recently walked back the number of anticipated deportees. \n The Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for lower immigration levels, explained the spike in activity as uncertainty about whether existing laws will be enforced by Trump's administration. Jon Feere, a legal analyst at the Washington D.C.-based research organization, said those enrolled in DACA were aware of the risks when they signed up. Others should have little concern. \n \"Those who are in compliance with the law have nothing to worry about,\" he said. \n Still, even immigrants with permanent legal status have had questions since the election. \n Attorneys and immigrant organizations said green card holders feel new urgency to ensure that paperwork such as a renewal application is in order over fears that laws could change under a new administration. Most immigrants can seek citizenship three to five years after getting a green card. \n Roughly 9 million green card holders are currently eligible for citizenship, according to the most recent Department of Homeland Security statistics. Some citizens also sought clarity about when they could sponsor family members abroad. \n \"People need reassurance,\" said Irina Matiychenko, who leads the immigrant protection unit at the New York Legal Assistance Group. \"People need guidance.\" \n In Phoenix, local leaders planned a weekend meeting about being an immigrant in Arizona as an effort to \"guide us on the path of trust and unity.\" Staff members at the Chicago office of Democratic U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez reported an uptick in activity with at least 60 new applications for citizenship the past two weeks. \n School districts, including Chicago and Denver, used the election as a way to communicate existing policy. \n Denver Superintendent Tom Boasberg said the 90,000-student district sent letters in four languages home in response to what teachers were hearing from students and parents. The letter reiterated that school officials do not ask about immigration status when students enroll. \n \"In a time of fear and concern, lots of rumors and misinformation spread,\" he said. \"And that's why it's so important to get accurate factual information to our families from a very trusted source.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Astrid Galvan in Phoenix, Colleen Slevin in Denver, and Amy Taxin in Santa Ana, California, contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Sophia Tareen at http://twitter.com/sophiatareen. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's election triggers flood of immigration questions"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Brush fire above Waianae Valley Road , near Diamond J. Ranch, as seen from Kaneaki St. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Brush fire above Waianae Valley Road , near Diamond J. Ranch, as seen from Kaupuni Neighborhood Park. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Brush fire above Waianae Valley Road , near Diamond J. Ranch, as seen from Kaupuni Neighborhood Park. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Brush fire in Waianae Valley. \n Gusty winds pushed a large wildfire from Waianae up along the ridge above Makaha Valley Friday night, lighting up the night sky. \n The fire burned uncontrollably as occasional heavy gusts blew both makai and mauka. \n The Honolulu Fire Department set up two divisions, one for makai and another for mauka fronts of the fire. \n Many residents felt threatened by the fire and had self-evacuated. \n The 30-acre brush fire had grown exponentially, but fire officials did not want to estimate the size of the blaze. \n The fire began near the Cultural Learning Center at Kaala on the eastern or Lualualei side of Waianae Valley, but spread and intensified as the night wore on, burning along the top of the mountain that separates Waianae and Makaha. \n Fifteen fire companies and 41 personnel fought the fire in difficult terrain, trying to protect homes with limited water supplies delivered by tanker trucks. \n Angel's Towing and Diamond D Ranch are in the vicinity of the fire. \n Ac'Lynne Uesugi drove up with her daughter to check on her 69-year-old mother who lives near the ranch and Angel's. \n Her mother texted her, \"The flames are bigger now and the sky is lit up.\" \n Uesugi said her mother was wetting down her acre property to protect it. \n But Department of Emergency Management officials would not allow Uesugi and her daughter to walk or drive along the road that leads to the property. \n Uesugi noted a \"ring of fire,\" with some flames getting closer to Mt. Kaala, where a friend of hers lives. That friend told her not to worry about him, but her mother's house was closer to the fire. \n Her daughter, Phoenix Maimita Valentine, 13, commented, \"Spectacular view. Something worth witnessing.\" \n The ranch has horses, goats and cows, Uesugi said. \n But Angel's Towing was closer to the blaze, according to one Waianae resident who was visiting friends in the area. \n Randy Mariani, 31, said Angel's has a lot of vehicles, and there is a lot of gasoline spilled on the soil there. \n He expected to hear explosions. \n At about 11:45 p.m., the Fire Department moved some of their operations makai to protect homes in the area of Piliuka Place. \n Earlier in the evening, Arthur Gualdarama, 20, whose family lives near Angel's, said he thought someone's house was on fire. \"I seen the mountain on fire. It amazed me.\" \n He and a buddy droe up to get close to the fire when it was smaller. \n \"I hope everybody and their families are safe,\" Gualdarama said. \n \"It was coming so fast,\" said Lauden McLean, 18. \"The wind took the flame and lit everything up.\" \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Brush fire threatening homes in Waianae"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alexandria Duval was arrested on Aug. 15 in the village of Stamford and charged with drunken driving. Duval had been accused of killing her twin sister after their vehicle plunged off a Maui Cliff in May 2016 but a judge later dropped the charge \n ALBANY, N.Y. >> A 38-year-old woman accused of killing her twin sister by driving their SUV off a cliff in Hawaii will decide if she wants to fight extradition from New York. \n Alexandria Duval is due in court Friday to declare whether she wants an extradition hearing. New York police arrested her a week ago after she was tracked down at an Albany home. \n A grand jury in Hawaii indicted her on a second-degree murder charge last month. \n Authorities in Maui say Alexandria was driving an SUV in May with her sister Anastasia Duval in the passenger seat when the vehicle crashed into a rock wall and plunged about 200 feet onto a rocky shoreline. Authorities say the sisters were fighting over the steering wheel. \n Anastasia Duval was killed, and Alexandria was injured. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman arrested in death of twin in Maui cliff crash due in court"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jonathan Greenblatt, left, incoming national director for the Anti-Defamation League, talks with Abe Foxman, outgoing director of the ADL, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> American Jews gathered Thursday to wrestle with how they should confront an election-year surge in anti-Semitism, a level of bias not seen in the U.S. for decades. \n At a national meeting of the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish civil rights group, about 1,000 people listened to talks expressing shock at the hatred expressed during the presidential campaign and questioned what they thought was a high-level of acceptance by other Americans. \n \"I'm struggling right now in this American moment,\" said Yehuda Kurtzer, president of the Shalom Hartman Institute of North America, an education and research organization, in his talk at the event. \"I wonder whether I have been \u2014 and I think the answer is probably yes \u2014 a little bit naive.\" \n During this past year, anti-Semitic imagery proliferated on social media, Jewish journalists were targeted and longstanding anti-Jewish conspiracy theories got a fresh airing. Much of the bias originated with the alt-right, or alternative right, a loose group espousing a provocative and reactionary strain of conservatism. It's often associated with far right efforts to preserve \"white identity,\" oppose multiculturalism and defend \"Western values.\" \n In addition to the online intimidation, reports of anti-Semitic vandalism and other attacks have risen. Last week, the day after the election, a Philadelphia storefront was sprayed with a swastika and the words \"Sieg Heil 2106,\" which means \"Hail Victory,\" a common Nazi chant, and the word \"Trump,\" with a swastika replacing the \"T.\" \n These developments have stunned U.S. Jewish leaders, who in recent years had been more focused on anti-Semitism in Europe and on addressing complaints of anti-Jewish bias on college campuses amid the debate over the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement against Israeli policies toward the Palestinians. \n In a sign of the depth of American Jewish anxiety about anti-Semitism, ADL officials said donations to their organization increased 50-fold in the days immediately after the election and a large majority of the money came from first-time donors. Every one of their regional offices reported an uptick in calls from people wanting to donate or volunteer, the ADL said. \n \"We must not be silent, we must raise our voices, we must act, and to act we must understand what we are up against,\" said Jonathan Greenblatt, chief executive officer of ADL, opening the meeting in Manhattan. \n As the presidential race intensified, Jews started seeing their names bracketed with a series of parentheses in harassing tweets, signaling that the person had been identified as a Jew. The image became known as the Jewish cowbell and its source was traced to neo-Nazis and white nationalists. \n The ADL investigated the harassment and found more than 800 journalists had suffered anti-Semitic attacks on Twitter during the election, mostly from anonymous Twitter accounts, although some belonged to white supremacists. In a common example of the reporters' experiences, Jane Eisner, editor-in-chief of the Forward, an influential Jewish newspaper that extensively covered the election, said she received an email the morning after the second presidential debate with an image of a Nazi solder pointing a gun at her head, which was Photoshopped onto a concentration camp uniform. \n Donald Trump's campaign came under scrutiny since much of the harassment came from accounts tied to his supporters. \n Trump drew direct criticism last July when he tweeted an image of Hillary Clinton's face with a six-pointed star, a pile of hundred dollar bills and the words \"most corrupt candidate ever.\" The star was in the shape of the Jewish Star of David and was widely condemned as anti-Semitic. Trump's campaign said it was a sheriff's badge. \n Last month, Trump gave a speech in West Palm Beach, Florida, in which he accused Clinton of holding secret meetings with bankers in a conspiracy to undermine U.S. sovereignty. The ADL said that whether intentional or not, Trump had reflected a classic anti-Semitic theme of Jewish control of banks. \n The president-elect's daughter Ivanka, and her husband, Jared Kushner, who is now one of his top advisers, are Orthodox Jews. Kushner has defended Trump against allegations of bias. \n The issue erupted anew when Trump announced far-right publishing executive Stephen Bannon as his top White House Strategist. Bannon led the Breitbart website, considered by many to be the alt-right's platform that has been widely condemned as racist, sexist and anti-Semitic. Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway called the accusations against Bannon \"very unfair.\" \n Some Jewish groups have defended Bannon, including the hawkish Zionist Organization of America. Bernie Marcus, a founder of The Home Depot Inc. and board member of the Republican Jewish Coalition, said in a statement that Bannon was \"a passionate Zionist and supporter of Israel.\" Marcus called the condemnations of Bannon an attempt to undermine the incoming administration. Seventy-one percent of Jews voted for Hillary Clinton, according to exit polls. Greenblatt worked in the Obama administration. \n Still, Jonathan Sarna, a Brandeis University professor and historian of American Judaism, said it would be wrong to attribute the criticisms of Trump appointments or his supporters to partisanship. \"I don't know anybody who is looking at this in a serious way who says nothing has changed,\" in regard to the level of anti-Semitism, Sarna said. \n \"American Jews assumed that anti-Semitism had largely been overcome,\" he said. \"And then all of a sudden, unexpectedly, anti-Semitism of a virulent kind came roaring back.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. Jews grapple with election-year eruption of anti-Semitism"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ashin Wirathu, a high-profile leader of the Myanmar Buddhist organization known as Ma Ba Tha, is interviewed at his monastery in Mandalay, Myanmar. Shunned by Myanmar's new government and its Buddhist hierarchy, the nationalist monk blamed for whipping up at times bloody anti-Muslim fervor said he feels vindicated by U.S. voters who elected Donald Trump to be president. \n MANDALAY, Myanmar >> Shunned by Myanmar's new government and its Buddhist hierarchy, a nationalist monk blamed for whipping up at times bloody anti-Muslim fervor said he feels vindicated by U.S. voters who elected Donald Trump to be president. \n Ashin Wirathu, a high-profile leader of the Myanmar Buddhist organization known as Ma Ba Tha, drew parallels between his views on Islam and those of the Republican president-elect. Trump's campaign was rife with anti-Muslim rhetoric and proposals that included banning Muslims from entering the country and heightening surveillance of mosques. The form his actual policies will take remains unclear. \n \"We were blamed by the world, but we are just protecting our people and country,\" Wirathu said. \"\u2026 The world singled us out as narrow-minded. But as people from the country that is the grandfather of democracy and human rights elected Donald Trump, who is similar to me in prioritizing nationalism, there will be less finger-pointing from the international community.\" \n He even floated the idea of cooperating with nationalist groups in the U.S. \n \"In America, there can be organizations like us who are protecting against the dangers of Islamization. Those organizations can come to organizations in Myanmar to get suggestions or discuss,\" he said in an interview at his monastery in Mandalay on Nov. 12. \n \"Myanmar doesn't really need to get suggestions from other countries. But they can get ideas from Myanmar.\" \n Wirathu has been accused of inciting violence with hate-filled, anti-Islamic rhetoric in this Southeast Asian, Buddhist-majority country of about 55 million. Buddhist-led riots left more than 200 people dead in 2012 and forced hundreds of thousands more to flee their homes, most of them Muslim Rohingya in Rakhine state. \n Anti-Rohingya sentiment remains high in Myanmar. Members of the ethnic group are widely considered to have immigrated illegally from nearby Bangladesh, though many Rohingya families have lived in Myanmar for generations. \n At the same time, Wirathu's influence has weakened in the past year. He threw his support behind the military-backed government ahead of elections in November 2015, only to see the former ruling party fall to Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy in a landslide. \n In July, a senior NLD official in Yangon said that Ma Ba Tha, also known as the Committee to Protect Race and Religion, was not needed. Calls for the official to be disciplined went unanswered. In the same month, the country's official Buddhist clergy publicly distanced itself from the group. \n \"Ma Ba Tha fades with barely a whimper,\" read a headline in the English-language Myanmar Times in August. \n Wirathu said he has no plans of fading into obscurity. \n \"This government doesn't want our Ma Ba Tha,\" he said, seated behind a desk in a saffron robe as several aides took photos and video of his pronouncements. But the NLD's attempt to thwart the group will be \"hard for them,\" he added, as Ma Ba Tha is not breaking any laws. \n \"Currently, we are waiting and looking at the situation as this government has only been here a short time and they don't know how to manage,\" he said. \"So we are not doing anything like campaigning or protesting to impact the government. But we will hold meetings, issue statements, help in our role.\" \n For example, he said, his members have been distributing food in northern Rakhine state. \n Scores of Rohingya and some Myanmar troops have been killed in northern Rakhine since suspected militants attacked border posts last month, killing nine police officers. Rohingya activists say innocent villagers are being killed, but the government says it is only fighting \"violent attackers.\" International media and aid groups have been kept away. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Anti-Muslim Buddhist monk in Myanmar: Trump 'similar to me'"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Homeless people, mostly women, spend the night in the courtyard of the Midnight Mission for their safety in Los Angeles. \n Homelessness is declining overall in the U.S., but there are cities and states where homelessness is on the rise, according to new data from the federal government. \n A lack of affordable housing and growing problems with opioid addiction are fueling the problem in many cities in the West, experts said Thursday. \n \"There's so much that we can be proud of out there in terms of progress,\" said Juli\u00e1n Castro, secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, in a conference call about the department's report Thursday. \n But on a recent cold night in Washington D.C., Castro counted 10 people who spent the night on park benches outside, and he said there are similar scenes in every community across the country. \n \"Men and women like them aren't just visible reminders of public policy challenges,\" Castro said. \"They're human beings who deserve a permanent home to call their own.\" \n In Hawaii, where homelessness has been increasing, Gov. David Ige's administration has used money made available after Ige declared a state of emergency to accelerate the development of affordable housing and shelters. Honolulu banned sitting and lying down on sidewalks in parts of the city including the tourist hotspot Waikiki, and Hawaii is investing time to ensure that along with enforcing bans and developing housing, there are integrated services, said Scott Morishige, Ige's homelessness coordinator. \n \"It's not enough to just do enforcement actions on public lands without services to help people get connected to shelter or to longer term housing,\" Morishige said. \"You don't want to just move people from one area to another.\" \n Across the country, there were nearly 550,000 homeless people counted in 2016, according to the report. Homelessness declined 14 percent nationwide since 2010, the year President Barack Obama launched Opening Doors, a program urging communities to have a plan in place to prevent and reduce homelessness. During that time, veteran homelessness fell 47 percent. \n Officials hope communities apply what they've learned helping veterans to other groups with high rates of homelessness. \n New York City had the highest number of homeless people, followed by Los Angeles, Seattle and San Diego, according to the report. San Francisco, San Jose and Las Vegas also were high on the list. \n \"We have seen spikes in unsheltered homelessness along the West Coast,\" Castro said. \n \"Part of it is related to rental affordability,\" Castro added, speaking about Los Angeles. \"We have seen rents spike significantly.\" \n The federal government released the numbers after volunteers across the country counted homeless people in their local areas. The volunteers fanned out across communities in January, interviewing people they found living outside, on the street, in shelters or in transitional housing. Some advocates for the homeless feel the volunteer-run count underestimates the total, because many homeless people aren't reached or they don't want to admit to being homeless. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Homelessness declining overall; problems persist in the West"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "MANILA, Philippines >> Ferdinand Marcos is set to be buried at a heroes' cemetery Friday in a secrecy-shrouded ceremony despite growing opposition after the Supreme Court ruled last week that one of Asia's most infamous tyrants can be entombed in the cemetery, police officials said. \n Police Chief Superintendent Oscar Albayalde said authorities finalized the burial plans with the Marcos family Thursday, adding the former president's remains were flown by helicopter from his northern Ilocos Norte hometown for the burial in the military-run cemetery in metropolitan Manila around noon Friday. \n Albayalde said there will only be a simple ceremony. \n \"There will be no state funeral. It will be very simple, the body will be carried on a hearse then brought to his tomb,\" Albayalde said. \n Still, the highly secretive funeral plan shocked many pro-democracy advocates and human rights victims who planned several protests nationwide Friday to oppose the burial at the cemetery, where former presidents, soldiers and national artists have been interred, unaware that funeral plans for the dictator were already underway. \n The burial of a former dictator blamed for thousands of deaths, disappearances and torture of left-wing activists and anti-government politicians during his time in power is a deeply emotional issue that has divided the poor Southeast Asian nation. \n Leftwing activist Bonifacio Ilagan, who was tortured and detained during Marcos's time, protested the secretive funeral plans and said Marcos was being buried \"like a thief in the night.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine dictator set to be buried at heroes' cemetery"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, center, listens to questions from members of the press after meeting with President-elect Donald Trump, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in New York. Abe made a stop in New York to meet with the president-elect while en route to an APEC meeting in Lima. \n NEW YORK >> Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he believes Donald Trump is a leader in whom he can have great confidence after meeting with the president-elect Thursday. \n Abe, who became the first world leader to meet with Trump since his election, was seeking reassurances over the future of U.S.-Japan security and trade relations. He described the meeting as \"really, really cordial\" but offered few details of their discussion. \n \"I do believe that without confidence between the two nations (the) alliance would never function in the future and as an outcome of today's discussion I am convinced Mr. Trump is a leader with whom I can have great confidence in,\" Abe said at a press conference following the meeting, where he took only two questions. \n Abe said the meeting renewed his conviction that he would be able to establish a relationship of confidence with Trump. \n Abe met with Trump in New York, where the incoming president is working on setting up an administration after his surprise election victory last week that has injected new uncertainty into old U.S. alliances. The Trump transition team provided no readout of the meeting. \n Trump's campaign rhetoric caused consternation in many world capitals, including Tokyo. He has said he would demand that allies such as Japan and South Korea contribute more to the cost of basing U.S. troops in their countries. \n Such comments have worried Japan at a time when the threat from North Korea is rising, and China is challenging the U.S.-led security status quo in the Pacific. \n The State Department has said it had yet to hear from Trump's transition team, raising the prospect of the Republican holding the meeting with Abe without any input from career diplomats with deep experience dealing with Japan. \n \"I conveyed my basic views on various issues to Mr. Trump but with regard to more of the specifics or details, because of the fact that Mr. Trump has not assumed the office as the president of the United States or today's discussion was an unofficial discussion, I'd like to refrain from touching on details,\" Abe said, adding that they agreed to meet again for a deeper discussion on a wider range of issues. \n Both Japan and South Korea already pay considerable sums to support the U.S. bases, and note that it's also in America's strategic interest to deploy troops in the region. \n Trump has suggested that Japan and South Korea could obtain their own nuclear weapons, rather than rely on U.S. deterrence, which risks triggering an atomic arms race in Northeast Asia. \n South Korea currently pays more than $800 million a year \u2014 about 50 percent of non-personnel costs of the U.S. military deployment on its soil \u2014 and is paying $9.7 billion more for relocating U.S. military bases, according to the Congressional Research Service. Japan pays about $2 billion a year, about half of the cost of the stationing U.S. forces. \n The Japanese leader may also try to sway Trump on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-country trade agreement that the president-elect opposes. The pact was championed by President Barack Obama, and Trump's victory has all but erased hopes of its early ratification by the U.S. Congress. \n The pact is expected to be discussed in a side meeting at the annual summit of the Asia Pacific Economic Community in Peru, where Abe heads after New York. Obama will also be at APEC. \n Abe is Japan's most powerful leader in a decade, and he has invested political capital in overcoming strong domestic opposition to the TPP. He has also sought to increase the international role played by Japan's military, which is constrained by a pacifist constitution. \n That could jibe with Trump's desire to see U.S. partners shoulder more of the burden for their defense. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan PM in NY for 1st meeting by foreign leader with Trump"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn walks through the lobby at Trump Tower, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in New York. \n NEW YORK >> President-elect Donald Trump offered former military intelligence chief Michael Flynn the job of national security adviser as he began to build out his national security team Thursday, according to a senior Trump official. The move came as Trump made his most direct foray into foreign policy since the election, meeting with Japan's prime minister. \n Flynn, who served as the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, has advised Trump on national security issues for months. As national security adviser, he would work in the White House and have frequent access to the president. The post does not require Senate confirmation. \n The official wouldn't say whether Flynn had accepted the job, which left open the possibility that the arrangement was not finalized. The official was not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity. \n Flynn, who turns 58 in December, built a reputation in the Army as an astute intelligence professional and a straight talker. He retired in 2014 and has been a fierce critic of President Barack Obama's White House and Pentagon, taking issue with the administration's approach to global affairs and fighting Islamic State militants. \n Trump is a foreign policy novice and his early moves on national security are being closely watched by U.S allies and adversaries alike. He's said to be considering a range of officials with varying degrees of experience to lead the State Department and Pentagon. \n The president-elect held his first face-to-face meeting with a world leader since winning the presidential election, huddling privately with Japan's Shinzo Abe. While Trump made no comments following the meeting, Abe said the president-elect was \"a leader in whom I can have great confidence.\" \n Trump also consulted with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and sat down with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, a potential contender to lead the State Department. \n In Washington, Vice President-elect Mike Pence huddled with Republican leaders in Congress. He then met with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Chuck Schumer, the newly elected leader of the Senate Democrats, seeking to convey respect as Democrats prepare for Republican rule of both chambers and the White House for the first time in a decade. \n \"We look forward to finding ways that we can find common ground and move the country forward,\" Pence said outside Schumer's Senate office. \n In a separate gesture of reconciliation with establishment Republicans, Trump planned to meet with 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who lambasted Trump as a \"con man\" and a \"fraud\" in a stinging speech last March. Trump responded by repeatedly referring to Romney as a \"loser.\" \n The two began mending fences after Trump's victory when Romney called with congratulations. They are to meet this weekend, a transition official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to discuss Trump's schedule publicly. Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said they were still \"working on\" the meeting. \n Trump's actions Thursday aimed to show leaders both in the U.S. and overseas that he could soften his rhetoric, offer pragmatism in the White House and reaffirm longstanding American alliances. Since his stunning victory over Hillary Clinton last week, Trump has spoken with Russian President Vladimir Putin, British Prime Minister Theresa May and nearly three dozen other world leaders by telephone. \n Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, also visited the skyscraper and called Trump \"a true friend of Israel.\" He specifically cited as another \"friend\" Trump campaign CEO Steve Bannon, whose selection as a top White House adviser has created a backlash among Democrats. Bannon's news website has peddled conspiracy theories, white nationalism and anti-Semitism. \n \"We look forward to working with the Trump administration, with all the members of the Trump administration, including Steve Bannon, in making the U.S.-Israel alliance stronger than ever,\" Dermer said. \n Trump, a reality television star, business mogul and political newcomer, also rolled out new teams that will interact with the State Department, Pentagon, Justice Department and other national security agencies. The move is part of the government transition before Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration. \n Coordination had been on hold until Trump's team submitted documents including a list of transition team members who will coordinate with specific federal agencies, plus certification that they meet a code of conduct barring conflicts of interest. \n White House spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine said the minimum paperwork was finished Thursday, meaning agencies could start providing briefings and written materials to Trump's team. Indeed, the departments of State, Defense and Justice say meetings are being set up. \n Conway said she expected initial announcements of Cabinet choices to come \"before or right after Thanksgiving,\" telling reporters Trump he was \"loving\" the transition. \"He's a transactional guy. He's somebody who's used to delivering results and producing.\" \n One potential Cabinet member, Eva Moskowitz, said had taken herself out of the running to become education secretary. Moskowitz, a Democrat and advocate for charter schools, met with Trump this week, stoking speculation that she might inject a bit of bipartisanship in the new administration. \n Moskowitz, who voted for Clinton, suggested there were \"positive signs\" that Trump might govern differently than he campaigned, but she wrote in a letter to parents that many of her students, who are overwhelmingly black and Latino, would feel that \"they are the target of the hatred that drove Trump's campaign.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "AP source: Trump offers Flynn national security adviser job"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. and Kellyanne Conway, campaign manager for President-elect Donald Trump, speaks to reporters at Trump Tower in New York, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. \n NEW YORK >> Donald Trump sought to reassure nervous leaders around the globe with his most public foray into foreign policy since the election, welcoming Japan's prime minister to Trump Tower on Thursday. On Capitol Hill, his incoming vice president aimed to project unity at home. \n Trump had a face-to-face meeting late Thursday with Shinzo Abe, his first with a world leader since last week's vote, after consulting with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and sitting down with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, a potential contender to lead the State Department. \n In Washington, Vice President-elect Mike Pence huddled with Republican leaders in Congress. He then met with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Chuck Schumer, the newly elected leader of the Senate Democrats, seeking to convey respect as Democrats prepare for Republican rule of both chambers and the White House for the first time in a decade. \n \"We look forward to finding ways that we can find common ground and move the country forward,\" Pence said outside Schumer's Senate office. \n In a separate gesture of reconciliation with establishment Republicans, Trump planned to meet with 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who lambasted Trump as a \"con man\" and a \"fraud\" in a stinging speech last March. Trump responded by repeatedly referring to Romney as a \"loser.\" \n The two began mending fences after Trump's victory when Romney called with congratulations. They are to meet this weekend, a transition official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to discuss Trump's schedule publicly. Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said they were still \"working on\" the meeting. \n Trump's actions Thursday aimed to show leaders both in the U.S. and overseas that he could soften his rhetoric, offer pragmatism in the White House and reaffirm longstanding American alliances. Since his stunning victory over Hillary Clinton last week, Trump has spoken with Russian President Vladimir Putin, British Prime Minister Theresa May and nearly three dozen other world leaders by telephone. But Abe's visit to Trump's midtown Manhattan high-rise was his first in-person meeting with a foreign leader since the end of the campaign. \n Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, also visited the skyscraper and called Trump \"a true friend of Israel.\" He specifically cited as another \"friend\" Trump campaign CEO Steve Bannon, whose selection as a top White House adviser has created a backlash among Democrats. Bannon's news website has peddled conspiracy theories, white nationalism and anti-Semitism. \n \"We look forward to working with the Trump administration, with all the members of the Trump administration, including Steve Bannon, in making the U.S.-Israel alliance stronger than ever,\" Dermer said. \n Trump, a reality television star, business mogul and political newcomer, also rolled out new teams that will interact with the State Department, Pentagon, Justice Department and other national security agencies. The move is part of the government transition before Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration. \n One potential Cabinet member, Eva Moskowitz, said had taken herself out of the running to become education secretary. Moskowitz, a Democrat and advocate for charter schools, met with Trump this week, stoking speculation that she might inject a bit of bipartisanship in the new administration. \n Moskowitz, who voted for Clinton, suggested there were \"positive signs\" that Trump might govern differently than he campaigned, but she wrote in a letter to parents that many of her students, who are overwhelmingly black and Latino, would feel that \"they are the target of the hatred that drove Trump's campaign.\" \n Conway said she expected initial announcements of Cabinet choices to come \"before or right after Thanksgiving,\" telling reporters Trump he was \"loving\" the transition. \"He's a transactional guy. He's somebody who's used to delivering results and producing.\" \n Trump's transition team finally finished key paperwork clearing the way for the White House to start sharing information. Coordination had been on hold until Trump's team submitted documents including a list of transition team members who will coordinate with specific federal agencies, plus certification that they meet a code of conduct barring conflicts of interest. \n White House spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine said the minimum paperwork was finished Thursday, meaning agencies could start providing briefings and written materials to Trump's team. Indeed, the departments of State, Defense and Justice say meetings are being set up. \n Trump's calendar has been packed with sit-downs. \n During his meeting with Kissinger, who led the State Department under Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, the two discussed relations with China, Russia, Iran and the European Union. Other meetings have included Haley, the daughter of Indian-born parents, who would bring diversity to a Trump administration, Florida Gov. Rick Scott and Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling. \n As he left Trump Tower, Hensarling, who leads the House Financial Services Committee, said he and the president-elect had discussed tax and trade policies \u2014 and he left open the possibility of joining the administration. \n \"I stand ready to help the president in any capacity possible,\" he said. \"I've got a great position in public policy today. If he wants to talk to me obviously about serving somewhere else, we'll look at serving somewhere else.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump reassuring the world he's focusing on foreign policy"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "COURTESY GALIHER FAMILY AND LOCATIONS \n Oahu Realtor Keiko Kuroki has been identified by her employer at Locations LLC Diamondhead off on Kapahulu Avenue as the passenger who perished along with pilot Gary Galiher in a crash on Molokai. \n Oahu Realtor Keiko Kuroki has been identified by her employer, Locations LLC Diamondhead, as the passenger who died along with pilot Gary Galiher in a crash on Molokai. \n Scott Higashi, president and CEO of Locations, issued the following statement: \n \"We are all saddened by the tragic loss of our friend and colleague, Keiko Kuroki. She was an important member of our team and will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends during this most difficult time.\" \n Dan Richards, Locations director of marketing, said Kuroki, the mother of at least one adult son, is originally from Japan and was employed by Locations since 2005. \n Richards described her as an exceptional mother and a person that many aspired to be like. \n \"She was passionate and gave her clients the best,\" he said. \"Right now we're reeling from the loss. We're trying to be as supportive as possible with her family and friends.\" \n National Transportation Safety Board officials are expected to arrive in Honolulu today to investigate the wreckage from the helicopter crash that killed prominent attorney Galiher and Kuroki. \n Investigators from Anchorage, Alaska, are likely to start their work Friday, said Allen Kenitzer, spokesman of the Federal Aviation Administration. \n Meanwhile, the Maui Fire Department's Air 1 helicopter is assisting police with efforts to recover the bodies on eastern Molokai. \n On Tuesday evening, Galiher, an experienced pilot, was flying his helicopter with one passenger to his second home on eastern Molokai. Colleagues reported the helicopter missing when they could not reach him Wednesday morning, and a search ensued. \n At about 1:31 p.m. Wednesday, Maui Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto said the wreckage was observed on a ridge at the 1,400-foot elevation in mountainous, tree-covered terrain. Rescue crews later confirmed there were no survivors. \n The wreckage is less than a mile north-northwest from Galiher's private helipad located on a ridge mauka of his home. \n Galiher, 70, founded the law firm of Galiher, DeRobertis Waxman, and was nationally known for his work on cases involving mesothelioma, an asbestos-related cancer. His passenger has yet to be identified. \n The National Weather Service had issued an advisory for turbulence near or surrounding mountainous areas across the islands for Tuesday evening. Northeasterly winds of up to 10 to 15 mph with gusts of 20 to 25 mph at the ground level were reported by the agency. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Passenger who died in Molokai copter crash identified"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 30-year-old Moanalua man after he allegedly threatened and attempted to injure a 29-year-old woman with a firearm in Moanalua. \n The suspect allegedly attempted to harm the victim at about 11:15 a.m. Wednesday. Police said the suspect fled but was located at a home on Wailele Road in Kaneohe at about 12:12 p.m. \n Officers arrested the man on suspicion of attempted second-degree murder, kidnapping, use of a firearm in the commission of a felony, a firearms violation and first-degree terroristic threatening. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Man arrested for attempted murder in Moanalua gun incident"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JAN. 26, 2016 \n Paul Vollstedt, an Institute for Human Services volunteer, talks with a \"Tony,\" during the Point in Time count of the homeless in Hawaii at Sand Island on Jan. 26. \n Hawaii saw its homeless population grow another 4 percent from 2015, federal officials announced today, making the islands only one of 14 states and territories \u2014 and Washington, D.C. \u2014 that saw their homeless numbers grow. \n Collectively, homelessness across the country fell for the seventh consecutive year, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro and U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness Executive Director Matthew Doherty told reporters on a conference call today. \n But while Guam saw a staggering 15.2 percent decrease and states such as North Dakota fell 29.3 percent, the 7,921 homeless people counted in January across the islands represented another year when the number of people living without a permanent home has increased. \n Since 2010, when President Barack Obama launched the first federal strategic plan to prevent and end homelessness, Hawaii's homeless population has jumped 35.8 percent, according to data released today. \n Hawaii ranked worst in per capita homelessness in 2015, but federal officials today did not immediately have data comparing states, territories and the District of Columbia per capita and discouraged such comparisons, especially for a small island state such as Hawaii. \n While Hawaii's homeless population jumped 4 percent between January 2015 and January 2016, Washington, D.C. led the nation with a 14.4 percent increase in its homeless population, followed by Indiana (14.3 percent); Oklahoma (8.7 percent); Wyoming (7.4 percent); and Washington (7.4 percent). \n Castro and Doherty told reporters today that they hoped President-elect Donald Trump's administration builds on the efforts of the Obama administration to address homelessness across the country and U.S. territories. \n \"This new administration ought to understand it's responsibility in continuing to lead\" on the issue of homelessness, Castro said. \n ", "author": "By Dan Nakaso dnakaso@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Federal report says number of homeless increased in Hawaii"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC CO. \n A car crashed into a power vault near Kaiser High School on Lunalilo Home Road this morning. \n About 1,700 customers in Hawaii Kai were without power after a vehicle struck a switching vault near Kaiser High School this morning. \n The accident occurred at about 3:40 a.m. on Lunalilo Home Road. \n Hawaiian Electric Co. said in a tweet that power was restored to most customers by 9:50 a.m. \n Crews were working on restoring power to the remaining customers. \n There was no immediate word on injuries. \n Meanwhile, another 1,300 customers lost power in the Kunia area just after 9 a.m. Electricty was restored by 9:30 a.m., HECO said in another tweet. \n Emergency Medical Services reported the 49-year-old driver of the vehicle suffered a minor nose injury and refused treatment. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Electricity restored to most residents after crash near Kaiser High School"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 2 photo, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach answers questions from reporters following a meeting of the State Elections Board in Topeka, Kan. \n Hawaii's two U.S. senators joined a growing chorus of politicians and civil rights organizations today in condemning comments made by a prominent supporter of President-elect Donald Trump that suggested World War-II era Japanese internment camps could serve as a precedent for creating a federal registry for Muslim immigrants in the United States. \n \"The internment of Japanese Americans was a dark chapter in our history. We should remember it and never repeat the same injustice,\" U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz said in a statement. \"Any suggestion that the classification of thousands of Japanese, Germans and Italians during the World War II as 'enemy aliens' should be used as a precedent is immoral and must be rejected by all Americans.\" \n U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, who immigrated from Japan at 7-years-old with her mother, took to her Twitter account to criticize the comments. \n \"The internment of Japanese Americans more than 70 years ago set a precedent: that we should never let something like this happen again,\" wrote Hirono. \n In other tweets, she wrote: \n \"Are hate speech, racism, and xenophobia the new normal in our country? No they are not.\" \n \"We cannot let fear dictate our path forward. An inclusive and vibrant America is worth fighting for.\" \n Hirono and Schatz, both Democrats, were reacting to comments made by former Navy SEAL Carl Higbie who said that there was legal precedent for creating an immigrant registry, which has been floated by a member of the Trump transition team. \n \"To be perfectly honest, it is legal. They say it will hold constitutional muster,\" Higbie said during an interview with Fox News' Megyn Kelly on Wednesday. \"I know the ACLU is going to challenge it, but I think it will pass. We have done it with Iran back a while ago. We did it during World War II with Japanese.\" \n Higbie said that he wasn't suggesting that the U.S. reinstate internment camps, but suggested that targeting certain ethnic groups or nationalities is OK if it's in the interest of national security. \n \"What I am saying is we need to protect America first,\" he said. \n The comments have further inflamed concerns that Trump's campaign and election have spurred racist and xenophobic rhetoric, causing an uptick in hate crimes and scaring immigrants and Muslim-Americans. \n The comments about Japanese internment camps have hit a particular nerve in Hawaii, where more than 2,000 men and women of Japanese descent were interned in camps throughout the state following the bombing of Pearl Harbor. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hirono, Schatz decry Trump camp's citing Japanese internment as precedent for Muslim registry"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": " WASHINGTON >> After losing the popular vote, President-elect Donald Trump has decided that the Electoral College is a pretty smart way to elect a president after all. \n Despite losing the election, Democrat Hillary Clinton will win the popular vote by more than 1 million votes as she runs up big leads in the biggest, bluest states. \n Democrats have used Clinton's lead in the popular vote to downplay any mandate Trump might claim. \n Trump has shot back, tweeting Wednesday: \"If the election were based on total popular vote I would have campaigned in N.Y. Florida and California and won even bigger and more easily.\" \n With more than 130 million votes counted, Clinton leads Trump by more than 1 million votes. The Associated Press estimates there are more than 4 million votes left to be counted. The bulk of those votes are in California, so Clinton's lead is likely to grow substantially. \n If Clinton continues to receive more than 60 percent of the vote in California, her lead could grow to more than 2 million votes. \n Most states count votes after Election Day. Often they are absentee ballots that arrive in the final days before Election Day. Some states, like California, count absentee votes that arrive after the election, as long as they are postmarked by Election Day. \n Trump won the vote that counts, in the Electoral College. Trump has 290 Electoral College votes and Clinton has 232, with Michigan still undecided. It takes 270 votes in the Electoral College to win the presidency. \n Trump leads Clinton in Michigan by about 13,000 votes, according to the Michigan Department of State. That's less than one-half of 1 percent of the total votes cast. The state has until Nov. 28 to make the results official. \n Trump would be the first Republican to win Michigan in a presidential election since George H.W. Bush won the state in 1988. \n Under the Electoral College system, each state gets one vote for each member of Congress representing the state. California has the most, with 55. Seven states have only three. The District of Columbia has three, even though the nation's capital has no vote in Congress. \n There have been occasional calls to scrap the Electoral College, with no success. The latest push came after the 2000 presidential election, in which Democrat Al Gore lost to Republican George W. Bush, despite winning the popular vote. \n Any calls to scrap the Electoral College aren't likely to go anywhere this time, either, with Republicans controlling both the House and Senate. \n In the past, Trump has been critical of the Electoral College. In 2012, he tweeted, \"The Electoral College is a disaster for a democracy.\" \n Trump revised that assessment after this year's election. This week he tweeted, \"The Electoral College is actually genius in that it brings all states, including the smaller ones, into play. Campaigning is much different!\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump lauds Electoral College as Clinton wins popular vote"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / OCT. 19, 2009 \n A sign warning of a shark sighting is posted at the beach at Kalama State Park on Maui after an incident on Maui on Oct. 19, 2009. (Photo by Wendy Osher) \n WAILUKU >> A Maui woman says she was doing exercises about 30 yards off shore when she was bitten on the leg by a shark. \n Zawacki, 58, spoke from her hospital bed at Maui Memorial Medical Center. She declined to have her photo taken and covered her legs with a hospital blanket, but said the attack left open flaps of skin and teeth marks on her right leg. \n \"I look and I see this massive gray thing,\" said Zawacki, describing the Monday attack. \"For a split second, I thought it was a whale because it was so big.\" \n Officials haven't determined whether it was a tiger shark or another species that attacked Zawacki near Kamaole Beach Park. Zawacki said she was able to swim to shore and warn people to get out of the water. \n She was taken to the hospital, where she was given stitches on her leg. Zawacki said she was going home Tuesday. \n She described the attack as a freak incident, saying the water was not murky and she was not far from other swimmers. She said the attack won't stop her from returning to the water because fear can't rule a person's life. \n All three Kamaole Beach Parks and Kalama and Cove parks reopened at noon Tuesday after no additional shark sightings the water or from the air, according to Edward Taomoto, the fire services chief. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui woman says shark attack won't keep her out of the ocean"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "The discharge of about 1,280 gallon of wastewater out of a manhole at Victoria and Beretania streets Thursday afternoon is being blamed on a blockage caused by tree roots. \n It was the third release of sewage water in as many days on Oahu. \n Thursday's spill began about 12:53 p.m. and was stopped at about 1:15 p.m. About 700 of the 1,280 gallons entered the stormwater system, the city Department of Environmental Services said. An Environmental Services crew cleaned, disinfected and deodorized the affected area. \n The state Department of Health was notified of the incident, but chose to waive the requirement for signage and water sampling associated with the discharge. \n At about 8:30 am. Wednesday, a wastewater overflow was reported at Mayor Wright Housing at 521 Kukui Street. The overflow was stopped about 10:09 a.m., after approximately 3,345 gallons of wastewater was released \u2014 more than 3,100 gallons entering the stormwater system. \n The cause of the discharge remains under investigation. \n An Environmental Services crew cleaned, disinfected and deodorized affected areas and signs were placed along various points of Nuuanu Stream to inform the public of the discharge. Water samples are being collected and the public is advised to heed warning signs. \n At about 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, about 4,275 gallons of wasterwater overflowed at 319 Walker Avenue in Wahiawa, most of which entered a storm drain at the end of Olive Avenue, the city said. An Environmental Services crew retrieved about 300 gallons. \n That discharge is being blamed on the buildup of grease in a sewer line. As was the case at Mayor Wright, signs warning of the discharge have been posted and the public is being asked to stay out until the signs are taken down. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "8,000 gallons of sewage spills over 3 days"}

{"date": "November 17, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / AUG. 2016 \n Homeless gather near Forrest St. and Ala Moana Blvd. Camp on Forrest St. \n The federal government is estimating the number of homeless people nationwide. \n The Department of Housing and Urban Development will announce state-by-state figures Thursday. \n Officials say homelessness has declined nationwide in recent years, especially among military veterans. They credit a program initiated by President Barack Obama which urges every community to have a plan in place to prevent and reduce homelessness. \n But there are parts of the country such as Hawaii where homelessness has been increasing. The island state is struggling with an affordable housing shortage. \n The federal government releases the numbers after volunteers across the country count the homeless people in their local areas. The volunteers count people they find living outside, on the street or in shelters. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal government estimating number of homeless people"}

