{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a rally in Orlando, Fla. Donald Trump hammered rival Hillary Clinton during the campaign for failing to prevent the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya when she was secretary of state. Soon he'll be the one responsible for protecting America's diplomats, but he's offered virtually no insight into how he'll do that. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump hammered rival Hillary Clinton during the presidential campaign for failing to prevent the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, when she was secretary of state. \n Soon Trump will be the one responsible for protecting America's diplomats, but he's offered virtually no insight into how he'll do that. \n After the 2012 Benghazi attack, Congress boosted spending on security to protect the tens of thousands of Americans and foreign staff that make up the U.S. diplomatic service. \n Security experts and career diplomats say there have been improvements, but that significant shortfalls remain. \n House Democrats are warning that now that the presidential campaign is over, commitment to diplomatic security will once again fade, and the State Department could face cuts both to security budgets and to core diplomatic functions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For Trump White House, diplomatic security challenges remain"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kenny Baker, Anthony Daniels, Peter Mayhew, Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford, and Mark Hamill during the filming of the CBS-TV special \"The Star Wars Holiday\" in Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES >> Carrie Fisher, a princess onscreen and off, played both roles in her own gutsy way. \n As Leia of the \"Star Wars\" franchise, she commanded the troops, enjoyed a fling with Han Solo \u2014 and, in real life, co-star Harrison Ford \u2014 and showed fledgling 1970s feminists what life as a liberated woman might be like in a galaxy far, far away. \n As the offspring of Hollywood royals Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher, she drew on her painful family history and personal demons to forge a distinctively tart, unsettlingly funny style as a best-selling writer. \n Fisher's throaty voice and inviting delivery also told the tale: She'd lived through much and wanted to \u2014 needed to \u2014 share her journey that included drug addiction, mental illness and electroshock treatment. \n \"People relate to aspects of my stories and that's nice for me because then I'm not all alone with it,\" she told The Associated Press in 2009. \"Also, I do believe you're only as sick as your secrets. If that's true, I'm just really healthy.\" \n Fisher, who died Tuesday at age 60, revealed her struggles before such confessionals became routine. Her vehicles included a 1987 semi-autobiographical novel, \"Postcards from the Edge,\" and a one-woman show, \"Wishful Drinking,\" that went to Broadway and TV. \n She avoided few topics in the piece, including the scandal that engulfed her superstar parents (singer Fisher ran off with Elizabeth Taylor); her brief marriage to pop star Paul Simon; the time the father of her daughter left her for a man, and waking up next to the dead body of a platonic friend who had overdosed in her bed. \n \"I'm a product of Hollywood inbreeding. When two celebrities mate, something like me is the result,\" she joked in the show. And there was this wisecrack: \"I don't have a problem with drugs so much as I have a problem with sobriety.\" \n Fisher had been hospitalized since Friday, after falling ill aboard a flight and being treated by paramedics at the Los Angeles airport. Her family gave no details on the emergency, while media reports said she had suffered a heart attack. \n Her feature film debut was opposite Warren Beatty in the 1975 hit \"Shampoo.\" She also appeared in \"Austin Powers,\" \"The Blues Brothers,\" \"Charlie's Angels,\" \"Hannah and Her Sisters,\" \"Scream 3\" and \"When Harry Met Sally \u2026\" \n But she is best remembered as the tough, feisty and powerful Princess Leia in the original \"Star Wars\" films, making a statement with her character and no-nonsense braided buns. \n She famously despised the latter, and even had mixed feelings about her famous character. She knew it then and audiences later figured it out: Playing Han Solo would have suited her better. \n \"When I first read the script I thought that's the part to be, always wry and sardonic,\" Fisher told a gathering in England in 2015. \"He's always that. I feel like a lot of the time Leia's either worried or pissed or, thank God, sort of snarky.\" \n She reprised the role of Leia in Episode VII of the series, \"Star Wars: The Force Awakens\" in 2015, and her digitally rendered image appears in the newest installment, \"Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.\" \n Fisher kept telling her own story after \"Postcards From the Edge\" became a best-seller and was adapted into a 1990 movie starring Shirley MacLaine and Meryl Streep. \n Other books included \"Delusions of Grandma,\" \"Surrender the Pink,\" \"The Best Awful,\" \"Shockaholic\" and this year's autobiography, \"The Princess Diarist,\" in which she revealed that she and Ford had an affair on the \"Star Wars\" set. \n Ever ready to satirize herself, she played Carrie Fisher a few times, as in David Cronenberg's dark Hollywood sendup \"Maps to the Stars\" and in an episode of \"Sex and the City.\" \n Fisher starred with her mother in a documentary set to air on HBO in 2017. \"Bright Lights: Starring Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher\" premiered at the Cannes Film Festival earlier this year. \n Besides her mother, she is survived by her brother, Todd Fisher, and her daughter, Billie Lourd. \n Someone made sure Fisher would be thought of with a wistful smile: Her bulldog, Gary Fisher, had his own Twitter account that offered this message Tuesday: \"Saddest tweets to tweet. Mommy is gone. I love you carrieffisher.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fisher found best material in her own troubles"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Kachin Independence Army (KIA) soldier sits inside the bomb shelter along the bunker at the front line of Alen Bum near Laiza, the headquarters of KIA in Kachin State, Myanmar. \n LAIZA, Myanmar >> Ethnic Kachin rebels long at war with Myanmar troops say the government has only escalated fighting since Aung San Suu Kyi took over as leader, crushing the hopes that had led many ethnic minorities to support her party and leaving them with no confidence in the peace process that Suu Kyi has identified as a priority. \n Rebels and observers say government offensives including airstrikes have increased since Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy party took control in March. Suu Kyi's government has said little about the attacks, and the Kachin Independence Organization accuses her of cooperating with the military. \n \"Suu Kyi tried so hard to gain this power for many years and she needs to make deals with the military in order to sustain her power,\" said La Nan, the chief spokesman of the KIO. \n Rebels say they have been hit with airstrikes in areas of northern Shan and Kachin states including Mongo, a Shan town that was heavily bombed and suffered an unknown number of civilian casualties. Other fighting has occurred in Hpakant, center of Myanmar's lucrative jade-mining region, and Laiza, headquarters of the KIO. \n Suu Kyi, who serves as state counselor and foreign minister but effectively rules Myanmar, faces high expectations from ethnic groups and the international community. As opposition leader, the Nobel Peace laureate was held under house arrest by the former junta for years, but her landslide election victory in November 2015 ended more than half a century of military control. \n Though she has called the peace process her top priority, many local and international political analysts do not see significant achievements since the NLD came to power, and say she has failed to cooperate enough with ethnic leaders. \n \"National reconciliation cannot be built only between the government and the military,\" said Yan Myo Thein, a prominent Myanmar political analyst. \"There must be negotiation between ethnic parties, armed groups, the military and the government.\" \n Ethnic Burmans form a majority in Myanmar, also known as Burma, but ethnic minorities make up about 40 percent of the population. Some of those groups have fought for greater autonomy for decades. \n Suu Kyi held a peace conference in late August attended by representatives of 17 of the 20 major ethnic groups, including the Kachin. The conference was intended to build on a ceasefire agreement that ethnic groups insist include a political solution to their longstanding demands. Ethnic leaders have asked for political dialogue, but the peace conference met few of their expectations, and some may drop out of the next round, expected in February. The conference was dominated by short speeches from a wide range of stakeholders, leaving little time for more significant discussion. \n \"There was really no substance at all,\" said David Mathieson, a senior researcher of Human Rights Watch who has been researching civil conflict in Myanmar for a more than a decade. \"How can Suu Kyi expect to bring peace if she is not sitting down with Kachin and Shan leaders and when she is not taking the grievances of human rights abuses seriously?\" \n Suu Kyi's peace negotiator, Dr. Tin Myo Win, did not return phone calls from The Associated Press. \n Khin Maung Myint, an NLD upper house member of parliament from a constituency in Kachin state, blamed the military and army commander Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing. \n \"Min Aung Hlaing is doing whatever he wants. \u2026 They are just trying to make NLD look bad,\" he said. \"They are bullying ethnic people as well. The main problem with the military is that they don't want a federal system. \u2026 This is just the bad inheritance from the bad dictatorship. The military doesn't want to change.\" \n Col. Wunna Aung, second secretary of the Joint Monitoring Committee on Ceasefire, defended the army's actions at a committee meeting Thursday. \n \"We are only fighting in the ethnic region to protect our own country,\" he said. \"We want to unite the country. I don't think we have lost trust.\" He said the army \"always welcomes everyone for peace,\" but that \"the fighting happens because it is necessary.\" \n Concerns about the prospects for Myanmar's peace process were heightened further after the newly formed Northern Alliance, comprised of the KIO's Kachin Independence Army, the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, the Ta'ang National Liberation Army and the Arakan Army, began a joint offensive in response to military attacks in the ethnic regions of northern Myanmar. \n These attacks are part of more widespread increase in fighting since the Thein Sein government launched the peace process in 2011. According to Bertil Lintner, a longtime Myanmar political analyst, fighting is now the heaviest that it has been in decades. \n The heavy fighting, combined with a stalled peace process, has created fears among some that the prospects for Myanmar's peace process are dim. \n \"If Suu Kyi can't start a discussion with the ethnic leaders soon enough, the tension between the military and the ethnic armed groups will go higher and the possibility of ceasefire and peace process will be less,\" said Yan Myo Thein, the analyst. \n Linter said, \"It should be evident to anyone that an entirely new approach is needed\" that would \"include a genuine political dialogue, not just meetings with dozens of ethnic representatives.\" \n Rebel groups are not optimistic. \n \"We ethnic people are not very happy even though there is a so-called democratic government. The new government is trying to hold, gain and sustain power and to get that they make deals together with the military,\" said La Nan, the KIO spokesman. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kachin rebels see more Myanmar attacks, no hope for peace"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A youth uses his pillow as a bag to collect rice from the pavement that shook loose from a food cargo truck waiting to enter the port in Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, the port that handles the majority of Venezuela's food imports. As millions of Venezuelans go hungry this year, food trafficking has become one of the most lucrative businesses in the country. \n PUERTO CABELLO, Venezuela >> When hunger drew tens of thousands of Venezuelans to the streets in protest last summer, President Nicolas Maduro turned to the military to manage the country's diminished food supply, putting generals in charge of everything from butter to rice. \n But instead of fighting hunger, the military is making money from it, an Associated Press investigation shows. That's what grocer Jose Campos found when he ran out of pantry staples this year. In the middle of the night, he would travel to an illegal market run by the military to buy pallets of corn flour \u2014 at 100 times the government-set price. \n \"The military would be watching over whole bags of money,\" Campos said. \"They always had what I needed.\" \n With much of the country on the verge of starvation and billions of dollars at stake, food trafficking has become one of the biggest businesses in Venezuela, the AP found. And from generals to foot soldiers, the military is at the heart of the graft, according to documents and interviews with more than 60 officials, business owners and workers, including five former generals. \n As a result, food is not reaching those who most need it. \n The U.S. government has taken notice. Prosecutors have opened investigations against senior Venezuelan officials, including members of the military, for laundering riches from food contracts through the U.S. financial system, according to four people with direct knowledge of the probes. No charges have been brought. \n \"Lately, food is a better business than drugs,\" said retired Gen. Cliver Alcala, who helped oversee Venezuela's border security. \"The military is in charge of food management now, and they're not going to just take that on without getting their cut.\" \n \"WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?\" \n After opposition attempts to overthrow him, the late President Hugo Chavez began handing the military control over the food industry, creating a Food Ministry in 2004. His socialist-run government nationalized farms and food processing plants, then neglected them, and domestic production dried up. Oil-exporting Venezuela became dependent on food imports, but when the price of oil collapsed in 2014, the government no longer could afford all the country needed. \n Food rationing grew so severe that Venezuelans spent all day waiting in lines. Pediatric wards filled up with underweight children, and formerly middle class adults began picking through trash bins for scraps. When people responded with violent street protests, Maduro handed the generals control over the rest of food distribution, and the country's ports. \n The government now imports nearly all of Venezuela's food, according to Werner Gutierrez, the former dean of the agronomy school at the University of Zulia, and corruption is rampant, jacking up prices and leading to shortages. \n \"If Venezuela paid market prices, we'd be able to double our imports and easily satisfy the country's food needs,\" Gutierrez said. \"Instead, people are starving.\" \n One South American businessman said he paid millions in kickbacks to Venezuelan officials as the hunger crisis worsened, including $8 million to people who work for the current food minister, Gen. Rodolfo Marco Torres. The businessman insisted on speaking anonymously because he did not want to acknowledge participating in corruption. \n Last July, he struggled to get Marco Torres's attention as a ship full of yellow corn waited to dock. \n \"This boat has been waiting for 20 days,\" he wrote in text messages seen by AP. \n \"What's the problem?\" responded Marco Torres. \n Although money was not mentioned, the businessman understood that he needed to give more in kickbacks. In the end, he told the general, the boat had to pull out because costs caused by the delay were mounting. \n Bank documents from the businessman's country show that he was a big supplier, receiving at least $131 million in contracts from Venezuelan food ministers between 2012 and 2015. He explained that vendors like him can afford to pay off military officials because they build huge profit margins into what they bill the state. \n For example, his $52 million contract for the yellow corn was drawn up to be charged at more than double the market rate at the time, suggesting a potential overpayment of more than $20 million for that deal alone. \n The Food Ministry's annual report shows significant overpayments across the board, compared to market prices. And the prices the government pays for imported foods have been increasing in recent years, while global food prices remain stable. \n This spring, the opposition-controlled congress voted to censure Marco Torres for graft. Maduro vetoed it as an attempt to hurt the Food Ministry, and Marco Torres stayed on as minister. \n Internal budgets from the ministry obtained by AP show the overpayment continues. For example, the government budgeted for $118 million of yellow corn in July at $357 a ton, which would amount to an overpayment of more than $50 million relative to prices that month. \n \"What's amazing about this is it's like a clean form of corruption,\" said Carabobo state lawmaker Neidy Rosal, who has denounced food-related government theft worth hundreds of millions of dollars. \"It's like drug trafficking you can carry out in broad daylight.\" \n Marco Torres did not respond to several requests for comment by phone, email and hand-delivered letter. In the past, he has said that he will not be trapped in fights with a bourgeoisie opposition. \n \"SCRAPING THE POT\" \n By putting the military in charge of food, Maduro is trying to prevent soldiers from going hungry and being tempted to participate in an uprising against an increasingly unpopular government, said retired Gen. Antonio Rivero. Venezuela's military has a long history of coups against governments, and Maduro has arrested several officials for allegedly conspiring against him from within. \n \"They gave absolute control to the military,\" Rivero said from exile in Miami. \"That drained the feeling of rebellion from the armed forces, and allowed them to feed their families.\" \n However, it also opened the door to widespread graft and further squeezed the food supply. In large part due to concerns of corruption following the government's takeover of the food industry, the three largest global food traders \u2014 U.S.-based Archer Daniels Midland Co., Bunge Ltd. and Cargill \u2014 have stopped selling to the Venezuelan government. \n One major scam involves the strict currency controls that have been a hallmark of the administration. The government gives out a limited amount of coveted U.S. currency at a rate of 10 bolivars to the dollar. Almost everyone else has to buy dollars on the ever more expensive black market, currently at 3,000 bolivars to the dollar. \n The holders of licenses to import food are among the select few who get to buy dollars at the vastly cheaper rate. Alcala, the retired general, said some officials distribute these much-desired licenses to friends. The friends then use only a fraction of the dollars to import food, and share the rest with the officials. \n \"We call it 'scraping the pot,' and it's the biggest scam going in Venezuela,\" Alcala said. \n In 2014, one general presented Maduro with a list of 300 companies suspected of simply pocketing the cheap dollars they obtained with their licenses and not importing anything. No action was ever taken and the general was forced into exile, accused of corruption himself. \n Some contracts go to companies that have no experience dealing in food or seem to exist only on paper. Financial documents obtained by AP show that Marco Torres gave Panama-registered company Atlas Systems International a $4.6 million contract to import pasta. Atlas has all the hallmarks of a shell company, including no known assets and the use of secretive shares to hide the identity of the company's true owners. Another government food supplier, J.A. Comercio de Generos Alimenticios, lists on its website a non-existent address on a narrow, partially paved street in an industrial city near Sao Paulo, Brazil. \n The two companies transferred more than $5.5 million in U.S. dollars in 2012 and 2013 to a Geneva account controlled by two young Venezuelans, according to bank and internal company documents seen by AP. The Venezuelans were Jesus Marquina Parra and Nestor Marquina Parra, brothers-in-law of the then-food minister, Gen. Carlos Osorio. Efforts to reach the brothers were unsuccessful. \n Osorio is no longer food minister, but has an even more important role in overseeing food. He was promoted in September to inspector general of the armed forces, with the mission of ensuring transparency in the military's management of the nation's food supply. \n Arturo Sanchez, a former supply chain manager at a multinational dairy company, recounted unpleasant encounters with Osorio. In one case, officers forced the company to buy fructose it didn't need because they wanted to unload merchandise he suspected was ill-gotten. Another time, he said, national guardsmen took four trucks of goods without paying. Sanchez fled to Florida in 2014. \n \"I spent a year living in the U.S. not being able to sleep remembering all the risky situations I lived through,\" he said. \n Osorio did not respond to requests for comment. But in the past he threatened to sue opposition lawmakers for staining his honor with false accusations of corruption. He blamed an economic war for the food shortages. \n The Defense Ministry and presidential press office refused to answer repeated calls, emails and hand-delivered letters requesting comment. In the past, officials have accused the opposition of exaggerating the problem of corruption for political gain. They have said that the military's hierarchical structure makes it ideally suited to combat the real culprits: Right-wing businessmen trying to bring down the economy. \n From time to time, the government carries out raids of warehouses holding smuggled goods and arrests lower-ranking military officers accused of graft. For example, the night market in Carabobo state where Campos bought his corn flour was eventually shut down and 57 tons of smuggled food seized. Now Campos buys staples from intermediaries he suspects are working with the same military officials. \n In January, the government quietly arrested 40 state employees for stealing large quantities of food from open-air markets. One of those still in jail is a colonel who had been named by Osorio to serve as president of a state agency that imported food. \n \"We have the moral fortitude and the discipline to take on this task of protecting what belongs to the people,\" the defense minister, Gen. Vladimir Padrino Lopez, said in September. \"The state has an obligation to root out corruption in all levels of public administration.\" \n \"IT'S THE CUSTOMER WHO PAYS\" \n And yet the corruption persists from the port to the markets, according to dozens of people working in Puerto Cabello, the town that handles the majority of Venezuela's food imports. \n Sometimes the officials who control access to the docks keep ships waiting until they are paid off, said a stevedore at the port, who spoke anonymously because he feared losing his job. \n The stevedore said clients give him envelopes of dollars to pass on to officials. He described visiting the sergeant in charge and making small talk while placing an envelope in the wastebasket. Then he slides the basket under the table and leaves. That night, his client's ships are allowed in, he said. \n After ships unload their cargo, customs officials take their share, according to four customs workers. They said that without a payment equivalent to a month's minimum wage, officials will not start the process of nationalizing goods. \n Bribes are also required for any missing paperwork, and can exceed $10,000 for a single shipping container, customs worker Aldemar Diaz said. \n \"Sometimes you actually want to do it legally, but the officials will say, 'Don't bother,'\" he said. \n Luis Pena, operations director at the Caracas-based import business Premier Foods, said he pays off a long roster of military officials for each shipment of food he brings in from small-scale companies in the U.S. \n \"You have to pay for them to even look at your cargo now,\" he said. \"It's an unbroken chain of bribery from when your ship comes in until the food is driven out in trucks.\" \n Worst of all, he added, is that he is forced to pay to skip a health inspection. Officials make him buy a health certificate and don't even open the containers to test a sample, he said. \n A version of this process also takes place on the border, said Alcala, the retired general who was once in charge of border control. He said officers allowed smugglers to pay bribes to bring in food without proper health and safety checks. This year, Venezuelans began posting photos and videos showing magnets pulling tiny iron shavings out of freshly opened bags of sugar smuggled in from Brazil. \n Pena said his contacts at the port have offered to illegally sell him government-imported staples like sugar and rice, complete with falsified papers and a military escort. \n \"The military was supposed to step in and make sure the food got to the people, but it's been the exact opposite,\" said Pena, sitting in his warehouse. \"They've made it into a business, and there's no one to appeal to. In the end, it's the customer who pays.\" \n If he tries to get through the process without bribes, he said, the food sits and spoils. \n Rotting food is a problem even as 90 percent of Venezuelans say they can't afford enough to eat. In some cases, partners buy food that is about to expire at a steep discount, then bill the government for the full price. The government has sometimes acknowledged that food it imported arrived already expired. \n The problem of rotting food got so bad at Puerto Cabello that it drew rebuke in the most recent state comptroller's report, which expressed particular dismay that thousands of tons of state-imported beans had been allowed to spoil. \n When the food is no longer usable, the military tries to get rid of it quietly. Puerto Cabello crane operator Daniel Arteaga watched one night last winter as workers at a state-run warehouse buried hundreds of containers of spoiled chicken and meat imported by the government. \n \"All these refrigerated containers, and meanwhile people are waiting in food lines each week just to buy a single chicken,\" he said. \n Photos taken at the Puerto Cabello dump last year show men in green military fatigues helping bury beef and chicken. Residents at a slum down the hill said after the military visits the dump, they dig up animal feed, potatoes, even ham to give their children. \n The docks are hidden behind high concrete walls, and guards watch every entrance. AP gained rare access in November. The low-ranking military members assigned to guard the port can be seen collaborating with thieves to steal what little food comes in, according to eight people who work behind the walls. \n \"You see people making off with whole sacks of flour or corn on their shoulders, and paying the guards on their way out,\" logistics coordinator Nicole Mendoza said. \"You see the money changing hands, and you just lower your eyes and don't say anything.\" \n Lt. Miletsy Rodriguez, who is in charge of a group of national guardsmen running security at the port, said people are just looking to scapegoat the military. If her unit wasn't around, looting would be even more widespread, she said. \n \"The majority of us are doing our best. And sooner or later we'll catch people who are not doing the job right,\" she said. \n BRIBES ON THE ROAD \n Just as bribes are needed to get food into the port, they are also required to move food out, truckers said. \n The roads near the port are lined with trucks waiting to be let in. Drivers sling hammocks in their wheel wells and sometimes wait several days in the thick tropical heat. Trucking bosses recently banded together to stop paying bribes to port officials, and the officials are now punishing them by delaying the movement of cargo onto vehicles, said Jose Petit, president of the Puerto Cabello trucking association. \n When the food is finally loaded onto the trucks, soldiers come by to take a cut. Photos and videos taken by truckers show officials taking sacks of sugar and coffee. As the trucks rattle off down the highway, hungry women in clothes that no longer fit chase after them to pick up anything that falls out. \n Billboards lining the highway feature a drawing of an enormous ant beside a nonworking phone number to denounce corruption, and the warning, \"No to bachaqueros.\" That's what Venezuelans call people who make a living illegally reselling food, after the leafcutter ants that haul many times their weight through the jungles. \n On the roads, truck drivers face an obstacle course of military checkpoints, ostensibly set up to stop bachaqueros. Truckers say soldiers at about half the checkpoints demand bribes. Some invent infractions such as an insufficiently filled tire, and take cash along with sacks of pantry items, produce and even live chickens, the drivers said. \n \"It used to be you'd go your whole route and not have to pay any anything. Now at every checkpoint, they ask for 10,000 bolivars,\" said trucker Henderson Rodriguez, who was waiting for a third day to get into the port to pick up a load of sugar. \n The surest way to move food through the network of checkpoints is to transport it under military guard. For a percentage of the product's value, military officers on the take will assign a moonlighting soldier to ride along in the truck, according to five store and restaurant owners. \n Sugar and flour are among the items most in demand because they have become virtually impossible to find legally, and some businesses, like bakeries, cannot function without them. A half dozen bakery owners across the country said in interviews that military officials regularly approach them with offers to sell supplies in exchange for a bribe. \n In the city of Valencia, bakery owner Jose Ferreira cuts two checks for each purchase of sugar: one for the official price of 2 cents a pound and one for the kickback of 60 cents of pound. He keeps copies of both checks in his books, seen by AP, in case the authorities ever come asking. \n \"You make the legal payment, and then you pay the kickback,\" he said. \"We have no other option; there's no substitute for sugar.\" \n The theft extends to the very end of the food supply chain, vendors said. At one market in Valencia, the military members who were appointed in August to stop contraband confiscated vendors' produce. They said the vendors did not have the right permits. The food was piled in an olive green cargo truck. \n In Puerto Cabello, hungry residents said it feels like corrupt soldiers are taking food off their children's plates. Pedro Contreras, 74, watched more than 100 trucks carrying corn rattle onto the highway, and walked stiffly into traffic to sweep up the kernels that had sifted out. He planned to pound them into corn flour that night to feed his family. \n \"The military is getting fat while my grandchildren get skinny,\" he said. \"All of Venezuela's food comes through here, but so little of it goes to us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Venezuela military trafficking food as country goes hungry"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis prepared to deliver the Urbi et Orbi (Latin for 'to the city and to the world' ) on Christmas from the main balcony of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican. \n BEIJING >> China's head of religious affairs said that Beijing is willing to have constructive dialogue with the Vatican but stressed that Catholics should \"hold up high the flag of patriotism\" and adapt Catholicism to Chinese society.  \n Wang Zuo'an, the director of the State Administration for Religious Affairs, made the remarks today at a meeting of China's official Catholic Church, which includes bishops, priests and lay Catholics, state media reported. \n Beijing insists that the party-controlled Chinese Catholic Patriotic Association has the authority to appoint Chinese bishops, a right that the Holy See says belongs to the pope alone. This dispute over bishop nominations is the most vexing stumbling block preventing the re-establishment of diplomatic relations. \n China severed relations with the Holy See in 1951 after the Communists took over, and the officially atheistic government closed churches and imprisoned priests, some for decades. Worship is officially allowed only in state-authorized churches outside the pope's authority, although many of China's estimated 12 million Catholics are thought to attend underground churches. \n Wang said the Chinese government hoped that the Vatican can adopt a flexible and pragmatic attitude, and take concrete actions to create favorable conditions for improving relations, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. No details were given of what actions Beijing expects. \n The ruling Communist Party has long feared that opposition to its rule could be spread by religious and other civic groups outside its control. In May last year, President Xi Jinping called for religions to adapt to Chinese society, which he termed the \"sinicization of religion.\" \n Today, Wang stressed the importance of patriotism within religion and \"pushing ahead with the sinicization of Catholicism.\" \n Pope Francis said earlier this year that Beijing and the Vatican have resumed working groups on the naming of bishops issue and that he is \"optimistic\" for an agreement, but that it will take time. \n Just last week, the Vatican said it was saddened that the ordination of two new Chinese bishops was marred by the presence of a bishop ordained without the pope's consent. \n It also said it was awaiting the outcome of this week's meeting of the Chinese Catholic Church and hoped it would give Catholics in China confidence in the Vatican-China dialogue. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China is open to Vatican talks"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / DEC. 15 \n President-elect Donald Trump has derided some of the same international partnerships President Barack Obama and his recent predecessors have promoted. \n For eight years, President Barack Obama's foreign policy doctrine has been rooted in a belief that while the United States can take action around the world on its own, it rarely should. \n \"Multilateralism regulates hubris,\" Obama declared. \n His successor, President-elect Donald Trump, has derided some of the same international partnerships Obama and his recent predecessors have promoted, raising the prospect that the Republican's \"America First\" agenda might well mean an America more willing to act alone. \n \"The United Nations has such great potential but right now it is just a club for people to get together, talk and have a good time,\" Trump tweeted days after the UN Security Council approved a resolution condemning Israeli settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem. Both Israel and Trump called on the U.S. to use its veto power to block the measure, but the Obama administration instead abstained. \n Trump's criticism of the United Nations is shared by some in his party, including a handful of GOP lawmakers who have called for Congress to withhold funding for the body following the settlements vote. \n Some of Trump's other positions have drawn swift rebuke from Republicans, particularly his criticism of NATO during the presidential campaign and his suggestion that the U.S. might not defend partners that don't fulfill financial obligations to the longstanding U.S.-European military alliance. \n Trump has also challenged the necessity of multilateralism in his economic agenda, pledging to scrap the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade accord in favor of one-on-one agreements that he says will be more favorable to U.S. businesses and workers. \n With Trump still about three weeks away from taking office, it's unclear how his campaign rhetoric will translate into action. Even as he has criticized the UN and NATO, he has vowed to \"aggressively pursue joint and coalition military operations\" with allies to take on the Islamic State militant group. What those military operations might entail is uncertain, given that Trump's views on national security have been both isolationist and muscular, including his recent call for expanding U.S. nuclear capabilities. \n Richard Grenell, who served as U.S. spokesman at the United Nations during President George W. Bush's administration and has been working with Trump's transition team, downplayed the prospect that Trump will withdraw from or even disregard the UN and NATO once he takes office. \n \"Trump is talking about reforming these organizations so that they live up to their ideals, not about abandoning them,\" Grenell said in an interview. \n Obama has also been critical of U.S. partners at times, telling The Atlantic magazine earlier this year that some U.S. allies were \"free riders\" eager for Washington to solve the world's problems. Obama also has pushed NATO partners to live up to an agreement that they spend at least 2 percent of their country's gross domestic product on defense, a guideline only a few members adhere to. \n But the president's major foreign policy decisions have highlighted his belief that the U.S. is better served acting in concert with other nations \u2014 and that a lack of involvement from allies should be a warning sign to Washington. Both Republican Presidents George H.W. and George W. Bush were also proponents of coalition-building before taking drastic action overseas. \n With the support of the UN Security Council and NATO allies, Obama joined the bombing campaign in Libya in 2011. He backed away from plans to launch airstrikes against Syria in 2013, spooked in part by the British Parliament's refusal to authorize its military to participate and scant willingness among other allies to join the effort. \n On the diplomatic front, Obama's administration worked alongside five other nations to secure a landmark nuclear accord with Iran and partnered with the European Union to level economic sanctions against Russia for its provocations in Ukraine. \n Like much of Obama's approach to foreign policy, his preference for acting as part of a coalition was shaped by lessons learned from the Iraq war he inherited from George W. Bush. While numerous other countries were part of the war at the start, the U.S. had by far the largest commitment and bore the brunt of the casualties and the financial burden. Responsibility for quelling the sectarian violence and instability that consumed Iraq after the 2003 invasion also fell predominantly to the U.S. \n During a foreign policy address in 2014, Obama chastised those who criticized him for seeking to share burdens with other countries and who saw working through institutions such as the UN as a \"sign of weakness.\" \n When crises arise that do not directly threaten the U.S. but still demand action, Obama said, \"We have to work with others because collective action in these circumstances is more likely to succeed, more likely to be sustained (and) less likely to lead to costly mistakes.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump signals shift from Obama's focus on multilateralism"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, right, with President Barack Obama, spoke at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam today. \n The prepared text of the address by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 27, 2016:  \n President Obama, Commander Harris, ladies and gentlemen, and all American citizens, I stand here at Pearl Harbor as the prime minister of Japan. If we listen closely we can make out the sound of restless waves, breaking and then retreating again. The calm inlet of brilliant blue is radiant with the gentle sparkle of the warm sun. Behind me, a striking white form atop the azure, is the USS Arizona Memorial. \n Together with President Obama, I paid a visit to that memorial, the resting place for many souls. It was a place which brought utter silence to me. Inscribed there are the names of the servicemen who lost their lives. Sailors and marines hailing from California and New York, Michigan and Texas, and various other places, serving to uphold their noble duty of protecting the homeland they loved, lost their lives amidst searing flames that day, when aerial bombing tore the USS Arizona in two. \n Even 75 years later, the USS Arizona, now at rest atop the seabed, is the final resting place for a tremendous number of sailors and marines. Listening again as I focus my senses, alongside the song of the breeze and the rumble of the rolling waves, I can almost discern the voices of those crewmen. Voices of lively conversations, upbeat and at ease, on that day, on a Sunday morning. Voices of young servicemen talking to each other about their futures and dreams. Voices calling out the names of loved ones in their very final moments. Voices praying for the happiness of children still unborn. \n Each and every one of those servicemen had a mother and a father anxious about his safety. Many had wives and girlfriends they loved. And many must have had children they would have loved to watch grow up. All of that was brought to an end. When I contemplate that solemn reality, I am rendered entirely speechless. \"Rest in peace, precious souls of the fallen.\" With that overwhelming sentiment, I cast flowers on behalf of Japanese people, upon the waters where those sailors and marines sleep. \n President Obama, the people of the United States of America, and the people around the world, as the prime minister of Japan, I offer my sincere and everlasting condolences to the souls of those who lost their lives here, as well as to the spirits of all the brave men and women whose lives were taken by a war that commenced in this very place, and also to the souls of the countless innocent people who became victims of the war. We must never repeat the horrors of war again. \n This is the solemn vow we, the people of Japan, have taken. And since the war, we have created a free and democratic country that values the rule of law and has resolutely upheld our vow never again to wage war. We, the people of Japan, will continue to uphold this unwavering principle, while harboring quiet pride in the path we have walked as a peace-loving nation over these 70 years since the war ended. \n To the souls of the servicemen who lie in eternal rest aboard the USS Arizona, to the American people, and to all peoples around the world, I pledge that unwavering vow here as the prime minister of Japan. \n Yesterday, at the Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe Bay, I visited the memorial marker for an Imperial Japanese Navy officer. He was a fighter pilot by the name of Commander Fusata Iida who was hit during the attack on Pearl Harbor and gave up on returning to his aircraft carrier. He went back instead and died. \n It was not Japanese who erected a marker at the site that Iida's fighter plane crashed. It was U.S. servicemen who had been on the receiving end of his attack. Applauding the bravery of the dead pilot, they erected this stone marker. On the marker, his rank at that time is inscribed, \"Lieutenant, Imperial Japanese Navy,\" showing their respect toward a serviceman who gave his life for his country. \n \"The brave respect the brave.\" So wrote Ambrose Bierce in a famous poem. \n Showing respect even to an enemy they fought against; trying to understand even an enemy that they hated \u2014 therein lies the spirit of tolerance embraced by the American people. When the war ended and Japan was a nation in burnt-out ruins as far as the eye could see, suffering under abject poverty, it was the United States, and its good people, that unstintingly sent us food to eat and clothes to wear. \n The Japanese people managed to survive and make their way toward the future thanks to the sweaters and milk sent by the American people. And it was the United States that opened up the path for Japan to return to the international community once more after the war. Under the leadership of the United States, Japan, as a member of the free world, was able to enjoy peace and prosperity. \n The goodwill and assistance you extended to us Japanese, the enemy you had fought so fiercely, together with the tremendous spirit of tolerance were etched deeply into the hearts and minds of our grandfathers and mothers. We also remember them. Our children and grandchildren will also continue to pass these memories down and never forget what you did for us. \n The words pass through my mind; those words inscribed on the wall at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C. where I visited with President Obama. \"With malice toward none, with charity for all \u2026 let us strive on \u2026 to do all which may achieve and cherish a \u2026 lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.\" These are the words of President Abraham Lincoln. \n On behalf of the Japanese people, I hereby wish to express once again my heartfelt gratitude to the United States and to the world for the tolerance extended to Japan. \n It has now been 75 years since that \"Pearl Harbor.\" Japan and the United States, which fought a fierce war that will go down in the annals of human history, have become allies with deep and strong ties rarely found anywhere in history. We are allies that will tackle together, to an even greater degree than ever before, the many challenges covering the globe. Ours is an \"alliance of hope\" that will lead us to the future. \n What has bonded us together is the power of reconciliation, made possible through the spirit of tolerance. What I want to appeal to the people of the world, here at Pearl Harbor, together with President Obama, is this power of reconciliation. \n Even today, the horrors of war have not been eradicated from the surface of the world. There is no end to the spiral where hatred creates hatred. The world needs the spirit of tolerance and the power of reconciliation now \u2014 and especially now. \n Japan and the United States, which have eradicated hatred and cultivated friendship and trust on the basis of common values, are now, and especially now, taking responsibility for appealing to the world about the importance of tolerance and the power of reconciliation. That is precisely why the Japan-U.S. alliance is \"an alliance of hope.\" \n The inlet gazing at us is tranquil as far as the eye can see. Pearl Harbor. \n It is precisely this beautiful inlet, shimmering like pearls, that is a symbol of tolerance and reconciliation. It is my wish that our Japanese children, and President Obama, your American children, and indeed their children and grandchildren, and people all around the world, will continue to remember Pearl Harbor as the symbol of reconciliation. \n We will spare no efforts to continue our endeavors to make that wish a reality. Together with President Obama, I hereby make my steadfast pledge. Thank you very much. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Prime Minister Abe, on behalf of the American people, thank you for your gracious words. Thank you for your presence here today \u2014 an historic gesture that speaks to the power of reconciliation and the alliance between the American and Japanese peoples; a reminder that even the deepest wounds of war can give way to friendship and lasting peace. \n Distinguished guests, members of our armed forces \u2014 and most of all, survivors of Pearl Harbor and their loved ones \u2014 aloha. \n To Americans \u2014 especially to those of us who call Hawaii home \u2014 this harbor is a sacred place. As we lay a wreath or toss flowers into waters that still weep, we think of the more than 2,400 American patriots \u2014 fathers and husbands, wives and daughters \u2014 manning heaven's rails for all eternity. We salute the defenders of Oahu who pull themselves a little straighter every December 7th, and we reflect on the heroism that shone here 75 years ago. \n As dawn broke that December day, paradise never seemed so sweet. The water was warm and impossibly blue. Sailors ate in the mess hall, or readied themselves for church, dressed in crisp white shorts and t-shirts. In the harbor, ships at anchor floated in neat rows: the California, the Maryland and the Oklahoma, the Tennessee, the West Virginia and the Nevada. On the deck of the Arizona, the Navy band was tuning up. \n That morning, the ranks on men's shoulders defined them less than the courage in their hearts. Across the island, Americans defended themselves however they could \u2014 firing training shells, working old bolt-action rifles. An African-American mess steward, who would typically be confined to cleaning duties, carried his commander to safety, and then fired an anti-aircraft gun until he ran out of ammo. \n We honor Americans like Jim Downing \u2014 a gunner's mate first class on the West Virginia. Before he raced to the harbor, his new bride pressed into his hand a verse of Scripture: \"The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms.\" As Jim fought to save his ship, he simultaneously gathered the names of the fallen so that he could give closure to their families. He said, \"It was just something you do.\" \n We remember Americans like Harry Pang \u2014 a fireman from Honolulu who, in the face of withering fire, worked to douse burning planes until he gave his last full measure of devotion \u2014 one of the only civilian firefighters ever to receive the Purple Heart. \n We salute Americans like Chief Petty Officer John Finn, who manned a .50-caliber machine gun for more than two hours and was wounded more than 20 times, earning him our nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor. \n And it is here that we reflect on how war tests our most enduring values \u2014 how, even as Japanese Americans were deprived of their own liberty during the war, one of the most decorated military units in the history of the United States was the 442nd Infantry Regiment and its 100th Infantry Battalion \u2014 the Japanese-American Nisei. In that 442nd served my friend and proud Hawaiian, Daniel Inouye \u2014 a man who was a senator from Hawaii for most of my life and with whom I would find myself proud to serve in the Senate chamber; a man who was not only a recipient of the Medal of Honor and the Presidential Medal of Freedom, but was one of the most distinguished statesmen of his generation as well. \n Here at Pearl Harbor, America's first battle of the Second World War roused a nation. Here, in so many ways, America came of age. A generation of Americans \u2014 including my grandparents \u2014 the Greatest Generation \u2014 they did not seek war, but they refused to shrink from it. And they all did their part on fronts and in factories. And while, 75 years later, the proud ranks of Pearl Harbor survivors have thinned with time, the bravery we recall here is forever etched in our national heart. I would ask all our Pearl Harbor and World War II veterans who are able to, to please stand or raise your hands \u2014 because a grateful nation thanks you. \n The character of nations is tested in war, but it is defined in peace. After one of the most horrific chapters in human history \u2014 one that took not tens of thousands, but tens of millions of lives \u2014 with ferocious fighting across this ocean \u2014 the United States and Japan chose friendship and peace. Over the decades, our alliance has made both of our nations more successful. It has helped underwrite an international order that has prevented another World War and that has lifted more than a billion people out of extreme poverty. And today, the alliance between the United States and Japan \u2014 bound not only by shared interests, but also rooted in common values \u2014 stands as the cornerstone of peace and stability in the Asia Pacific and a force for progress around the globe. Our alliance has never been stronger. \n In good times and in bad, we are there for each other. Recall five years ago, when a wall of water bore down on Japan and reactors in Fukushima melted, America's men and women in uniform were there to help our Japanese friends. Across the globe, the United States and Japan work shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen the security of the Asia Pacific and the world \u2014 turning back piracy, combating disease, slowing the spread of nuclear weapons, keeping the peace in war-torn lands. \n Earlier this year, near Pearl Harbor, Japan joined with two dozen nations in the world's largest maritime military exercise. That included our forces from U.S. Pacific Command, led by Admiral Harry Harris, the son of an American Naval officer and a Japanese mother. Harry was born in Yokosuka, but you wouldn't know it from his Tennessee twang. \n Thank you, Harry, for your outstanding leadership. \n In this sense, our presence here today \u2014 the connections not just between our governments, but between our people, the presence of Prime Minister Abe here today \u2014 remind us of what is possible between nations and between peoples. Wars can end. The most bitter of adversaries can become the strongest of allies. The fruits of peace always outweigh the plunder of war. This is the enduring truth of this hallowed harbor. \n It is here that we remember that even when hatred burns hottest, even when the tug of tribalism is at its most primal, we must resist the urge to turn inward. We must resist the urge to demonize those who are different. The sacrifice made here, the anguish of war, reminds us to seek the divine spark that is common to all humanity. It insists that we strive to be what our Japanese friends call otagai no tame ni \u2014 \"with and for each other.\" \n That's the lesson of Capt. William Callaghan of the Missouri. Even after an attack on his ship, he ordered that the Japanese pilot be laid to rest with military honors, wrapped in a Japanese flag sewn by American sailors. It's the lesson, in turn, of the Japanese pilot who, years later, returned to this harbor, befriended an old Marine bugler and asked him to play taps and lay two roses at this memorial every month \u2014 one for America's fallen and one for Japan's. \n It's a lesson our two peoples learn every day, in the most ordinary of ways \u2014 whether it's Americans studying in Tokyo, young Japanese studying across America; scientists from our two nations together unraveling the mysteries of cancer, or combating climate change, exploring the stars. It's a baseball player like Ichiro lighting up a stadium in Miami, buoyed by the shared pride of two peoples, both American and Japanese, united in peace and friendship. \n As nations, and as people, we cannot choose the history that we inherit. But we can choose what lessons to draw from it, and use those lessons to chart our own futures. \n Prime Minister Abe, I welcome you here in the spirit of friendship, as the people of Japan have always welcomed me. I hope that together, we send a message to the world that there is more to be won in peace than in war; that reconciliation carries more rewards than retribution. \n Here in this quiet harbor, we honor those we lost, and we give thanks for all that our two nations have won \u2014 together, as friends. \n May God hold the fallen in His everlasting arms. May He watch over our veterans and all who stand guard on our behalf. May God bless us all. Thank you.  \n ", "author": "", "title": "Text of speeches by Abe, Obama at Pearl Harbor"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n 101 N. King St. \n Police thanked the public today for helping to locate a man wanted for robbing the Bank of Hawaii branch in Chinatown this morning. \n The man was also arrested for a federal probation violation warrant and may be responsible for nine other bank robberies this month, police said. \n Police said the man robbed the Bank of Hawaii at 101 N. King St. \n The man was turned over to the U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force for the warrant and is facing federal charges for the robberies. \n Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME from a cell phone. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Suspected serial bank robber arrested"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / 2012 \n Kamehameha Highway will be closed at the Karsten Thot Bridge for rehabilitation work this week \n A portion of Kamehameha Highway will be closed at the Karsten Thot Bridge in Wahiawa for rehabilitation work this week. \n The highway between Kilani Avenue and Kamananui Road will close in both directions from 9 p.m. Thursday to 4 a.m. Friday, according to the state Department of Transportation. Traffic will be rerouted to Wilikina Drive and Kamananui Road. \n The work is part of the Karsten Thot Bridge project, which includes repairing the deteriorated steel bridge framing and concrete cracks, as well as repainting the bridge. DOT said bridge rehabilitation work is slated for completion by the end of this year. \n Additionally, the department will close a single lane, weather permitting, on Kamehameha Highway between Kilani Avenue and Whitmore Avenue from 9 p.m. today to 5 a.m. tomorrow. The closure will alternate between the northbound and southbound lane. Crews will contraflow traffic in the open lane. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bridge work to close portion of Kamehameha Highway in Wahiawa"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christian Gutierrez appears in a Honolulu courtroom today to plead not guilty to animal cruelty charges in connection with the deaths of seabirds at the Kaena Point nature reserve in December 2015. (AP photo/Jennifer Kelleher) \n COURTESY DLNR \n An albatross was found dead at Kaena Point, on a nest with an egg, in December 2015. \n A 19-year-old college student accused of killing seabirds at an Oahu nature reserve pleaded not guilty today to animal cruelty. \n Defendant Christian Gutierrez didn't speak with reporters as he and his attorney left a Honolulu courthouse after the brief arraignment. \n He turned himself in to the state Department of Public Safety last week and was released on $25,000 bail. He made arrangements with prosecutors to surrender while he was home in Honolulu for winter break from school, defense attorney Myles Breiner said. Gutierrez attends New York University. \n The state Department of Land and Natural Resources began investigating after three Laysan albatrosses were found dead last year in Kaena Point Natural Area Reserve. There were also 15 destroyed nests with smashed, dead or missing eggs, the department said. \n The Laysan albatross is a federally protected species. \n Court documents charging Gutierrez, a 2015 Punahou School graduate, with 14 counts of animal cruelty and other charges say the crimes took place Dec. 27, 2015. \n Breiner said last week that his client was camping at Kaena Point with schoolmates from Punahou. \n \"He was there when this happened but he did not injure any birds,\" Breiner said. \"He didn't do it. He didn't maim or touch the animals, period.\" \n Breiner said there have been two other arrests related to the case that are being handled in juvenile court. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Teen pleads not guilty to Kaena Point albatross killings"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "A 26-year-old Pahoa man turned himself in at a police station on the Big Island after he allegedly fired a gunshot into a man's vehicle in Hilo. \n Police arrested the suspect on suspicion of attempted first-degree murder Monday night. He remains in custody as police continue their investigation, according to a news release from the Hawaii County Police Department. \n At approximately 12:25 p.m. Saturday, police said patrol officers responded to the 100 block of Makaala Street after a 27-year-old man reported that an unknown man brandished a revolver and fired a gunshot into the front window on the driver's side of a vehicle. \n A 26-year-old man was also in the vehicle at the time the gunshot was fired. No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pahoa man faces attempted murder charge in Big Isle shooting"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "Honolulu firefighters located three missing hikers today after they were reported overdue from their hike at Wahiawa Loop Trail. \n At approximately 9 p.m. Monday, firefighters responded to a report of lost hikers in their 30s \u2014 two men and one woman \u2014 after they were reported overdue from their hike, which they started at noon that day, according to Honolulu Fire Capt. Kevin Mokulehua in a news release. \n The fire department's Air 1 helicopter and firefighters conducted an air and ground search before suspending their operation at 11:45 p.m. \n Firefighters resumed their search at dawn today when crews aboard the helicopter spotted the hikers in a riverbed about a mile from the trailhead at approximately 7:19 a.m. Mokulehua said. \n The trio were flown out of the area, Mokulehua said. No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Missing hikers airlifted from Wahiawa trail"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Comedian Garry Shandling in 2008. A report by Los Angeles' coroner's officials released Dec. 27 said the fatal clot that killed Shandling in March occurred after he developed blood clots in his legs. \n LOS ANGELES >> Garry Shandling died from a blood clot in his lung, coroner's officials said today more than seven months after the comedian's unexpected death. \n A report by Los Angeles' coroner's officials released today states the fatal clot occurred after the comedian developed blood clots in his legs, a condition known as deep vein thrombosis. The comedian had not been feeling well during a trip to Hawaii, the report stated. Shandling died March 24 after calling paramedics to his home. \n Los Angeles coroner's officials had delayed issuing their determination of what killed the 66-year-old until after a review of his medical records and toxicology tests were completed. The toxicology results found only a therapeutic amount of Xanax and some cold medication in his system. \n In 1992, Shandling created his comic masterpiece with \"The Larry Sanders Show,\" which starred him as an egomaniacal late-night TV host with an angst-ridden show-biz life behind the scenes. The HBO series ran until 1998. \n As Larry, Shandling dug deep to confront his own demons, and did it brilliantly as the series teetered between dual realities: public and private; make-believe and painfully true. \n Shandling had blurred the lines for a television comedy before, with his \"It's Garry Shandling Show,\" in the 1980s. Actors on the Showtime sitcom routinely broke the fourth wall to speak directly to the audience on what they were up to. \n After \"Larry Sanders\" ended, Shandling's few public appearances included hosting the Emmys Awards in 2000 and 2004 and a role in 2001's \"Zoolander.\" \n Shortly before his death, he appeared in Jerry Seinfeld's web series \"Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee\" in a segment that had the pair recount memories of their stand-up comedy days and trying to make it in Hollywood. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Garry Shandling died from blood clot in heart"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "A 31-year-old woman died after she was allegedly fell out of a pickup truck and was run over by one of its tires in Kailua-Kona over the weekend. \n She has been identified as Bristol Thompson of Kona. \n At approximately 2:20 a.m. Saturday, Thompson was in the front passenger seat of a 2015 Dodge Ram truck traveling south on Alii Drive near the intersection with Queen Kalama Avenue when she fell out of the truck and was run over by one of the rear tires, according to a news release from the Hawaii County Police Department. \n It's unknown at this time what happened inside the vehicle before she fell out. \n Police said Thompson was taken to Kona Community Hospital in a personal vehicle and flown to Queen's Medical Center where she was pronounced dead Saturday afternoon. \n Police arrested the truck driver, a 20-year-old Kealakekua man, on suspicion of first-degree negligent injury and operating a vehicle under the influence of an intoxicant. He was released pending further investigation. \n The police department's Traffic Enforcement Unit has initiated a negligent homicide investigation. An autopsy will be conducted to determine Thompson's exact cause of death. \n Anyone with information is asked to call police officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300 \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman dies after falling out of pickup truck on Big Isle"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS HONOLULU \n Dae Han Moon, 20, is wanted by police for second-degree attempted murder. \n CrimeStoppers and Honolulu police are seeking the public's help in locating a man wanted for attempted murder in connection with a shooting at Ala Moana Center that critically injured a 20-year-old man. \n Police identified the suspect as Dae Han Moon, 20, also known as Daehan Moon. \n At about 7:30 p.m. Sunday at the fifth-level parking lot on the Ewa side of the shopping center, Moon and his friends got into an argument with the victim and his friends. Police said the argument intensified and Moon allegedly grabbed a firearm from his vehicle and shot the victim. \n He and his friends fled the scene before police arrived. \n Emergency Medical Services reported the victim suffered a gunshot wound to the back of his head. Paramedics administered advanced life support before transporting him to a trauma hospital in critical condition. \n Earlier this month, prosecutors charged Moon after he allegedly struck a police vehicle he was operating when he attempted to flee from officers. \n At about 1:30 a.m. on Dec. 5, patrol officers responded to a report of suspicious activity at an apartment building on Kaheka Street. When police arrived, Moon allegedly entered a vehicle and attempted to flee but struck a police vehicle and rock wall. \n He then fled on foot but was apprehended by officers shortly after. Police said a firearm was found on the driver's seat of the vehicle. \n Moon was charged with unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle and a related firearms charge. He posted bail on Dec. 7. On Dec. 19, Moon pleaded not guilty to the charges at Circuit Court, according to court records. \n Judge Colette Garibaldi prohibited him from possessing any firearms and set his trial for the week of Feb. 21. \n Moon has a criminal record of driving under the influence of drugs. \n He is described as 5 feet 8 inches tall, weighing 200 pounds with black hair and brown eyes. \n Anyone with information on Moon's whereabouts is urged to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Ala Moana Center shooting suspect sought"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for two suspects in connection with an armed robbery at a convenience store in Kaimuki early today. \n At about 2 a.m., police said the two suspects entered 7-Eleven on Waialae Avenue, brandished a weapon and demanded cash from a 31-year-old woman inside the store. \n The victim complied and suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of money. Police said there were no injuries. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for suspects in Kaimuki armed robbery"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 20TH CENTURY FOX \n From left: Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill in a scene from \"Star Wars,\" in a 1977 file photo. Fisher, who found enduring fame as Princess Leia in the original \"Star Wars,\" has died. She was 60. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carrie Fisher at the 2011 NewNowNext Awards in Los Angeles. Fisher, who played Princess Leia in 'Star Wars,' has died at age 60, daughter's publicist says. \n NEW YORK >> No one could make us laugh through the pain like Carrie Fisher. \n The daughter of Hollywood stars Eddie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds, and a survivor of early fame, drug addiction and bipolar disorder, she wrote with unsentimental wit and understanding about her private struggles and about an industry she was raised in but stood apart from. \n Fisher, known to the world as Princess Leia of \"Star Wars,\" died today at 60, four days after falling ill aboard an airline flight. Media reports said the actress had suffered a heart attack. \n \"I do believe you're only as sick as your secrets. If that's true, I'm just really healthy,\" she said in a confessional 2009 interview with The Associated Press. \n The public fell in love with her twice: as Princess Leia and as the wry truth teller of such books as \"Postcards from the Edge,\" \"Wishful Drinking\" and \"The Princess Diarist,\" in which she revealed having an intense affair with \"Star Wars\" co-star Harrison Ford. When she and Ford reprised their roles last year in \"The Force Awakens,\" audiences cheered both for her past on screen and for the life reflected on her sadder and wiser face. \n Fisher told plenty of secrets about others \u2014 about her parents' breakup when she was 2, about being advised by Warren Beatty on wearing a bra in \"Shampoo,\" and about arguing with then-husband Paul Simon about whether it was better to be a man or a woman. \n Asked by NPR recently why she wrote about her fling with Ford, who was 15 years older and married, she joked that she could hold back no longer because he had refused to die: \"I kept calling and saying, 'When are you going to die because I want to tell the story?'\" \n But she was toughest on herself and unafraid to turn trauma into humor. She became the most knowable of celebrities, with a great and generous gift for bringing us into her unusual life. \n \"One of the therapists came in to admit me and asked how long I had been a drug addict,\" she wrote in Postcards,\" her autobiographical novel that became a movie of the same name. \"I said I didn't think I was a drug addict because I didn't take any one drug. 'Then you're a drugs addict,' she said. She asked if I had deliberately tried to kill myself. I was insulted by the question. I guess when you find yourself having overdosed, it's a good indicator that your life isn't working.\" \n She is survived by her mother; her daughter, Billie Lourd, from a relationship with talent agent Bryan Lourd; her brother, the actor-filmmaker Todd Fisher; and her half-sisters, actresses Joely and Tricia Leigh Fisher. Her father died in 2010. \n Born and raised in Beverly Hills, Carrie Fisher was a bookish child who had difficult relationships with both parents. In a celebrity breakup that made headlines everywhere in 1958, Eddie Fisher left his family for Elizabeth Taylor. \n Eddie Fisher was hardly present for his daughter in her early years, and Reynolds' second husband, the shoe store magnate Harry Karl, was even worse. He squandered his own money and Reynolds' on gambling and prostitutes and left the actress and her children broke and devastated. \n Meanwhile, Carrie Fisher went into the family business early \u2014 too early, she would later say. Fisher was performing on stage by age 12 and appeared with Reynolds in the 1973 Broadway revival \"Irene.\" She was still a teenager when she made her feature film debut in \"Shampoo,\" which came out in 1975. \n Even after \"Star Wars,\" Fisher would speak often of feeling overshadowed by her mother and about the need to break away, a conflict dramatized in \"Postcards From the Edge.\" \n Mother and daughter were estranged for years but reconciled later in life and came to admire each other's talent and determination. \"Bright Lights: Starring Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher,\" an HBO documentary, is scheduled for release in 2017. \n Fisher's film credits included a wide range of spoofs, musicals and romantic comedies over the years, from \"Austin Powers\" and \"The Blues Brothers\" to \"Hannah and Her Sisters\" and \"When Harry Met Sally \u2026\" Meryl Streep was the star when \"Postcards From the Edge,\" with a screenplay by Fisher, was adapted into a film of the same name in 1990. Shirley MacLaine played Streep's mother, the stand-in for Reynolds. \n But for millions, Fisher was Princess Leia, with her now-iconic hair bagels and metal bikini, who uttered the immortal phrase \"Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope\" in the original \"Star Wars\" in 1977. \n Director George Lucas, who considered Jodie Foster, Amy Irving and dozens of others for the role, said he had been looking for an actress who could \"hold her own\" against her male co-stars. \n Fisher would make a lot of wisecracks about the role that made her pop-culture royalty and led Reynolds to note ruefully she was now regarded as the mother of Princess Leia. \n Fisher disliked her hairstyle, disparaged her hybrid British-American accent in the films and was appalled by some of the \"Star Wars\" merchandise, including a Princess Leia candy dispenser. \n Given the chance, she would have preferred to play Han Solo. \n \"When I first read the script I thought that's the part to be, always wry and sardonic,\" she told a gathering in England in 2015. \"He's always that. I feel like a lot of the time Leia's either worried or pissed or, thank God, sort of snarky. But I'm much more worried and pissed than Han Solo ever was, and those aren't fun things to play.\" \n Her drug problems pre-dated \"Star Wars.\" She recalled smoking pot at age 13 (She would later learn that there is a kind of marijuana called \"Princess Leia.\") and dropped acid at 21. \n She used so much cocaine that even world-class partyer John Belushi, who died of a drug overdose at 33, warned her to stop. \n In her 20s, she was diagnosed as bipolar and treated with electroshock therapy and medication, which she wrote about in the memoir \"Shockaholic.\" \n \"People relate to aspects of my stories, and that's nice for me because then I'm not all alone with it,\" she told the AP in 2009. \n Ever ready to satirize herself, she even played \"Carrie Fisher\" a few times, as in David Cronenberg's dark Hollywood sendup \"Maps to the Stars\" and in an episode of \"Sex and the City.\" In the past 15 years, Fisher also had a steady career as a television guest star, perhaps most memorably as a has-been comedy legend on \"30 Rock.\" \n Her one-woman show, \"Wishful Drinking,\" which she had performed on and off across the country since 2006, made its way to Broadway in 2009 and was captured for HBO in 2010. \n \"I don't have a problem with drugs so much as I have a problem with sobriety,\" she wisecracked in the show. At another point, she said: \"I'm a product of Hollywood inbreeding. When two celebrities mate, something like me is the result.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Star Wars' princess Carrie Fisher dead at 60"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The USS Gabrielle Giffords, a Naval littoral combat ship built at the Austal USA shipyards, was docked on the Mobile River in Mobile, Ala. on Nov. 30. The ship is named in honor of former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle \"Gabby\" Giffords of Arizona. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The cityscape of Mobile, Ala., was seen behind the docked USS Gabrielle Giffords, a Naval littoral combat ship built at the Austal USA shipyards on the Mobile River in Mobile, Ala. on Nov. 30. The ship is named in honor of former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle \"Gabby\" Giffords of Arizona. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Birds flew by the USS Gabrielle Giffords, a Naval littoral combat ship built at the Austal USA shipyards, docked on the Mobile River in Mobile, Ala. on Nov. 30. The ship is named in honor of former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle \"Gabby\" Giffords of Arizona. \n MOBILE, Ala. >> A naval program that has become a target for critics is preparing to commission the USS Gabrielle Giffords, named for the U.S. politician who survived an assassination attempt in 2011. \n The USS Gabrielle Giffords, constructed by Austal USA in Mobile, Alabama, has completed testing in the Gulf of Mexico and is scheduled to be commissioned in mid-2017. The company handed over the $475 million ship to the Navy on Friday. \n Giffords was shot in the head during a mass shooting in Arizona in 2011 and helped christen the ship in 2015. It's part of a hotly debated program that congressional critics slam as flawed and too expensive but that Navy leaders defend as a critical new step in naval warfighting. \n The 421-foot-long Giffords will be the ninth in a series of high-speed vessels designed to navigate in shallow coastal regions known as littoral waters. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., has cited the $12.4 billion spent for 26 littoral combat ships as the worst example of wasteful Pentagon spending. \n The ship's name also has been a target for conservatives who see it as promoting stricter gun laws, a cause Giffords has promoted. Some critics lampooned the ship as being gun-free, a bit of parody and fake news that was debunked on snopes.com. \n The Navy said it chose to name the ship in honor of Giffords because of the perseverance she showed after the shooting. \n \"Courage comes in many, many forms \u2014 physical, mental, spiritual and political. Gabby has truly modeled courage and resilience,\" Vice Adm. Philip Cullom said at the christening ceremony. \n Constructed from aluminum and featuring a distinctive trimaran design, the Giffords is armed with missiles, machine guns and fast-firing weapons designed to hit a variety of targets. Its normal crew of 40 sailors and officers can be supplemented as needed for missions. \n A sister ship of the Giffords, the USS Montgomery, sustained hull damage in October while navigating the Panama Canal. The same ship was damaged in a collision with a tugboat weeks before. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Navy to commission USS Gabrielle Giffords"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "Emergency Medical Services transported a 29-year-old man to a trauma center after he was stabbed in Kalihi overnight. \n The stabbing occurred shortly before 12:30 a.m. Paramedics responded to a residence at 1732 Democrat St. EMS reported the victim was allegedly assaulted and stabbed once in the lower right back. \n Police said they didn't respond to the stabbing. \n Paramedics treated and transported the 29-year-old man to the hospital in serious condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man in serious condition after assault, stabbing in Kalihi"}

{"date": "December 27, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe threw orchids into the water from the \"well\" over the ship at the Arizona Memorial. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the USS Arizona Memorial, part of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument, in Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, today, as part of a ceremony to honor those killed in the Japanese attack on the naval harbor. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo shook hands as they were photographed at the start of a bilateral meeting at Camp H.M. Smith today. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) \n BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific to place a wreath at the Honolulu Memorial on Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, right, strummed a pineapple-shaped ukulele presented to him by Gov. David Ige at a dinner held in Abe's honor, Monday, in Honolulu. Abe laid wreaths at various cemeteries and memorials Monday ahead of a visit to the site of the 1941 bombing that plunged the United States into World War II. The USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor will be closed to the public today when Abe visits the historic site, joined by President Barack Obama, who is vacationing in Hawaii with his family. \n Update 12:48 p.m. \n In remarks to assembled dignitaries including World War II veterans, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe today offered condolences for the lives lost in the attack on Pearl Harbor 75 years ago. \n \"As the prime minister of Japan, I offer my sincere and everlasting condolences to the souls of those who lost their lives here, as well as to the spirits of all the brave men and women whose lives were taken by a war that commenced in this very place,\" Abe said on the grounds of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument, overlooking the USS Arizona Memorial at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam. \n Abe, and President Barack Obama, made brief remarks after a solemn visit to the memorial. \n Obama called Abe's visit a \"historic gesture\" of reconciliation. He said the visit illustrates that enemies can become allies and \"the fruits of peace always outweigh the plunder of war.\" \n \"The character of nations is tested in war, but it is defined in peace,\" Obama said. \"After one of the most horrific chapters in human history, one that took not tens of thousands, but tens of millions of lives with ferocious fighting across this ocean, the United States and Japan chose friendship, and they chose peace. Over the decades our alliance has made both of our nations more successful. It has helped underwrite the international order that has prevented another world war.\" \n Update 12:01 p.m. \n President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe laid wreaths aboard the USS Arizona Memorial to honor those killed in the Dec. 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor. \n It was the first visit by a Japanese leader to the memorial. \n The two leaders said nothing during their brief visit. They stood in silence for several minutes before walking in unison in front of two wreaths of light pink anthuriums placed before the marble wall listing the names of those who died on the USS Arizona. \n Obama's wreath bore a white ribbon saying \"In Remembrance, Barack Obama, President of the United States, and Abe's a ribbon that says \"In Remembrance, Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan,\" according to the Associated Press. They adjusted the wreaths, stepped back and spent about a minute with their heads bowed. \n Caroline Kennedy, the U.S. ambassador to Japan, stood in silence nearby with other dignitaries. \n Obama and Abe then walked slowly back to the memorial entrance, turned to the wall once more and bowed their heads, before exiting. \n The two leaders also tossed flower petals into the waters below where the destroyed battleship and more than 900 entombed sailors lays. \n USS Arizona Memorial as they paid tribute to victims of the attack on Pearl Harbor. \n After the short visit, they boarded a boat to a nearby pier to address a crowd of dignitaries from Japan and the U.S. Several World War II veterans sat in the front row of the pier overlooking Pearl Harbor, where 2,400 Americans died 75 years ago. \n Update 11:30 a.m. \n President Barack Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrived at Pearl Harbor late this morning for their historic visit to the Arizona Memorial today. \n Under heavy security, they boarded the Pacific Fleet admiral's barge for the memorial where they were expected to lay a wreath. The visit to the Memorial lasted from about 11:06 a.m. to 11:24 a.m. \n They are expected to make remarks once they return to the grounds of the Pearl Harbor Visitor Center. \n The president and the prime minister arrived at Pearl Harbor after a formal meeting at Camp H.M. Smith, the headquarters for the U.S. Pacific Command. There, the two leaders sat in front of Japanese and American flags and shook hands, but did not make any comments to reporters. \n Previous coverage from The Associated Press \n Putting 75 years of resentment behind them, the leaders of the United States and Japan are coming together at Pearl Harbor for a historic pilgrimage to the site where a devastating surprise attack sent America marching into World War II. \n Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit today with President Barack Obama is powerful proof that the former enemies have transcended the recriminatory impulses that weighed down relations after the war, Japan's government has said. Although Japanese leaders have visited Pearl Harbor before, Abe will be the first to visit the memorial constructed on the hallowed waters above the sunken USS Arizona. \n For Obama, it's likely the last time he will meet with a foreign leader as president, White House aides said. It's a bookend of sorts for the president, who nearly eight years ago invited Abe's predecessor to be the first leader he hosted at the White House. \n For Abe, it's an act of symbolic reciprocity, coming six months after Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to visit Hiroshima in Japan, where the U.S. dropped an atomic bomb in hopes of ending the war it entered after Pearl Harbor. \n \"This visit, and the president's visit to Hiroshima earlier this year, would not have been possible eight years ago,\" said Daniel Kritenbrink, Obama's top Asia adviser in the White House. \"That we are here today is the result of years of efforts at all levels of our government and societies, which has allowed us to jointly and directly deal with even the most sensitive aspects of our shared history.\" \n More than 2,300 Americans died on Dec. 7, 1941, when more than 300 Japanese fighter planes and bombers attacked. More than 1,000 others were wounded. In the ensuing years, the U.S. incarcerated roughly 120,000 Japanese-Americans in internment camps before dropping atomic bombs in 1945 that killed some 140,000 people in Hiroshima and 70,000 in Nagasaki. \n Abe will not apologize for Pearl Harbor, his government has said. Nor did Obama apologize at Hiroshima in May, a visit that he and Abe used to emphasize their elusive aspirations for a nuclear-free future. \n No apology needed, said 96-year-old Alfred Rodrigues, a U.S. Navy veteran who survived what President Franklin D. Roosevelt called a \"date which will live in infamy.\" \n \"War is war,\" Rodrigues said as he looked at old photos of his military service. \"They were doing what they were supposed to do, and we were doing what we were supposed to do.\" \n After a formal meeting in the morning, Obama and Abe planned to lay a wreath aboard the USS Arizona Memorial, which is accessible only by boat. Then they'll go to nearby Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, where both leaders will speak. \n Abe's visit is not without political risk given the Japanese people's long, emotional reckoning with their nation's aggression in the war. Though the history books have largely deemed Pearl Harbor a surprise attack, Japan's government insisted as recently as this month that it had intended to give the U.S. prior notice that it was declaring war and failed only because of \"bureaucratic bungling.\" \n \"There's this sense of guilt, if you like, among Japanese, this 'Pearl Harbor syndrome,' that we did something very unfair,\" said Tamaki Tsukada, a minister in the Embassy of Japan in Washington. \"I think the prime minister's visit will in a sense absolve that kind of complex that Japanese people have.\" \n Since the war, the U.S. and Japan have built a powerful alliance that both sides say has grown during Obama's tenure, including strengthened military ties. Both Obama and Abe were driving forces behind the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping free trade deal now on hold due to staunch opposition by Congress and President-elect Donald Trump. \n Moving beyond the painful legacy of the war has been easier for Japan and the U.S. than for Japan and its other former foes, such as South Korea and China. As Abe arrived in Hawaii, Beijing dismissed as \"wishful thinking\" the notion that Japan could \"liquidate the history of World War II\" by visiting Pearl Harbor. \n \"Japan can never turn this page over without reconciliation from China and other victimized countries in Asia,\" said Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman. \n As Obama's presidency ends, there are questions about how U.S.-Japan ties will fare under Trump. \n During the campaign, Trump suggested that Japan and South Korea should obtain nuclear weapons so the U.S. would no longer be burdened with the costs of defending them, a disquieting notion in many Asian capitals. But after Trump's election, Abe became the first foreign leader to meet with him, sitting down in Trump Tower with the business mogul and Trump's daughter Ivanka. \n Though no Japanese prime minister has visited the USS Arizona Memorial, former Japanese leader Shigeru Yoshida visited Pearl Harbor in 1951, six years after Japan surrendered. He stopped there on his way home from signing the San Francisco peace treaty with the U.S. and others, and paid a courtesy visit to the office of Adm. Arthur W.R. Radford. \n Other prime ministers have since visited Pearl Harbor and the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, known as Punchbowl. \n Associated Press writers Brian Skoloff in Kailua, Hawaii, Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo and Gillian Wong in Beijing contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff & Associated Press", "title": "Obama, Abe remember Pearl Harbor dead in historic Arizona Memorial visit"}

