{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n France's President Francois Hollande gestures as he speaks to scientists during the World Science Day a gathering of scientists from 57 countries at the Louvre museum in Paris, Tuesday, Sept. 27, 2016. France is also celebrating 350 years of it's academy of science. \n PARIS >> The French government is presenting its 2017 budget, including 1 billion euros ($1.1 billion) in tax cuts that are expected to benefit 5 million low and middle-income households. \n The budget detailed at a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday is based on expected economic growth of 1.5 percent both this year and next. The International Monetary Fund forecasts only 1.2 percent growth next year. \n The government vows to bring the deficit to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product, which would be within the EU limit of 3 percent for the first time since 2007. \n The economy is expected to be a major concern for French voters ahead of the presidential election in April-May 2017. Unemployment has been hovering around 10 percent for years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "French government plans tax cuts in its 2017 budget"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A group of people watch a monitor of the Charlotte City Council meeting outside the Meeting Chamber during time for public comments, mainly concerning last week's Scott shooting, at the Charlotte Mecklenburg Government Center on Monday, Sept. 26, 2016. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. >> Unanswered questions still surround the fatal police shooting of a black man by police in North Carolina despite a week of rallies and marches calling for wider investigations and more transparency by law enforcement. \n Authorities have said officer Brentley Vinson, 26, shot Keith Lamont Scott, 43, after the man refused to drop a pistol as he exited a vehicle parked at an apartment complex where officers with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department were waiting to arrest someone else. They also have released two police recordings of the moments before and after the fatal gunfire, and Scott's family has released a video taken by his wife, who was nearby. \n But the explanations and images haven't erased all the questions about the shooting. Here are some of them: \n DID SCOTT OWN A GUN? \n Police said Scott had a loaded gun that had been reported stolen previously, and they said testing showed the weapon found at the scene carried both his fingerprints and DNA. But Scott's relatives and demonstrators dispute that. \n On the video taken by Scott's wife, the woman tells officers \"He has no weapon\" several times, even as officers yell at him, \"Drop the gun.\" Demonstrators have consistently repeated claims that Scott was unarmed when he was killed. \n But Scott had a weapon a year ago, according to a court document filed by his wife. In asking a judge for a restraining order against her husband in October 2015, Rakeyia Scott wrote that officers should consider her husband a potential threat because he carried a 9mm gun. \"He said he is a 'killer' and we should know that,\" she wrote. \n IF HE DID OWN A GUN, WHERE WAS IT? \n After the shooting, police released an evidence photograph of a cocked, Colt .380-caliber handgun lying in a parking lot with the safety disengaged to illustrate their claim that Scott was armed when Vinson opened fire. The .380-caliber weapon is a form of a 9mm gun, a weapons expert said, and could be referred to as a 9mm, as Scott described in her complaint. \n But it's not clear if the gun mentioned in the restraining order is the same one police said they recovered. \n The image is vital because Scott's family said he had a book, not a gun. Several things appear to be on the ground around where Scott fell, but no gun is clearly evident. A video from an officer's body camera at one point shows something on the ground near Scott's feet that could be a gun. But it isn't visible as the video continues, and it's unclear what it is. Several things appear to be on the ground in the video taken by Scott's wife, but it's unclear what they are. \n Did the gun get kicked away in the seconds after the shooting, or did an officer stand on it or pick it up perhaps? Police haven't explained. \n WHO WERE POLICE SEEKING WHEN THEY ENCOUNTERED SCOTT? \n Police say two plainclothes officers were sitting inside an unmarked car waiting to serve an arrest warrant at the apartment complex when Scott pulled in beside them in a white sport-utility vehicle. Officers first saw him rolling what appeared to be a marijuana blunt and then saw him hold up a gun, prompting officers to order him out of the SUV seconds before the shooting, police have said. \n Police have not said who they were attempting to arrest. Police Lt. David Robinson said the suspect remained at large and was wanted on a federal probation violation. \n The suspect was not related to Scott, police have said. \n WHY HAVEN'T MORE POLICE VIDEOS BEEN RELEASED? \n Scott's family and advocacy groups complain that authorities have made public only about three minutes of footage from two police cameras, one on a dashboard and the other from a police officer's body, despite at least four officers being present. The footage does not include body camera video from Vinson. \n Police Chief Kerr Putney has said the officer who shot Scott was not wearing a body camera that day because he was serving with a tactical unit in which members are not equipped with the devices. He previously said he was reluctant to make officers in high-risk operations wear cameras that could reveal tactics and locations. \n The American Civil Liberties Union has questioned whether the department is violating its own body camera policy instituted in April 2015. The policy, according to the department's site, states the cameras must be activated in situations including arrests and encounters with suspicious people. It doesn't address whether tactical units must wear them. \n But only one officer at the time of Scott's shooting was equipped with a body camera, and all video footage from that camera leading up to, involving and immediately after the shooting has been released, said Robinson, the police spokesman. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Unanswered questions surround NC police shooting"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Melbourne, Fla. \n WASHINGTON > While Donald Trump won't publicly release his income tax returns, the New York businessman has turned them over when it suited his needs \u2014 if he stood to make a profit, needed a loan or when a judge forced him. \n Pennsylvania gaming regulators were given at least five years' worth and eight boxes full of Trump's tax documents. Nevada, Michigan, Missouri, Indiana and other state gaming officials also had access to multiple years of his returns. Large banks that lent Trump money over the years have also obtained Trump's returns. \n One common thread ties all those who have seen the documents: They can't talk about them. \n Such legal restrictions leave the public with only small glimpses into what Trump's taxes might hold. \n In Monday night's debate, Democrat Hillary Clinton cited documents unearthed by reporters to question whether Trump doesn't want to release his tax returns because he has paid little or no federal income taxes. \n Trump's response? \"That makes me smart,\" a comment he disavowed just minutes after the debate. Asked by reporters if he had admitted to not paying federal income taxes, Trump said, \"I didn't say that at all.\" \n Clinton cited documents unearthed by Politico showing Trump didn't pay any federal income tax during at least two years in the early 1990s because he lost more money than he earned. Other documents show he also didn't pay any federal income taxes in 1978, 1979 and 1984. \n Voters know little about Trump's more recent finances beyond his own self-reported estimations of his wealth and listings of his business interests. \n In all cases reviewed by The Associated Press, each person, organization, company or government office that has seen Trump's tax returns is barred from discussing their full contents by professional or legal restrictions. \n For example, employees of the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board could face criminal penalties if they leaked information from Trump's tax returns maintained in the board's electronic files, said board spokesman Doug Harbach. \n When asked whether Trump had turned over any returns to the Missouri Gaming Commission, officials said they were barred by state law from saying what Trump turned over. \n \"I could not tell you whether we had them,\" said Edward Grewach, the commission's general counsel. \n Responses like these leave the decision to publicly release the taxes solely with Trump, who has repeatedly refused. Trump has cited an IRS audit as his reason for withholding the information, but the IRS and tax experts have said an audit doesn't bar Trump from releasing his taxes. At the debate, Trump said he would release his returns \u2014 over what he described as his attorney's objections \u2014 only after Clinton released roughly 30,000 emails she had deleted from her private server that she had deemed personal. \n Earlier this month, Donald Trump Jr. gave a different reason why his father wouldn't release the returns: The American people would ask too many questions. \n \"He's got a 12,000-page tax return that would create . financial auditors out of every person in the country asking questions that would detract from (his father's) main message,\" the younger Trump told the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. \n Since 1976, every major party nominee has released the returns and Clinton has publicly released nearly 40 years' worth. Even Trump's running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, released 10 years of his tax returns. \n Tax returns don't measure net worth, so they wouldn't verify whether Trump is worth the $10 billion he says he is. But the returns would reveal how much Trump earned from his assets, helping someone work back to an approximation of his net worth. \n Trump's own estimates of his income and net worth have previously been scrutinized by those who had access to his tax returns. \n For a decade, Trump tangled with New York City authorities over his city tax bill, a battle first reported in June by journalist David Cay Johnson in The Daily Beast. \n In Trump's 1984 tax filings, he said he had lost money during a time in which he had just completed Trump Tower and regularly boasted about the success of his business deals. Trump also declared that he was primarily a consultant that year, and that his consulting business had $684,000 in business expenses and no income. He provided no receipts to justify the claimed expenses. \n City tax authorities didn't buy it \u2014 and after Trump appealed his tax bill, they fought with him for the next 10 years. Trump lost and was ordered to pay the taxes on more than $1 million in income. \n Trump's multibillion-dollar fortune has been questioned by banks that demanded his tax returns before lending him money. Commercial lenders generally require both personal and business tax returns as part of a loan application, and Trump provided such information to North Fork Bank in 2004 and 2005. \n Though the bank's evaluations aren't public, discussion of them in a later deposition of Trump revealed they were unflattering. The deposition was taken in a defamation lawsuit Trump filed against journalist Tim O'Brien, who wrote a book that questioned Trump's net worth. Trump lost the suit. \n \"(North Fork) concluded in their estimation that your net worth was actually $1.2 billion instead of $3.5 billion as you claimed. Are you aware of that?\" asked O'Brien's attorney, Andrew Ceresney. \n Trump said he had not known that, but dismissed the quality of the bank's opinion. \n \"The numbers are wrong,\" he said. \n North Fork wasn't alone in marking down Trump's net worth. Deutsche Bank also reviewed Trump's finances as of 2004, deeming him to be worth \"give or take $788 million,\" Ceresney said in the deposition. The attorney did not say whether Deutsche Bank relied on Trump's tax return in its calculation. \n Deutsche Bank declined to comment about its evaluation of Trump's worth, but the bank is required to keep customer information confidential by law. Capital One Bank \u2014 it bought North Fork in 2006 \u2014 did not respond to requests for comment by phone and email. \n O'Brien did not respond to requests for comment, but in a story he wrote for Bloomberg, O'Brien said he was barred from discussing the contents of Trump's tax returns because they were produced under seal in the court case. \n In addition to a suggestion of his worth, Trump's tax returns would reveal his charitable contributions. Despite boasting of sweeping generosity, the AP reported more than a year ago that there is little record of substantial personal philanthropy from Trump. \n Trump has been dogged by questions about his personal giving and how his namesake foundation operates. The Washington Post has reported that Trump used donations given by others to pay for legal settlements, political contributions and even purchase portraits of himself. \n Public disclosure would resolve many of these questions for voters. \n A new Associated Press-GfK poll found that just under half of registered voters\u2014 46 percent \u2014 say it is very important for candidates to release their tax returns, though Democrats were far more likely say it was very or extremely important than Republicans. \n A recent Monmouth University poll also found that most Americans are aware that Trump has not released his tax returns, and just over half think it's because he is hiding something he does not want the public to know. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump has turned over tax returns \u2014 for lawsuits and loans"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From California, with its counterculture heritage, to the fishing ports and mill towns of Maine, millions of Americans in nine states have a chance to vote Nov. 8 on expanding legal access to marijuana. Collectively, the ballot measures amount to the closest the U.S. has come to a national referendum on the drug. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> From California, with its counterculture heritage, to the fishing ports and mill towns of Maine, millions of Americans in nine states have a chance to vote Nov. 8 on expanding legal access to marijuana. Collectively, the ballot measures amount to the closest the U.S. has come to a national referendum on the drug. \n Five states \u2014 Arizona, California, Maine, Massachusetts and Nevada \u2014 will consider legalizing the recreational use of pot. Three others \u2014 Florida, Arkansas and North Dakota \u2014 will decide whether to permit marijuana for medical purposes. Montana will weigh whether to ease restrictions on an existing medical marijuana law. \n As the most populous state, with a reputation for trend-setting, California is attracting the most attention \u2014 and money \u2014 in an intensifying debate over Proposition 64. \n Silicon Valley tycoons and deep-pocketed donors with connections to the legal medical marijuana industry are among the top financial backers of a pro-pot campaign that has raised almost $17 million. Opponents have raised slightly more than $2 million, including a $1.4 million contribution from retired Pennsylvania art professor Julie Schauer. \n Advocates on both sides say passage in California would likely ignite legalization movements in other states, especially when the tax dollars start adding up. California's nonpartisan Legislative Analyst's Office estimated the state could collect up to $1 billion a year in marijuana taxes. \n \"As California goes, so goes the nation,\" said University of California, Berkeley political science professor Alan Ross. \n If \"yes\" votes prevail across the country, about 75 million people accounting for more than 23 percent of the U.S. population would live in states where recreational pot is legal. The jurisdictions where that's already the case \u2014 Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, Washington state and the District of Columbia \u2014 have about 18 million residents, or 5.6 percent of the population. Twenty-five states allow medical marijuana. \n According to national polls, a solid majority of Americans support legalization. Gallup's latest survey gauged support at 58 percent, up from 12 percent from when the question was first posed in 1969. Gallup says 13 percent of U.S. adults report using marijuana at present, nearly double the percentage who reported using pot in 2013. \n California voters rejected an attempt to legalize recreational marijuana in 2010 after campaign leaders struggled to raise money and support for a four-page ballot measure hastily written by the owner of a small medicinal marijuana store. \n This time, the 62-page ballot measure was crafted by political professionals and has the backing of many elected officials, including Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who is running for governor in 2018. Current Gov. Jerry Brown says he's close to announcing his position. \n The measure would allow people 21 and older to legally possess up to an ounce of weed and grow six marijuana plants at home. Pot sales would be subject to various tax rates that would be deposited into the state's Marijuana Tax Fund. Most of that money would be spent on substance-abuse education and treatment. Some would be used to repair environmental damage caused by illegal growers. \n Opponents argue that the measure will do more harm than good by opening a marijuana market dominated by small farmers to corporate interests and encouraging children to use the drug through pot-laced sweets like gummy bears, cookies and brownies. \n The proposal \"favors the interests of wealthy corporations over the good of the everyday consumer, adopting policies that work against public health,\" said Kevin Sabet, co-founder of the California-based advocacy group Smart Approaches to Marijuana. \n Napster founder and early Facebook investor Sean Parker has contributed more than $3 million to the legalization effort, which has also attracted sizable contributions from an organization backed by billionaire George Soros and another backed by Weedmaps, which rates pot stores throughout the state. \n \"It's a huge deal and it's long overdue,\" said Steven DeAngelo, owner of one of the nation's largest medicinal marijuana dispensaries and a Proposition 64 supporter. \n In most of the states with marijuana ballot measures, polls have shown the \"yes\" side leading. Sabet believes opponents of legalization would attract more support if they could narrow a large fundraising gap and spread their cautionary messages. He does not buy the other side's argument that nationwide legalization will come sooner or later. \n \"Repeating that this is inevitable, and repeating they are so excited, is part of their narrative to makes folks like us feel helpless,\" he said. \n Mason Tvert of the Marijuana Policy Project, a leading pro-legalization group, said his side has a chance to win in most of the nine states, but some losses will not derail the movement. \n \"Even if a measure doesn't pass, support will grow,\" he said, citing failed ballot measures in Oregon and Colorado that preceded the victories for legalization. \n \"Most people believe marijuana should be legal. It's a question of whether opponents do a good job of scaring them out of doing it now,\" Tvert added. \"We might see people opt to wait a couple more years.\" \n All five states voting on recreational marijuana have seen intense debate over the effect of legalization in the states that have already taken that step. \n Opponents of the ballot measures make an array of claims, contending, for example, that Colorado's legalization of pot has coincided with an increase in crime in Denver and fueled a jump in the number of traffic fatalities linked to marijuana use. \n However, an analysis by three academic experts, published this month by the libertarian-leaning Cato Institute, asserted that the impact of legalization has been minimal. \n \"The data so far provide little support for the strong claims about legalization made by either opponents or supporters,\" the analysis said. \n Harvard University economist Jeffrey Miron, one of the co-authors of the study, predicted Californians would approve Proposition 64, but he was less certain of the outcome in his home state of Massachusetts, where the Republican governor, Charlie Baker, and the Democratic mayor of Boston, Marty Walsh, have teamed up to oppose legalization. \n Miron said it's difficult to predict when legalization might get support in Congress or surge to approval in a majority of states. \n \"I'm not sure if this November will get us to the tipping point. It may be two or four more years,\" he said. \"Certain things seem impossible, until all of a sudden they are possible, and they happen fast.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "9 states to vote soon on expanding legal access to marijuana"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People standing near where police shot and wounded a man in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon, Calif. \n EL CAJON, Calif. >> A black man reportedly acting erratically at a strip mall in suburban San Diego was shot and killed by police after pulling an object from his pocket, pointing it at officers and assuming a \"shooting stance,\" authorities said. \n One of the officers tried and failed to subdue the unidentified man with a stun gun before the other officer fired several times, El Cajon Police Chief Jeff Davis said at a late night news conference. Davis would not say what the object was, but acknowledged it was not a weapon. \n Before police announced the death, dozens of protesters gathered at the shooting scene, with some claiming the man was shot with his hands raised. Police disputed that and produced a frame from cellphone video taken by a witness that appeared to show the man in the \"shooting stance\" as two officers approached with weapons drawn. \n The fatal shooting comes just weeks after black men were shot and killed by police in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and in Charlotte, North Carolina, where violent protests broke out. \n The El Cajon protest was angry but peaceful. Several dozen people, most of them black, gathered and some cursed at officers guarding the scene. They chanted \"black lives matter!\" and \"hands up, don't shoot!\" \n Davis urged the community to remain calm and said the investigation will be thorough. \n \"This will be transparent,\" he said. \"This will be looked at by multiple sets of eyes, and not just ours.\" \n The district attorney was on scene and also will investigate. \n Police said they were called to the mall shortly after 2 p.m. by the sister of a man in his 30s who said he was \"not acting like himself\" and walking in traffic. They say the man refused \"multiple\" orders to take his hand from his pocket, then was shot after pulling out the object. \n When detectives arrived police say a female witness came forward and voluntarily provided cellphone video of the incident. Authorities did not release the video, only the single frame from it. El Cajon officers do not wear body cameras. \n Meantime, other videos quickly surfaced showing the aftermath. In one posted to Facebook, an unidentified woman is heard telling police at the scene that the man was ordered to take his hand out of his pocket. \n \"I said: 'Take your hand out your pocket, baby, or they're going to shoot you.' He said 'no, no, no,' \" the woman said. \"When he lifted his hand out \u2026 he did have something in his hand but it wasn't no gun, and that's when they shot him.\" \n Another woman on the video who was wearing hospital-style work clothing said she's the man's sister. She appeared distraught, repeatedly shrieking and crying, telling officers that she had called them to help her brother, who she described as mentally ill. \n \"I just called for help, and you came and killed him,\" she said. \n Michael Ray Rodriguez was among the witnesses who said the man had his hands in the air. He said that he was driving out of his apartment complex past the shooting scene and saw a shirtless black man with his hands raised. \n The officer \"let go of the trigger and shot him again and again,\" Rodriguez told the San Diego Union-Tribune. \n El Cajon is about 15 miles northeast of San Diego and has a population of about 100,000. It is 69 percent white and 6 percent black, according to 2010 census figures, and has become a home for many refugees fleeing Iraq and, more recently, Syria. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police shoot, kill man in San Diego area; protesters gather"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Florida Highway Patrol Officer Donna Watts arrests Miami Police Department Officer Fausto Lopez who was traveling at 120 miles per hour to an off-duty job, in Hollywood, Fla. After the incident, Watts says that she was harassed with prank calls, threatening posts on law enforcement message boards and unfamiliar cars that idled near her home. In lawsuits, she accused dozens of officers of obtaining information about her in the state's driver database. \n DENVER >> Police officers across the country misuse confidential law enforcement databases to get information on romantic partners, business associates, neighbors, journalists and others for reasons that have nothing to do with daily police work, an Associated Press investigation has found. \n Criminal-history and driver databases give officers critical information about people they encounter on the job. But the AP's review shows how those systems also can be exploited by officers who, motivated by romantic quarrels, personal conflicts or voyeuristic curiosity, sidestep policies and sometimes the law by snooping. In the most egregious cases, officers have used information to stalk or harass, or have tampered with or sold records they obtained. \n No single agency tracks how often the abuse happens nationwide, and record-keeping inconsistencies make it impossible to know how many violations occur. \n But the AP, through records requests to state agencies and big-city police departments, found law enforcement officers and employees who misused databases were fired, suspended or resigned more than 325 times between 2013 and 2015. They received reprimands, counseling or lesser discipline in more than 250 instances, the review found. \n Unspecified discipline was imposed in more than 90 instances reviewed by AP. In many other cases, it wasn't clear from the records if punishment was given at all. The number of violations was surely far higher since records provided were spotty at best, and many cases go unnoticed. \n Among those punished: an Ohio officer who pleaded guilty to stalking an ex-girlfriend and who looked up information on her; a Michigan officer who looked up home addresses of women he found attractive; and two Miami-Dade officers who ran checks on a journalist after he aired unflattering stories about the department. \n \"It's personal. It's your address. It's all your information, it's your Social Security number, it's everything about you,\" said Alexis Dekany, the Ohio woman whose ex-boyfriend, a former Akron officer, pleaded guilty last year to stalking her. \"And when they use it for ill purposes to commit crimes against you \u2014 to stalk you, to follow you, to harass you \u2026 it just becomes so dangerous.\" \n The misuse represents only a tiny fraction of the millions of daily database queries run legitimately during traffic stops, criminal investigations and routine police encounters. But the worst violations profoundly abuses systems that supply vital information on criminal suspects and law-abiding citizens alike. The unauthorized searches demonstrate how even old-fashioned policing tools are ripe for abuse, at a time when privacy concerns about law enforcement have focused mostly on more modern electronic technologies. And incomplete, inconsistent tracking of the problem frustrates efforts to document its pervasiveness. \n The AP tally, based on records requested from 50 states and about three dozen of the nation's largest police departments, is unquestionably an undercount. \n Some departments produced no records at all. Some states refused to disclose the information, said they don't comprehensively track misuse or produced records too incomplete or unclear to be counted. Florida reported hundreds of misuse cases of its driver database, but didn't say how often officers were disciplined. \n And some cases go undetected, officials say, because there aren't clear red flags to automatically distinguish questionable searches from legitimate ones. \n \"If we know the officers in a particular agency have made 10,000 queries in a month, we just have no way to (know) they were for an inappropriate reason unless there's some consequence where someone might complain to us,\" said Carol Gibbs, database administrator with the Illinois State Police. \n The AP's requests encompassed state and local databases and the FBI-administered National Crime and Information Center, a searchable clearinghouse that processes an average of 14 million daily transactions. \n The NCIC catalogs information that officers enter on sex offenders, immigration violators, suspected gang members, people with outstanding warrants and individuals reported missing, among others. Police use the system to locate fugitives, identify missing people and determine if a motorist they've stopped is driving a stolen car or is wanted elsewhere. \n Other statewide databases offer access to criminal histories and motor vehicle records, birth dates and photos. \n Officers are instructed that those systems, which together contain data far more substantial than an internet search would yield, may be used only for legitimate law enforcement purposes. They're warned that their searches are subject to being audited and that unauthorized access could cost them their jobs or result in criminal charges. \n Yet misuse persists. \n 'SENSE OF BEING VULNERABLE' \n Violations frequently arise from romantic pursuits or domestic entanglements, including when a Denver officer became acquainted with a hospital employee during a sex-assault investigation, then searched out her phone number and called her at home. A Mancos, Colorado, marshal asked co-workers to run license plate checks for every white pickup truck they saw because his girlfriend was seeing a man who drove a white pickup, an investigative report shows. \n In Florida, a Polk County sheriff's deputy investigating a battery complaint ran driver's license information of a woman he met and then messaged her unsolicited through Facebook. \n Officers have sought information for purely personal purposes, including criminal records checks of co-workers at private businesses. A Phoenix officer ran searches on a neighbor during the course of a longstanding dispute. A North Olmsted, Ohio, officer pleaded guilty this year to searching for a female friend's landlord and showing up in the middle of the night to demand the return of money he said was owed her. \n The officer, Brian Bielozer, told the AP he legitimately sought the landlord's information as a safety precaution to determine if she had outstanding warrants or a weapons permit. But he promised as part of a plea agreement never to seek a job again in law enforcement. He said he entered the plea to avoid mounting legal fees. \n Some database misuse occurred in the course of other misbehavior, including a Phoenix officer who gave a woman involved in a drug and gun-trafficking investigation details about stolen cars in exchange for arranging sexual encounters for him. She told an undercover detective about a department source who could \"get any information on anybody,\" a disciplinary report says. \n Eric Paull, the Akron police sergeant who pleaded guilty last year to stalking Dekany, also ran searches on her mother, men she'd been close with and students from a course he taught, prosecutors said. A lawyer for Paull, who was sentenced to prison, said Paull has accepted responsibility for his actions. \n \"A lot of people have complicated personal lives and very strong passions,\" said Jay Stanley, an American Civil Liberties Union privacy expert. \"There's greed, there's lust, there's all the deadly sins. And often, accessing information is a way for people to act on those human emotions.\" \n Other police employees searched for family members, sometimes at relatives' requests, to check what information was stored or to see if they were the subjects of warrants. \n Still other searchers were simply curious, including a Miami-Dade officer who admitted checking dozens of officers and celebrities including basketball star LeBron James. \n Political motives occasionally surface. \n Deb Roschen, a former county commissioner in Minnesota, alleged in a 2013 lawsuit that law enforcement and government employees inappropriately ran repeated queries on her and other politicians over 10 years. The searches were in retaliation for questioning county spending and sheriff's programs, she contended. \n She filed an open-records request that revealed her husband and daughter were also researched, sometimes at odd hours. But an appeals court rejected her suit and several similar cases this month, saying the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate the searches were unpermitted. \n \"Now there are people who do not like me that have all my private information \u2026 any information that could be used against me. They could steal my identity, they could sell it to someone,\" Roschen said. \n \"The sense of being vulnerable,\" she added, \"there's no fix to that.\" \n BETRAYAL OF TRUST \n Violations are committed by patrol officers, dispatchers, civilian employees, court personnel and high-ranking police officials. Some made dozens of improper searches. Some were under investigation for multiple infractions when they were punished, making it unclear whether database misuse was always the sole reason for discipline. \n Agencies uncover some violations during audits, or during investigations into other misconduct. Some emerge after a citizen, often the target of a search, finds out or grows suspicious. A Jacksonville, Florida, sheriff's officer was found to have run queries on his ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend after she raised concerns she was being harassed, an internal affairs report says. \n The AP sought to focus on officers who improperly accessed information on others but also counted some cases in which officers divulged information to someone not authorized to receive it, or ran their own names for strictly personal purposes, including to check their car registrations. \n The tally also includes some cases in which little is known about the offense because some agencies provided no details \u2014 only that they resulted in discipline. \n The AP tried when possible to exclude benign violations, such as new employees who ran only their own names during training or system troubleshooting. But the variability in record-keeping made it impossible to weed out all such violations. \n Agencies in California, for instance, reported more than 75 suspensions, resignations and terminations between 2013 and 2015 arising from misuse of the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System, state records show. But because the records didn't identify officers or specify the allegations, it's unclear whether multiple violations were committed by the same person or how egregious the infractions were. \n Colorado disclosed about 35 misuse violations without specifying punishment. Indiana listed 12 cases of abuse but revealed nothing about them. The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles reported about 400 violations in 2014 and 2015 of its Driver and Vehicle Information Database, or DAVID, but didn't include the allegations or punishment. \n The FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division offers training to state and local law enforcement agencies on NCIC use, and conducts audits every three years that include a sample of local departments, said spokesman Stephen Fischer. \n But it doesn't track how often NCIC information is misused. Violations, which are not required to be reported directly to the FBI, are inconsistently disclosed to the federal government. The FBI relies on local agencies to address violations that are identified, Fischer said. \n The AP requested records from large police departments and state agencies tasked with administering NCIC usage within their districts. The responses included cases where officers misused motor vehicle data, including driver's license and registration information, and also more sensitive criminal history records. \n Officers are only occasionally prosecuted, and rarely at the federal level. \n One recent exception is a former Cumming, Georgia, officer charged in June with accepting a bribe to search a woman's license plate number to see if she was an undercover officer. Another involved Ronald Buell, a retired New York Police Department sergeant who received probation for selling NCIC information to a private investigator for defense attorneys. \n At his July sentencing, Buell said he hoped other officers would learn \"to never put themselves in the position I'm in.\" \n It's unsettled whether improper database access is necessarily a federal crime and whether it violates a trespass statute that criminalizes using a computer for other than authorized purposes. \n A federal appeals court last year reversed the computer-crime conviction of ex-NYPD officer Gilberto Valle, whom tabloids dubbed the \"cannibal cop\" for his online exchanges about kidnapping and eating women and who improperly used a police database to gather information. Valle argued that as an officer, he was legally authorized to access the database. The court deemed the statute ambiguous and said it risked criminalizing a broad array of computer use. \n Misuse has occasionally prompted federal lawsuits under a statute meant to protect driver's license data. \n A Florida Highway Trooper, Donna Watts, accused dozens of officers of searching her in the state's driver database after she stopped a Miami-Dade officer for speeding in 2011. She alleged in lawsuits that she was harassed with prank calls, threatening posts on law enforcement websites and unfamiliar cars that idled near her home. \n Each unlawful access, she said in a court document, \"has either caused or worsened anxiety, depression, insomnia, and other medical/physical/psychological conditions I suffer.\" \n Law enforcement officials have taken steps to try to limit abuse, though they say they know of no foolproof safeguard given the volume of inquiries and the need for officers to have information at their fingertips. \n \"There's no system that could prohibit you from looking up your ex-wife's new boyfriend, because your ex-wife's new boyfriend could come in contact with the criminal justice system,\" said Peggy Bell, executive director of the Delaware Criminal Justice Information System. \n The Minnesota Department of Public Safety said it changed the way officers access a state driver database after a 2013 legislative audit found over half of the 11,000 law enforcement personnel who use it made searches that appeared questionable. The audit was conducted after a former state employee was charged with illegally viewing thousands of driver's license records. \n In Florida, a memorandum of understanding this year increased the amount of field audits law enforcement agencies must undergo regarding DAVID usage. Troopers in the Florida Highway Patrol sign usage warnings when they access the DAVID system and a criminal sanctions acknowledgment. Users are audited and instructed to select a reason for a search before making inquiries. \n Denver's independent monitor, Nicholas Mitchell, argued for strong policies and strict discipline as a safeguard, especially as increasing amounts of information are added to databases. His review found most of the 25 Denver officers punished for misusing databases over 10 years received at most reprimands. \n Miami-Dade police cracked down after the Watts scandal and other high-profile cases. The department now does quarterly audits in which officers can be randomly asked to explain searches. A sergeant's duties have been expanded to include daily reviews of proper usage and troubleshooting, said Maj. Christopher Carothers of the professional compliance bureau. \n Even if the public is unaware of the amount of available information, Carothers said, \"The idea that police would betray that trust out of curious entertainment or truly bad intent, that's very disturbing and unsettling.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Across U.S., police officers abuse confidential databases"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jonathan Rodriguez Alicea works in a rice field at Fraternity Farm in Lajas Valley in Guanica, Puerto Rico. Farming has become one of the few areas of growth on an island struggling to emerge from a 10-year recession and a still-unfolding debt crisis. \n GUANICA, Puerto Rico >> Puerto Ricans are buying rice produced on the island for the first time in nearly 30 years. They are also eating locally grown mushrooms, kale and even arugula, along with more traditional crops such as plantains and pineapples. \n The U.S. territory is seeing something of an agricultural renaissance as new farms spring up across the island, supplying an increasing number of farmers' markets and restaurants to meet consumer demand for fresher produce. \n Farming has become one of the few areas of growth on an island struggling to emerge from a 10-year-old recession and a still-unfolding debt crisis. The most recent statistics from the governor's office show farm income grew 25 percent to more than $900 million in 2012-2014. The amount of acreage under cultivation rose 50 percent over the past four years, generating at least 7,000 jobs. \n \"More and more people have noticed that this is one of the only successful ways of living on the island right now,\" said Tara Rodriguez Besosa, a farming advocate and owner of an organic restaurant in San Juan that buys from local farms, including one started by her mother several years ago. \n Agriculture is a small part of the economy in Puerto Rico, well behind manufacturing, finance and tourism. But the growth is notable simply because things are so bad overall. Many businesses have closed, tens of thousands of people have decamped to the U.S. mainland, unemployment is at nearly 12 percent and the government is in default. Congress gave the territory some breathing room in June with legislation to enable the restructuring of what the governor has called its \"unpayable\" $70 billion debt, but the effects of that legislation have yet to be felt widely. \n The agricultural rebirth can be seen in the aisles of supermarkets, where local rice went on sale in August for the first time since the last producer closed in 1989, and in the shimmering green fields where the grain is grown on the outskirts of the southwestern town of Guanica. The government helped launch Finca Fraternidad, or \"Fraternity Farm,\" by providing 1,350 acres of vacant public land. \n The rice venture is one of about 350 farms that the government supported to reduce Puerto Rico's reliance on expensive food imports and spur the growth of a sector that dominated the economy until the 1940s, when the territory began a decades-long transformation into a more urban, developed society where few wanted to work on farms. \n \"It's satisfying to change the perspective of an island that once viewed agriculture as a thing of the past, as something for people without education,\" Puerto Rican Agriculture Secretary Myrna Comas said. \n It can still be a challenge to find workers, especially for labor-intensive crops like coffee. But 25-year-old Jonathan Rodriguez, who has been working on the harvest at Finca Fraternidad, said the job appeals to him. \n \"I like it because it's something that we sow for the island,\" he said on a scorching recent morning. \"And that's why we're here, to make Puerto Rico better.\" \n In the west and the south, the government has launched a project to supply the local rum industry with homegrown sugarcane, which dominated the economy in the 19th century but all but disappeared as it became cheaper to produce elsewhere. About 870 acres of cane have been planted so far, and Comas said the plan is to expand to 11,600 acres. \n In addition to the many small, independent farms, the island has seen investment in large-scale agriculture. \n Bayer, the German medicine and farm-chemical maker, announced this month that it would spend $17 million to develop two agriculture biotech facilities in the U.S. territory. Monsanto, the Missouri-based seed and weed-killer company, has large fields of corn, soy and cotton in Puerto Rico and recently invested $5 million in its projects. \n Even pot growers are looking to set up shop. \n Following a 2015 executive order legalizing medical marijuana derivatives, GreenVision LLC, a subsidiary of Nevada-based StereoVision Entertainment Inc., announced plans in August to build a 40,000-square-foot (3,700-square-meter) cultivation and manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico. \n But it's the small-scale farming that is most visible to consumers. \n The number of farmers' markets has tripled in the past four years to more than a dozen across the island, said Mayra Nieves, president of a local nonprofit organic food cooperative. That has quadrupled overall business to some $35 million a year, spurred in large part by interest in organic produce, Comas said. \n There are also urban community gardens popping up across the capital that cater to people who want something fresher than the shrink-wrapped imports that have long been standard at stores and restaurants. \n \"People are becoming more open-minded,\" Nieves said. \"They no longer see us as 'those hippies.'\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Danica Coto on Twitter: www.twitter.com/danicacoto \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Puerto Rico finds unexpected source of growth in agriculture"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 22, 2015 photo, former Israeli President Shimon Peres, right, and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas arrive to attend the opening session of the World Economic Forum at the King Hussien convention center, Southern Shuneh, Jordan. \n  JERUSALEM >> Shimon Peres, a former Israeli president and prime minister, whose life story mirrored that of the Jewish state and who was celebrated around the world as a Nobel prize-winning visionary who pushed his country toward peace, died early Wednesday, a person close to him confirmed. Peres was 93. \n The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss Peres' health with the media. The family said it would issue a formal announcement shortly. \n Peres' condition worsened following a major stroke two weeks ago that led to bleeding in his brain. He was sedated and on a respirator during most of his hospitalization. \n Peres, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, is the elder statesman of Israeli politics, one of the country's most admired leaders and the last surviving link to its founding fathers. \n In an unprecedented seven-decade political career, Peres filled nearly every position in Israeli public life and was credited with leading the country through some of its most defining moments, from creating its nuclear arsenal in the 1950s, to disentangling its troops from Lebanon and rescuing its economy from triple-digit inflation in the 1980s, to guiding a skeptical nation into peace talks with the Palestinians in the 1990s. \n A protege of Israel's founding father David Ben-Gurion, he led the Defense Ministry in his 20s and spearheaded the development of Israel's nuclear program. He was first elected to parliament in 1959 and later held every major Cabinet post \u2014 including defense, finance and foreign affairs \u2014 and served three brief stints as prime minister. His key role in the first Israeli-Palestinian peace accord earned him a Nobel Peace Prize and revered status as Israel's then most recognizable figure abroad. \n And yet, for much of his political career he could not parlay his international prestige into success in Israeli politics, where he was branded by many as both a utopian dreamer and political schemer. His well-tailored, necktied appearance and swept-back gray hair seemed to separate him from his more informal countrymen. He suffered a string of electoral defeats: competing in five general elections seeking the prime minister's spot, he lost four and tied one. \n He finally secured the public adoration that had long eluded him when he has chosen by parliament to a seven-year term as Israel's ceremonial president in 2007, taking the role of elder statesman. \n Peres was celebrated by doves and vilified by hawks for advocating far-reaching Israeli compromises for peace even before he negotiated the first interim accord with the Palestinians in 1993 that set into motion a partition plan that gave them limited self-rule. That was followed by a peace accord with neighboring Jordan. But after a fateful six-month period in 1995-96 that included Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's assassination, a spate of Palestinian suicide bombings and Peres' own election loss to the more conservative Benjamin Netanyahu, the prospects for peace began to evaporate. \n Relegated to the political wilderness, he created his non-governmental Peres Center for Peace that raised funds for cooperation and development projects involving Israel, the Palestinians and Arab nations. He returned to it at age 91 when he completed his term as president. \n Shimon Perski was born on Aug. 2, 1923, in Vishneva, then part of Poland. He moved to pre-state Palestine in 1934 with his immediate family. Her grandfather and other relatives stayed behind and perished in the Holocaust. Rising quickly through Labor Party ranks, he became a top aide to Ben-Gurion, Israel's first prime minister and a man Peres once called \"the greatest Jew of our time.\" \n At 29, he was the youngest person to serve as director of Israel's Defense Ministry, and is credited with arming Israel's military almost from scratch. Yet throughout his political career, he suffered from the fact that he never wore an army uniform or fought in a war. \n Of his 10 books, several amplified his vision of a \"new Middle East\" where there was peaceful economic and cultural cooperation among all the nations of the region. \n Despite continued waves of violence that pushed the Israeli political map to the right, the concept of a Palestinian state next to Israel became mainstream Israeli policy many years after Peres advocated it. \n Shunted aside during the 1999 election campaign, won by party colleague Ehud Barak, Peres rejected advice to retire, assuming the newly created and loosely defined Cabinet post of Minister for Regional Cooperation. \n In 2000, Peres absorbed another resounding political slap, losing an election in the parliament for the largely ceremonial post of president to Likud Party backbencher Moshe Katsav, who was later convicted and imprisoned for rape. \n Even so, Peres refused to quit. In 2001, at age 77, he took the post of foreign minister in the government of national unity set up by Ariel Sharon, serving for 20 months before Labor withdrew from the coalition. \n Then he followed Sharon into a new party, Kadima, serving as vice-premier under Sharon and his successor, Ehud Olmert, before assuming the presidency. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Shimon Peres, ex-Israeli president and PM, dies at 93"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman eats and struggles with her umbrella against powerful gusts of wind generated by typhoon Megi across the the island in Taipei, Taiwan. \n BEIJING >> A massive typhoon made landfall in eastern China Wednesday, a day after carrying strong winds over Taiwan that felled trees and scattered debris, killing at least four people and injuring more than 260. \n Typhoon Megi weakened to a tropical storm after hitting the coastal city of Quanzhou in Fujian province before dawn Wednesday, packing winds of up to 118 kilometers (74 miles) per hour, China's National Meteorological Center said. No injuries were immediately reported. \n In Taiwan on Tuesday, the typhoon's bands of heavy rain and sustained winds of 162 kilometers (100 miles) per hour blanketed the island by midafternoon as the eye of the storm made landfall on the east coast. Authorities had raised alert levels for Taiwan, which is prone to landslides and flooding, said National Fire Agency Director-General Chen Wen-lung. \n The 268 injuries included eight Japanese tourists traveling in a tour bus that turned on its side in central Taiwan. Three people suffered fatal falls and a fourth person died in a truck crash, said Lee Wei-sen, a spokesman for Taiwan's Central Emergency Operations Center. Many of the injuries were from falling and wind-blown objects. \n Megi is 500 kilometers (310 miles) in diameter, and rainfall had topped 300 millimeters (12 inches) in the south and eastern mountains of Taiwan. \n More than 8,000 people were evacuated, mostly from mountainous areas at risk of landslides or floods. About 2,800 went to shelters, Chen said. \n More than 2.9 million households lost power, though 976,000 had been restored by late Tuesday, according to Taiwan's Central News Agency. \n More than 121 flights were delayed and 253 canceled at Taoyuan International Airport, and seven were diverted to other Taiwanese airports. Authorities had closed schools, offices and most of Taiwan's railway system. \n Megi is the fourth typhoon of the year to hit Taiwan. \n On the Chinese coast, about 160 kilometers (100 miles) from Taiwan at its nearest point, fishing boats were ordered back to port, China's official Xinhua News Agency said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Massive typhoon hits eastern China after killing 4 in Taiwan"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "A 31-year-old man has been charged with robbing a man behind a business in Hilo over the weekend. \n Jason Keaulana Kala, who has no permanent address, was charged with second-degree robbery. His bail was set at $5,000. \n Police said two men approached a 24-year-old man behind a business on Kilauea Avenue at about 3:30 a.m. Saturday, assaulted him, and took several items before fleeing. \n Police said the victim sustained minor injuries, but declined medical treatment. \n Officers discovered surveillance footage from a business that showed two men fitting the description of the attackers and arrested Kala about 5 p.m. Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged with robbing another man behind Hilo business"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Hawaii island police partially closed Route 19 in north Hilo today because of a motor vehicle crash. \n Police said one or more people were transported to the hospital, and the road was closed near Alae Cemetery for cleanup. The time of the crash was not available. One lane was open at about 4:30 p.m., police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crash partially closes Route 19 in north Hilo"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n California doctors will be required to check a database of prescription narcotics before writing scripts for addictive drugs under legislation Gov. Jerry Brown signed Tuesday, Sept. 27, 2016, that aims to address the scourge of opioid abuse. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> California doctors will be required to check a database of prescription narcotics before writing scripts for addictive drugs under legislation Gov. Jerry Brown signed Tuesday that aims to address the scourge of opioid abuse. \n The measure attempts to crack down on a practice known as \"doctor-shopping,\" in which addicts visit multiple providers to obtain prescriptions for addictive drugs. The action by the Democratic governor comes amid an intensifying national focus on the problems that stem from prescription and illegal opiates. \n The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says more than 165,000 people died nationwide from prescription opioid overdoses from 1999 to 2014, including 4,500 Californians who died in the last year of available data. \n California maintained records of narcotic prescription histories for years in an early, paper version. The database has since been updated, but using it has been optional for physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners and others who write prescriptions. \n For 20 years, doctors' influential lobby thwarted efforts to mandate that California prescribers review patients' narcotic prescription histories, housed in the nation's first drug-monitoring program. \n That changed this year following a move by state lawmakers to provide additional funding to staff and modernize the program, quieting the disapproval of most health associations. Pharmaceutical companies took no position on the bill. \n The new law, SB482 by Sen. Ricardo Lara, D-Bell Gardens, requires doctors and nurses to check the database for signs of abuse when initially prescribing narcotic painkillers like OxyContin, Vicodin and Percocet, as well as steroids, sleep aids and psychiatric medications. They then have to revisit the database every four months for as long as the drug regimen is continued. \n Bob Pack has been advocating for such a mandate since his son Troy, 10, and daughter Alana, 7, were run down and killed in October 2003 by a drugged driver who also had been drinking. The woman was later found to be \"doctor shopping.\" \n When Brown was the state's attorney general, Pack persuaded him to move a warehouse of carbon-copy prescription histories online. Pack then focused on getting doctors to use it. \n \"It's too late for my family, but it's going to help a lot of others \u2014 and that's the whole point of this program and me pushing all these years,\" Pack said. \n Medical boards will be responsible for enforcing the law, but there is no requirement for doctors to prescribe or withhold medication. \n \"It can and will put some doctors in an uncomfortable position,\" Pack said. \n The requirement will take effect six months after the Department of Justice certifies it is prepared to handle increased use of the program. \"Our office is ready for universal use,\" Justice department spokeswoman Brenda Gonzalez said. \n There were nearly 165,000 users on Sept. 15, Gonzalez said. \n More than 20 other states with similar databases require health care providers to check them before prescribing addictive drugs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Governor signs bill targeting 'doctor-shopping' for opioids"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n SpaceX founder Elon Musk speaks during the 67th International Astronautical Congress in Guadalajara, Mexico, Tuesday, Sept. 27, 2016. In a receptive audience full of space buffs, Musk said he envisions 1,000 passenger ships flying en masse to Mars, 'Battlestar Galactica' style. He calls it the Mars Colonial fleet, and he says it could become reality within a century. Musk's goal is to establish a full-fledged city on Mars and thereby make humans a multi-planetary species. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> On a personal quest to settle Mars, SpaceX founder Elon Musk envisions 1,000 passenger ships flying en masse to the red planet well within the next century, \"Battlestar Galactica\" style. \n Musk outlined his zealous plan Tuesday to establish a self-sustaining city on Mars, complete with iron foundries and even pizzerias. He wants to make humans a multiplanetary species, and says the best way to do that is to colonize the red planet. \n \"I think Earth will be a good place for a long time, but the probable lifespan of human civilization will be much greater if we're a multiplanetary species,\" he said. \n Musk, who also runs electric car maker Tesla Motors, received a wildly warm reception at the International Astronautical Congress in Guadalajara, Mexico. Many in the crowd were avid space buffs. \n For now, the aerospace company he founded in 2002 is focusing on satellite deliveries, as well as space station cargo runs for NASA and a future crew capsule for U.S. astronauts. Its Falcon rocket, though, is grounded for the second time in a year because of devastating accidents. \n During his address, Musk did not mention the Sept. 1 launch pad explosion that destroyed a Falcon rocket and its satellite. \n Instead, he noted that SpaceX already has begun work on the Mars Colonial fleet, recently test-firing a powerful new rocket engine named Raptor. The system ultimately could take people to the moons of Jupiter and beyond, he said. \n Musk said it would be a \"super-exciting\" adventure to Mars but also dangerous, at least for the first few trips. His goal is to get the price down so anyone could afford to go, with a ticket costing no more than a house on Earth. He's shooting for 1 million Martians. \n Would he go, someone asked? Perhaps ultimately, but it would depend on whether he had a good succession plan in place. As for being the first Martian, the risk of fatalities will be high \u2014 \"there's just no way around it\" \u2014 and he wants to see his five young sons grow up. \n \"It would be basically, are you prepared to die? If that's OK, then you're a candidate for going,\" he told the audience. \n In April, Musk announced plans to send an unmanned Dragon capsule to land on Mars as early as 2018. NASA is offering technical support, but no money. The space agency has its own program to get astronauts to Mars in the 2030s, using its own hardware. \n Musk invited industry to join the Mars effort, which will represent a $10 billion investment. SpaceX currently is spending a few tens of millions of dollars on the enterprise, and the amount will soon grow, he said. \n Musk described in detail his plans to launch a monster-size rocket \u2014 larger than even NASA's Saturn V moon rocket \u2014 from the same launch pad at Kennedy Space Center from which the Apollo astronauts departed for the lunar surface in the late 1960s and early 1970s. \n The first-stage boosters would return to land vertically \u2014 just like his Falcon rocket boosters do now. Reusability, in fact, is essential to any plan for getting humans to Mars, as is refilling fuel tanks in Earth orbit and creating rocket fuel at Mars for return trips, he said. \n The rocket would hoist a spaceship big enough to carry 100 to 200 people to Mars, a trip lasting several months, quicker with nuclear propulsion. Musk promised no one would be stuck there; spaceships would return regularly, and \"you get a free return trip if you want.\" \n \"Ultimately what I'm trying to achieve here is to make Mars seem possible, make it seem as though it's something that we can do in our lifetimes,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "SpaceX chief envisions 1,000 passenger ships flying to Mars"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton laughs with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump following their presidential debate at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., Monday. \n NEW YORK >> The showdown between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump was the most-watched presidential debate ever, with 84 million viewers. \n The Nielsen company said the viewership, over 13 different networks, toppled a record that had stood for 36 years. The previous record for presidential debate viewership was the 80.6 million people who saw the only debate in 1980 between incumbent Democrat Jimmy Carter and his Republican challenger Ronald Reagan. \n No debate since then had exceeded 70 million viewers. \n Social media was humming, too, with Nielsen saying there were some 17.1 million Twitter interactions involving 2.7 million people on Monday. Tivo said that the moment during the debate that caused more people to pause their television and play back what was said came near the end, when Trump said that he will \"absolutely support\" Clinton if she is elected president. \n Clinton has some bragging rights at home. When final results are in, the audience for her first presidential debate will more than double what her husband, former President Bill Clinton, received for his last presidential debate in 1996 (36.3 million viewers). \n Only the Super Bowl annually commands a television audience of that size. The biggest audience in U.S. television history was the 114.4 million people who watched the 2015 Super Bowl between New England and Seattle. \n The news was particularly good for NBC. Not only did it have more viewers than any other network showing the debate, but \"Nightly News\" anchor Lester Holt's reviews as moderator were more positive than Matt Lauer received for his interviews with the candidates at a national security forum earlier this month, or CNBC anchors when they did a GOP debate last fall. \n Watching the debate was nerve-wracking for NBC Universal chief executive Steve Burke because of the pressure on Holt. Burke said at an appearance in London on Tuesday that Holt \"ended up doing a very good job.\" \n Holt was not available for an interview on Tuesday. \n Some Republicans were unhappy with Holt, suggesting that he was unfair because he asked tougher questions of Trump, and challenged his facts on issues like Trump's support for the war in Iraq and a court case involving the \"stop-and-frisk\" method of policing. \n That may account for an overnight change of thinking by the candidate. Interviewed by reporters immediately after the debate, Trump said that \"I thought Lester did a really good job\" and that he thought Holt brought up the topics he wanted. \n Several hours later, on Fox News Channel's \"Fox & Friends,\" Trump said he thought Holt earned a C or a C-plus for his debate performance, and that he asked unfair questions. \n The second of three scheduled debates will be Oct. 9. The \"town hall\"-style forum will be moderated by CNN's Anderson Cooper and ABC News' Martha Raddatz. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Debate reaches 84 million viewers, toppling record"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Miami Marlins third baseman Martin Prado, from left, shortstop Adeiny Hechavarria and left fielder Marcell Ozuna stand during a pre-game ceremony honoring pitcher Jose Fernandez before a baseball game against the New York Mets, Monday, Sept. 26, 2016, in Miami. Fernandez died in a boating accident Sunday. \n MIAMI >> Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez was a patron at a Miami River bar and restaurant the same night he and two friends were killed in a boat crash, a spokeswoman for the establishment confirmed Tuesday. \n A friend of one of the victims said he warned him against the post-midnight trip, and Marlins center fielder Marcell Ozuna said he and at least two other teammates turned down invitations to go and tried to discourage Fernandez from going out. \n American Social Bar & Kitchen spokeswoman Dana Rhoden said in an email that Fernandez was there before the accident. The statement did not say whether Fernandez had been drinking or what time he left. \n The bar is along the Miami River in the city's downtown section and allows boats to dock alongside. \n Fernandez, 24, died when the boat he owned slammed at high speed into a rock jetty early Sunday just off South Beach, investigators say. Emilio Jesus Macias, 27, and 25-year-old Eduardo Rivero also died. \n A friend of Rivero's, Will Bernal, said they texted each other shortly after midnight, before the trio pushed off. Bernal posted the messages on social media. \n \"Yo please be careful bro,\" Bernal texted at 12:07 a.m. \n \"I will bro,\" Rivero said. \n \"Try to keep him close to shore if you go out,\" Bernal wrote back. \n \"Trust me,\" Rivero wrote, \"it's not my time yet.\" \n Bernal then asked Rivero to turn on his \"find iPhone\" application and to \"keep Jose cool.\" \n Ozuna, perhaps Fernandez's closest friend on the team, said all of the players knew Fernandez planned to go out on the boat that night. \n \"It was a bad decision for him,\" Ozuna said. \"He heard everybody say, 'No, go back to your house and take it easy.' Then you wake up and see the news.\" \n Fernandez apparently had concerns he might be late to the ballpark for Sunday's 1:10 p.m. game, because he asked Ozuna for a wake-up call. \n \"He said, 'If I'm not here by 10, call me,'\" Ozuna said. \n The Marlins announced a public viewing will be held Wednesday at a Miami church, preceded by a funeral procession scheduled to start at 2:16 p.m. outside the team's downtown ballpark. Fernandez wore No. 16 on his jersey. \n A private funeral will be held Thursday for the Fernandez family and Marlins players and personnel. \n The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission is investigating. Spokesman Rob Klepper said in an interview Tuesday that there's no timetable, and \"we will provide a complete and thorough investigative report.\" \n The 32-foot boat named \"Kaught Looking\" \u2014 the \"K\" is backwards, signifying a strikeout when the batter does not swing \u2014 will be thoroughly checked for clues as to why the accident occurred, authorities said. Miami-Dade County prosecutors have obtained search warrants for wildlife commission investigators seeking access to the vessel, said Ed Griffith, a spokesman for the state attorney's office. \n \"As you know, FWC has a duty to investigate fatal boating accidents like this one,\" Griffith said in an email. \"Since the incident involved a single boat and there were no survivors, there can be no criminal prosecution derived from the FWC investigation.\" \n Klepper said the wildlife commission has no record of any previous citation or warning involving the boat, Fernandez or the other two men who died. Normally vessel stops are not documented unless a warning or citation is issued, he added. \n The Miami-Dade County medical examiner has not yet released toxicology results that might determine if Fernandez or the other two victims were under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Klepper said that report would be part of the wildlife commission's completed investigation. Authorities previously said no evidence of alcohol or drugs was found at the crash scene. \n On Capitol Hill, Florida's U.S. senators, Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Marco Rubio, introduced a resolution Tuesday honoring Fernandez for his journey from communist Cuba to Major League Baseball stardom and his contributions to the community. \n The resolution notes that Fernandez was jailed in Cuba after an unsuccessful attempt to defect and once saved his mother from drowning after she fell from a boat off Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. \n \"He risked his life escaping tyranny in Cuba to seek liberty and opportunity in America,\" Rubio, also a Cuban-American, said in a news release. \n Meanwhile, a beachgoer found a bag containing four baseballs signed by the Marlins pitcher, WSVN-TV reported. \n The station reported a black bag containing Jose Fernandez's checkbook and four autographed baseballs apparently washed ashore on Miami Beach not far from the accident site. \n Ocean Rescue Division Chief Vincent Canosa said the bag was given to a lifeguard and that it apparently came from the boat. \n Enormously popular in Miami's large Cuban-American community, Fernandez defected from Cuba at age 15, won the National League Rookie of the Year award in 2013 and became a two-time All-Star. He had been scheduled to pitch Monday night against the New York Mets, a game that instead became a tribute to him and remembrance of his life. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Friend texted worries about boating with Marlins' Fernandez"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump gestures during the presidential debate with Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y. \n ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. >> Constant interruption. A condescending tone. Eye-rolling. \n For many women, the presidential debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump was a case study in deja vu. For more than 90 minutes on a national stage, they said Tuesday, Trump subjected the first female presidential candidate from a major party to indignities they experience from men daily, in the workplace and beyond. \n Tweeted Chicago-based writer Britt Julious: \"Thoughts & prayers to every woman watching the #debates & getting painful flashbacks to dudes talking over them at work, school, home, etc.\" \n \"The sad thing,\" said Christina Emery, an author from Swansea, Illinois, \"is that I'm so used to men interrupting women \u2014 especially when they want to change the subject \u2014 that I didn't pay much attention to Trump's behavior. I was focused on Clinton and how she handled herself.\" \n In the course of the debate, Trump interrupted Clinton 51 times, while she interrupted him 17 times. \n Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor of communication who is director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania, said Trump's frequent interruptions of Clinton conformed with research concluding that men in group meetings interrupt women more than vice versa. \n \"The question for the audience \u2014 did they interpret that as an attempt of a male candidate to disadvantage a female candidate,\" said Jamieson. \"If so, that hurts Donald Trump.\" \n Speaking on her campaign plane, Clinton said Trump's \"demeanor, his temperament, his behavior on the stage could be seen by everybody and people could draw their own conclusions.\" \n Asked about the interruptions and whether Trump might change his style in the next debate, his spokeswoman Hope Hicks praised his showing. \n \"Mr. Trump gave a stellar performance and showed a comprehensive understanding of the issues voters are most interested in including trade, economic development, and job creation,\" she wrote in an email. \n The exchanges between the candidates underscored how different they are. Unlike previous presidential debates, where there has been a thin veneer of respectful discourse between two men, this was a stark conversational divide. \n And, some said, a gender divide, one that's all too familiar to women. \n \"It's frustrating in women's lives,\" said Deborah Tannen, a linguistics professor at Georgetown University who has written several books about how conversation affects relationships. \"And to see it up there in a dramatic way, it's a little bit of PTSD. You're seeing the things you suffered from. It brings it back.\" \n Clinton's deportment is of a piece with her experience as a Washington insider, first lady, and former secretary of state. \n But Trump, whose roots are in reality TV and the male-dominated construction world, has always had an in-your-face style \u2014 and not just with women, as others pointed out on Tuesday. At debates during the Republican primaries, Trump was far from mannerly in his treatment of his opponents, male and female. \n Jessica Light, a sophomore at the University of Toledo from Berea, Ohio, said Trump's interruptions didn't bother her: \"She was being harsh and he was just standing up for himself,\" she said. \n Others found his behavior at the debate to be unnerving. \n \"Many women watching Trump's treatment of Clinton feel a sickening sense of familiarity with patronizing behavior directed at them during every work day,\" said Dr. Janet Scarborough Civitelli, a vocational psychologist in Austin, Texas. \"Women become exhausted by the experience that no matter how much they accomplish or how hard they work, a man with a fraction of their knowledge and achievements stands ready to critique them.\" \n Trump reminded Deborath Calvanicoweinstein, a homemaker in Madison, Wisconsin, of the car repairmen who talk down to her, but not to her husband. \n \"I've felt it,\" she said. \"Even if I did know more than the person I was speaking with. I hope the (presidential) race exposes how sexism is still alive.\" \n Some said Trump was condescending from the start of the debate. \n \"In all fairness to Secretary Clinton \u2014 yes, is that OK?\" Trump said. Clinton smiled and nodded. \"Good. I want you to be very happy. It's very important to me.\" \n At a debate watch party in St. Petersburg at The Queenshead bar, that remark was met with groans in the audience. \n \"I think she looked great when she talked, and I think she looked even better when he talked,\" said Trish Collins of St. Petersburg. \n For others, like author Tyler King of Orlando, the debate marked a moment when a highly visible woman turned a spotlight on something that's been happening for eons. \n \"Even if we don't say it out loud, we share those looks across the conference table. We see it. And little by little, more women are reaching the limits of their patience and speaking out,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Many women say Trump showed too much testosterone at debate"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK \u00bb Scientists say the first baby has been born from a controversial new technique that combines DNA from three people \u2014 the mother, the father and an egg donor. \n The goal was to prevent the child from inheriting a fatal genetic disease from his mother, who had previously lost two children to the illness. \n The birth of the boy is revealed in a research summary published by the journal Fertility & Sterility. Scientists are scheduled to present details at a meeting next month in Salt Lake City. \n The magazine New Scientist, which first reported the birth, said the baby was born five months ago to Jordanian parents, and that they were treated in Mexico by a team led by Dr. John Zhang of the New Hope Fertility Center in New York. It's not clear where the child was born. \n The technique is not approved in the United States, but Zhang told the magazine, \"To save lives is the ethical thing to do.\" \n A spokesman for the fertility center said Zhang was not available for further comment today. Others involved in the research referred questions to Zhang. \n The mother carries DNA that could have given her child Leigh syndrome, a severe neurological disorder that usually kills within a few years of birth. Her two previous children died of the disease at 8 months and 6 years, the research summary said. \n The technique involved removing some of the mother's DNA from an egg, and leaving the disease-causing DNA behind. The healthy DNA was slipped into a donor's egg, which was then fertilized. As a result, the baby inherited DNA from both parents and the egg donor. \n The technique is sometimes said to produce \"three-parent babies,\" but the DNA contribution from the egg donor is very small. \n People carry DNA in two places, the nucleus of the cell and in features called mitochondria, which lie outside the nucleus. The technique is designed to transfer only DNA of the nucleus to the donor egg, separating it from the mother's disease-causing mitochondrial DNA. \n The research summary identified the mother as a 36-year-old woman and said her pregnancy was uneventful. One of the five eggs the researchers treated was suitable for use. \n Critics question the technique's safety, saying children would have to be tracked for decades to make sure they remain healthy. And they say it passes a fundamental scientific boundary by altering the DNA inherited by future generations. Mitochondrial DNA is passed from women to their offspring. \n Still, last year, Britain became the first country in the world to allow creation of human embryos with the technique. In the U.S., a panel of government advisers said earlier this year that it's ethical to test the approach in people if initial experiments follow certain strict safety steps. \n That report was requested by the Food and Drug Administration, which is currently prevented by Congress from considering applications to approve testing the technique in people. \n Shroukhrat Mitalipov, who has worked with the approach at the Oregon Health & Science University in Portland, said that given the panel's conclusion, \"We believe it's time to move forward with FDA-approved clinical trials in the United States.\" \n Henry Greely, who directs the Center for Law and the Biosciences at Stanford University, said today he sees nothing wrong with using the technique if it is safe and is aimed at diseases clearly caused by faulty mitochondrial DNA. \n But he called the research leading to the newly reported birth \"unethical, unwise, immoral.\" He said the approach \"hasn't been sufficiently proven safe enough to try to use to make a baby.\" \n Dieter Egli of the New York Stem Cell Foundation, who has done work in the area, was cautious about the implications of the new report. \n \"I wouldn't go out there at this point and tout the accomplishment because we don't have enough information,\" he said today. \"We do not know exactly what was done.\" \n \"We have to wait\" for a fuller report, he said. \n The child is not the first to inherit DNA from three people. In the 1990s, some children were born after researchers used a different technique. But federal regulators intervened, and the field's interest now has passed to the new approach. \n Online: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Baby born with DNA from 3 people, first from new technique"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Computers used by the Honolulu Fire Department for administrative business may have been infected by a virus and have been shut down, but fire officials maintain that the action does not affect its emergency response capabilities. \n Capt. David Jenkins, Honolulu Fire Department spokesman, said all of the computers on its fire truck and other vehicles are operational. \n None of the department's emergency dispatch or response capabilities are affected, Jenkins said. \n Jenkins said about a half dozen individual computers at different fire stations were discovered Monday to be infected by malicious software. \n Fire officials decided to shut down all computers used for administrative purposes, such as e-mail and reports at the department's 43 stations on Oahu. \n \"We are now evaluating and assessing the problem,\" Jenkins said. \n \"It's not clear how severe the problem is,\" Jenkins added. \"As a precautionary measure we decided to shut down all administrative machines.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Virus infection prompts HFD computer shutdown"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Minority Leader Sen. Harry Reid of Nev. spoke to reporters during a Sept. 13 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The Senate today stumbled over a must-do bill to prevent the government from shutting down this weekend and to fund the fight against the Zika virus. Democrats, demanding money so Flint, Michigan, can address its lead-contaminated water crisis, overwhelmingly opposed the measure, as did a dozen of the Senate's most conservative members. \n The 45-55 vote stalls the stopgap funding bill \u2014 for now at least \u2014 and is exasperating top Republicans like Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who made several concessions to Democrats in weeks of negotiations over the measure. \n The GOP defections left McConnell, R-Ky., short of a simple majority, much less the 60 votes needed to clear a filibuster hurdle. \n Republican leaders are promising to address the Flint issue after the election in a separate water resources bill, but Democrats refuse to take them at their word. \n \"'Trust me we will consider Flint later' \u2014 that's like nothing to me,\" said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. \n Democrats say that it's unfair that the water crisis in Flint has gone on for more than a year with no assistance, while Louisiana and other states are getting $500 million for floods that occurred just last month. Democrats have played a strong hand in the negotiations and know they have leverage because Republicans controlling the House and Senate are eager to avoid a politically harmful shutdown at midnight on Friday. \n \"Democrats have been clear that Congress should not leave Flint and other lead-tainted communities out of any (stopgap spending) negotiation that includes emergency disaster funding,\" said Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and other top Democrats in a letter this morning to McConnell. \n McConnell characterized the Democratic position as \"no Flint, no flood\" and indicated he is considering dropping the flood aid. \n The stopgap spending bill would keep the government running through Dec. 9 and provide $1.1 billion in long-delayed funding to fight the spread of the Zika virus and develop a vaccine and improved tests to detect it. Zika can cause can cause grave birth defects. \n McConnell has made numerous concessions in weeks of negotiations on the measure, agreeing, for instance, to drop contentious provisions tied to Zika funding that led Democrats to filibuster prior Zika measures this summer and earlier this month. A provision to make Planned Parenthood ineligible for new anti-Zika funding for Puerto Rico was dropped, as was a provision to ease pesticide regulations under the Clean Water Act. A $400 million package of spending cuts added to the measure is no longer controversial. \n The measure also includes a popular full-year spending bill that provides a 4 percent budget increase for the Department of Veterans Affairs. \n \"Can it really be that Democratic leaders have embraced dysfunction so thoroughly that they'd tank a noncontroversial, 10-week funding bill over \u2014 well, what exactly?\" McConnell asked, as he opened the Senate today. \"It's almost as if a few Democratic leaders decided long ago that bringing our country to the brink would make for good election-year politics.\" \n Republicans say the Flint issue will be handled in a separate measure to authorize water development projects. That measure \u2014 without Flint money \u2014 is set for a House floor debate today, but Republicans are telegraphing it will be included in any final measure handled in a postelection session. But GOP leaders on Monday night blocked Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Mich. \u2014 who represents Flint \u2014 from getting a vote on the Senate measure. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., today said that the water development bill \"is the better place to address this.\" \n The White House, which has not transmitted an official request for Flint aid, poked at Ryan for excluding it from the water projects bill. \n \"The speaker of the House says he opposes adding funding for Flint to the continuing resolution and believes that it should be handled in the water resources bill. But it's not included in the water resources bill that's advancing through the House. And then he has the nerve to suggest that it's Democrats who are the ones causing problems,\" said White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate blocks stopgap bill to fund government"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Manchester Community College student Jeslyn Lamonte, of Vernon, Conn., stood on the school's campus in Manchester, Conn. on Sept. 20. She said she intends to transfer to UConn after two years to save on tuition and avoid significant education debt. \n STORRS, Conn. \u00bb Spencer Mulligan knew his family could pay for his college education, even without loans or grants. So when the University of Connecticut offered a merit award of $20,000 over four years, he saw it as a bonus. \n As a discount on in-state tuition, it brought the cost well below half of what his family might have paid at his other top choices, Penn State or the University of Vermont. \n \"My dad was kind of split because he didn't want to push me into going to a school because of financial reasons,\" said Mulligan, a 21-year-old computer science student from Darien, one of the nation's wealthiest communities. \"Without financial reasons I might have gone to Penn State, but on the other hand he was like, 'If you go to UConn, it will save us a bunch of money.' \n \"That means now I can pressure him into getting me stuff,\" he joked. \n Financial aid, traditionally a lifeline for poorer students at public colleges, is increasingly being used to attract students from more affluent families. In competition with private schools and other public institutions, the state schools are using the money to lure the most qualified students, raise average test scores and entice students from high-income families who can pay the rest of the full sticker price. \n Critics say that by devoting aid to students who don't need it, state schools are punishing the poor, making it harder for them to attend college when the gap between tuition costs and affordability is only growing. \n \"The reality is that for poor families, it's a question of whether the kids go to college at all. For the better-off family, it's a question of which college,\" said Harold Levy, director of the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation, which provides need-based scholarships. \"It's a tragic waste of talent. It alters the lives of students.\" \n Of the institutional aid given last year to UConn freshmen, the amount not based on need rose to $19.9 million, up from $12.9 million five years earlier. But the school also increased the amount of need-based aid it offered, $50.9 million, up from $38.9 million five years earlier. \n Other state schools have moved resources even more aggressively to merit aid. A review this year by Stephen Burd, an analyst with the think tank New America, found 28 percent of public colleges in 2014-2015 spent at least half of their aid dollars on students without financial need. \n It's a shift that has helped state universities cope with declines in state funding for higher education; the awards bring in students whose families can pay close to full tuition. \n At UConn, as at many other flagship state schools, out-of-state students have benefited most from the increase in merit aid, according to a 2014 legislative report. The school costs $25,802 annually for residents and $47,344 for those out of state. \n State universities are adopting an approach long used by private schools, according to Joni Finney, an author of a report on college affordability from the University of Pennsylvania's Institute for Research on Higher Education this year that found investment in merit aid outpacing need-based aid. It said states' provision of need-based financial aid barely changed from 1996 to 2012, while state aid for high-income students rose more than 450 percent. \n The study found aid for non-needy students also growing faster at private, four-year colleges, where institutional aid for students whose families earn above $125,000 increased from $1,950 to $6,400 over the same period. Aid to students whose families make less than $25,000 rose from $2,900 to $7,700. \n At UConn, which has been climbing U.S News & World Report rankings, officials have vigorously defended merit awards when pressed by state lawmakers on questions about affordability. Scholarships offered to top students, university officials have said in testimony to the legislature, are critical to the university's success and attract students who could otherwise attend Ivy League schools. \n A 2014 report by a state legislative committee found that aid packages for low-income students have relied increasingly on federal education loans. But it said reducing merit aid to students without financial need, in the absence of other flagship state schools doing the same, would likely hurt UConn's efforts to move up in rankings, and possibly academic quality. \n Meanwhile, winning admission and paying for college has become ever more daunting at flagship state universities, institutions that traditionally were seen by many as affordable fallback options. \n Jeslyn Lamonte, 19, of Vernon, Connecticut, is planning to transfer to UConn next year after two years of smaller payments at Manchester Community College, which is 15 miles west of the main UConn campus in Storrs and charges about $4,000 annually. \n \"It came down to that I didn't want all the student loans,\" Lamonte said. \n A classmate, Kim Eigner, 22, of Columbia, Connecticut, transferred to the community college from UConn after her family found the tuition payments overwhelming. Her job at a grocery store's floral department hardly put a dent in the bills. \n \"I wasn't able to afford it myself,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Colleges lavishing more financial aid on wealthy students"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "No camping will be allowed for the rest of the year at the city's Waimanalo Beach Park, which will be closed for renovations until 2017. \n The city campground will be closed starting Oct. 5 to allow the city Department of Parks and Recreation crews to improve the campsites. \n Camping at Waimanalo Bay Beach Park and Bellows Field Beach Park will remain open during this time. \n The improvements at Waimanalo Beach Park include cleaning, landscaping, installing new bench tables and conducting maintenance. The 19 existing campsites will be realigned and consolidated to create 10 larger campsites. \n \"It's really about revitalizing the area and improving the camping experience for the public,\" said Jeanne Ishikawa, Parks and Recreation Deputy Director. \"Campers asked for bigger sites further away from one another. The consolidation and renovations will provide more adequate room for a better camping experience.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waimanalo campground closing for renovations"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Ulika weakened into a tropical storm overnight, should continue weakening through Friday and will likely be a tropical remnant when it approaches Hawaii next week. \n What's left of the system could bring increased humidity and rain to the state, but forecasters said it is still too early to say exactly how it will affect Hawaii's weather. \n As of 5 a.m. today, Ulika's maximum sustained winds slowed to to 70 mph, down from 75 mph Tuesday night. Ulika was about 1,140 miles east-southeast of Hilo moving north-northeast at 7 mph. \n Ulika should encounter wind shear and cooler ocean temperatures, which should weaken it into a tropical depression on Friday. \n The storm is moving north and east, away from Hawaii, but it is expected to turn more to the north today and as it weakens, will be pushed to the west \u2014 toward the state \u2014 by tradewinds. \n Its exact path is uncertain because it is so far away. \n Because the storm formed in the Central Pacific, it got the Hawaiian name of Ulika, which means soft and sticky, according to the Hawaiian-English dictionary. \n Ulika is the first named storm in the Central Pacific this hurricane season. \n Since Ulika formed Monday night, the storm moved back into the East Pacific. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Ulika weakens back to tropical storm status"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The home where three adults were found dead Saturday, after a young child called 911 to report her parents had died is seen in Fullerton, Calif., Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo released by the Fullerton, Calif., Police Department shows Josh Acosta, 21, left, and Frank Felix, 25, arrested and jailed in Fullerton on Sunday. Both men were arrested in connection with the murders of two men and a woman at a Fullerton home on Saturday. \n SANTA ANA, Calif. \u00bb Two young men were charged today with murder in the slayings of a California couple and family friend who were discovered after the couple's 6-year-old daughter called police. \n Army Pfc. Joshua Acosta, 21, and Frank Felix, 25, were each charged with three counts of murder, and Acosta also faces possible sentencing enhancements for personal discharge of a firearm causing death, the Orange County district attorney's office said. \n Acosta and Felix were friends with the couple's daughter and attended \"furry\" events where some participants dress up in colorful animal costumes, according to friends and their social media pages. \n Prosecutors allege that Acosta was the gunman in the killings of Jennifer Yost, 39, her husband, Christopher Yost, 34, and their friend Arthur Boucher, 28. \n A district attorney's statement says the killings occurred when Acosta and Felix entered the Yosts' Fullerton home early Saturday. \n Arraignment was expected later today. Neither man has been reachable for comment while being held in jail since the weekend. \n The district attorney's office made no mention of a 17-year-old girl also taken into custody by Fullerton police in the case. \n After the bodies were discovered Saturday, police said Jennifer Yost's 17-year-old daughter, Katlynn Goodwill Yost, was missing. When the teen's arrest was announced, police also said the daughter had been located but did not say whether she was the teen in custody. \n Police were summoned to the home Saturday by the couple's younger daughter. She was not harmed, nor was her 9-year-old sister. \n Melinda Giles said she became friends with Jennifer Yost after meeting her and her daughter last year at a gathering of \"furries.\" \n She said she also saw Felix and Acosta at furry events, and had met Felix at the Yost family home. \n She said Jennifer Yost told her several weeks ago that she had forbidden Felix from seeing her daughter. \n \"To protect her daughter, Chris and Jenn were like, 'We don't want you to be friends with our daughter anymore,'\" Giles said Monday, adding that the couple was warm, generous and recently helped her move into her new home. \"It is really sad because they didn't deserve that. Those little girls didn't deserve to wake up to dead parents.\" \n Boucher was staying with the Yosts at the time of the killings. \n Goodwill Yost is a high school senior and member of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps. Her social media pages show she is active in the furry community, where she was known as \"Daydreamer,\" and many photos are posted. \n She is seen wearing her military uniform in one, and others show a gray fox-wolf costume. \n Felix is from Sun Valley, California. \n A wheeled-vehicle mechanic, Acosta has been assigned to Fort Irwin, California, since last October, said Wayne V. Hall, an Army spokesman at the Pentagon. Acosta entered the service in March 2015 and previously was assigned to Fort Lee, Virginia, and Fort Jackson, South Carolina. \n Contact information for his family was not immediately available. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspects, victims in California killings were 'furries'"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS \n An image of the suspect in the robbery of the American Savings Bank branch in Mililani Town Shopping Center on Friday. \n A 28-year-old Waianae man turned himself to police Monday night in connection with the robbery of three banks in Mililani and Pearl City Friday. \n The suspect is being held on second-degree robbery charges. He allegedly passed notes demanding money to tellers at the following banks before fleeing on foot: Hawaii National Bank in Pearl City; American Savings Bank branches in Mililani Town Shopping Center and Aiea; and Central Pacific Bank. \n The suspect surrendered to police at the Kapolei substation at 6:30 p.m. Monday \n All the robberies occurred Friday afternoon beginning at 2:15 p.m. at Hawaii National Bank. In all three instances the demand note mentioned a weapon, but no weapons were shown. \n Surveillance video released by police in all three incidents show what appears to be the same man wearing the same outfit: an orange T-shirt over a black long-sleeve shirt, a black and green hat, dark sunglasses and blue jeans. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waianae man turns himself in after string of bank robberies"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Three Honolulu Department employees, including a battalion chief, will be recognized next week as HFD's top employees of the year. \n Battalion Chief Paul Kato was chosen as the manager of the year; Capts. Joseph Condlin and Elliot Mattos were named as HFD's uniformed employees of the year; and Young Paek will be honored as civilian employee of the year. \n Kato is a 24-year veteran responsible for the HFD's $130 million budget. He is also the project manager of the apparatus committee and oversees procurement and maintenance of apparatuses. \n Condlin oversees fire operations training and has been with the department for 17 years. \n Mattos has 29 years of service with the HFD. In addition to working with the storeroom, he is also a senior member of the training and research bureau's instructor cadre and assists with training. \n Paek for over 17 years he has been responsible for designing custom test jigs, creating radio programs, and developing innovative equipment testing procedures for the city and state as part of the HFD radio shop. \n The three will be honored at a luncheon hosted by the 200 Club Oct. 6. The HFD will also recognize employees with 25 and 35 years of service. \n Fire Chief Manuel P. Neves said, \"They are outstanding public servants and represent the best of the HFD. The Department sincerely appreciates The 200 Club's assistance, which makes it possible to honor and recognize our exemplary employees and recognize dedicated HFD employees who have provided 25 and 35 years of service.\" \n The 200 Club was formed in 1968 by a group of local businessmen to aid the families of fire fighters and police officers killed in the line of duty. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HFD to recognize top employees"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Three men have been released while police continue to investigate a robbery Sunday in Waikiki that ended up with the victim and two alleged assailants facing criminal charges. \n Police said two men, ages 52 and 44, allegedly tried to rob a third homeless man, age 62, near Kapahulu and Kalakaua avenues around 7 p.m. Sunday. None of the men have a local address. \n However, the 62-year-old man allegedly attacked and stabbed the 52-year-old man, who was taken to the hospital in serious condition with stab wounds to his stomach. \n The 62-year-old man suffered injuries to his head and face. He was arrested on suspicion of first-degree assault. \n The 52- and 44-year-old men were arrested on suspicion of second-degree robbery. \n The three were released by police Monday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Victim, suspects arrested in Waikiki robbery"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rita Wilson arrived, on Feb. 13, at the MusiCares Person of the Year tribute honoring Lionel Richie at the Los Angeles Convention Center. The newest members of the film academy say the #OscarsSoWhite crisis inspired them to seek membership. \n WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. \u00bb The newest members of the film academy say the #OscarsSoWhite crisis inspired them to seek membership. \n At a private reception Monday for the latest academy inductees, actors Chadwick Boseman and Rita Wilson were among the new members who said they joined the organization to advance the diversity discussion in the film industry. \n \"I felt obligated to join,\" said Boseman, who plays Thurgood Marshall and Marvel hero Black Panther in upcoming films. \"After a certain number of years when you see something happen and you feel like there are worthy films that should be nominated or presented, yeah, you have to join. You have to be a voice.\" \n Wilson said #OscarsSoWhite moved her to join the organization her husband, Tom Hanks, has been active with for years. \n \"I have never been a member and I thought this is the right time,\" she said. \"It feels right because it seemed to me the academy was really open to hearing what the issues were, not only with color but with women and all sorts of diversity.\" \n After two years of an all-white slate of acting nominees for the Academy Awards spawned its own hashtag, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences made significant changes to its voting practices and announced intentions to double the number of female and minority members by 2020. The organization has historically been overwhelmingly white and male. \n Monday's reception at Catch restaurant in West Hollywood, California, celebrated the largest and most diverse class of invitees to date. \n \"You are proof that the academy is committed to and working toward its goal of inclusion,\" academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs told the guests as they sipped Champagne and snacked on lobster mac and cheese. \"Together, you are among the 683 new members of the academy.\" \n The organization's inclusion efforts inspired Lisa Taback, a new member of the public relations branch. \n \"I think they're on a great track,\" she said, \"Certainly reaching out to more women and trying to find a little more of a gender balance.\" \n Screenwriter Phyllis Nagy said she wants to \"open up the diversity issue\" now that she's an academy member. \n \"I think we have to address everything,\" she said. \"It's not just Oscars so white. It's Oscars so male, Oscars so straight\u2026Hopefully the new member initiative that the academy announced will help.\" \n The momentum is there, said veteran publicist Lisa Taback., who joined the organization this year. \n \"I think they're on a great track,\" she said, \"certainly reaching out to more women and trying to find a little more of a gender balance, so that's very exciting to me and important to me.\" \n The party had little agenda other than to mingle and enjoy. Boone Isaacs briefly addressed the crowd, followed by academy chief Dawn Hudson, who joked about the event coinciding with the presidential debate. \n \"I'm so impressed that you all came tonight,\" she said. \"It just proves that art trumps politics.\" \n She urged the new members to take their new responsibilities seriously by voting for Oscar nominees and winners, \n \"You can vote all year round at the academy,\" she quipped, referring to the organization's various contests for emerging talents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New film academy members talk #OscarsSoWhite"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "Nashville, Tenn. \u00bb Metro Nashville Police have identified the 30-year-old California man who was shot and killed in an apparent robbery attempt while walking with a friend in downtown Nashville. \n Police Capt. Gregory Blair tells local news outlets that Teddy Grasset died after being shot early Monday. \n Grasset and his friend, 28-year-old Larry Niehues, were walking near the Country Music Hall of Fame when police say a Chevrolet Impala pulled up behind them. Grasset and Niehues ran in opposite directions and a gunman from the car opened fire. \n Niehues was uninjured. \n Blair says police believe the shooting stemmed from a robbery attempt. Police are still searching for the suspects. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police identify tourist killed in Nashville shooting"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Thursday, June 18, 2015, file photo, Charleston, S.C., shooting suspect Dylann Roof is escorted from the Cleveland County Courthouse in Shelby, N.C. \n CHARLESTON, S.C. \u00bb More potential jurors are reporting to the federal courthouse in Charleston, South Carolina, for initial screening in the trial of Dylann Roof, who faces 33 federal counts in the June 2015 shooting deaths of nine black church members. \n Roof is charged with hate crimes and obstruction of religion resulting in death among other counts in the case. \n About 320 potential jurors reported Monday and those who weren't dismissed or had their jury service moved were asked to fill out questionnaires about the case. \n By the end of the day, court officials say 300 questionnaires had been completed. Jurors will continue to report this week until 700 questionnaires are filled out. \n Those jurors will then be summoned back to court in November for individual questioning before a trial jury is seated. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More jurors reporting in Charleston church shooting trial"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 17, 1996, file photo, the new Miss Universe Alicia Machado of Venezuela reacts as she is crowned by the 1995 winner Chelsi Smith at the Miss Universe competition in Las Vegas. \n NEW YORK \u00bb A former Miss Universe was the unlikely topic of conversation at the first presidential debate between Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n Clinton referenced a claim by 1996 Miss Universe Alicia Machado that Trump called her \"Miss Piggy\" when Machado gained weight following the pageant, which Trump formerly owned. Clinton also said Trump referred to the Venezuela-born Machado as \"Miss Housekeeping.\" \n Trump repeatedly asked Clinton where she had heard that, then dismissed Clinton's comment that Machado would vote for her with \"OK, good.\" \n Machado appeared in a video Clinton's campaign released after Monday's debate. \n Machado went on a diet in 1997 after saying she gained at least 15 pounds. Trump said during a public workout that \"she likes to eat \u2014 like all of us\" and supported her weight-loss efforts. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton at debate: Trump called Miss Universe 'Miss Piggy'"}

{"date": "September 27, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Feb. 13, 2016 file photo, Stevie Wonder performs at the Los Angeles Convention Center in Los Angeles, Ca. \n A man accused of scamming the University of Hawaii of $200,000 for a Stevie Wonder concert that never happened is no longer planning to change his plea. \n Marc Hubbard was scheduled to change his plea today. But court records show there will instead be a pretrial conference scheduled for next week. \n He pleaded not guilty in 2013 to a wire fraud charge. \n Authorities say the North Carolina concert promoter claimed he had connections to secure Wonder for an athletics fundraiser. The school paid a $200,000 deposit, began selling tickets and then learned neither Wonder nor his representatives authorized a show. \n The incident was dubbed \"Wonder Blunder.\" \n Court records say Hubbard pleaded guilty in South Carolina and New York to wire fraud and conspiracy charges. He's also facing sentencing in Pennsylvania. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Plea change canceled in UH Stevie Wonder concert blunder"}

