{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pandas Fu Feng, left, and Fu Ban in the zoo in Vienna. The 3-month-old bears will get their names in an official ceremony on Nov. 23. \n BERLIN >> Twin baby pandas born in August at the Vienna zoo finally have names. \n The male is called Fu Ban, meaning Lucky Companion. The female was named Fu Feng, or Lucky Phoenix. About 12,000 people voted from a selection of names. \n The pandas were the fourth and fifth cubs born to mother Yang Yang, after Fu Long, Fu Hu and Fu Bao. \n Schoenbrunn Zoo director Dagmar Schratter said Thursday because Yang Yang's first cub's name, Fu Long, means Lucky Dragon, the zoo had already decided to name the new girl after the phoenix. \n In Chinese mythology, the dragon represented the emperor and the phoenix the empress. \n The zoo says the two are doing well, with Fu Feng now weighing 4.26 kilograms (9.39 pounds) and Fu Ban 3.97 kilograms (8.75 pounds). \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Names chosen for Vienna zoo's panda cubs"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Brian Dunn, an attorney for the family of an unarmed man speaks during a news conference in Los Angeles. \n SAN DIEGO >> The widow of an unarmed black man killed by police in El Cajon plans to sue the San Diego suburb. \n Attorney Brian Dunn says he will file a claim against the city on Thursday on behalf Alfred Olango's widow, Taina Rozier, and Olango's two daughters, who are ages 16 and 12. The claim seeks damages for Olango's death and calls for additional training to help officers deal with the mentally ill, Dunn told The Associated Press. \n A police officer opened fire on Olango within a minute of arriving on the scene the afternoon of Sept. 27. Olango's sister had described her brother as mentally unbalanced in multiple 911 calls. \n Video released by police days after the shooting shows the officer approached the 38-year-old man with his gun drawn, as Olango paced in a strip mall parking lot. Olango can be seen pulling something out of his pocket and taking a \"shooting stance\" \u2014 wrapping his hands around a cylinder and aiming it at the officer, who then fires his gun. A second officer fired his Taser simultaneously. The object in Olango's hands turned out to be a 4-inch electronic cigarette device called a vape pen, authorities said. \n The El Cajon Police Department, like many police departments, has specially trained officers to help defuse the sometimes-volatile calls that involve people in the throes of mental illness. But El Cajon officials said none were available to go to the call. \n Attorney Daniel Gilleon filed a separate claim Oct. 20 against the city of El Cajon on behalf of Olango's sister, Lucy Olango. She said police were negligent in handling her brother, who was experiencing a mental breakdown because of the death of a close friend. The lawsuit also names Officer Richard Gonsalves as a defendant, saying he used deadly force too quickly and without warning. \n Another attorney, Rodney Diggs, said he plans to also file a federal claim on behalf of Olango's father, Richard Olango Abuka, for his son's death. \n City officials declined to comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Family of California man killed by police plan to sue city"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n TEMPE, Ariz. >> Hillary Clinton reveled in reliably red Arizona, seeking to pluck a Republican state away from Donald Trump in the closing days of the caustic race for the White House. Trump, meanwhile, campaigned with rare discipline as he tries to close his gap with Clinton before next week's election. \n \"'Stay on point, Donald, stay on point,'\" Trump, campaigning Wednesday in Florida, teasingly quoted his staff as saying. \"No sidetracks, Donald. Nice and easy. Nice and easy.'\" \n Trump can't win the election without carrying Florida, underscoring how narrow his path to the White House is. Despite tightening polls, Clinton still has more options, which was underscored by her decision to make a late stop in Arizona, which has voted for a Republican only once since 1952. \n \"This state is in play for the first time in years,\" Clinton exclaimed during a nighttime rally on the campus of Arizona State University. She was greeted by a boisterous crowd of 15,000, one of her largest of the campaign. \n Clinton, who grew up in the Chicago suburbs, was buoyed, as well, by the Cubs dramatic victory over the Cleveland Indians in the clinching game of the World Series, giving the city its first Cubs championship since 1908. Clinton watched a portion of the game on an aides electronic device after concluding her appearance in Tempe, Ariz., and then helped hold aloft a banner with \"W\" on its face. \n Clinton's campaign has been eyeing Arizona for weeks, given Trump's unpopularity with Hispanic voters. As part of her pitch to voters in the state, Clinton painted a grim view of life for Hispanics under a Trump administration. She also waded into a local sheriff's race getting national attention, backing Democrat Paul Penzone in the race for Maricopa County sheriff, a post held by immigration hardliner Joe Arpaio. \n \"I think it's time you had a new sheriff in town, don't you?\" she said. \n And in a nod to Republicans, she called out Trump for his criticism in the GOP primary of Carly Fiorina, the only woman to seek her party's nomination. Clinton called Fiorina \"a distinguished woman with a tremendous record of accomplishment.\" \n There was late action Wednesday in Michigan, too, as well as in North Carolina, where President Barack Obama tried to energize black support for Clinton. \n Former President Bill Clinton was making an unannounced appearance in Detroit Wednesday night to meet privately with black ministers, the city's mayor and other local leaders. Clinton planned to travel to the Detroit area as well on Friday. \n A pro-Clinton super PAC was spending more than $1 million on Michigan airwaves along with at least $1 million more in Colorado, another state where Clinton has enjoyed a significant polling advantage for much of the fall. \n Early voting numbers in some states suggest that her challenge stems, at least in part, from underwhelming support from African-American voters. Weak minority support could complicate her path in other states, too, including North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Michigan. \n Early voting in North Carolina shows a 5 percentage point drop in ballots from black voters from 2012. \n Obama, the nation's first black president, offered an urgent message to North Carolina voters on Wednesday: \"The fate of the Republic rests on your shoulders.\" \n He also criticized Trump's history of sexist comments and his initial reluctance to disavow white supremacists. They continue to rally behind the Republican nominee, though he rejects that support. \n \"If you accept the support of Klan sympathizers,\" Obama said, \"then you'll tolerate that support when you're in office.\" \n At the same time, Clinton allies are speaking directly to black voters in a new advertising campaign running in Ohio, North Carolina and Florida. The ad from the pro-Clinton Priorities USA shows white Trump supporters screaming at and pushing black protesters, along with Obama warning that voters would lose \"everything\" if Trump wins. \n As the final-days scramble for votes intensifies, Florida remains perhaps the nation's most critical swing state. \n The Trump campaign knows there is no realistic path to the White House without Florida, where polls give Clinton a narrow lead. The New York businessman campaigned in three Florida cities Wednesday \u2014 Miami, Orlando and Pensacola \u2014 and will follow up with a stop in Jacksonville on Thursday. \n \"We don't want to blow this,\" he told rowdy supporters in Miami. \"We gotta win. We gotta win big.\" \n While Trump has devoted perhaps his most valuable resource \u2014 his time \u2014 to Florida, Clinton has built a powerful ground game, backed by a dominant media presence, that dwarfs her opponent's. The Democratic nominee has more than doubled Trump's investment in Florida television ads. Overall, the state has been deluged with $125 million in general election advertising \u2014 by far the most of any state. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton makes bid for Arizona, Trump tries to keep focus"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fire department and rescue officials are at the scene of an early morning fatal collision between a school bus and a commuter bus Tuesday. \n BALTIMORE >> Investigators are focusing on speed as they delve into the collision between a school bus and a commuter bus that killed both drivers and four mass-transit riders in southwest Baltimore. \n Baltimore Police Department spokesman T.J. Smith said Wednesday investigators haven't yet determined how fast the vehicles were going when the school bus crossed the center line and smashed into the Maryland Transit Administration bus early Tuesday morning after hitting a car and a roadside pillar. \n \"If you saw that destruction, it certainly wasn't caused by a slow-moving vehicle,\" he said. \n In a recorded 911 call, a man who gave his name as Cameron said, \"The school bus was going 90. The school bus tore off the street and kept on moving.\" \n The National Transportation Safety Board tweeted a photo of its investigators doing a three-dimensional scan of the mangled school bus, which wasn't carrying any children. \n Smith said police plan to interview the only passenger on the school bus, an aide who had minor injuries. \n He said it could be weeks before investigators get an autopsy report that could reveal whether school bus driver Glenn R. Chappell, 67, of Baltimore, suffered a medical emergency. \n Investigators have recovered recording equipment from the MTA bus but don't know if it's in usable condition. \n Chappell was found at fault in three traffic-related cases in the last eight years, according to court records and an attorney interviewed by The Associated Press. \n He lost a civil case over hitting a parked car in Baltimore in 2008. Nationwide Insurance said in its complaint that Chappell was distracted and speeding when his vehicle \"veered from the roadway\" and struck the car. The court ordered Chappell to pay about $2,400, which he did, according to Nationwide's lawyer, Michael David Johnson. \n Chappell was convicted in 2014 of failing to show a registration card during a traffic stop, and convicted again last November of driving a vehicle with suspended registration. Neither offense involved a school bus. \n The records also show that Chappell was convicted of violating three protective orders issued in 2012. He spent much of the fall of 2012 in jail, awaiting judgment in those cases. In December 2012, he was sentenced to seven days for second-degree assault. \n Chappell's employer, bus contractor AA Affordable Transportation, didn't respond Wednesday to calls and emails about Chappell's legal problems. \n Baltimore City Public Schools spokeswoman Edie House declined to comment. \n Police released the names of five of the deceased, including Chappell and MTA bus driver Ebonee Baker, 33, of Rosedale. Smith said three of the 10 people injured remained hospitalized, in fair, serious and critical condition. \n Baker's mother, Helen Morgan, said her daughter was an outgoing, married mother of four who was living her dream: A family, a house with a pool and job driving a bus. \n \"I'm lost,\" Morgan said. \"This is unreal. This is my baby. I can't believe this.\" \n She said Baker also was a Baltimore Ravens fan, an Overlea High School track coach and a skier. \n \"She helped so many kids because she was the coach of the track team that God needed someone in heaven to do better, so he took Ebonee so she could do better up there,\" Morgan said. \n Police identified three of the four deceased MTA bus passengers as Cherry Denise Yarborough, 51; Terance Lee Casey, 52; and Gerald Holloway, 51, all of Baltimore. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2-bus crash probe focuses on speed; no quick autopsy results"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The leader of the Islamic State group, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, delivering a sermon at a mosque in Iraq during his first public appearance. \n IRBIL, Iraq >> The leader of the Islamic State group has released a new message encouraging his followers to keep up the fight for the city of Mosul, which they are defending against Iraqi government forces, a U.S. organization that monitors militant activity online said Thursday. \n The SITE Intelligence Group said the speech purporting to be from Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was released in an audio recording, more than half an hour long, late on Wednesday. \n In the recording, al-Baghdadi rallies his fighters \u2014 especially in Mosul \u2014 and is calling on them to obey orders while remaining resilient and steadfast. He urges others to carry out attacks in Saudi Arabia and Turkey. \n \"Oh you who seek martyrdom! Start your actions! Turn the night of the disbelievers into day,\" he says. \"Totally decimate their territories, and make their blood flow like rivers!\" \n The recording was the reclusive al-Baghdadi's first released message to supporters since Iraqi forces launched the decisive battle to retake Mosul, the country's second-largest city, from IS. The message apparently was an attempt to harness the feelings of Sunni disenfranchisement that preceded the 2014 IS takeover of Mosul, a largely Sunni city in Shiite-majority Iraq. \n Using a derogatory term for Shiites, he says followers of the Muslim sect want to drive \"empty Iraq of Sunnis and replace them with the worst of people.\" \n He calls on fighters to \"respond to all attacks,\" and to \"target all in their media and forces, and all who belong to them.\" \n The audio message could not be independently verified but it was similar to recordings previously released by al-Baghdadi. \n The Islamic State group is fighting to hold Iraq's second city of Mosul as Iraq forces and allied Kurdish forces advance on the city with U.S.-led coalition support. \n The city of more than one million people and surrounding territory fell to IS fighters during a surprise attack in June 2014. Al-Baghdadi visited the city after the takeover, and from inside Mosul, declared an Islamic caliphate that at one point covered nearly a third of Iraq and Syria. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. monitors: IS group leader rallies his fighters in Mosul"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Waves crashed on the shores of Midway Atoll in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. \n MIDWAY ATOLL, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands \u00bb The Battle of Midway was a major turning point in World War II's Pacific theater. The remote atoll where thousands died is now a delicate sanctuary for millions of seabirds, and a new battle is pitting preservation of its vaunted military history against the protection of its wildlife. \n Halfway between the United States and Asia, Midway's three islets are surrounded by vibrant coral reefs and are home to the biggest colony of Laysan albatrosses on Earth. The large, white and black seabirds pair off and mate for life, nesting and raising their young on Midway. \n \"I look forward to knowing that 20 years from now, 40 years from now, 100 years from now, this is a place where people can still come to and see what a place like this looks like when it's not overcrowded and destroyed by human populations,\" Obama said. \n The atoll is a place where many people have lived, and perished \u2014 almost 3,000 in the historic conflict with Japan. And the public has not been allowed to visit the refuge or the battle monuments for years. \n Midway is now a mix of boarded-up buildings left over from the island's military heyday and freshly painted facilities still in use by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. \n \"Fish and Wildlife has every right and obligation to protect the wildlife, but they also have an obligation to protect the historic sites and the meaning of Midway,\" said James D'Angelo, founder of the International Midway Memorial Foundation. \"It is precisely because of the men that lived and died that that memory should never be forgotten.\" \n Six months after the Pearl Harbor attack, American forces turned away the Japanese at Midway and went on the offensive. In all, 2,500 Japanese and 307 Americans were killed in the battle. \n The Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge was established in 1988 when the atoll was still under Navy control. In 1996, management was transferred to the wildlife agency with a mandate to maintain and preserve not only the wildlife but the atoll's historical significance. \n Since 2000, the site has been designated as a National Memorial to the Battle of Midway. The original seaplane hangar is deeply rusted and has shrapnel pockmarks. Behind it, a huge pile of desks, bicycles, rusting metal and broken speedboat engines await removal. \n Midway sits amid a collection of man-made debris called the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Along Midway's paths lay piles of feathers with rings of plastic in the middle \u2014 remnants of birds that died with the plastic in their guts. Each year the agency removes about 20 tons of plastic and debris that washes ashore from surrounding waters. \n The critically endangered short-tailed albatross can be found only on Midway and one other small Pacific island. Endangered Hawaiian monk seals and green sea turtles also frequent Midway's shores. \n In 1996, the government reached an agreement with the Georgia-based Phoenix Midway Corp. to help operate the island's visitor program, with lodging, a restaurant, a dive shop and bowling alley, at no cost to taxpayers. \n But, in its six years of operation, the company had only one profitable month, according to a document submitted to the Fish and Wildlife Service and provided to The Associated Press by the memorial foundation. \n In mid-2001, the company pulled out. After that, there was either no visitor program or a limited one. \n \"It's financial suicide for anybody to think that they can go in unless they were given the carte blanche rights to run the island,\" said Bob Tracey, Phoenix Midway's former executive vice president. \n In 2014, the Congressional Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs held an oversight hearing about Midway. \"Objective observers can certainly question whether it was a mistake to transfer this sacred ground to an agency that is far better equipped to maintain birds than visitors,\" said the chairman, Rep. John Fleming, R-La. \n The Government Accountability Office concluded in 2016 that the wildlife agency \"maintained most historic properties\" but tore down seven others without the required public notice. \n But the GAO noted funding has been slashed from $4 million annually to less than $3 million, resulting in the end of public visitation in 2012. \n Officials say more than $1 million a year would be required to reestablish a visitation program, excluding startup costs. \n Matthew Brown, Fish and Wildlife's superintendent for the marine national monument, said sustainable tourism is feasible despite the challenges. \"It's a very logistically challenging place to do anything,\" he said. \n Its World War II-era structures weren't built to last, and some are coated in lead paint, Fish and Wildlife spokeswoman Megan Nagel said, noting Laysan albatross ingest the paint chips, causing illness. \n And too many visitors could disturb the delicate ecosystem, Nagel said. For example, some seabirds here are attracted to lights that would be needed for modern accommodations. \n Some contend a private company could easily profit from a visitation program on Midway, but \"evidence shows that is historical fiction,\" Guam Rep. Madeleine Bordallo said at the 2014 congressional hearing. \"Preservation of historic resources is expensive. If we value it as a country, we should pay for it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Battle of Midway pits military history against wildlife"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Scott Michael Greene, of Urbandale, Iowa. Des Moines and Urbandale Police said in a statement Wednesday, that they have identified Greene as a suspect in the killings early Wednesday morning of two Des Moines area police officers. \n DES MOINES, Iowa >> Police say a white man with a history of racial provocations and confrontations with police has ambushed and fatally shot two white officers in separate attacks as they sat in their patrol cars. \n Police took 46-year-old Scott Michael Greene into custody hours after the killings and less than three weeks after he argued with officers who removed him from a high school football game where he had unfurled a Confederate flag near black spectators. The officers were fatally shot early Wednesday. \n Greene flagged down an Iowa Department of Natural Resources employee in a rural area west of Des Moines, identified himself and asked that the employee call 911. Sheriff's deputies and state patrol officers took him into custody. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspect in officer deaths has history of racial provocations"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pedestrian outside a locked rail station in west Philadelphia. Commuters scrambled Tuesday to find alternate ways to travel as transit workers in Philadelphia hit the picket lines after the city's main transit agency and a union representing about 4,700 workers failed to reach a contract agreement. \n PHILADELPHIA >> Commuters braced for a third day of traffic gridlock in and around Philadelphia as the city's transit agency urged the union representing about 4,700 striking workers to engage in good-faith negotiations to bring an end to the walkout. \n The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority said in a statement late Wednesday that a strike should be \"an option of last resort,\" and when you have one, there needs to be added urgency to \"reach an agreement and get back to work.\" \n SEPTA Board Chairman Pasquale T. Deon Sr. said that on several occasions this week, SEPTA negotiators believed progress was being made, but Deon said the union \"brought a halt to negotiations.\" \n The union had not issued an official response to SEPTA's statement as of early Thursday morning. \n The strike began at 12:01 a.m. Tuesday, shutting down buses, trolleys and subways that provide about 900,000 rides a day. A current cap on union pension benefits and the amount of time off provided to operators between shifts were among the issues on the table. \n Frustrated motorists fought traffic gridlock at morning and evening rush hours Wednesday during the second day of the strike. \n Highways around the region experienced major backups as thousands of people who normally take city transit used their cars instead. \n Regional rail lines experienced delays as a result of increased demand caused by the idling of city buses, trolleys and subways. \n The city's bike-share program was doing a booming business. \n Gabby Richards, 23, said she was relieved Wednesday morning to get the last bike available at the stand near her home. \n \"I've been making my plans each day around Uber surge pricing and traffic,\" Richards said. \"It's clear that something needs to happen to get people moving smoothly again.\" \n Uber said it had 41 percent more unique riders during rush hours Tuesday compared with the same day the previous week. \n Schools have also been affected, since SEPTA provides rides for nearly 60,000 public, private and charter school students. \n The walkout, the ninth since 1975 by the city transit union, is the first since a 2009 strike that lasted six days. \n Democratic city leaders working to help end the contract impasse expressed fears of it lasting through Election Day, leaving some residents with little time to vote Nov. 8. \n In its statement Wednesday night, SEPTA asked the union to assure residents that, if necessary, they will suspend the strike on Election day if no agreement is reached. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Commuters brace for 3rd day of Philadelphia transit strike"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A former presidential secretary Ahn Jong-beom arrives for questioning at the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday. \n SEOUL >> South Korean prosecutors detained a former senior aide of President Park Geun-hye as they widen their investigations into a snowballing political scandal centering on whether the president's longtime friend was pulling government strings from the shadows, officials said Thursday. \n Ahn Jong-beom is the second person detained over the scandal that has plunged Park's approval rating to record lows and triggered mounting calls for her resignation. Earlier this week, prosecutors detained Park's friend, Choi Soon-sil, and requested an arrest warrant for her. \n South Korean media speculate Choi, who has no government position, secretly made policy recommendations for Park and pushed businesses to donate millions of dollars to two foundations she controlled. \n Prosecutors investigating the scandal detained Ahn on Wednesday night after they summoned him to question whether he was involved in extracting $70 million of company donations, according to the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office. Prosecutors have 48 hours to determine whether to seek an arrest warrant for Ahn or release him. \n Ahn was among the eight presidential advisers who Park fired in an attempt to regain public trust in the wake of the scandal. On Thursday, Park nominated her new prime minister and two other top officials, but opposition lawmakers quickly criticized the reshuffles as an attempted diversion. \n Much of public frenzy over the scandal is associated with Choi's family background. Her father led a religious cult and reportedly was a private mentor for Park, whose parents each were assassinated in the 1970s. Park's father was a strongman who ruled South Korea with an iron-fist for 18 years. \n While acknowledging her ties to Choi Soon-sil last week, Park said Choi helped her \"when I had difficulties\" in the past. Park also acknowledged Choi had edited some of her speeches and provided public relations help. South Korean media speculate Choi may have had access to sensitive information and played a much larger role in government affairs. \n A Seoul court will likely determine by Friday morning whether to approve an arrest warrant for Choi. \n Park has already been criticized for an aloof manner and for relying on only a few longtime confidantes. That she may have outsourced sensitive decisions to someone outside of government, and someone connected with a murky, lurid backstory, has incensed many. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea prosecutors detain ex-presidential aide amid scandal"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Federal Protective Service officer enters the Alfred A. Arraj Courthouse past signs placed by those protesting against the ban to take selfie photos by voters showing a completed ballot, in Denver, Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2016. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> California voters heading to the polls should leave their selfie sticks at home. \n A federal judge on Wednesday refused to lift the state's ban in the current election on sharing photos of marked ballots. U.S. District Court Judge William Alsup said changing the rules so late in the election process would create confusion. \n \"It's not fair to the voters in California, the people who run those polling places and the secretary of state to jam this down their throats at the last minute,\" Alsup said. The ban applies to photos taken in polling booths and at home or elsewhere by people voting by mail. \n The ruling came on the same day a federal judge in Colorado heard arguments on that state's ballot selfie ban. A legal challenge also is pending in New York. \n There are laws against voters sharing any photo of their ballot in 18 states, while six others bar photography in polling places but allow photos of mail-in ballots, according to a review by The Associated Press. \n Alsup said poll workers could be confused about whether people could use selfie sticks or take videos. He also raised concerns that photos that capture other people at the polling place might intimidate or disturb voters. \n Ballot photo bans were enacted over 100 years ago as a way to prevent coercion, intimidation and vote buying, but they have raised First Amendment concerns in today's era of social media and selfies. \n The ACLU in a lawsuit filed on Monday said California's ban violates voters' right to freedom of speech by preventing them from expressing their political views. The group sought an injunction blocking the state from enforcing the ban in the Nov. 8 election. \n Alsup said there were legitimate reasons to block people from sharing their marked ballots. He cited concerns about employers threatening to fire workers if they didn't vote a particular way and demanding to see their ballots as proof. \n Judges have struck down bans on the selfies in at least two states, and rules have changed in others. But in Colorado and many other states, sharing a picture of your ballot still carries potential fines or jail time. \n California has not enforced its ban, and the state recently passed a law allowing photographs of ballots, including those taken at polling stations, to be shared, though that won't take effect until January. \n The ACLU said voters in the state needed clear guidance to prevent confusion that could have a \"chilling effect\" on their speech in the current election. \n Michael Risher, an ACLU attorney, said after the hearing he did immediately know whether the ACLU would appeal. \n In Colorado, U.S. District Judge Christine Arguello said Wednesday the way the law is written may pose valid constitutional problems over the right to free speech, but she did not immediately issue a ruling. \n State Assistant Attorney General Matthew Grove said there appears to be no basis for a legal challenge of Colorado's law. \"We think that there is nothing to see here,\" he said. \n Colorado's law was enacted more than a century ago to prevent vote-buying. State election officials say they don't know of any cases where people have been charged with disseminating a completed ballot. \n A Republican state senator, Owen Hill, said Colorado's law should be struck down if no one is being prosecuted for taking pictures with their ballots. \n But Colorado Secretary of State Wayne Williams said the ban is important and ballot privacy should be maintained. \n It's not clear if Arguello will rule before next week's election. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge: No sharing selfies with marked California ballots"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kauai Community Correctional Center Warden Neal Wagatsuma, left, uses a cellphone while walking out of U.S. District Court in Honolulu today with Hawaii Deputy Attorney General Nelson Nabeta. \n The warden of the Kauai Community Correctinoal Center testified today that he showed inmates violent sexual films as part of a program he created that includes what he calls \"shame therapy.\" \n Warden Neal Wagatsuma began testifying in a trial for a lawsuit that accuses him of retaliating against a former jail social worker who alleged he subjected female inmates to sexual humiliation and discrimination. \n Ever since the mid-1990s there have been rumors that he shows inmates pornography, but the videos aren't porn, he said: \"I would never do that.\" \n The warden showed films such as \"Finding Mr. Goodbar,\" according to court documents. \"Finding Mr. Goodbar\" is a 1970s American drama in which the female protagonist is raped and murdered at its conclusion. \n Hawaii Deputy Attorney General Bosko Petricevic told jurors the films were shown to discourage male inmates from committing rape and to teach female inmates how to lower the risks of becoming victims. \n Former jail social worker Carolyn Ritchie's 2014 lawsuit says female inmates complained to her about Wagatsuma forcing them to watch rape videos and to divulge their sexual pasts while being filmed. \n \"Shame therapy is talking about things that are deep within a person,\" Wagatsuma said on the witness stand of a Honolulu federal courtroom. \"It's just talking about their lives, talking about anything that's bothering them.\" \n Wagatsuma said he yells and uses profanity during so-called \"shame therapy\" sessions. Words such as \"whore\" and \"batuna,\" a Hawaii slang term for a woman who trades sex for crystal meth, were used in appropriate contexts, he said. \n \"I don't yell at them for no reason,\" said Wagatsuma, who became acting warden in 1992 and the permanent warden in 1995. \"It's about chastising. It's a good thing \u2026 you want to confront them when they're wrong.\" \n No one was forced to talk about anything at daily meetings, Petricevic said. \n Wagatsuma said he created the program without any experience or background in psychology but by drawing on his own life experiences. \"Before I came into government, I had a really hard life,\" he said calling himself a \"social misfit.\" \n Ritchie's lawsuit also alleges the warden denied women the same work release opportunities as men. \n Not all women could participate in a program that allows inmates to work in the community and then return to jail at the end of the day because there weren't enough female guards to strip-search them when they returned, he said. \n Still, he insisted that he provided women and men equal work opportunities by ensuring that eligible female inmates could participate in a less-restrictive program that allowed them to also live in the community. \n Wagatsuma's testimony is scheduled to continue next week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kauai warden testifies about showing inmates sex films"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ROD ANTONE \n A thief or thieves removed louvers to break into the rectory of The Holy Rosary Church in Paia overnight. \n A thief or thieves stole a safe and a priest's car from a Catholic church on Maui overnight. \n The church office, rectory and multi-purposed building at the Holy Rosary Church in Paia was ransacked as well, Deacon Patrick Constantino said. \n Constantino said the break-in and theft happened after the observance of All Saints Day Tuesday night. \n He said he discovered the burglary when he arrived to work at about 6:45 this morning. \n The safe containedcash. The church priest's 2005 white four-door Toyota Prius was also stolen, he said. \n Other items were taken, including coffee and a coffee maker. \n Entry was made into the kitchen side of the building by taking off the screen and louvers, he said. \n \"They didn't hit the church or preschool,\" he said. \n \"They were looking for whatever they could get.\" \n The church, established in 1926 while Paia was a sugar plantation, serves about 175 families. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Safe, priest's car taken in church burglary"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "A California visitor drowned this morning off Kauai's Larsen's Beach, authorities said. \n The man, identified as 73-year-old Jeff Yann, died while swimming in waters off Larsen's, or Ka'aka'aniu Beach, in Kilauea. \n According to Kauai officials, bystanders called 911 at around 10:30 a.m. after two swimmers were swept out to sea and appeared to be in distress. \n One swimmer had made it safely back to shore but the other was still in the water when rescue crews arrived. A firefighter paddled out and brought the man back to shore, where CPR was performed. Because of the remote location, the man was airlifted from the beach to a nearby location. Medics transported him to Mahelona Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. \n An autopsy is pending. This is Kauai's 11th drowning of 2016. \n The National Weather Service has issued a high surf warning for Kauai County from 6 p.m. Wednesday to 6 p.m. Thursday. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "California man drowns off Kauai's Larsen's Beach"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte addresses the crowd during his visit to Sual township, Pangasinan province in northern Philippines, to send off arrested 17 Vietnamese fishermen Wednesday. \n SUAL, Philippines >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said he'll consider continuing to acquire weapons and defense equipment from treaty ally the United States if his military recommends so, despite offers from China and Russia. \n Duterte made the remark Wednesday in a speech in which he again railed at the U.S. with expletives for criticizing his deadly anti-drug crackdown, calling American officials \"monkeys\" and breaking a promise that he would no longer resort to trash talk. \n Duterte, who took office in June, has been antagonistic to U.S., EU and U.N. officials who have raised human rights concerns over his brutal crackdown on illegal drug sellers and users and called for an end to extrajudicial killings. \n He has used expletives in responding to their criticisms, telling President Barack Obama to \"go to hell\" in an outburst last month. He has declared his intention to scale back his country's military engagements with Washington, including ending largescale joint combat exercises and the presence of visiting U.S. forces, while reaching out to expand once-frosty relations with China and Russia. \n U.S. officials, however, say they have not been formally notified by the Philippines of any change in security relations and activities and stress that Washington wants to continue its decades-long alliance with Manila. \n Asked about Duterte's latest tirade, State Department spokesman John Kirby said it was inexplicably at odds with the close relationship that the U.S. continues to have with the Philippine government and people. He said that in a democracy, government \"doesn't rest on the shoulders of just one individual.\" \n \"There are long standing relationships that we have nurtured over the years with figures in his government, and those relationships are still there, and they're still vibrant,\" Kirby told reporters, adding that the U.S. remains committed to developing a good working relationship with Duterte himself. \n Duterte said he has asked his defense secretary and military officials to travel to China and Russia to check what weapons and defense equipment they have to offer, but added that the military's recommendation will be crucial. \n \"China is open. Anything you want. They even sent me a brochure, telling me to choose and they will provide,\" Duterte said. \n \"I'm just holding off because I'm looking at the military,\" he said. \"If you want to stick with America, fine, but assess it well and find a balance because we are being ridiculed.\" \n The brash president traveled to a wharf in Sual town in the northwestern province of Pangasinan to lead a poignant send-off ceremony for 17 Vietnamese fishermen who were arrested last month for poaching in local waters. The complaints were dropped after the Vietnamese said a typhoon forced their three boats toward the northern Philippines and that they had no intention of poaching. \n Duterte said his Vietnamese counterpart appealed for the fishermen's release and Wednesday's ceremony \u2014 in which he shook hands with the fishermen and handed each a bag filled with food, a raincoat and toiletries \u2014 showed how Asians resolve problems. \n \"Vietnam drove the Americans away in humiliation,\" Duterte said, using the ceremony to criticize U.S. actions that he said brought countries like Iraq, Syria and Libya to chaos and civil strife. \n \"I have good impressions of America but the problem is I have lost my respect, that's why I'm bad-mouthing them,\" he said. \"These Americans never learned their lesson with their interventions.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duterte will consider acquiring U.S. weapons, but calls American officials 'monkeys'"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "A 63-year-old bicyclist died at Queen's Medical Center from injuries he sustained in a September accident on Maui. \n Christopher Thurber of Omaha, Neb., was visiting Maui at the time of the accident. \n According to police, Thurber was traveling northbound on Makawao Avenue near Kee Road at about 9:54 a.m. on Sept. 26, when he failed to negotiate a bend in the roadway and lost control of his bicycle. He fell to the ground and slid into the opposite lane, where he was run over by a blue 1998 Dodge Ram truck driven by a 58-year-old man. \n Police said Thurber was flown to Queen's in critical condition, and died on Oct. 28, and are continuing their investigation of the accident. The truck driver didn't suffer any injuries. \n Thurber's death is the 20th traffic-related fatality in Maui County compared to 21 at the same time last year.  \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Bicyclist succumbs to injuries from September Maui accident"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maj. Gen. Alan Dohrmann, the leader of the state's National Guard, spoke at the state Capitol in Bismarck, N.D., to Gov. Jack Dalrymple, right, and other members of the state Emergency Commission while requesting an additional $4 million for the North Dakota Department of Emergency Services related to law enforcement costs associated with the Dakota Access Pipeline protests in Morton County. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tonya Stands recovered after being pepper sprayed by police after swimming across a creek with other protesters hoping to build a new camp to block construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline, near Cannon Ball, N.D. today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Dozens of protestors demonstrated against the expansion of the Dakota Access Pipeline wade in cold creek waters confronting local police, as remnants of pepper spray wafted over the crowd near Cannon Ball, N.D. today. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. \u00bb Officers in riot gear clashed again today with protesters near the Dakota Access pipeline, hitting dozens with pepper spray as they waded through waist-deep water in an attempt to reach property owned by the pipeline's developer. \n The confrontation came hours after North Dakota regulators criticized the pipeline company for not immediately reporting the discovery of American Indian artifacts and a day after President Barack Obama raised the possibility of future reroutes to alleviate tribal concerns. \n After an inspection, company consultants decided to divert the construction by about 50 feet, even though they determined there was a \"low likelihood\" any additional artifacts were buried nearby. The State Historic Preservation Office did concur with the company's plan on how to proceed after the artifacts were found. \n Although that change was relatively minor, Obama said it was possible the Army Corps of Engineers could eventually examine much larger ones that would reroute the pipeline in southern North Dakota to alleviate tribal concerns. He made the remarks during an interview Tuesday with the online news outlet NowThis. \n This afternoon, protesters tried to build a wooden pedestrian bridge across a creek to enter the property, then attempted to swim or boat across when officers dismantled the bridge, Morton County Sheriff's spokeswoman Donnell Hushka said. Two arrests were reported. \n Volunteer medics treated some of the protesters for hypothermia during the confrontation near the mouth of the Cannonball River. \n About 140 people were arrested on the property last week in a law enforcement operation that cleared the encampment. \n The potential for damage to American Indian sites and artifacts has been a flashpoint in a months-long protest over the pipeline, which is intended to carry crude from western North Dakota almost 1,200 miles to a shipping point in Patoka, Illinois. The Standing Rock Sioux, whose reservation lies near the pipeline route, have led a protest over that issue and the pipeline's potential hazard to drinking water. \n Tribal officials said in September they had identified cultural artifacts on private land along the route. After that finding, North Dakota's chief archaeologist, Paul Picha, inspected the area and said no sign of artifacts or human remains had been found. \n Picha said he was notified in a timely manner of the most recent discovery in a new area but didn't report it to the commission because he thought the pipeline company would. Both Picha and Fedorchak said the site itself was properly handled, with Energy Transfer Partners moving the pipeline route to avoid the artifacts. \n \"We reviewed the information, wrote a letter of correspondence \u2026 saying we agreed with the avoidance plan,\" Picha said. \n He also noted that the rerouting isn't unusual. During development of the project, \"there were multiple reroutes of the pipeline corridor for various reasons \u2014 cultural, environmental, landowner concerns \u2014 140, 150 reroutes,\" he said. \n Company spokeswoman Vicki Granado didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press about the potential for fines over the lag in reporting about the artifacts. The company would have an opportunity for a hearing to dispute any allegations. A company attorney said in an Oct. 27 letter to the PSC that the company didn't intentionally delay notifying the agency. \n Although there's no set time frame for reporting such a discovery, PSC Commissioner Brian Kalk said that typically \"the intent is immediately.\" \n Fedorchak said the company could potentially be fined either for the reporting delay or for moving on with construction without getting PSC clearance. Both will be investigated, she said. \n The Standing Rock Sioux tribe has not weighed in on the find. Tribal Chairman Dave Archambault and tribal Historic Preservation Officer Jon Eagle Sr. did not immediately respond to requests for comment. \n The 1,172-mile pipeline is largely complete outside of North Dakota. The federal government in September ordered a temporary halt to construction on corps land around and underneath Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir in the Dakotas. The corps is reviewing its permitting of the project but has given no timetable for a decision. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pipeline company could face fines; protesters pepper-sprayed"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "HARRISBURG, Pa. \u00bb A Pennsylvania judge is facing accusations he traded racy text messages and had sex with the girlfriend of a defendant in his drug and alcohol treatment court. \n The state's Judicial Conduct Board filed four administrative charges today against District Judge Michael Shaw of Sayre. \n The complaint said the defendant discovered the \"sext messages\" between his girlfriend and Shaw and became upset, prompting an apology from the judge. \n \"I disrespected you,\" he told the defendant while meeting with him and the woman in the jury room, the complaint said. \n Shaw was removed as presiding judge of Bradford County's treatment court after his relationship with the woman came to the attention of court officials in 2014. \n Shaw and his lawyer did not immediately return phone messages Wednesday. \n Shaw also traded sexually charged text messages with an adult probation officer, according to the complaint. \n Conduct board lawyers outlined several other allegations of improper conduct, including Shaw's practice of communicating outside of court with defendants and their relatives in violation of court rules. \n He permitted \"his social and community interests or relationships to influence his conduct or judgment,\" the complaint said. \n If convicted in the Court of Judicial Discipline, Shaw could be censured, suspended, fined or removed from office. \n Shaw has been in office for more than two decades. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pennsylvania judge charged with having sex with girlfriend of defendant"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n A screenshot from surveillance video shows a shoplifting suspect at the Kalihi-Palama Foodland. \n Police are asking for the public's help in identifying a male suspect who allegedly stole items from a grocery store and threatened an employee in Kalihi-Palama. \n At approximately 12:50 p.m. on Oct. 25, police said the suspect entered the Foodland located at 1505 Dillingham Boulevard, took merchandise and left the store without paying. \n Police said the suspect threatened to hit an employee with a bottle when confronted about the items. \n Anyone with information is asked to call Honolulu police at 529-3111 or CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on a cellular phone. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police looking for shoplifter who threatened Foodland employee"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "Doctors have found a disturbing downside to some powerful new drugs that harness the immune system to fight cancer: In rare cases, they may cause potentially fatal heart damage, especially when used together. \n \"The problem is, no one has this on their radar,\" so patients are not routinely checked for it, said Dr. Javid Moslehi, head of a Vanderbilt University clinic specializing in heart risks from cancer therapies. \n He led a report Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine describing two patients who died of heart trouble two weeks after receiving their first doses of two Bristol-Myers Squibb drugs, Opdivo and Yervoy, for the deadly skin cancer melanoma. \n Two similar drugs also are on the market, and the study leaders believe they might pose heart risks, too. \n \"My sense is that this is a class effect, not limited to one drug,\" Moslehi said. \n The risks do not negate the huge benefits of these relatively new types of drugs, doctors stress. Called checkpoint inhibitors, they have transformed treatment of several types of cancer by helping the immune system see and attack tumors. \n In rare cases, the immune system seems to attack not only the tumor but also the heart and other muscles, causing dangerous inflammation and heart rhythm problems. Patients need to be told of the risks, monitored closely and treated quickly with medicines to quell the immune response if trouble develops. \n Besides melanoma, the Opdivo-Yervoy combination is used to treat some lung cancers, though at different doses. Other checkpoint inhibitors include Genentech's Tecentriq, for bladder cancer, and Merck & Co.'s Keytruda, which former President Jimmy Carter received for melanoma that spread to his brain. Many more are in testing. \n There have been occasional, previous reports of heart troubles with these drugs. After the two recent deaths, doctors asked Bristol-Myers to check patient safety records on Opdivo and Yervoy. \n As of April, 18 cases of serious heart inflammation were found among 20,594 patients receiving either or both drugs, a rate of 0.09 percent. It was more severe and more common among people on both drugs, affecting 0.27 percent of those patients. Bristol-Myers scientists helped write the journal report, and some other authors consult for the company. \n Studies have shown that the drug combination gives a stronger anti-cancer effect than either drug alone, but \"we've known this is a double-edged sword\" because of the risk of over-stimulating the immune system, said Dr. Jeffrey Sosman of Northwestern University in Chicago, who treated the two patients who died. \n \"The big question is, is there enough advantage to using the combination, which is much more toxic, than a single drug,\" he said. \n That's a larger question facing the cancer field, not just with immune therapies. Some of the newer gene-targeting drugs also have produced major side effects when used in combination. Yet many doctors believe that combos may be the best way to get cancer to go into remission and stay there longer, by shutting down multiple pathways the tumor employs at once. \n Dr. Michael Atkins, deputy director of the Georgetown-Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, believes the heart problems with checkpoint inhibitors will turn out to be treatable in most patients. \n \"It just gives us a moment of pause,\" said Atkins, who led a study that included one of the two patients who died. \"This is a rare event \u2026 but it's a particularly serious one.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Some immune-boosting cancer drugs may pose rare heart risks"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin chaired a government meeting in the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow, Russia, today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during a campaign rally, today, in Miami. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The questions have been a recurring undercurrent throughout the presidential campaign: What is Donald Trump's relationship with Russia? Why does he keep praising its president, Vladimir Putin? Is Russia meddling in the U.S. election? And is the FBI investigating any of this? \n As the race enters its final stretch, a look at the situation: \n TRUMP'S WORDS \n Trump has raised eyebrows for repeatedly praising Putin's leadership and advocating a closer working relationship with Russia despite its record of human rights abuses and recent military incursions in Ukraine and Syria. \n \"At least he's a leader,\" Trump told MSNBC of Putin last December, \"unlike what we have in this country.\" \n Trump often bemoans the state of U.S.-Russia relations and argues the U.S. would be better off if the two countries put aside their differences and worked together to take on Islamic State militants. That's despite Russia's backing of Syrian President Bashar Assad, whom the U.S. opposes. \n \"I don't know Putin but wouldn't it be nice if we could get along actually with the other country?\" Trump asked Sunday at a rally. \"They want to get ISIS. We want to get ISIS. We'd put everything together, we knock the hell out of ISIS.\" \n In recent days Trump has also escalated his criticism of rival Hillary Clinton for being too tough on Putin. \n \"She speaks very badly of Putin, and I don't think that's smart,\" Trump recently said at a rally in Ohio. \"How do you speak so badly of someone?\" \n WHAT'S THE RELATIONSHIP? \n Trump has been contradictory when describing his relationship with Putin. He told ABC in July that he had \"no relationship with\" with the Russian leader and had no recollection of ever meeting him. But several times in prior years, he'd stated the opposite. \n \"I do have a relationship with him,\" Trump said in one 2013 interview in Moscow. \n The ABC interview in which Trump said he'd \"never met\" Putin directly contradicted a 2015 interview Trump did with talk-radio host Michael Savage. \n Asked point-blank by Savage whether he'd ever met Putin, Trump responded: \"Yes. One time, yes. Long time ago.\" \n TRUMP'S HIRES \n Throughout the campaign, Trump has repeatedly tapped top advisers with close ties to Russia. Among them: former campaign chair Paul Manafort. \n Trump brought on Manafort in March. Manafort, a longtime Republican operative who'd spent recent years advising a pro-Russian Ukrainian political party before its ouster over alleged corruption, and his deputy Rick Gates took over functional control of managing the Trump campaign in June. \n Given the Republican Party's generally hawkish stance on Russia, Manafort's past work repeatedly put him in the spotlight. \n In August, The New York Times reported that a hand-written ledger of cash payments made by Ukraine's ousted government listed Manafort as being paid $12.7 million. Ukrainian prosecutors said the payments detailed in the ledger were an effort to obscure bribes. \n A few days later, The Associated Press reported that Manafort and Gates had orchestrated a secret Ukrainian lobbying campaign in Washington. Participants said the men had sought to obscure the true backer of the work \u2014 Ukraine's pro-Russian ruling party \u2014 by routing lobbying funds through a nonprofit front group. \n Manafort and Gates denied having been involved in the lobbying. But emails obtained by the AP explicitly showed Gates giving orders to the lobbyists. \n Manafort departed the campaign the following day. \n RUSSIAN HACKING \n Democratic Party officials learned in late April that their systems were attacked after discovering malicious software on their computers. A cybersecurity firm, CrowdStrike Inc., found traces of at least two sophisticated hacking groups on the Democrats' network \u2014 both with ties to the Russian government. \n Those hackers took at least one year's worth of detailed chats, emails and research about Trump, according to a person knowledgeable of the breach who wasn't authorized to speak publicly. \n CrowdStrike said one of the hacking groups, dubbed Cozy Bear, had previously infiltrated unclassified networks at the White House, the State Department and the Pentagon's Joint Chiefs of Staff. Another group detected, called Fancy Bear, had targeted private- and public-sector networks since the mid-2000s. \n In addition to the Democratic Party hack, other emails were made public in recent months that detailed tens of thousands of messages from Democratic operatives. \n Among those were emails of Clinton's campaign chair John Podesta, which contained thousands of messages to and from Clinton campaign insiders. Clinton's campaign has said it was notified by the U.S. government that it was investigating Russia for the Podesta hack. \n The Podesta emails have been publicly released daily by WikiLeaks. They have provided a steady stream of questions about Clinton's policy positions, personnel choices and ties with her husband's charitable network. \n The Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Homeland Security Department have formally accused Russian state-sponsored hackers of the Democratic Party cyberattacks and accused them of trying to influence the presidential election. \n Trump, meanwhile, has said there's no proof of Russian involvement in any of the hacking. He's taken a blase attitude toward a foreign power's attempts to influence the election, at one pointing calling on Russia to find emails Clinton had deleted. His campaign later said he was joking. \n THE FBI'S REACTION \n As the election enters its final stretch, Democrats have been pressing for action. \n But the FBI's actions are unclear. \n Sen. Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat, accused FBI Director James Comey of a double standard by publicly discussing the FBI's investigation into Clinton's private email server without confirming whether it had opened a probe into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. \n The New York Times reported that the FBI this summer had looked into links between the Russian government and the Trump campaign, but had so far found nothing conclusive or criminal. An FBI spokeswoman declined to comment on the report. \n WHAT HAS RUSSIA SAID? \n Russia, including Putin, has denied meddling in the U.S. election. \n The AP learned that Russia's government did lodge an angry complaint in September with the United Nations over a top U.N. official's condemnations of Trump and several European leaders, an unusual intervention given that none of the criticized politicians were Russian. \n Associated Press writers Jeff Horwitz, Jack Gillum and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Questions linger about Trump's relationship with Russia"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / APRIL 2012 \n Maui County officials say they need more time to decide on two proposals that would extend the county's ban on plastic bags to include reusable ones and doaway with food containers. \n WAILUKU \u00bb Maui County officials say they need more time to decide on two proposals that would extend the county's ban on plastic bags to include reusable ones and do away with food containers. \n The proposal from council member Elle Cochran would prohibit businesses from providing plastic bags to customers at checkout and elsewhere in the store. Some exemptions would include plastic bags used to package loose items, such as fruits and vegetables. \n In 2011, Maui County became the first in the state to ban single-use plastic bags at checkpoint. The law still allows for the use of reusable bags, which Cochran said \"still end up in our landfills and take longer to break down.\" \n The second proposal would ban single-use polystyrene food containers. Styrofoam would not be banned under the bill, according to Maui County Environmental Coordinator Robert Parsons. \n The committee heard from about two dozen residents who spoke on the issue. Those who were in favor of the proposals said plastic and foam products harm the environment, while others said a ban would negatively impact businesses. \n Stella Yasuda is a sales representative with Honolulu-based KYD Inc., which manufactures polystyrene products and also distributes compostable materials. Melted-down polystyrene is reusable, she said, adding that compostable products require heavier materials to make, which would result in higher shipping costs for businesses. \n Emily Kunz, who owns Choice Health Bar in Lahaina, said people visit the island because of its beautiful environment. \n \"We were ranked again the number one island in the world,\" Kunz said. \"It should coincide with us having the number one best environmental protection laws.\" \n The committee agreed with residents that more needs to be done to address pollution in the county, with council member Gladys Baisa suggesting \"a more intensive anti-litter campaign.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui County considers ban on plastic bags, foam containers"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill Cosby, center, arrived for a hearing in his sexual assault case at the Montgomery County Courthouse today, in Norristown, Pa. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill Cosby, right, arrived for a hearing in his sexual assault case at the Montgomery County Courthouse today, in Norristown, Pa. \n NORRISTOWN, Pa. \u00bb Bill Cosby's eyesight has deteriorated to the point where he cannot identify his accusers in photographs or otherwise help with his defense, his lawyers said today as they waged a multipronged effort to get the sexual assault case against the 79-year-old comedian thrown out. \n His attorneys also portrayed Cosby as a political pawn who is being prosecuted only because a suburban Philadelphia district attorney used the public furor over the comic to get elected last year. \n And they renewed their argument that Cosby's lurid 2005 deposition from a related lawsuit should not be admitted at his trial, saying he answered questions under oath only after being assured he would not be charged with a crime. \n Cosby leaned back in his chair as his lawyers made their case to a judge at the pretrial hearing. \n The \"Cosby Show\" star once known as America's Dad is scheduled to go on trial in June on charges he drugged and molested Andrea Constand, a former Temple University employee, at his home in 2004. He could get 10 years in prison. \n Cosby has said the encounter was consensual. He is free on $1 million bail. \n Dozens of additional accusers have come forward, including 13 women whom prosecutors want to call as witnesses at the trial to show that they were drugged and violated in similar fashion. Cosby's lawyers are fighting that strategy. \n Defense attorney Angela Agrusa argued that prosecutors unfairly prejudiced Cosby by waiting a decade to pursue Constand's complaint. The defense said Cosby has memory problems and is also legally blind, presenting a medical report that said he is blind in his right eye and has glaucoma in both eyes. \n \"In the materials they turned over, the photographs, Mr. Cosby cannot look at a photograph or any evidence and help his counsel or explain who those people are,\" Agrusa said. \n However, prosecutors said Cosby himself caused the delay by fighting efforts by The Associated Press \u2014 in 2006 and again in 2014 \u2014 to unseal his testimony in Constand's 2005 lawsuit. Prosecutors said that it was not until a judge unsealed the material last year that they learned that Cosby had admitted to a series of affairs and acknowledged obtaining quaaludes to give to women before sex. \n \"He had never admitted to using powerful drugs to facilitate sex with women. That's a big deal,\" Deputy District Attorney Robert Falin said. \"In our case, it goes to what exactly did he give to Andrea. \u2026 I think any reasonable prosecutor would have taken another look at the case.\" \n Cosby's lawyers have also argued that he sat for the deposition only after then-District Attorney Bruce Castor promised he would never face arrest in the Constand case. \n Cosby's attorneys are using that supposed promise to try to get the case thrown out or, failing that, to keep the deposition from being used at his trial. The judge did not immediately rule on the issue. \n They are also focusing on the campaign battle between Castor and the current district attorney, Kevin Steele, in last year's election in Montgomery County. Steele ran press releases and TV commercials attacking Castor for not prosecuting Cosby. \n Steele made Cosby a \"pawn in that election,\" Agrusa argued. \n \"His cause celebre became attacking Mr. Cosby, stating publicly that his opponent had not been aggressive enough, had not done his job,\" she said. \"And now he's in a situation where he's got to act on it.\" \n At another point, Agrusa said: \"My client is not a meme. He's a human being. And his rights have been trampled by ego and ambition.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill Cosby is too blind to defend himself, lawyers say"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Whether it's a video clip of your friend's dog or a live stream of the presidential debates, you are likely watching more videos on Facebook than ever. And that means you're also more likely to see video ads. \n NEW YORK >> Whether it's a video clip of your friend's dog or a live stream of the presidential debates, you are likely watching more videos on Facebook than ever. And that means you're also more likely to see video ads. \n Facebook's latest strategy is to grow both user-generated and advertiser-created videos as it tries to get a firm foothold in this nascent but growing market. The strategy appears to be working. While Madison Avenue is not known for risky experimenting, advertisers are already testing the waters with live video. General Motors, for example, launched its electric Chevy Bolt EV through Facebook Live this year. \n It helps that Facebook had successfully transitioned from desktop to mobile, despite early doubts. Now, when Facebook tries to sell video to its advertisers, it can simply point to past financial results. The percentage of ad revenue that came from mobile has increased every quarter since the company began reporting this figure in 2012. \n In the April-June quarter, Facebook had $6.24 billion in advertising revenue, a 63 percent increase from a year earlier. Mobile advertising accounted for 84 percent of this. Facebook had 1.71 billion monthly users as of June 30, up 15 percent from a year earlier. Facebook is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings later Wednesday. \n Video is the next challenge. Where Twitter failed with the quirky, killed-off video app Vine, Facebook is succeeding with Instagram, not to mention its main service. Users are posting and watching live and recorded videos, thanks to more powerful smartphones and a relentless prodding by Facebook to do so. If you use Facebook, for example, you likely received notifications that your friend \"is live now\" or \"was live\" \u2014 that is, broadcasting live video from wherever they happen to be, doing whatever they happen to be doing. \n While Facebook does not break out how much money it makes from video advertisements, the Menlo Park, California, company needs them to keep growing revenue at the impressive rates it has since going public in 2012. Video ads make up a small but growing slice of the overall digital ad market. Research firm eMarketer expects U.S. mobile video ad spending to hit $7.1 billion in 2018, up from $4.5 billion this year. That's about 10 percent of the overall money spent on mobile advertisements. \n Live and prerecorded videos are just one example of the new ways Facebooks is finding to show you ads. Down the road, expect ads on the messaging service WhatsApp, or on Oculus Rift, its virtual reality headset. If you are one of the 1 billion people who use Facebook Messenger, you are likely seeing the precursor of ads in the service, in the form of businesses messaging you with automated \"chatbots.\" \n EMarketer estimates that Facebook's global ad revenue will hit $25.9 billion this year, up from $17.1 billion in 2015. The company is the world's No. 2 digital ad publisher behind Google. Another tidbit: eMarketer estimates that each Facebook user, on average, will generate an estimated $15.83 for the company this year. \n There have been some hurdles. In September, Facebook disclosed that it overstated the average length of time users watched video ads on its site. The measurement didn't affect how much Facebook charges to run video spots, but analysts say ad agencies may have used the Facebook estimates as a key metric when they plan campaigns and decide how much advertising to place on Facebook or competing sites. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook pushes ahead with video ambitions"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama boarded Air Force One, today, at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. Obama was headed back to North Carolina to help turn out the vote for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton with a rally in Chapel Hill. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb President Barack Obama staunchly defended Hillary Clinton's use of private email as an \"honest mistake,\" suggesting today that voters should discount innuendo-filled revelations that the FBI is looking into more emails just ahead of Election Day. \n Obama walked a careful line in his first public comments about FBI Director James Comey's decision to publicly disclose the emails' existence, which has roiled the campaign. Though he did not explicitly criticize Comey, Obama outlined a standard for how investigations should be conducted that contrasted sharply with the approach Comey has pursued. \n \"I do think that there is a norm that when there are investigations, we don't operate on innuendo, we don't operate on incomplete information, we don't operate on leaks,\" Obama said in an interview with online news outlet NowThis. \"We operate based on concrete decisions that are made.\" \n Comey notified Congress in a brief and ambiguous letter last week that the FBI was examining whether newly uncovered emails might pertain to a dormant FBI probe into Clinton's email practices. Comey's letter shed no light on whether investigators were likely to actually turn up anything of note. \n Meanwhile, a series of leaks by FBI and Justice Department officials about how the emails came to light have further muddied the waters for voters, who must decide whether to let the revelations affect their choice for president. \n The White House insisted that Obama comments shouldn't be construed as pertaining to Clinton's case, even though they came in response to a direct question about Comey and the Clinton emails. White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Obama was merely pointing out that if facts are released before an investigation is completed, \"that could lead to public speculation or innuendo.\" \n \"The president believes that \u2014 generally speaking \u2014 that doesn't serve our interests,\" Schultz said. \n Obama, in the interview, emphasized that he's trying to avoid looking like he's meddling in an independent process. At the same time, he pointed to the FBI's earlier investigation of Clinton, which concluded she shouldn't be charged with a crime, as evidence that the issue was much ado about nothing. \n \"Hillary Clinton, having been in the arena for 30 years, oftentimes gets knocked around, and people say crazy stuff about her, and when she makes a mistake \u2014 an honest mistake \u2014 it ends up being blown up as if it's just some crazy thing,\" Obama said. \n How to handle the uproar over Comey and the emails has become a delicate balancing act for the White House. The principle of judicial independence dictates that the president shouldn't risk the perception of influencing investigations by commenting about whether they are appropriate or how they are conducted. \n On the other hand, White House aides and other Democrats are concerned that Clinton could be unfairly disadvantaged by the disclosure that the FBI is looking into her emails again, even it if ultimately amounts to nothing. \n In the closing days of the race, there also has been speculation and contradictory reports about whether the FBI is investigating Donald Trump's possible connections with Russia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Defending Clinton, Obama draws contrast with FBI's Comey"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image provided by European Southern Observatory, taken by the MUSE instrument, mounted on ESO's Very Large Telescope and shows the region R44 within the Carina Nebula, 7500 light-years away. Scientists say these new images appear to be pillars of destruction, in which massive new stars destroy the clouds of gas from which they were born. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. \u00bb A peek into a distant star-breeding ground has uncovered scenes worthy of a watercolor master. \n The pictures rank right with the Hubble Space Telescope's famous Pillars of Creation in the Eagle Nebula, an image now 21 years old. Scientists say these new images appear to be pillars of destruction, in which massive new stars destroy the clouds of gas from which they were born. They do that by blasting out radiation. Scientists were able to see the effect of this so-called photo evaporation in the dissipating pillars. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Telescope reveals amazing pillars in star-breeding ground"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's campaign manager John Podesta spoke to members of the media, on Oct. 5, outside Clinton's home in Washington. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A State Department official appeared to coordinate with Hillary Clinton's campaign team hours before the former secretary of state's exclusive use of private emails was first detailed in a news account last year, newly released hacked emails show. \n Emails from the files of Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta show that the department official provided Clinton aides with the agency's official response to a New York Times reporter in advance of the newspaper's March 2015 report that Clinton had used a private email account to conduct all of her work-related business as secretary. \n The stolen emails were released today by WikiLeaks, part of a massive trove of emails released by the document-leaking group on a daily basis since last month. WikiLeaks has indicated it intends to leak emails stolen from Podesta's account every day through the election. \n In a March 1, 2015 email, State Department press aide Lauren Hickey told Clinton's team that then-State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki had \"just cleared\" a reply to the Times. Hickey provided the agency's response to the Clinton aides and also appeared to agree to a change requested by the campaign, saying: \"Yes on your point re records \u2013 done below.\" It is not clear what specific change was requested and made. \n State Department spokesman John Kirby said today that the department would not comment on alleged leaked documents. But he said the department's effort to \"provide accurate information to the media\" about Clinton's tenure at the agency has \"at times required communicating with her representatives to ensure accuracy.\" \n The Clinton campaign has repeatedly warned that WikiLeaks has exploited emails stolen by hackers who may be working for the Russian government. \n The Podesta emails follow a string of notable illicit caches released during the 2016 election campaign, including thousands of messages stolen from the Democratic National Committee and former Secretary of State Colin Powell. The FBI has opened a criminal investigation into the DNC thefts, but U.S. intelligence agencies are firmly pointing to the Russian government. \n In a hacked email chain from March 17, 2015, Clinton's campaign advisers discussed how to respond to a request by a Times reporter for comment on an upcoming story about how top State Department aides used private email accounts to communicate with Clinton. \n Clinton aide Philippe Reines wrote: \"There's a lot to respond to here, but first and foremost the premise is wrong. There is nothing wrong with anyone having personal email addresses or her emailing someone's private account or vice versa. Maybe she was wishing (longtime aide) Jake (Sullivan) a happy birthday. Or I was sending her a note about her mom. \u2026 We're allowed to have personal lives.\" \n Campaign spokewoman Jennifer Palmieri wrote: \"Strikes me as a big problem that the NYT is having selected emails leaked to them and I think we should do a call to discuss the proper way to handle.\" \n Associated Press writers Russ Bynum and Matthew Lee contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hacked emails show Clinton campaign communicated with State Department"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "Police have initiated an arson investigation after the Honolulu Fire Department determined a residential fire in Kapalama was intentionally set. \n At 12:46 p.m. Tuesday, firefighters responded to a two-alarm fire at 1218 Alani Street. Police said the fire broke out within the first level of the two-story home while two women were at home. \n One of the two residents, 20, who was inside the first level climbed out of a window. \n Honolulu Fire Capt. David Jenkins said both residents were able to escape without injury. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control shortly before 1 p.m. and extinguished it by 1:12 p.m. \n Damage was estimated at $6,000 to the structure and its contents. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Arson suspected in Kapalama house fire"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "MAUI COUNTY / PAUL MANZANO \n High surf caused the parking lot at Baldwin Beach Park on the north shore of Maui to close. \n Surf of 20 to 25 feet began sweeping across north and west shores of most islands today, prompting a high surf warning and closing a north Maui beach park. \n The high surf flooded the parking lot of Baldwin Beach Park this morning. Maui County closed the park until at least Thursday. \n The high surf warning covers the north shores of Oahu and Maui, and the west-facing shores of Kauai County and Molokai. The warning is in effect through 6 p.m. tonight. The surf is expected to decline to advisory levels tonight and a high surf advisory is expected to continue through Friday as a reinforcing swell arrives late tonight and peaks Friday morning. \n \"Expect ocean water occasionally sweeping across portions of beaches,\" weather officials said. \"Very strong breaking waves and strong longshore and rip currents may occasionally impact harbors making navigating the harbor channel dangerous.\" \n Boaters are also advised to take precautions as challenges may arise in navigating into the harbor channel due to breaking waves. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "20 to 25-foot surf prompts warning, closes Maui park"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/RICK SCUTERI, FILE \n In this March 18, 2016 file photo, Fox News Channel's Sean Hannity speaks during a campaign rally for Republican presidential candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, in Phoenix. The conservative radio talker and Fox News host apologized Nov. 1, 2016, for reading a fake news story on air that claimed first lady Michelle Obama had scrubbed her Twitter account of mentions of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. \n New York \u00bb Sean Hannity has apologized for reading a fake news story on air that claimed first lady Michelle Obama had scrubbed her Twitter account of mentions of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. \n The conservative radio talker and Fox News host also says one of his radio listeners called in to say President Barack Obama and Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren did the same. On Twitter Tuesday , Hannity said, \"Fact is they didn't. I humbly apologize. Live radio.\" \n Hannity is one of Donald Trump's biggest allies in the media and has acknowledged giving the GOP nominee campaign advice in private. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sean Hannity sorry for fake story on Michelle Obama, Clinton"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/RICH PEDRONCELLI, FILE \n San Jose joined other cities on Nov. 1, 2016, by banning pot shops ahead of Tuesday's vote on whether to legalize the drug in California. \n San Jose, Calif. \u00bb San Jose has banned sales of recreational marijuana ahead of next week's vote on whether to legalize the drug in California. \n Several cities across the state have halted or regulated nonmedical pot sales in the days before Californians decide on Proposition 64 on Tuesday. \n Polls have shown Proposition 64 with more than the 50 percent of voter support needed to pass. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Calif. cities ban pot shops ahead of legalization vote"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "Tacoma, Wash. \u00bb A Washington state mother is charged with giving her three small children heroin after a boy told investigators his mother used a needle to inject him and his sisters with \"feel good medicine\" to help them sleep. \n State Child Protective Services investigators became involved after receiving a report of heroin use at the Spanaway home 24-year-old Ashlee Hutt shared with the children's father, Mac Leroy McIver. The children, ages 6, 4 and 2, were removed from the home last year. \n The Pierce County Prosecutor's Office says Hutt was charged Monday with unlawful delivery of a controlled substance to a child, criminal mistreatment and child assault. McIver was charged with the same crimes in September. \n Online court records show both Hutt and McIver remain in custody. Their lawyers didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mom charged with giving kids heroin to help them sleep"}

{"date": "November 2, 2016", "text": "An accident in South Kona shut down Highway 11 in Honaunau for about 4 hours. \n Hawaii County police issued an alert at about 1:45 p.m. and reopened the road at about 5:45 p.m. \n Motorists were advised to use Middle Keei Road and Napoopoo Road as alternate routes. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii County police reopen Highway 11 near Honaunau"}

