{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People watch a TV screen showing the news program about South Korean President Park Geun-hye's apology, at Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean President Park Geun-hye has ordered 10 of her senior secretaries to resign amid an investigation that she let an old friend, the daughter of a religious cult leader, interfere in important state affairs. \n The announcement by Park's office came before thousands were expected to turn out in anti-government protests planned in Seoul on Saturday over the scandal that is likely to deepen the president's lame duck status ahead of next year's elections. \n Park has been facing calls to reshuffle her office after she admitted on Tuesday that she provided longtime friend Choi Soon-sil drafts of her speeches for editing. Her televised apology sparked huge criticism about her mismanagement of national information and heavy-handed leadership style many see as lacking in transparency. \n There's also media speculation that Choi, who holds no government job, meddled in government decisions on personnel and policy and exploited her ties with the president to misappropriate funds from nonprofit organizations. \n Prosecutors on Saturday widened their investigation by searching the homes and offices of presidential officials suspected of interacting with Choi, South Korea's Yonhap news agency said. Park's office, however, denied that prosecutors searched the Blue House \u2014 the presidential office and residence. Prosecutors had previously summoned some of Choi's key associates and raided their homes and workplaces and also the offices of two nonprofit foundations Choi supposedly controlled. \n The saga, triggered by weeks of media reports, has sent Park's approval ratings to record lows and the minority opposition Justice Party has called for her to resign. The Minjoo Party, a larger opposition party which has refrained from calling for Park's resignation over fears of negatively affecting next year's presidential vote, said Park's decision to shake up her secretariat was too little and too late and called for stronger changes, including the reshuffling of her Cabinet. \n Park's aides on the way out include Woo Byung-woo, senior presidential secretary for civil affairs, and Ahn Jong-beom, senior secretary for policy coordination. Lee Won-jong, Park's chief of staff, tendered his resignation on Wednesday. \n Woo has been blamed for failing to prevent Choi from influencing state affairs and has also been embroiled in separate corruption allegations surrounding his family. \n Ahn, whose home and office were reportedly searched by prosecutors on Saturday, is under suspicion that he helped Choi pressure South Korean companies into making large donations to the Mir and K-Sports foundations, launched in October last year and January this year, respectively. Choi reportedly masterminded the creation of the two nonprofits, which managed to gather around $70 million in corporate donations over a short period of time, and is suspected of misappropriating some of these funds for personal use. \n Park's office said she plans to announce a new lineup of senior secretaries soon. \n Choi's lawyer Lee Gyeong-jae said that she was currently in Germany and is willing to return to South Korea if prosecutors summon her. In an interview with a South Korean newspaper earlier this week, Choi admitted receiving presidential documents in advance, but denied intervening in state affairs or pressuring companies into donating to the foundations. \n Choi and Park reportedly became friends in the 1970s when Choi's late father, Choi Tae-min, a shadowy religious figure who was a Buddhist monk, cult leader and Christian pastor at different points of his life, emerged as Park's mentor. \n At the time, Park was serving as acting first lady after her mother was killed in 1974 by a man trying to assassinate her father, military strongman Park Chung-hee, who would be murdered by his own spy chief five years later. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korean president orders senior secretaries to resign"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chinese Coast Guard members approach Filipino fishermen as they confront each other off Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea, also called the West Philippine Sea. \n MANILA, Philippines >> The Philippines and the U.S. are verifying if Chinese coast guard ships left a disputed shoal after President Rodrigo Duterte reached out to Beijing, allowing Filipino fishermen back to the rich fishing area that China seized in 2012 as tensions spiked in the South China Sea. \n Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said the Philippine coast guard reported that Chinese ships have not been sighted at Scarborough Shoal in the last three days, but he added the report has to be validated. Lorenzana told The Associated Press that the Philippine air force plans to conduct aerial surveillance of the shoal off the northwestern Philippines as early as Saturday to check the situation. \n China took effective control of the tiny, uninhabited shoal in 2012, after a tense standoff with Philippine vessels. Since then, Chinese coast guard ships have been driving Filipino fishermen away from the area, while farther south in the Spratly Islands, China went on to construct seven man-made islands despite protests from other claimants. \n Deputy U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters in Beijing on Saturday that China's withdrawal from Scarborough Shoal, even if it were a product of bilateral talks with Duterte, \"would be a positive development\" welcomed by Washington. \n He said it would be consistent with an international arbitration ruling in July that invalidated Beijing's sweeping territorial claims in the South China Sea. The ruling said that both Filipinos and Chinese can fish at the shoal, but China ignored it and its coast guard continued to block Filipino fishermen. \n Blinken said that the U.S. would continue to conduct freedom of navigation exercises in the South China Sea that challenge Beijing's territorial claims at a time when countries in the region\u2014 including those that are not directly involved in the China-Philippine dispute \u2014 have signaled \"increased demand\" for American presence. \n Duterte has attempted to repair relations with China, but he has also ruffled feathers with the Philippines' longtime ally by threatening to scale down military ties with the U.S. and hurling insults at President Barack Obama. \n State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the U.S. was still assessing reports that Chinese boats have left Scarborough Shoal and Filipinos have resumed fishing there. \n \"We hope it is certainly not a temporary measure. We would like it to be a sign that China and the Philippines are moving toward an agreement on fishing access at Scarborough that would be in accordance with the July 12 arbitral decision,\" Toner told reporters in Washington. \n After visiting Beijing last week, Duterte said without elaborating that Filipino fishermen \"may\" be able to return to Scarborough after he discussed the territorial rift with Chinese leaders. \n He said he insisted in his talks with Chinese leaders that the shoal belonged to the Philippines, but that the Chinese also asserted their claim of ownership. \n \"If the Chinese ships have left, then it means our fishermen can resume fishing in the area. We welcome this development,\" Lorenzana said. \"Our fishermen have not been fishing there since 2012. This will return to them their traditional source of livelihood.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines, U.S. verifying if Chinese left disputed shoal"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Transgender high school student Gavin Grimm poses in Gloucester, Va. The Supreme Court will take up transgender rights for the first time in the case of a Virginia school board that wants to prevent a transgender teenager from using the boys' bathroom at his high school. \n WASHINGTON >> The Supreme Court will take up transgender rights for the first time in the case of a Virginia school board that wants to prevent a transgender teenager from using the boys' bathroom at his high school. \n The justices said Friday they will hear the appeal from the Gloucester County school board sometime next year. The high court's order means that student Gavin Grimm will not be able to use the boys' bathroom in the meantime. \n The court could use the case to resolve similar disputes across the country, said Shannon Minter, legal director of the National Center for Lesbian Rights. \"Obviously, for transgender people, the stakes of this case are incredibly high. Whatever the court rules in Grimm may ensure that transgender people are accepted and included as equal members of our society, or it may relegate them to outsiders for decades to come,\" Minter said. \n A lower court had ordered the school board to accommodate Grimm, but the justices in August put that order on hold while they considered whether to hear the appeal. \n Grimm, a 17-year-old high school senior, was born female but identifies as male. He was allowed to use the boys' restroom at his high school for several weeks in 2014. But after some parents complained, the school board adopted a policy requiring students to use either the restroom that corresponds with their biological gender or a private, single-stall restroom. Grimm is backed by the Obama administration in his argument that the policy violates Title IX, a federal law that bars sex discrimination in schools. \n \"I never thought that my restroom use would ever turn into any kind of national debate,\" Grimm said in a statement issued after the court announced it will hear his case. \"The only thing I ever asked for was the right to be treated like everyone else. While I'm disappointed that I will have to spend my final school year being singled out and treated differently from every other guy, I will do everything I can to make sure that other transgender students don't have to go through the same experience.\" \n Gloucester County school board chairman Troy Andersen praised the court for agreeing to hear what he called a difficult case. \"The board looks forward to explaining to the Court that its restroom and locker room policy carefully balances the interests of all students and parents in the Gloucester County school system,\" Andersen said. \n The Education Department says transgender students should be allowed to use restrooms and locker rooms consistent with their gender identities. Among the issues in the case is whether the department's guidance should have the force of law. \n Similar lawsuits are pending around the country. The Obama administration has sued North Carolina over a state law aimed at restricting transgender students to bathrooms that correspond to their biological genders. \n A federal judge in Texas has sided with Texas and 12 other states in issuing a nationwide hold on the administration's directive to public schools, issued in May. The directive tells schools to allow transgender students to use the bathroom and locker room consistent with their gender identity. \n The case probably will be heard in the winter, and it is by no means certain that there will be a ninth justice to fill the seat left vacant by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February. Senate Republicans have refused to act on Judge Merrick Garland's nomination to the high court. A tie vote would be a victory for Grimm, who won in the lower courts, but would leave the issue unresolved nationally. \n The Supreme Court split 5 to 3 in August to put the court order in Grimm's case on hold. At the time, Justice Stephen Breyer said he was providing a fifth vote to go along with the four more conservative justices to \"preserve the status quo\" until the court decided whether to weigh in. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan dissented. \n Grimm had urged the court not to take up his case. \n The school board asked the court to settle the matter now. It said that allowing Grimm to use the boys restroom raises privacy concerns and may cause some parents to pull their children out of school. \n The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond sided with Grimm in April, saying the federal judge who previously dismissed Grimm's Title IX discrimination claim ignored the Education Department's guidance on bathroom use. \n The appeals court reinstated Grimm's Title IX claim and sent it back to the district court for further consideration. The judge then issued the order in favor of Grimm. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court to hear case of transgender bathroom policy"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Donald Trump supporter Mary Celeste Madrid stands by her car, in Pueblo, Colo. A longtime Democrat and Obama voter who changed her registration to Republican last year over the GOP's support for gun rights and opposition to abortion, Madrid says she's also had to endure family battles over her support for Trump. \n PUEBLO, Colo. >> Donald Trump's immigration stand is testing a long-term trend among traditionally Democratic-leaning Hispanics. And it's a trend that favors the GOP. \n The longer a Hispanic family has been in the U.S., and the more English they use, then the more likely they are to vote Republican. \n In this election, polls show 83 percent of Trump's Latino supporters are U.S.-born. But his harsh words against immigrants could turn them against the GOP by making even them feel unwelcome. \n Overall, polls show Democrat Hillary Clinton leading among Latino voters by nearly 3-1. \n As immigration from Latin America slows, an increasing percentage of Hispanics are U.S.-born, but how those people vote remains an open question. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Election exposes generational divide among Hispanics"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 20, 2008, photo provided by Nikola Halycyone Jordan, Jordan poses with her election ballot in Omaha, Neb. \n DETROIT >> An appeals court ruled that Michigan can prohibit voters from taking selfies with their completed ballots in the Nov. 8 election. \n The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati voted 2-1 against a lower court's ruling that called Michigan's photo ban a free-speech violation in the era of cellphone cameras and instant social media posts. \n Joel Crookston, 32, of Portage in western Michigan, took a \"ballot selfie\" in 2012 while voting for a write-in candidate for Michigan State University trustee. He filed a lawsuit last month in federal court in Grand Rapids after learning that a picture of a ballot could get him in trouble. Michigan's ban on exposing completed ballots has been in place since 1891. \n \"Timing is everything,\" Appeals Court Circuit Judge Jeffrey Sutton wrote in Friday's ruling. \"Crookston's motion and complaint raise interesting First Amendment issues, and he will have an opportunity to litigate them in full \u2014 after this election.\" \n But with just days left before voters go to the polls, \"we will not accept his invitation to suddenly alter Michigan's venerable voting protocols, especially when he could have filed this lawsuit long ago,\" Sutton continued. \n U.S. District Court Judge Janet Neff had issued a preliminary injunction Monday on behalf of Crookston. State elections officials had argued that selfies will lead to delays at polling places as voters take pictures \u2014 or avoid getting into another voter's shot. \n Federal judges have struck down bans on selfies in New Hampshire and Indiana, and rules have been changed in places like California and Rhode Island. There are laws against sharing any photo of your ballot in 18 states, while six other states bar photography in polling places but do allow photos of mail-in ballots. \n The Hawaii legislature passed a law this year that allows voters to share digital images of their ballots. \n Michigan's law declares that \"violators will face one penalty: the vote they wanted the world to see will not count,\" according to the appeals court. \n Chief Judge Guy Cole wrote in his dissent that the other two appeals court judges relied on the proximity of the Nov. 8 election and the state's concerns about conveying changes in policy to poll workers. \n The Associated Press left phone messages Friday night seeking comment from Michigan Secretary of State Ruth Johnson's office and from Crookston. \n Crookston's attorney, Stephen Klein, said they're considering their options. \n \"I think the dissent could not have said it better, that the majority of the court put administrative convenience above individual rights,\" Klein told the AP. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Appeals Court rules Michigan can ban ballot selfies, for now"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump has repeatedly said he will spend $100 million or more of his own money on his presidential bid. Yet even with a fresh donation, he is $34 million short of that promise. \n The Republican nominee gave his campaign another $10 million, a Federal Election Commission report filed late Friday showed. At rallies earlier in the day, he told supporters he'd contributed anew. \"Boy, am I spending a lot of my money,\" he said in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. \n He has now made a personal investment of about $66 million over the course of the primary and general elections. \n The latest infusion comes as Democrat Hillary Clinton hold a striking cash advantage over Trump, FEC reports filed Thursday show. As of last week, Clinton and her Democratic partners had $153 million in the bank, more than double the resources as on the Trump side. \n Trump, a New York businessman who says he is worth billions of dollars, invested heavily throughout his GOP primary race. Then, during the general election, he slowed his personal contributions to about $2 million per month. \n Trump's giving has been tied to email appeals to his supporters, promising to \"match\" their donations up to $2 million. \n He stopped making those solicitations through most of October, according to Tom Sather, senior director of research at the email data solutions firm Return Path. The firm tracks every email from political candidates. \n Trump's campaign recently resumed the \"matching\" solicitations. \"I will TRIPLE MATCH any amount you can contribute today,\" stated an email message to his supporters. \n The new gift represents the most that Trump has put into his bid since the month of March, when he loaned his campaign $11.5 million. Trump later zeroed out all of his loans, converting them into contributions that cannot be repaid. \n His personal investment shrinks when accounting for about $9 million in campaign cash that has returned to his family and businesses. \n That money has largely gone to the holding company of his private jet, but the campaign also paid for rent at Trump Tower, catering at his restaurants and even the Trump Ice bottled water that has popped up at his events. \n And Trump's Friday aid follows weeks where Clinton actually chipped in more than he did to cover political expenses. In the first 19 days of the month, Clinton herself offset $87,000 worth of campaign expenses while Trump covered about $33,000 of his. \n Trump gave about $31,000 through the first 19 days of October, the period covered in the filing released Thursday, all of which went to cover rent and payroll. Trump also gave an additional $2,600 on Oct. 20, other filings show. \n Trump has said repeatedly, during rallies and media interviews, that he will spend $100 million of his own money. In a CNN interview on Wednesday, he said he was \"prepared to go much higher than that.\" \n During a Friday rally in Manchester, New Hampshire, he lightly revised his words, saying he would give \"maybe close to or over\" the $100 million mark. \n \"There's something nice about that,\" Trump said of his personal campaign contributions \u2014 quickly adding that it wouldn't be so nice if he lost the election after spending so much. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump gives $10 million, still short on investment promise"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maui County Health Officer Lorrin Pang, center, talks with people near Twin Falls on Maui about distributing bug repellent. \n Maui health officials are driving along a scenic coastal highway with a giant water-gun spraying trees and brush with diluted detergent to kill mosquito larvae. \n They're stepping up the fight against mosquito-borne diseases like the Zika virus, dengue fever and chikungunya, and handing out bug spray along cliff-hugging Hana Highway, a winding narrow road dotted with lush waterfalls and hiking trails popular with tourists. \n \"Along this corridor we've got what, a million people per year, and we've got, trust me, 10 times the number of mosquitoes biting them,\" said Maui County Health Officer Lorrin Pang. \n Public health officials are visiting attractions along Hana Highway such as Twin Falls and a banana bread stand, asking property managers and others to distribute bug spray to guests. Officials distributed bug spray along the same path during Maui's dengue fever outbreak in 2001, Pang said. \n A recent outbreak of dengue fever on Hawaii's Big Island prompted Maui officials to distribute spray again and take other proactive steps. The Big Island dengue outbreak, which ended in April, sickened more than 260 people. \n Pang and others are using water-guns to splash far-flung trees and forest vegetation with watered-down dish detergent, which Pang says is more environmentally friendly than pesticides and kills larvae over the course of a couple hours. \n \"We have shown in our backyard laboratory the stuff does kill the wigglers,\" Pang said. \"They kind of don't like chemicals, they're organic nature folks, and me too. So a mild soap that degrades in a few hours is right on the money for this.\" \n There have been no known local transmissions of the diseases on Maui, but officials are getting more calls to investigate potential cases, Pang said. \n \"Before we were doing four or five investigations a year of imported cases,\" Pang said. \"Now we look like we're going to do 40 or 50 a year.\" \n To respond to the public's desire for information, Maui officials are tracking disease incidents on a digital map and they're producing a monthly video on cable television. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui officials step up fight against mosquito-borne diseases"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "NOAA/NASA GODDARD MODIS RAPID RESPONSE \n NASA-NOAA's Suomi NPP satellite captured this visible image of Hurricane Seymour in the eastern Pacific Ocean on Tuesday. \n The National Weather Service issued a high surf advisory along all east facing shores until 6 p.m. Sunday because of surf generated by former Hurricane Seymour and breezy tradewinds. \n The tradewinds and hurricane surf will generate wave heights of between 6 and 8 feet, officials said. \n Beach-goers should expect strong breaking waves, moderate impacts and strong longshore and rip currents, which will make swimming difficult and dangerous, forecasters said. \n Beachgoers, swimmers and surfers are urged to heed advice given by lifeguards. \n Hurricane Seymour reached major category 4 hurricane status earlier this week and waves generated by the storm will be arriving on east shores through the weekend. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Surf generated by former hurricane prompts advisory for islands"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by passenger Jose Castillo, fellow passengers walk away from a burning American Airlines jet that aborted takeoff and caught fire on the runway at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport today. \n CHICAGO >> Pilots were forced to abort a takeoff and evacuate passengers from a burning American Airlines flight on a runway at Chicago O'Hare International Airport after the airliner experienced what a federal official said was a rare and serious type of engine failure. \n American Airlines Flight 383 to Miami experienced an \"uncontained engine failure,\" in which engine parts break off and are spewed outside the engine, the official said today. The official wasn't authorized to speak publicly about the incident and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. The danger of such a failure is that engine pieces effectively become shrapnel and can cause extensive damage to the aircraft. \n Flames and heavy black smoke poured from the side of the Boeing 767 jet as it sat on the runway after the aborted takeoff. Officials said the incident left 21 people injured. Footage from the scene showed passengers coming down emergency slides and hurrying across grass next to the runway as emergency vehicles surrounded the plane. The right wing was drooping toward the ground and appeared to have partially melted. \n Passenger Sarah Ahmed told WLS-TV the plane was speeding down the runway when she heard an explosion and saw flames and black smoke. She said everyone on the right side of the aircraft jumped from their seats and moved to the left side. \n \"People are yelling, 'Open the door! Open the door!' Everyone's screaming and jumping on top of each other to open the door,\" Ahmed said. \"Within that time, I think it was seven seconds, there was now smoke in the plane and the fire is right up against the windows, and it's melting the windows.\" \n The pilots reported an engine-related mechanical issue and aborted the takeoff, according to American Airlines spokeswoman Leslie Scott. \n The Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that the plane made an emergency stop around 2:35 p.m. after experiencing a problem during takeoff. An earlier FAA statement said the plane had blown a tire, but officials later deleted that information from the statement. \n Chicago Deputy Fire Commissioner Timothy Sampey said 20 passengers suffered minor injuries as they used the emergency chutes to evacuate. American, which had earlier said eight people were injured, later confirmed the 20 figure and added that one flight attendant was also injured. \n Buses were sent to pick up the passengers and bring them back to the terminal, Scott said. The passengers were to be placed on another flight to Miami this evening. \n The National Transportation Safety Board will conduct an investigation into the incident, with investigators expected to arrive on the scene this evening, spokesman Keith Holloway said. \n Uncontained engine failures are unusual thanks to improvements in designs and the metallurgy. There are many possible causes, including overheating, runway debris or large birds that get sucked into the engine or parts that break when they wear out but aren't replaced during maintenance checks. \n Tom Walsh, an airline pilot who also works as a security consultant, said that engines that break apart can be especially serious if the parts end up cutting fuel lines or damaging other vital components of the aircraft. \n But he said even such catastrophic failures don't necessarily doom a plane \u2014 even if a pilot runs out of runway and must take off. \n \"Planes are meant to fly with one engine,\" said Walsh, who has also flown Boeing 767s. \"We are trained so that we can lose the engine at the worst possible time \u2026 and then still successfully take off and land.\" \n One of the best-known incidents of uncontained engine failure occurred in 1989, when 111 people were killed when a United Air Lines DC-10 crashed while making an emergency landing at Sioux City, Iowa. There were 185 survivors. \n Such engine failures are taken \"very seriously\" in the aviation industry, said John Cox, a former airline pilot and aviation safety consultant. It's mandatory that airlines report the failures to the NTSB, he said. \n \"It's something everyone in aviation safety tracks very carefully,\" said Cox, president of Safety Operating Systems. \n Engines are especially vulnerable to overheating that can cause parts to fail during takeoffs when they are already operating at very high temperatures, said John Goglia, a former National Transportation Safety Board member and expert on aircraft maintenance. \n The giant blades inside the engines are revolving at about 13,000 rpm, he said. When one comes loose, it's like firing a bullet, he said. \n The aircraft involved in Friday's incident was built in 2003 and is among American's youngest planes of that model. According to data from FlightGlobal, an aviation news and industry data company, at the start of this year the plane had flown more than 47,000 hours and made more than 7,500 cycles \u2014 each takeoff and landing is one cycle. American is flying 767 aircraft that have more than 100,000 hours and 18,000 cycles. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Uncontained engine failure' causes American Airlines plane to catch fire"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "Hawaii Island police have reclassified a traffic death to a negligent homicide investigation and are looking for a vehicle that may have fled the scene after the crash. \n Breanna Fujimoto, 20, of Kealakekua died Sept. 4, a day after she was involved in a collision on Hawaii Belt Road. During the initial investigation, police said Fujimoto was traveling south on the highway in a 2016 Honda sedan when she crossed the centerline and hit a 2015 Nissan SUV head-on, just south of the Kamehameha III Highway intersection. \n Fujimoto was taken to Kona Community Hospital where she died from her injuries. \n Detectives have since learned a green Subaru or Isuzu sports utility vehicle may have caused Fujimoto to cross the centerline just before the collision with the Nissan. Police said the green SUV left the scene. \n Anyone who witnessed the crash or the green SUV leaving the scene is asked to call Officer Justin Hooser at 326-4646 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii county police looking for SUV that fled after fatal crash"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA/ DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A memorial for moped rider Lee How ,who died after a moped he was riding collided with another moped in front of the UH William S. Richardson School of Law, was put up by friends. Kaimuki High School classmates Kale Clark, Christopher Tkel, Jr., Joshua Tamargo and Nick Grandinetti contributed to the memorial Wednesday. \n The manner of death for Lee J.Y. How was classified as an accident. \n Police said an 18-year-old moped rider and How, a 2012 Kaimuki High School graduate, were traveling together on Dole Street toward East-West Road Tuesday afternoon. The first moped rider stopped for a pedestrian crossing a marked crosswalk. How, who was riding a 1989 Honda moped, did not see what was happening and rear-ended the first moped. \n Police said How was speeding when he crashed into the first moped. \n Both moped riders were ejected onto the road. Paramedics took How in critical condition to Queen's Medical Center where he died. Emergency Medical Services and police said he was not wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. \n Sens. Lorraine Inouye and Josh Green plan to introduce legislation next year to require moped riders of all ages to wear helmets despite past attempts that faltered. The current law requires moped riders under the age 18 to wear a helmet. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Medical examiner releases cause of death in moped accident near UH-Manoa"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "COURTESY MAYOR CALDWELL'S OFFICE \n Glenn Nohara, chairman of Koga Engineering & Construction, has been tapped by Mayor Kirk Caldwell to replace Colleen Hanabusa on the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation board. \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell has tapped Glenn Nohara, a longtime local construction industry leader, to replace Colleen Hanabusa on the board overseeing the island's financially troubled rail project. \n Nohara has more than 40 years experience in the local building sector and he serves as chairman of Koga Engineering & Construction, a company he has been with since 1984, according to the firm's website. \n Prior to his time at Koga, Nohara worked at Hawaiian Dredging Construction as a cost and project engineer, as well as a superintendent. \n Caldwell notified the City Council by letter today of Nohara's pick to the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation board. In a separate statement, Caldwell touted Nohara's \"years of private sector engineering and construction experience, particularly in estimating construction costs for projects.\" \n Rail in the past two years has been plagued by skyrocketing costs and officials' seeming inability to keep pace with their estimates. Since December 2015 the projected cost has grown by more than $3.3 billion and rail now faces a budget gap of at least $1.8 billion. The latest official estimates put rail's total price tag at $8.6 billion. \n Koga's website lists Nohara as a graduate of the University of Hawaii in civil engineering and of Roosevelt High School. \n Meanwhile, Hanabusa, a former Hawaii congresswoman, submitted her formal resignation as HART chairwoman on Monday as she looks to return to Congress this fall. Her resignation took effect today. \n \"It is with genuinely mixed emotions that I submit this letter,\" Hanabusa wrote to Caldwell. \"I remain confident that HART will address its challenges, complete the project in its entirety, and make a lasting difference for the City and County of Honolulu.\" \n Caldwell appointed Hanabusa to the HART board in June 2015 and she became its chairperson in April following Don Horner's departure from the project. \n The rail board will now have to select a new chairperson to replace Hanabusa. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Longtime construction executive to replace Hanabusa on HART board"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "A U.S. District Court judge has ordered an American tuna fishing company to pay a $1.6 million fine after it was convicted Thursday for illegally discharging oil in to the South Pacific and maintaining false records. \n Pacific Breeze Fisheries LLC owned the Fishing Vessel F/V Pacific Breeze, a tuna purse seiner responsible for the illegal oil discharges. \n The company pleaded guilty before Judge Tanya S. Chutkan of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to four felony violations of the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, failure to accurately maintain an oil record book and for illegal discharging oily bilge water into the South Pacific, according to a news release by the Coast Guard. \n Under a plea agreement, the company will pay the fine and a $400,000 community service payment for use in the National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa. The company currently doesn't manage any fishing vessels. \n Pacific Breeze Fisheries admitted its engineers failed to document illegal dumping of oily bilge water into waters of American Samoa without the use of pollution prevention equipment. The discharges occurred on at least two occasions in 2014 and 2015 before unloading its catch to a cannery at a port in Pago Pago. \n The Coast Guard said the company also confessed that senior engineers regularly failed to accurately record the transfer and disposal of oil waste in the vessel's record book. Tons of oil sludge, waste oil and oily bilge water produced by the vessel remain unaccounted for. \n The Coast Guard relies on oil record books to determine whether vessels are illegally dumping oil at sea. \n Jeon Seon Han, former F/V Pacific Breeze chief engineer, pleaded guilty Tuesday at Honolulu federal court for his role in obstructing a vessel inspection in American Samoa in 2015. \n Han admitted lying to Coast Guard inspectors about the sludge disposal and to ordering the disassembly of an illegal discharge system before the inspection. \n His sentencing is scheduled for February 2017. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Tuna fishing company slapped with $1.6M fine for dumping oil in South Pacific"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "COURTESY UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII \n John V. White, left, and Sonny Ramaswamy \n The University of Hawaii has identified two mainland finalists to lead the flagship Manoa campus as chancellor. \n The open forums, which will be held in the Architecture Auditorium at UH-Manoa, are scheduled for 3:30 p.m. on Nov. 15 with White and on Nov. 22 with Ramaswamy. \n Ramaswamy, who was appointed to his current post in 2012 by President Obama, oversees an agency that provides funding to \"catalyze transformative discoveries, education and engagement to solve societal challenges.\" He previously served as dean of Oregon State University's College of Agricultural Sciences; director of Purdue University's Agricultural Research Programs; professor and head of Kansas State University's entomology department; and entomology professor at Mississippi State University. \n Ramaswamy received his undergraduate in agriculture and a master's degree in entomology from the University of Agricultural Sciences in Bangalore, India. He holds a doctorate in entomology from Rutgers University and is also a graduate of Harvard University's Management Development Program. \n White, meanwhile, became acting chancellor for the Nevada System of Higher Education this summer. He previously served as executive vice president and provost of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Last year he was the runner-up to be UNLV's president, according to the Las Vegas Review-Journal. He stepped down from his position and continued on as an adviser to the new president. \n He previously was a law professor at UNLV's William S. Boyd School of Law, where he served as dean. White, who earned his law degree from Yale Law School, also was a law professor at Louisiana State University, where he lectured about civil rights law. \n UH launched a chancellor search in April with the naming of a 20-member advisory search committee. \n Robert Bley-Vroman, whose appointment as interim Manoa chancellor ended in August, did not want an extension and has returned to a faculty position. \n Bley-Vroman \u2014 previously dean of UH-Manoa's College of Languages, Linguistics and Literature \u2014 was tapped in August 2014, following the dismissal of Tom Apple. UH President David Lassner said at the time that he gave Apple an unsatisfactory performance rating because he was unable to address serious financial troubles, while Apple maintained he was forced out two years into his five-year appointment. \n The UH Board of Regents in August approved Lassner as interim chancellor over objections from some students and faculty, who argued that the two positions should be kept separate. Lassner at the time said he remained committed to continuing the search for a permanent chancellor. He had said he hoped to have a new chancellor in place for the start of the 2017 spring semester. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Search for UH-Manoa chancellor narrows to 2 finalists"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Then-Col. John Rossi spoke at a news conference at Fort Hood headquarters in Killeen, Texas in Nov. 2009. The Army says the death of a two-star general on a military base in Alabama has been ruled a suicide. Rossi was found dead, on July 31, in his home on Redstone Arsenal. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The Army said today it has determined that suicide was the cause of death of a two-star general who was found dead in his home on a military base in Alabama. \n Maj. Gen. John Rossi was found dead July 31 at Redstone Arsenal, two days before he was to assume command of Army Space and Missile Defense Command. \n He is the first Army general to commit suicide on active duty since record-keeping began in 2000, according to the Army. Military suicides soared earlier this decade and remain a major source of concern; they typically have affected lower-ranking military members. \n Rossi, a West Point academy graduate and an air defense artillery officer by training, had just moved onto Redstone Arsenal and was scheduled to be promoted to lieutenant general when he took command of Space and Missile Defense Command. \n A written statement by the Army today made no mention of what might have prompted Rossi to take his own life. \n The Rossi family issued a statement through the Army expressing thanks for wide support and urging those who may need suicide-prevention help to seek it immediately. \n \"To the Army, he was Maj. Gen. Rossi,\" it said. \"To us, he was John \u2014 husband, dad.\" \n \"We ask for the time and space to grieve in private, and for the Army to continue to better understand suicide, and to help and treat those in need,\" the family statement added. \"For our family, this has been an incredibly painful time, and we ask that you continue to keep us in your thoughts and prayers. To all the other families out there, to the man or woman who may be facing challenging times, please seek assistance immediately. Compassionate and confidential assistance is available.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Army says 2-star general died by suicide"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk, right, and Democratic U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth, left, faced off in their first televised debate in what's considered a crucial race that could determine which party controls the Senate, Thursday, at the University of Illinois in Springfield, Ill. \n CHICAGO \u00bb Illinois Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk apologized Friday for mocking his Democratic rival's immigrant background and her claim that her family's military service dates back to the Revolution \u2014 comments that drew wide criticism and threatened an already difficult re-election campaign. \n \"Sincere apologies to an American hero, Tammy Duckworth, and gratitude for her family's service,\" Kirk wrote in a Twitter post. \n During a debate Thursday evening, U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth said her family has \"served this nation in uniform going back to the Revolution.\" \n Kirk responded that he had forgotten that the congresswoman's \"parents came all the way from Thailand to serve George Washington.\" \n Duckworth, an Iraq War veteran who lost both legs when the Black Hawk she was piloting was shot down in 2004, was born in Bangkok. Her mother, who is of Chinese descent, was born in Thailand. Duckworth, who graduated from McKinley High School in Honolulu and the University of Hawaii at Manoa, has said her father first went to Southeast Asia while serving with the Marines in Vietnam. \n Kirk's remark was greeted mostly by silence in the auditorium of the University of Illinois in Springfield on Thursday evening. Elsewhere, there were quick calls for him to apologize. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee immediately called the comment \"offensive, wrong and racist.\" \n Duckworth, the first Asian-American congresswoman from Illinois, later tweeted a photo of herself with her parents, including her father in uniform displaying his medals. Her tweet says: \"My mom is an immigrant and my dad and his family have served this nation in uniform since the Revolution.\" \n Kirk left the debate Thursday night without speaking to reporters. Campaign manager Kevin Artl said Thursday the senator has called Duckworth \"a war hero in his commercials and he commends her family's service.\" \n Kirk's campaign said the senator tried to contact Duckworth by phone to apologize Friday before posting his apology on Twitter. Duckworth's campaign confirmed he had reached out, but it was unclear whether the candidates spoke. \n Kirk's comments drew heavy scorn across social media. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton posted on Twitter that she is thankful for Duckworth's and her family's service, adding: \"It's really not that hard to grasp, Mark Kirk.\" \n Donald Trump's campaign manager also took the opportunity to jab at Kirk, who earlier this year withdrew his support for the GOP presidential nominee and has been a vocal critic. \n \"The same Mark Kirk that unendorsed his party's presidential nominee and called him out in paid ads? Gotcha. Good luck,\" Kellyanne Conway posted on Twitter late Thursday. \n Kirk, who suffered a stroke in 2012 and returned to work one year later, is seen as one of the Senate's most vulnerable Republican incumbents. The first-term senator from the Chicago suburb of Highland Park is running in a state that leans heavily Democratic, particularly in presidential election years. \n Kirk has worked to distance himself from Trump and the GOP, saying he is an independent voice who can work with Democrats to get things done. He often notes his \"F\" rating from the National Rifle Association and that he broke with his party to call for hearings on President Barack Obama's pick for the Supreme Court. \n But Kirk has complicated his own re-election bid with his tendency to make off-color statements. In August, he said Obama was acting like the \"drug dealer in chief\" when the U.S. made a $400 million payment to Iran contingent on the return of U.S. prisoners. \n He apologized in 2015 after referring to South Carolina U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, who's unmarried, as a \"bro with no ho.\" \n During his first bid for Senate in 2010, Kirk acknowledged that he had exaggerated some of his own military record, including stating that he came under enemy fire while flying reconnaissance missions in Iraq as a Navy intelligence officer. \n Democrats consider Duckworth's success on Election Day one of the keys to reclaiming a majority in the chamber. The second-term congresswoman from the Chicago suburb of Hoffman Estates has a comfortable lead in the most recent polls, but Kirk says the race is closer than people think. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP rival apologizes for mocking Duckworth's Asian heritage, family's military service"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 29-year-old Palolo man after he allegedly tried to strangle a woman in the University area early this morning. \n Police said the suspect and the victim, 29, were arguing at about 12:35 a.m. The argument escalated and the suspect allegedly choked her. Bystanders intervened and police arrested the man on suspicion of abuse shortly afterwards. \n The woman sustained minor injuries and declined medical treatment. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Palolo man arrested for allegedly choking woman in University area"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Huma Abedin, alongside her husband, then-New York mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner, spoke during a July 2013 news conference in New York. The FBI is investigating whether there is classified information in new emails uncovered during the sexting investigation of disgraced former congressman Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of one of Hillary Clinton's closest aides. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey testified on Capitol Hill in Washington on July 14. The FBI informed Congress today it is investigating whether there is classified information in new emails that have emerged in its probe of Hillary Clinton's private server. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke with senior aide Huma Abedin aboard her campaign plane at Westchester County Airport in White Plains, N.Y., today, before traveling to Iowa for rallies. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A new shock hit Hillary Clinton's campaign today in the unpredictable and often unbelievable presidential race: The FBI is looking into whether there was classified information on a device belonging to the estranged husband of one of her closest aides. \n Adding to the drama of the stunning revelation: The FBI uncovered the emails during a sexting investigation of Anthony Weiner, the disgraced ex-congressman who is separated from longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin. \n The Democrat said late Friday she was confident whatever the FBI may find would not change its conclusion from earlier this year \u2014 that her use of a private email system as secretary of state did not merit prosecution. \n \"We don't know the facts, which is why we are calling on the FBI to release all the information that it has,\" Clinton said. \"Even (FBI) Director (James) Comey noted that this new information might not be significant, so let's get it out.\" \n The news arrived with Clinton holding a solid advantage in the presidential race. Early voting has been underway for weeks, and she has a steady lead in preference polls. But the development all but ensures that, even should she win the White House, the Democrat and several of her closest aides would celebrate victory under a cloud of investigation. \n It was a day that thrilled Republicans eager to change the trajectory of the race, none moreso than GOP nominee Donald Trump. \n \"Hillary Clinton's corruption is on a scale we have never seen before,\" Trump said while campaigning in battleground New Hampshire. \"We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office.\" \n Democrats, still confident Clinton will prevail in 11 days, were enraged by Comey's decision to disclose the existence of the fresh investigation in a vaguely worded letter to several congressional leaders. \n \"The FBI has a history of extreme caution near Election Day so as not to influence the results,\" said California Sen. Dianne Feinstein. She added, accusingly, \"Today's break from that tradition is appalling.\" \n It wasn't until hours after Comey's letter emerged that word came that the source of the new emails was Weiner, the former congressman under investigation for sending sexually explicit text messages to a teenage girl. \n \"We don't know what to believe,\" Clinton said, adding, \"Right now, your guess is as good as mine, and I don't think that's good enough.\" \n The development also reignited persistent worries among Democrats that electing the former first lady will restart a cycle of scandal and investigation that could rival the final portion of her husband's term in office. \n Congressional Republicans have already promised years of investigations into Clinton's private email system. And that's only one of the email-related controversies facing her. The tens of thousands of confidential emails from Clinton campaign insiders that were hacked \u2014 she and the government say by Russia \u2014 and then released by WikiLeaks have provided a steady stream of questions about her policy positions, personnel choices and ties with her husband's sprawling charitable network and post-presidential pursuits. \n In his Friday letter to congressional leaders, Comey wrote only that new emails have emerged, prompting the agency to \"take appropriate investigative steps\" to review the information that may be pertinent to its previously closed investigation into Clinton's private email system. \n The FBI ended that investigation in July without filing charges, although Comey said then that Clinton and her aides had been \"extremely careless\" in using the system for communications about government business. \n The agency, which did not respond to questions about Comey's letter and did not lay out a timeline for the review, is also investigating the recent hacks of the emails of John Podesta, Clinton's campaign chairman. \n As Clinton and her campaign have been pounded by allegations and embarrassing revelations related to the hacked emails, they've largely avoided engaging in the details. Instead, they've focused on blaming the Russians. \n \"These are illegally stolen documents,\" Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said earlier in the day on her campaign plane. \"We're not going to spend our campaign fighting back what the Russians want this to be about.\" \n That may be because Clinton hasn't yet felt the political pressure. Recent surveys show her retaining her lead in national polls and making gains in some swing states. In fact, her campaign announced plans to hold a rally in Arizona next Wednesday, a traditionally red state put in play by Trump's deep unpopularity among minority voters, Mormons and business leaders. \n To the frustration of many in his party, Trump has struggled to consistently drive an attack against Clinton, often turning to personal denunciations of private citizens he feels have wronged him, like the Gold Star family of Captain Humayun Khan, a Muslim-American soldier killed in action. \n That may be changing. He quickly pounced on the email news, seeing an opportunity to press the argument he's long tried to make against Clinton: that she thinks she's above the law and that she put U.S. security at risk by using her personal email. \n After weeks of declaring the race \"rigged\" in favor of his opponent, Trump declared Friday he has \"great respect\" for the FBI and the Justice Department, now that they are \"willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made\" in concluding the investigation earlier. \n White House spokesman Eric Schultz urged the FBI to \"follow the facts, wherever they lead.\" President Barack Obama plans to travel to support Clinton nearly every day that's left in the campaign. \n \"He's going to be proud to support her from now until Election Day,\" Schultz said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI investigates whether classified emails are on Weiner device"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "Two people were taken to a hospital after they were involved in a two-car collision in the Pearl Harbor area. \n The accident happened shortly after 12:30 p.m. Thursday at Center Drive and Kamehameha Highway. \n Emergency Medical Services reported federal firefighters responded to the crash. A 32-year-old woman was transported to the hospital in serious condition and a 73-year-old woman was transported in stable condition. \n Further details were not immediately available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman seriously injured in 2-car crash in Pearl Harbor area"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "A 23-year-old man has been charged in connection with a rash of property crimes on agricultural lands in Keaau. \n Dyson Dale Sarme-Medeiros of Mountain View has been charged with two counts of burglary, two counts of unauthorized entry of a motor vehicle and three counts of theft. \n He was also charged with unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle and criminal property damage. \n Sarme-Medeiros is being held in lieu of $14,500 bail and is scheduled to make his initial court appearance at South Hilo District Court today. \n Police said agricultural property owners and farmers in the Keaau area have been reporting a string of thefts and property damage since the latter part of 2015. \n Community policing officers worked with farmers, landowners and neighborhood watch groups. Their efforts led to Sarme-Medeiros' arrest Wednesday morning. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Mountain View man charged in string of farm thefts"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A bottle of Johnson's baby powder was displayed in San Francisco in April 2011. A St. Louis jury on Thursday awarded a California woman more than $70 million in her lawsuit alleging that years of using Johnson & Johnson's baby powder caused her cancer, the latest case raising concerns about the health ramifications of extended talcum powder use. \n ST. LOUIS \u00bb A St. Louis jury on Thursday awarded a California woman more than $70 million in her lawsuit alleging that years of using Johnson & Johnson's baby powder caused her cancer, the latest case raising concerns about the health ramifications of extended talcum powder use. \n The jury ruling ended the trial that began Sept. 26 in the case brought by Deborah Giannecchini of Modesto, California. She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2012. The suit accused Johnson & Johnson of \"negligent conduct\" in making and marketing its baby powder. \n \"We are pleased the jury did the right thing. They once again reaffirmed the need for Johnson & Johnson to warn the public of the ovarian cancer risk associated with its product,\" Jim Onder, an attorney for the plaintiff, told The Associated Press. \n \"We deeply sympathize with the women and families impacted by ovarian cancer,\" Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman with Johnson & Johnson, said in a statement. \"We will appeal today's verdict because we are guided by the science, which supports the safety of Johnson's Baby Powder.\" \n Earlier this year, two other lawsuits in St. Louis ended in jury verdicts worth a combined $127 million. But two others in New Jersey were thrown out by a judge who said there wasn't reliable evidence that talc leads to ovarian cancer, an often fatal but relatively rare form of cancer. Ovarian cancer accounts for about 22,000 of the 1.7 million new cases of cancer expected to be diagnosed in the U.S. this year. \n About 2,000 women have filed similar suits, and lawyers are reviewing thousands of other potential cases, most generated by ads touting the two big verdicts out of St. Louis \u2014 a $72 million award in February to relatives of an Alabama woman who died of ovarian cancer, and a $55 million award in May to a South Dakota survivor of the disease. \n Much research has found no link or a weak one between ovarian cancer and using baby powder for feminine hygiene, and most major health groups have declared talc harmless. Johnson & Johnson, whose baby powder dominates the market, maintains it's perfectly safe. \n But Onder of the Onder Law Firm in suburban St. Louis, which represented plaintiffs in all three St. Louis cases, cited other research that began connecting talcum powder to ovarian cancer in the 1970s. He said case studies have indicated that women who regularly use talc on their genital area face up to a 40 percent higher risk of developing ovarian cancer. \n Onder has accused Johnson & Johnson of marketing toward overweight women, blacks and Hispanics \u2014 the very same women most at-risk for ovarian cancer, he said. \n Factors known to increase a women's risk of ovarian cancer include age, obesity, use of estrogen therapy after menopause, not having any children, certain genetic mutations and personal or family history of breast or ovarian cancer. \n The International Agency for Research on Cancer classifies genital use of talc as \"possibly carcinogenic.\" The National Toxicology Program, made up of parts of several different government agencies, has not fully reviewed talc. \n Talc is a mineral that is mined from deposits around the world, including the U.S. The softest of minerals, it's crushed into a white powder. It's been widely used in cosmetics and other personal care products to absorb moisture since at least 1894, when Johnson & Johnson's Baby Powder was launched. But it's mainly used in a variety of other products, including paint and plastics. \n The two St. Louis verdicts were the first talcum powder cases in which money was awarded. A federal jury in 2013 sided with another South Dakota woman, but it ordered no damages, a spokeswoman for Onder's firm said. \n Johnson & Johnson has been targeted before by health and consumer groups over ingredients in its products, including Johnson's No More Tears baby shampoo. The company agreed in 2012 to eliminate 1,4-dioxane and formaldehyde, both considered probable carcinogens, from all products by 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Internally displaced persons clear a checkpoint in Qayara, some 50 kilometers south of Mosul, Iraq. \n QAYARA AIR BASE, Iraq >> The Islamic State group appears to be using tens of thousands of people as \"human shields\" in and around Mosul, where Iraqi forces are waging a large-scale offensive aimed at retaking the country's second largest city, the U.N. human rights office said Friday. \n It has received reports of more than 200 people being killed for refusing to comply with IS orders or previously belonging to Iraqi security forces. It said \"credible reports\" suggest IS has been forcing tens of thousands from their homes in districts around Mosul. \n \"ISIL's depraved, cowardly strategy is to attempt to use the presence of civilian hostages to render certain points, areas or military forces immune from military operations, effectively using tens of thousands of women, men and children as human shields,\" spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani said in Geneva. \n She said 232 people, mostly former officers, were reportedly shot Wednesday, and 24 on Tuesday. \n The Associated Press reported earlier this week that IS militants were going door to door in villages south of Mosul, ordering hundreds of civilians at gunpoint on a forced march north into the city, apparently using them as human shields. \n Iraq launched a massive operation on Oct. 17 aimed at retaking Mosul, which fell to IS in a matter of days in the summer of 2014. Iraqi forces are advancing from several directions, but are still well outside the city itself. \n The U.N. and rights groups have expressed fear that more than 200,000 civilians could be displaced in the opening weeks of the offensive. Mosul is still home to more than a million people. \n IS has built up elaborate defenses on the outskirts of the city, including an extensive tunnel network, and has planted large numbers of explosive booby traps to slow the troops' progress. \n The U.S. military says Iraqi forces have retaken 40 villages from IS near Mosul since the operation began. But most of the fighting has taken place in a belt of sparsely populated farming communities ringing the city. \n U.S. Air Force Brig. Gen. Matthew C. Isler said Iraqi troops on Friday were consolidating gains made east and south of the city earlier this week, but insisted \"momentum\" was still on their side. \n Isler says the U.S.-led coalition has stepped up airstrikes against the militants, and is carrying out three times as many as it did during previous campaigns to drive IS from other Iraqi cities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UN: IS using tens of thousands as human shields in Mosul"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Guo Chuan, a Chinese mariner attempting to set a solo sailing record from San Francisco to Shanghai. The Coast Guard located his 97-foot trimaran on Tuesday about 600 miles northwest of Oahu but rescuers searching from the air saw no sign of him onboard. \n U.S. COAST GUARD \n A trimaran that the U.S. Coast Guard has located in Hawaii. Guo Chuan, a Chinese man attempting to set a sailing record from San Francisco to Shanghai, has been reported missing from the yacht. \n The racing team of a Chinese professional sailor who went missing on a mission to set a solo trans-Pacific world record is imploring the U.S. Coast Guard to resume its ocean search for him. \n In a post titled \"Who can help us save Guo Chuan?\" the team Friday said it was disappointed the search for Guo had been suspended two days prior and said it had written a letter to the Coast Guard for help. \n \"We are deeply saddened by the decision to suspend the search and beg you to continue searching until there is confirmation that he has lost his last chance for survival,\" the group wrote in the letter, according to the statement on its official social media page. \n \"Guo Chuan's crew will assist regardless of cost, if you could just tell us what to do,\" they said in the statement. \n The search was suspended Wednesday after a U.S. Navy crew from the USS Makin Island went aboard Guo's 97-foot trimaran about 620 miles northwest of Oahu and found only his life jacket. The Coast Guard has offered condolences to Guo's team, his friends and family. \n Guo \"was a professional mariner with a deep passion for sailing,\" said Capt. Robert Hendrickson, who directed the Coast Guard's search. \"Our thanks to our Navy partners who helped us search for this vessel in a timely manner so far from shore in an attempt to locate Mr. (Guo) Chuan. Our deepest condolences go out not only to his family and friends but also to his racing team and the sailing community.\" \n Lt. Ben Powers, the Coast Guard pilot who was air commander in the search, said waves, wind and darkness hampered the effort. \n \"It was pretty frustrating not to find him, not to hear him,\" Powers said at Air Station Barbers Point in west Oahu on Thursday. \"The hardest thing we do is search for a person in the water because it's a huge ocean.\" \n Guo, 50, was the first Chinese person to sail around the world in 2013, according to his website, guochuanracing.com. He left San Francisco on Oct. 18 to challenge the solo nonstop trans-Pacific world record. The current speed record for that journey is 21 days, and he was trying to sail from San Francisco to Shanghai within 20 days, the website says. \n As one of the pilots of one of the HC-130 Hercules planes that participated in the search, Powers spent hours scanning the ocean for Guo through 4-to-6-foot waves. There was no moon, he said, so illumination was low even with night-vision goggles. \n Rescuers radioed Guo every 15 to 30 minutes, Powers said. There was no response. \n \"When the person's in the water basically the only thing above the water is the person's head,\" Powers said. \"So that's really what we're looking for \u2014 something the size of a human head from an aircraft from 300 to 700 feet.\" \n Because Guo's boat was well-tracked, rescuers had a good idea where he fell into the water, Powers said. \n Guo's team said in its Friday statement that a company that operates helicopters for tourism in Honolulu has expressed its willingness to provide up to 10 helicopters for the search. It said they can only travel 500 kilometers (310 miles) without stopping and would need a ship to serve as a platform for refueling on the sea. \n The team is in contact with commercial ships but the nearest one is hundreds of miles away because Guo Chuan was taking a non-traditional route, it said. \n Guo's sailboat, the Qingdao China, is adrift, and its main sail has been taken down, the Coast Guard said. The Coast Guard says it broadcast a warning to mariners to beware of the drifting boat. Guo's racing team plans to recover the sailboat, the Coast Guard said. \n In Beijing, the Foreign Ministry said on Thursday that China's consulate general in Los Angeles had alerted the U.S. Coast Guard in Hawaii when it learned that Guo could not be reached. Spokesman Lu Kang said Chinese diplomats had helped in the coordination of the search and continued to monitor the situation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese sailing team implores U.S. to continue ocean search"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese comedian Pikotaro speaks during a press conference in Tokyo. Pikotaro behind the viral hit \"PPAP\" said he is astonished by the global success of his \"pen-pinapple-apple-pen\" song. \n TOKYO >> The Japanese comedian behind the viral hit \"PPAP\" is astonished by the global success of his \"pen-pinapple-apple-pen\" song. \n Dressed in his trademark yellow outfit with snake and leopard patterns, Pikotaro debuted a two-minute \"long\" version of his 45-second song before taking questions at a Tokyo news conference Friday. \n His responses had the packed audience of journalists and others laughing, but it was often difficult to separate fact from fiction. \n He expressed amazement that a song that he said cost 100,000 yen ($1,000) to produce in a six-hour session in a rented studio could explode worldwide. \n \"The internet is amazing!\" he said. \n In the song, Pikotaro, as the character who performs it is known, mimics stabbing a pen into an apple and a pineapple while singing simple English lyrics and dancing to a catchy beat. \n The 53-year-old comedian, whose real name is Kazuhito Kosaka according to Japanese entertainment news media, was little known before \"PPAP\" took off in September. \n The song initially was popular among Japanese students, then started spreading globally and got a major boost when pop star Justin Bieber tweeted it was his favorite video, Pikotaro said. \n \"PPAP\" has more than 65 million YouTube views and was the first Japanese song to get into the U.S. Billboard top 100 singles in 26 years. Guinness World Records recognized it Friday as the shortest song to make the top 100. \n It has also spawned 40,000 lip-synching copies uploaded to the internet. \n Pikotaro said it feels great to be imitated, and that those from India are his favorite so far. He discouraged imitators from using real fruit, though, deeming it wasteful. \n \"There's actually a theme when I'm singing,\" he said, ticking off world peace and love of family and friends. \"And then, to prove the existence of dark matter,\" he added, to laughs. \"I feel all these themes are well understood by the people who imitate me.\" \n He said he came up with the song at the house of his producer, Daimao Kosaka, which is actually him, or his own comedian stage name. \n With the tune playing, he picked up a pen to begin writing, and thought about Kosaka, who comes from apple country. An open can of pineapples was sitting on the table, and \"pen-pinapple-apple-pen\" was born. \n Asked whether Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called him since his success, he responded that he doesn't answer numbers he does not recognize on his phone, but would check his messages later to see. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Comedian Pikotaro astonished by viral success of 'PPAP' song"}

{"date": "October 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un waves at parade participants at the Kim Il Sung Square in Pyongyang, North Korea. \n WASHINGTON >> If North Korea has been a foreign policy headache for Barack Obama's presidency, it threatens to be a migraine for his successor. The next president will likely contend with an adversary able to strike the continental U.S. with a nuclear weapon. \n Whoever wins the White House in the Nov. 8 election is expected to conduct a review of North Korea policy. It's too early to predict what that portends, but the North will grab more attention of the next president than it did for Obama, who adopted strategic patience: ramping up sanctions in a so-far fruitless effort to force the North to negotiate on denuclearization. \n With surprising candor this week, National Intelligence director James Clapper said that persuading North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons is probably a \"lost cause.\" That appeared to challenge to a key tenet of U.S. policy shared by U.S. allies and adversaries alike that agree on the goal of the denuclearization of the divided Korean Peninsula, however distant it may be. \n But Clapper was also channeling what many experts are thinking. Leader Kim Jong Un appears to see nuclear weapons as a guarantee of his own survival. Six-nation aid-for-disarmament talks have not convened since Obama took office in 2009, during which time the North's capabilities have leapt ahead. \n \"Without a shift in U.S. strategy toward North Korea, the next U.S. president will likely be sitting in the Oval Office when the regime finally acquires the ability to strike the continental United States with a nuclear weapon,\" said a recent Council on Foreign Relations report. \n Speaking at the council in New York on Tuesday, Clapper said that North Korea has yet to test its KN-08 intercontinental ballistic missile, so it is unclear if it works, but the U.S. operates on the \"worst-case\" assumption that Pyongyang is potentially capable of launching a missile with a weapon on it that could reach Alaska and Hawaii. \n Experts have estimated the missile, which can be moved by road, making it harder to target in a pre-emptive strike, could be operational by around 2020. \n With five nuclear tests now under its belt, the North may already be able to miniaturize a warhead for use on a short-range missile, if not on an intercontinental missile. It has also launched two rockets into space, and has begun testing submarine-launched missiles. U.S. experts estimate that it now has 13 to 21 nuclear weapons, and could have as many as 100 by 2020 \u2014 approaching what India likely has today. \n Clapper said the best hope for the U.S. is probably to negotiate a cap on the North's nuclear capabilities. But that implies recognition of North Korea as a nuclear weapons state, which the U.S. has said it will not do. \n \"The dilemma for policymakers in dealing with North Korea is that if one accepts that the door to negotiation of denuclearization with North Korea is closed, the alternative set of options involves either acquiescence to a nuclear North Korea on the one hand or pressure leading to regime change on the other,\" said Scott Snyder, senior fellow for Korea studies at the council. \n Of the U.S. presidential candidates, Democrat Hillary Clinton wants the international community to intensify sanctions as the Obama administration did with Iran, which eventually opened the way for a deal to contain its nuclear program. \n Divining what Republican Donald Trump might do is tricky. He wants the U.S. to leverage its trade ties to get China to rein in its unpredictable ally. But he's also said he'd be ready to meet Kim, and suggested detaching the U.S. from the problem by allowing its allies Japan and South Korea to get nuclear weapons. \n U.S. experts who held unofficial talks with North Korean officials in Malaysia last week maintain that negotiations on denuclearization are still possible. \n \"I think the best course would be to test the proposition by some serious engagement in which we see whether their (North Korea's) legitimate security concerns can be met,\" said Robert Gallucci, who negotiated a 1994 disarmament agreement that curbed North Korea's nuclear program for nearly 10 years. \n He added that the concerns of neighboring South Korea and Japan \u2014 they face the most immediate threat from Pyongyang \u2014 would also have to be met. \n \"We don't know for sure that negotiations will work, but what I can say with some confidence is that pressure without negotiations won't work, which is the track we are on right now,\" said another participant, Leon Sigal from the New York-based Social Science Research Council. \n But there is a deep, bipartisan skepticism in Washington about talks with Pyongyang, which has recanted on past accords and says it will never give up its nuclear weapons. It claims it needs nukes to deter an invasion by the U.S., which has 28,500 troops in South Korea. \n Still, North Korea has not entirely closed the door to talks. \n A July government statement suggested it remained open to discussions on denuclearization of the peninsula. The U.S., however, slapped sanctions on Kim the same day for human rights abuses. The North said that was tantamount to declaring war. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lost cause? North Korea nuke threat awaits next president"}

