{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, center, and North American International Auto Show Chairman Sam Slaughter, right, are given a tour of the Mopar area from Ron Stallworth, left, of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. \n DETROIT >> Fresh off a record year for U.S. auto sales, carmakers meet in Detroit next week to show buyers what's coming next \u2014 and ponder their own future under a Trump administration. \n More than 40 new vehicles will debut at the North American International Auto Show, which is one of the largest shows in the U.S. After record sales of 17.55 million in 2016, U.S. sales of new cars and trucks are expected to cool off a little this year, but demand remains strong. \n Even if they can count on U.S. buyers, automakers aren't sure what to make of President-elect Donald Trump. Trump has criticized Ford, General Motors and Toyota for making vehicles in Mexico and exporting them to the U.S. He is threatening a 35-percent border tax, which could throw the industry into disarray. But automakers are also hopeful that Trump will lower corporate taxes and loosen fuel economy standards and other regulations. \n \"It is the year of unknowns,\" said Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst with the car-buying site Autotrader.com. \n Here's what to look for at the Detroit show, which is open to the public from Jan. 14-22. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Google, Camry and the shadow of Trump"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "Police closed part of Farrington Highway in the town-bound direction in Makakilo this afternoon because of a brush fire. \n Police said the two east-bound lanes of the highway were closed between Honokai Hale and the Campbell Industrial offramp for fire trucks staging on the roadway. \n East-bound traffic was being contraflowed onto one west-bound lane of traffic, police said. \n The fire was reported at about noon on the ocean side of the highway. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Part of Farrington Highway closed due to brush fire"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Firefighters responded to a brush fire at Koko Head District Park. \n Honolulu firefighters and police were responding to a small brush fire at Koko Head District Park that closed the popular hiking trail and rifle range this afternoon. \n Honolulu Fire Capt. James Todd said the seven-acre fire started about noon on the east side of Koko Crater Trail, between the trail and rifle range. \n Firefighters were using a helicopter to drop water on the flames. \n Police said firefighters were evacuating hikers off the trail and officers will close the trail until the fire is out. \n A Koko Head Shooting Complex employee said police also closed the range and employees were on standby to reopen if allowed. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Koko Head brush fire closes trail and rifle range"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Suspected terrorist Pola Roupa and alleged member of the Revolutionary Struggle group. \n ATHENS, Greece >> Greek police say they have found a cache of weapons at the hideout of captured left-wing extremist Pola Roupa. \n Police said Sunday they uncovered two assault rifles, two pistols and four grenades as well as bullets. \n The 48-year-old Roupa had been on the run since 2012 and was arrested Thursday in Athens. Twenty-five-year-old Constantina Athanassopoulkou was detained for helping shelter Roupa. \n The two women, along with Roupa's partner Nikos Maziotis, started a hunger and thirst strike Friday alleging authorities were holding Maziotis' and Roupa's 6-year-old son \"hostage.\" \n The two arrested women were hospitalized Sunday. Custody of the boy was given to Roupa's mother later Sunday. \n Roupa and Maziotis previously were convicted of participating in terrorist actions, including firing a rocket at the U.S. Embassy in Athens in 2007. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Greek police find weapons at capture extremist's hideout"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans on Sunday defended their party against Democratic complaints that Congress is being forced to consider nominees for Donald Trump's administration without completed ethics reviews. \n \"All of these little procedural complaints are related to their frustration in having not only lost the White House, but having lost the Senate,\" Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on CBS' \"Face the Nation.\" \n \"I understand that,\" he added, \"but we need to sort of grow up here and get past that.\" \n At issue is whether people picked by the president elect \u2014 in some cases millionaires and billionaires with complex personal finances \u2014 would face conflicts of interest when it comes to overseeing taxpayer spending. The Office of Government Ethics says in some cases the office hasn't received even draft financial disclosure reports for nominees appearing before Congress this week, when the Senate plans to hold at least nine confirmation hearings, beginning Tuesday. \n McConnell suggested the complaints amounted to sour grapes from a party that did poorly in the 2016 congressional and presidential elections. The Kentucky Republican noted that Republicans were in the same boat eight years ago when they had to swiftly confirm multiple nominees who he described as \"wildly liberal.\" \n But the director of the Office of Government Ethics, Walter Shaub, said the Republican management of the confirmation hearings is unusual considering that that in some cases, the office had not received even initial draft financial disclosure reports from Trump nominees. \n \"I am not aware of any occasion in the four decades since OGE was established when the Senate held a confirmation hearing before the nominee had completed the ethics review process,\" wrote Shaub. \n Reince Priebus, Trump's incoming chief of staff, rejected any suggestion that Republicans should slow down. In an interview on \"Fox News Sunday,\" Priebus said Democrats \"have all the information\" they need and should move fast because voters mandated it. \n \"Change was voted for and change we will get,\" he said. \n Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said the ethics review is aimed at ensuring wealthy Cabinet members work for the American people instead of \"their own bottom line, and that they plan to fully comply with the law.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "McConnell: Dems should 'grow up' and consider Trump nominees"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "Hawaii island firefighters extinguished a fire early this morning at a former bowling alley in Hilo. \n Firefighters responded to the Hilo Lanes building, 777 Kinoole St., at 2:19 a.m. and found a 400-square foot attached storage area fully engulfed in flames, firefighters said. \n The first units on scene quickly brought the fire under control and limited damage to the main building, which is vacant, firefighters said. \n Damage was estimated at $40,000. The cause was not determined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle firefighters battle bowling alley blaze"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Firefighters were called to Ooma Beach in Kohanaiki, north of Pine Trees surf break, to search for an overdue diver. \n A 34-year-old man died Saturday after going diving alone off Kona, Hawaii island firefighters said. \n Firefighters were called to Ooma Beach in Kohanaiki, north of Pine Trees surf break, at 3:28 p.m., about an hour and a half after the man was last seen, and began searching the coastline. \n An outside agency from Kohanaiki that was assisting in the search by personal watercraft found the man along the coast. \n Firefighters retrieved the man by helicopter, and paramedics took him to Kona Community Hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Diver drowns in waters off Kona"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Martin Shkreli. Over the past few days, freelance reporter Lauren Duca posted about several unwanted digital advances by Shkreli, the former chief executive officer of Turing Pharmaceuticals AG, including a message in which Shkreli invited her to the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump. \n Twitter Inc. suspended the account of Martin Shkreli after the brash former pharmaceutical executive harassed a female reporter online, the latest high-profile case of abuse on the social media service. \n Over the past few days, freelance reporter Lauren Duca posted about several unwanted digital advances by Shkreli, the former chief executive officer of Turing Pharmaceuticals AG, including a message in which Shkreli invited her to the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump. Unbowed, Shkreli proceeded to post about Duca publicly, prompting her to ask Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to intervene on Sunday. \n \"The Twitter Rules prohibit targeted harassment, and we will take action on accounts violating those policies,\" a Twitter spokesman said in a statement Sunday. The rules allow Shkreli to appeal his suspension, but he would have to make changes to his account before being reinstated. Shkreli declined to comment via e-mail. \n Twitter has struggled to curb harassment on its service. Late last year, it introduced new tools to help users protect themselves, and it suspended some accounts of prominent white supremacists. \n Technology news website The Verge reported the suspension of Shkreli's Twitter account earlier. \n ", "author": "Bloomberg", "title": "Twitter suspends 'Pharma Bro' Shkreli after reporter harassed"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters head to the legislative building in Raleigh, N.C., for a sit-in against House Bill 2, a contentious law that limited protections for LGBT people. \n NEW YORK >> After a string of major victories in recent years, LGBT activists are bracing for a different task in 2017 \u2014 trying to prevent Republicans in Congress and state legislatures from undermining those gains. \n They view President-elect Donald Trump and many of his Cabinet selections as disinterested \u2014 and in some cases hostile \u2014 when it comes to the various issues of civil rights and anti-discrimination protections that concern lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans. \n At the state level, with Republicans controlling a sizable majority of legislatures, there's already a push for measures which LGBT activists view as discriminatory. For example, legislators in several states \u2014 including Alabama, Missouri, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin \u2014 are advocating for laws that would bar transgender students from using bathrooms or locker rooms that don't match their biological gender at birth. \n \"2017 is going to be our toughest year yet,\" said the National Center for Transgender Equality in a recent fundraising appeal. \n There also may be a push in some states for so-called \"religious exemption\" laws that would allow some businesses and civil servants to refuse services to LGBT people if their decisions were deemed to be based on religious belief. \n In Congress, conservative Republicans plan to address the religious-exemption issue by relaunching the First Amendment Defense Act , which would prohibit punitive federal action against people and institutions that define marriage as a union of one man and one woman. The measure failed to advance during two previous sessions, but may gain more traction now, with Trump promising to sign it if it reaches his desk. \n Ian Thompson, a legislative specialist with the American Civil Liberties Union, says the proposed act \"would open the door to unprecedented taxpayer-funded discrimination, allowing anyone to act with impunity in rejecting same-sex couples.\" \n The act's lead Senate sponsor, Republican Mike Lee of Utah, denies that the measure gives a green light to discrimination and says it's needed to safeguard religious liberty. \n \"It will protect individuals, regardless of their beliefs about marriage, from being deprived of eligibility for federal grants, licenses and employment because of their deeply held convictions,\" Lee says. \n Among other objectives, the measure would prevent the IRS from revoking the tax-exempt status of religious institutions because of their refusal to accommodate same-sex marriages. \n Although prominent social conservatives consider passage of the act a high priority, its prospects are uncertain. LGBT-rights groups and the Democratic leadership strongly oppose it; Thompson doubts it would gain enough votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster in the Senate. \n It's also unclear how many of the state measures seeking to curtail LGBT rights will be enacted. One state with such a law in effect \u2014 North Carolina \u2014 has suffered a backlash that included cancellation of planned business and sports activities in the state. Business coalitions have formed in several other states \u2014 including Texas, Mississippi and Tennessee \u2014 to oppose enactment of like-minded bills, and Georgia's Republican governor, Nathan Deal, vetoed such a measure last year. \n Mississippi did enact a religious-exemptions bill last year, but a federal appeals court has blocked it from taking effect. The law would allow clerks to cite religious objections to recuse themselves from issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples, and would protect merchants who refuse services to LGBT people. \n Texas is likely to be a high-profile battleground this year. Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, a key player in setting the legislative agenda, is backing a North Carolina-style bill that would ban transgender people from using public bathrooms of their choice. \n \"The people of Texas elected us to stand up for common sense, common decency and public safety,\" Patrick said at a news conference Thursday. \n A statewide business coalition counters that Texas could lose billions of dollars and tens of thousands of jobs if it pursues the legislation. Such intervention by the business community is viewed by LGBT activists as vital now that chances for gains at the legislative level have diminished. \n \"Even in the face of relentless attempts to undermine equality, America's leading companies and law firms remain steadfast,\" said Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign, a national LGBT-rights group. \n James Esseks, director of the ACLU's LGBT Project, depicted the push for religious-exemption bills as \"Plan B\" for social conservatives after their \"Plan A\" failed when the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2015 that same-sex marriage should be legal nationwide. \n \"If they have to live in a world with LGBT equality, they want to carve out a refuge for themselves,\" Esseks told a recent media briefing. \n Some opponents of the LGBT-rights movement are urging the incoming Trump administration to reverse gay-friendly actions backed by President Barack Obama. \n In Congress, the House Freedom Caucus is calling on the new administration to scrap an Education Department initiative advising school districts to let transgender students use restrooms and locker rooms based on their gender identity, as opposed to the gender on their birth certificate. \n The caucus also wants to revoke non-discrimination protections in the Affordable Care Act that have benefited LGBT people. \n On another front, the conservative Family Research Council says State Department employees who promote LGBT-rights causes abroad should be \"ferreted out\" and replaced by conservatives. The Human Rights Campaign denounced this proposal as \"illegal and vindictive.\" \n In another initiative, dozens of prominent conservative academics and religious leaders recently co-signed a statement calling for elimination of all federal, state and local laws establishing civil rights protections on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. \n Such measures \"empower the government to use the force of law to silence or punish Americans who seek to exercise their God-given liberty to peacefully live and work consistent with their convictions,\" the statement said. \n Signatories included Roman Catholic Archbishop Charles Chaput of Philadelphia, evangelist Franklin Graham, and Albert Mohler, president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow David Crary on Twitter at http://twitter.com/CraryAP \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "LGBT activists brace for efforts to undermine their gains"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A passenger not wearing pants takes part in the No Pants Subway Ride in Prague, Czech Republic The No Pants Subway Ride began in 2002 in New York as a stunt and has taken place in cities around the world since then. \n NEW YORK >> Subway riders in New York City and other places around the world should be ready for an eyeful when their fellow transit users strip down to their underwear. \n The annual No Pants Subway Ride is taking place Sunday. \n The event is organized by the Improv Everywhere comedy collective. It started in 2002 in New York with seven participants. \n Organizers say pants-less subway rides are scheduled to take place this year in dozens of cities around the world. Philadelphia's version is sponsored by a laundry delivery service. \n Participants are told to get on trains and act as they normally would and are given an assigned point to take off their pants. They're asked to keep a straight face and respond matter-of-factly to anyone who asks them if they're cold. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Annual No Pants Subway Ride hits cities around the world"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vice President-elect Mike Pence speaks with Reince Priebus, chief of staff for President-elect Donald Trump, right, as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., left, speaks at a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump accepts the U.S. intelligence community's conclusion that Russia tried to interfere in the American presidential election, his incoming White House Chief of staff said Sunday. \n \"I think he accepts the findings,\" Reince Priebus said on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \"He's not denying that entities in Russia were behind this particular campaign.\" \n Intelligence officials allege that Moscow directed a series of hacks in order to help Trump win the White House. Trump has repeatedly expressed skepticism about Russia's role and has declined to say whether he accepts the meddling was done on his behalf. \n On Friday, U.S. intelligence briefed the president-elect on their conclusions that the Kremlin interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump win the White House. Priebus attended along with Trump. In an interview with The Associated Press after the briefing, Trump said he \"learned a lot\" from his discussions with intelligence officials, but he declined to say whether he accepted their assertion about Russia's motives. \n An unclassified version of the report directly tied Russian President Vladimir Putin to election meddling and said that Moscow had a \"clear preference\" for Trump in his race against Hillary Clinton. Trump and his allies have bristled at any implication that the meddling helped him win the election. He won the Electoral College vote with 306 votes, topping the 270 votes required to become president. \n Accepting those findings would be a positive step \u2014 but not enough, said one leading Senate Republican who is calling for more sanctions against Russia. \n \"He's going to be the defender of the free world here pretty soon,\" Sen. Lindsey Graham, a frequent Trump critic, said in remarks broadcast Sunday on NBC's \"Meet the Press.\" \"All I'm asking him is to acknowledge that Russia interfered, and push back. It could be Iran next time. It could be China.\" \n The pushback from Graham comes during a consequential week for Trump, who will become the nation's 45th president on Jan. 20. \n On Wednesday, Trump is expected to hold a long-delayed press conference on how he's organizing his global business empire to avoid conflicts of interest while he's president. He has taken sporadic questions and done interviews, but it'll be his first full-fledged news conference since July 27. \n That same day on Capitol Hill, the Senate is holding at least nine hearings on Trump's Cabinet and other nominees, a pace set by the Republican majority that Democrats have complained is too fast. The government ethics office says several of Trump's Cabinet choices have not completed a full review to avoid conflicts of interest. \n Trump has repeatedly sought to downplay the allegations against Russia, alarming some who see a pattern of skepticism directed at U.S. intelligence agencies and a willingness to embrace the Russian leader. On Friday after receiving a classified briefing on the matter, Trump tried to change the subject to allegations that hadn't been raised by U.S. intelligence. \"Intelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results. Voting machines not touched!\" \n He then declared in a series of tweets on Saturday that having a good relationship with Russia is \"a good thing, not a bad thing.\" Trump added, \"only 'stupid' people or fools\" would come to a different conclusion. \n Trump had earlier urged Americans to get on with their lives. Graham retorted in the broadcast Sunday: \n \"Our lives are built around the idea that we're free people. That we go to the ballot box. That we, you know, have political contests outside of foreign interference.\" \n There has been no official comment from Moscow on the report, which was released as Russia observed Orthodox Christmas. \n But Alexei Pushkov, an influential member of the upper house of parliament, said on Twitter that \"all the accusations against Russia are based on 'confidence' and suppositions. The USA in the same way was confident about (Iraqi leader Saddam) Hussein having weapons of mass destruction.\" \n During the election, Trump praised the Russian strongman as a decisive leader, and argued that the two countries would benefit from a better working relationship \u2014 though attempts by the Obama administration at a \"Russian reset\" have proved unsuccessful. \n At the same time, intelligence officials believe that Russia isn't done intruding in U.S. politics and policymaking. \n Immediately after the Nov. 8 election, Russia began a \"spear-phishing\" campaign to try to trick people into revealing their email passwords, targeting U.S. government employees and think tanks that specialize in national security, defense and foreign policy, the unclassified version of the report said. \n The report said Russian government provided hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta, to the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. The website's founder, Julian Assange, has denied that it got the emails it released from the Russian government. The report noted that the emails could have been passed through middlemen. \n Russia also used state-funded propaganda and paid \"trolls\" to make nasty comments on social media services, the report said. Intelligence officials say Moscow will apply lessons learned from its activities in the election to put its thumbprint on future elections in the United States and allied nations. \n The public report was minus classified details that intelligence officials shared with President Barack Obama on Thursday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Priebus: Trump 'accepts' U.S. intel blaming Russia for hack"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Adacia Chambers arrives for a court hearing in Stillwater, Okla. Chambers is accused of driving her car into spectators at Oklahoma State University's homecoming parade and killing four people in 2015. Her trial is scheduled to start Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2017 in Stillwater. \n TULSA, Okla. >> An Oklahoma woman who drove into a crowd of spectators at Oklahoma State University's 2015 homecoming parade, killing four people and injuring dozens of others, is set to stand trial. \n Adacia Chambers, 26, has pleaded not guilty to four counts of second-degree murder and 42 counts of assault and battery. If convicted of any of the murder charges, she could face up to life in prison. The trial begins Tuesday in Stillwater. \n Prosecutors allege that Chambers steered her car around a police barricade and sped up before she plowed into the crowd watching the parade before Oklahoma State's game against the University of Kansas. Prosecutors say this showed intent. \n Chambers' attorneys say she has a mental illness and was experiencing a psychiatric episode at the time of the crash. Her father said she received psychiatric treatment at an in-patient facility several years ago. \n Here's a look at some key aspects of the case: \n BEFORE THE CRASH \n Co-workers at the restaurant where Chambers worked said that the morning of the crash, she had difficulty performing tasks that she normally did well. When her manager confronted her, Chambers \"became emotionally distressed,\" made reference to quitting and ran to her car, a report by the National Transportation Safety Board found. The crash happened about 10 minutes later. \n ACCELERATED \n Chambers sped up from 54 to 59 mph in the five seconds before she struck a police motorcycle that was blocking the road along the parade route, according to the NTSB report. \n VICTIMS \n Killed were Nikita Nakal, a 23-year-old MBA student from India at the University of Central Oklahoma in Edmond, a married couple, Bonnie Jean Stone and Marvin Lyle Stone, both 65, and 2-year-old Nash Lucas. Dozens more were injured, many of them children. \n AFTER THE CRASH \n One of Chambers' attorneys, Tony Coleman, has said she was experiencing a psychiatric episode when the crash happened and that when he told her about the deaths after the crash, \"her face was blank\" and that he wasn't sure if she even realized she was in jail. Chambers' father, Floyd Chambers, said she received inpatient mental health treatment several years ago. The judge, though, ruled that Chambers was competent to stand trial and refused a defense request to move the trial to another jurisdiction. \n THE TRIAL \n The trial could last a month, as prosecutors have an extensive list of potential witnesses, including victims, first-responders and detectives, among others. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trial to begin over deadly Oklahoma State homecoming crash"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A person crosses the pedestrian bridge in the Public Garden during a winter storm in Boston. \n DURHAM, N.C. >> The first big snowstorm of the year in the Northeast dumped more than a foot of snow in areas of southern New England after leaving a glaze of ice and snow and bitterly cold temperatures across the South. Below freezing temperatures persisted throughout much of the eastern U.S. on Sunday. \n Three deaths have been blamed on the storm in Virginia, Georgia and Kentucky with officials saying they were caused by roads made slick by ice. Other traffic deaths are being investigated to determine if weather played a factor. \n The National Weather Service said 19.5 inches of snow fell on East Bridgewater, Massachusetts, about 30 miles south of Boston, with areas of Rhode Island reporting a foot of snow, and up to 10 inches of snow falling in parts of Connecticut. \n The storm was pulling out into the Atlantic Ocean and forecasters said Sunday morning the snow should be winding down. \n The ice and snow caused thousands of wrecks and other problems. In Mississippi, a former governor was hospitalized after he slipped and fell on his icy driveway. At least seven locations in North Carolina reported 10 inches of snow as the storm entered the state on Saturday, and blizzard conditions occurred in southeast Virginia. \n Flights were cancelled at several airports and long lines were reported at many supermarkets and hardware stores where residents were scooping up snow blowers and supplies such as ice melt and windshield wiper fluid. \n Bitter cold was expected in the wake of the storm. The Weather Service said the low in Greensboro, North Carolina, could dip to zero or below on Monday morning \u2014 marking only the 15th time in 113 years of records it has gotten that cold. \n Schools in the South were already cancelling classes Monday because of lingering ice on roads or the unusual cold. Many places in North Carolina aren't forecast to get above freezing until Tuesday afternoon. \n In Portland, Oregon, two basketball games fell victim to approaching severe winter weather. The NBA game between the Trail Blazers and the Detroit Pistons, scheduled for Saturday night, was postponed and moved to Sunday. No. 5 Gonzaga's scheduled men's basketball game at Portland also was postponed, although no makeup date was announced. \n On the West Coast, temperatures were unusually warm, with forecasters warning about mudslides as heavy rain falls on mountainsides full of snow. \n In Mississippi, a family spokesman said 93-year-old former Gov. William Winter was expected to recover, but remained in serious condition after suffering a concussion when he fell on the steep, icy driveway of his Jackson home. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Winter storm hits New England after icing over the South"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Esteban Ruiz Santiago, 26, Saturday, Jan. 7, 2017, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Relatives of the man who police say opened fire Friday killing several people and wounding others at a Florida airport report he had a history of mental health issues. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> While investigators try to figure out the motive of an Iraq war veteran accused of killing five travelers and wounding six others at a busy international airport in Florida, the suspected gunman was charged and could face the death penalty if convicted. \n Esteban Santiago, 26, was charged with an act of violence at an international airport resulting in death \u2014 which carries a maximum punishment of execution \u2014 and weapons charges. \n Santiago told investigators that he planned the attack, buying a one-way ticket to the Fort Lauderdale airport, a federal complaint said. Authorities don't know why he chose his target and have not ruled out terrorism. \n \"Today's charges represent the gravity of the situation and reflect the commitment of federal, state and local law enforcement personnel to continually protect the community and prosecute those who target our residents and visitors,\" U.S Attorney Wifredo Ferrer said. \n Authorities said during a news conference that they had interviewed roughly 175 people, including a lengthy interrogation with a cooperative Santiago, who is a former National Guard soldier from Alaska. Flights had resumed at the Fort Lauderdale airport after the bloodshed, though the terminal where the shooting happened remained closed. \n FBI Agent George Piro said Santiago spoke to investigators for several hours after he opened fire with a 9mm semi-automatic handgun that he appears to have legally checked on a flight from Alaska. \n \"Indications are that he came here to carry out this horrific attack,\" Piro said. \"We have not identified any triggers that would have caused this attack. We're pursuing all angles on what prompted him to carry out this horrific attack.\" \n Investigators are combing through social media and other information to determine Santiago's motive, and it's too early to say whether terrorism played a role, Piro said. In November, Santiago had walked into an FBI field office in Alaska saying the U.S. government was controlling his mind and forcing him to watch Islamic State group videos, authorities said. \n \"He was a walk-in complaint. This is something that happens at FBI offices around the country every day,\" FBI agent Marlin Ritzman said. \n Santiago had a loaded magazine on him, but had left a gun in his vehicle, along with his newborn child, authorities said. Officers seized the weapon and local officers took him to get a mental health evaluation. His girlfriend picked up the child. \n On Dec. 8, the gun was returned to Santiago. Authorities wouldn't say if it was the same gun used in the airport attack. \n U.S. Attorney Karen Loeffler said Santiago would have been able to legally possess a gun because he had not been judged mentally ill, which is a higher standard than having an evaluation. \n Santiago had not been placed on the U.S. no-fly list and appears to have acted alone, authorities said. \n The attack sent panicked witnesses running out of the terminal and spilling onto the tarmac, baggage in hand. Others hid in bathroom stalls or crouched behind cars or anything else they could find as police and paramedics rushed in to help the wounded and establish whether there were any other gunmen. \n Mark Lea, 53, had just flown in from Minnesota with his wife for a cruise when he heard three quick cracks, like a firecracker. Then came more cracks, and \"I knew it was more than just a firecracker,\" he said. \n Making sure his wife was outside, Lea helped evacuate some older women who had fallen, he said. Then he saw the shooter. \n \"He was just kind of randomly shooting people,\" he said. \"If you were in his path, you were going to get shot. He was walking and shooting.\" \n Over the course of about 45 seconds, the shooter reloaded twice, he said. When he was out of bullets, he walked away, dropped the gun and lay face down, spread eagle on the floor, Lea said. \n By that time, a deputy had arrived and grabbed the shooter. Lea put his foot on the gun to secure it. \n Lea went to help the injured and a woman from Iowa asked about her husband, who she described. Lea saw a man who fit his description behind a row of chairs, motionless, shot in the head and lying in a pool of blood, he said. The man, Michael Oehme, was identified as one of the dead victims on Saturday. \n Santiago had been discharged from the National Guard last year after being demoted for unsatisfactory performance. Bryan Santiago said Saturday that his brother had requested psychological help but received little assistance. Esteban Santiago said in August that he was hearing voices. \n \"How is it possible that the federal government knows, they hospitalize him for only four days, and then give him his weapon back?\" Bryan Santiago said. \n His mother declined to comment as she stood inside the screen door of the family home in Puerto Rico, wiping tears from her eyes. The only thing she said was that Esteban Santiago had been tremendously affected by seeing a bomb explode next to two of his friends when he was around 18 years old while serving in Iraq. \n Santiago, who is in federal custody with no bail, will face federal charges and is expected to appear in court Monday, Piro said. \n It is legal for airline passengers to travel with guns and ammunition as long as the firearms are put in a checked bag \u2014 not a carry-on \u2014 and are unloaded and locked in a hard-sided container. Guns must be declared to the airline at check-in. \n Santiago arrived in Fort Lauderdale after taking off from Anchorage aboard a Delta flight Thursday night, checking only one piece of luggage \u2014 his gun, said Jesse Davis, police chief at the Anchorage airport. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Death penalty possible in Florida airport shooting case"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The first page of the Joint Analysis Report narrative by the Department of Homeland Security and federal Bureau of Investigation and released on Dec. 29, 2016. \n WASHINGTON >> A top Senate Republican is urging President-elect Donald Trump to defend democracy in the United States and around the world by punishing Russia for trying to interfere in the American presidential election as U.S. intelligence agencies allege. \n \"He's going to be the defender of the free world here pretty soon,\" Sen. Lindsey Graham, a frequent Trump critic, said in remarks broadcast Sunday on NBC's \"Meet the Press.\" \"All I'm asking him is to acknowledge that Russia interfered, and push back. It could be Iran next time. It could be China.\" \n Trump has consistently refused to blame Russia in the hacks that American intelligence agencies say were directed by Russian President Vladimir Putin. U.S. intelligence officials on Friday briefed the president-elect on their conclusions that the Kremlin interfered in the 2016 election in order to help him win the White House. \n An unclassified version of the report directly tied Putin to election meddling and said that Moscow had a \"clear preference\" for Trump in his race against Hillary Clinton. Trump and his allies have bristled at any implication that the meddling helped him win the election. He won the Electoral College vote with 306 votes, topping the 270 votes required to become president. \n The pushback from Graham comes between the release of the intelligence committee's conclusion about Russian meddling and a consequential week for Trump, who will become the nation's 45th president on Jan. 20. \n On Wednesday alone, more information about the incoming administration could blast into the public sphere as if from a fire hose, not all of it under Trump's control. He's expected to hold a long-delayed press conference on how he's organizing his global business empire to avoid conflicts of interest while he's president. He has taken sporadic questions and done interviews, but it'll be his first full-fledged news conference since July 27. \n On Capitol Hill, the Senate is holding at least nine hearings on Trump's Cabinet and other nominees, a pace set by the Republican majority that Democrats have complained is too fast. The government ethics office says several of Trump's Cabinet choices have not completed a full review to avoid conflicts of interest. \n Trump has repeatedly sought to downplay the allegations, alarming some who see a pattern of skepticism directed at U.S. intelligence agencies and a willingness to embrace the Russian leader. On Friday after receiving a classified briefing on the matter, Trump tried to change the subject to allegations that hadn't been raised by U.S. intelligence. \"Intelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results. Voting machines not touched!\" \n He then declared in a series of tweets on Saturday that having a good relationship with Russia is \"a good thing, not a bad thing.\" Trump added, \"only 'stupid' people or fools\" would come to a different conclusion. \n Trump had earlier urged Americans to get on with their lives. Graham retorted in the broadcast Sunday: \n \"Our lives are built around the idea that we're free people. That we go to the ballot box. That we, you know, have political contests outside of foreign interference.\" \n There has been no official comment from Moscow on the report, which was released as Russia observed Orthodox Christmas. \n But Alexei Pushkov, an influential member of the upper house of parliament, said on Twitter that \"all the accusations against Russia are based on 'confidence' and suppositions. The USA in the same way was confident about (Iraqi leader Saddam) Hussein having weapons of mass destruction.\" \n Margarita Simonyan, the editor of government-funded satellite TV channel RT who is frequently mentioned in the U.S. report, said in a blog post: \"Dear CIA: what you have written here is a complete fail.\" \n During the election, Trump praised the Russian strongman as a decisive leader, and argued that the two countries would benefit from a better working relationship \u2014 though attempts by the Obama administration at a \"Russian reset\" have proved unsuccessful. \n At the same time, intelligence officials believe that Russia isn't done intruding in U.S. politics and policymaking. \n Immediately after the Nov. 8 election, Russia began a \"spear-phishing\" campaign to try to trick people into revealing their email passwords, targeting U.S. government employees and think tanks that specialize in national security, defense and foreign policy, the unclassified version of the report said. \n The report said Russian government provided hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta, to the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. The website's founder, Julian Assange, has denied that it got the emails it released from the Russian government. The report noted that the emails could have been passed through middlemen. \n Russia also used state-funded propaganda and paid \"trolls\" to make nasty comments on social media services, the report said. Intelligence officials say Moscow will apply lessons learned from its activities in the election to put its thumbprint on future elections in the United States and allied nations. \n The public report was minus classified details that intelligence officials shared with President Barack Obama on Thursday. \n In an interview with The Associated Press after the briefing, Trump said he \"learned a lot\" from his discussions with intelligence officials, but he declined to say whether he accepted their assertion that Russia had intruded in the election on his behalf. \n Trump has said he will appoint a team within three months of taking office to develop a plan to \"aggressively combat and stop cyberattacks.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Jim Heintz contributed to this report from Moscow. Jill Colvin reported from New York. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Graham urges Trump to defend democracy with Russia sanctions"}

{"date": "January 8, 2017", "text": "BARRY MARKOWITZ / 2017 \n Honolulu fire crews are responding to a boat fire of Hawaii Kai. \n BARRY MARKOWITZ / 2017 \n Honolulu fire crews are responding to a boat fire of Hawaii Kai. \n Honolulu fire crews are responding to a boat fire of Hawaii Kai, with reports of people jumping off the boat into the water. \n At least one of the jumpers had been picked up by a good Samaritan boater, according to emergency dispatch reports. \n The Fire Department was preparing to put two rescue jumpers in the water. \n Fifteen people had been aboard the vessel, which remains anchored. \n A helicopter landing zone was being set up at the Hawaii Kai boat launch ramp parking lot. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire crews respond to burning boat off Hawaii Kai"}

