{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A worker arranged used electronic equipment at a repair shop in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, last week. \n JAKARTA, Indonesia >> The waste from discarded electronic gadgets and electrical appliances has reached severe levels in East Asia, posing a growing threat to health and the environment unless safe disposal becomes the norm. \n China was the biggest culprit with its electronic waste more than doubling, according to a new study by the United Nations University. But nearly every country in the region had massive increases between 2010 and 2015, including those least equipped to deal with the growing mountain of discarded smartphones, computers, TVs, air conditioners and other goods. \n On average, electronic waste in the 12 countries in the study had increased by nearly two thirds in the five years, totaling 12.3 million tons in 2015 alone. \n Rising incomes in Asia, burgeoning populations of young adults, rapid obsolescence of products due to technological innovation and changes in fashion, on top of illegal global trade in waste, are among factors driving the increases. \n \"Consumers in Asia now replace their gadgets more frequently. In addition, many products are designed for low cost production, but not necessarily repair, refurbishment or easy recycling,\" said the study. It urges governments to enact specific laws for management of electronic waste or rigorously enforce existing legislation. \n Only South Korea, Taiwan and Japan have long established recycling systems based on laws introduced in the 1990s. Open dumping of lead- and mercury-laden components, open burning of plastics to release encased copper and unsafe backyard operations to extract precious metals are the norm in most countries including Indonesia, Thailand and Cambodia, which also lack laws governing the treatment of electronic and electrical waste. \n The study said open burning and unsafe recycling is associated with a slew of health problems for workers and communities near recycling operations They include infertility, childhood development problems, impaired lung function, liver and kidney damage, inheritable genetic damage and mental health problems. \n Backyard recyclers are after gold, silver, palladium and copper, mainly from printed circuit boards, but the crude acid bath extraction process releases toxic fumes and is also inefficient, recovering only a portion of the valuable material. \n Asia as a whole is the biggest market for electronics and appliances, accounting for nearly half of global sales by volume, and produces the most waste. \n Guiyu, a heavily-polluted rural town in China that specializes in dismantling consumer electronics, some of it exported from rich countries, has become synonymous with the costs of a throwaway high-tech world. \n China has cleaned up Guiyu and other centers like it but the Basel Action Network, which brought Guiyu to international attention, said most of the dangerous practices continue in Guiyu albeit concentrated within a new industrial park on its outskirts. \n Ruediger Kuehr, one of the study's authors, said the amount of waste being generated is higher than governments estimate, partly because of their narrower definitions, and should be a wake-up call to policymakers and consumers. \n \"We are all benefiting from the luxury of these electrical and electronic products to a certain extent, it makes our lives easier, sometimes more complicated,\" he said. \"However if we want to continue like this we must be reusing the resources contained in electronic and electrical equipment.\" \n A smartphone, for example, uses more than half the elements in the periodic table, some of which are very rare, and in the longer-run will be exhausted without recycling, said Kuehr. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gadget mountain rising in Asia threatens health, environment"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump spoke during a news conference in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York on Jan. 11. \n BEIJING >> China's foreign ministry on Sunday again rejected President-elect Donald Trump's suggestion that he might use American policy on Taiwan as a bargaining chip between the two sides. \n Spokesman Lu Kang said Sunday that the \"one China\" policy is \"non-negotiable.\" Since recognizing Beijing in 1979, Washington has maintained only unofficial ties with Taiwan, the self-governing island that Beijing considers its territory \u2014 a status quo that Trump has repeatedly threatened to upend since winning the November election. \n \"The government of the People's Republic of China is the only legitimate government representing China,\" Lu said in a statement. \"That is the fact acknowledged by the international community and no one can change.\" \n Trump told The Wall Street Journal in an interview published Friday that \"everything is under negotiation, including 'one China.'\" \n The interview is the latest indication that Trump will shake up the U.S.-China relationship, particularly on Taiwan, which China considers a core national interest. \n China was already angered by Trump's Dec. 2 phone call with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, the first time an American president or president-elect has publicly spoken to Taiwan's leader in nearly four decades. Beijing considers any reference to a separate Taiwanese head of state to be a grave insult. \n Trump then said in a television interview that he didn't feel \"bound by a one-China policy unless we make a deal with China having to do with other things, including trade.\" \n After attacking China repeatedly during his campaign, Trump has continued to disparage China on his Twitter account over its military build-up in disputed areas of the South China Sea, allegedly manipulating its currency to put American companies at a disadvantage, and not doing enough to curb North Korea's nuclear program. He has also announced that a new White House trade council will be led by economist Peter Navarro, a sharp critic of Chinese economic policy who wrote a book titled \"Death By China.\" \n Trump told the Journal that he would not label China a currency manipulator as soon as he takes office, though he repeated his contention that China is manipulating the yuan. \n So far, Beijing has reiterated its refusal to negotiate on Taiwan and to push for positive cooperation between the two sides, though state-run media have run several strongly worded editorials attacking Trump. \n Chinese political observers on Sunday said they expected Beijing's response to change once Trump is inaugurated next week. \n \"Trump has not taken office yet, so he is an ordinary person now,\" said Shen Dingli, a professor of international relations at Fudan University. \"Therefore, there's no need for China to take his remarks seriously or further respond to what he said.\" \n Tang Yonghong, a professor at Xiamen University, said that China needed to convince Trump that \"if he wants to make money from the Chinese mainland, he must be a friend of China instead of being an enemy.\" \n \"I think Trump is handling international relations, including Sino-U.S. relations, with a businessman's logic,\" Tang said. \"He wants to see how China will respond to such provocation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China again rejects Trump's suggestion to negotiate Taiwan"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n People took in a fiery sunset during voggy conditions at Kakaako Waterfront Park tonight. \n Voggy weather is expected for another day before tradewinds gradually return and usher away the volcanic impurities in the air around the islands, the National Weather Service said today. \n \"The air quality should begin to improve, if not by Sunday, by around Monday and definitely by midweek,\" said weather service meteorologist Bob Burke. The returning tradewinds will blow the vog away from the smaller islands, but the haze will linger around parts of the Big Island because it's closer to the source, Burke said. \n The volcanic haze has been around the islands for the past several days because of a stable air mass over the state interfering with the trades. A light southeasterly wind then pushed the vog around the smaller islands. \n The stable air mass, or ridge, will move north this week, and the tradewinds will return, first to Hawaii island on Monday and then to the smaller islands by Tuesday or Wednesday. \n Vog, short for volcanic fog, refers to the hazy air pollution caused by the emissions from Kilauea, chiefly water vapor, carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide, according to the state Health Department. As SO2 is released from the summit and East Rift Zone vents, it reacts with atmospheric oxygen, sunlight, moisture, and other gases and particles and, within hours to days, converts to fine particles, which scatter sunlight, causing haze. \n People have different reactions to vog, but exposure could worsen symptoms for people who have asthma or other respiratory conditions or cardiovascular disease. Also vulnerable are older adults and children, the health department said. \n Even short-term exposure to sulfur dioxide can narrow the airways, causing asthma, or irritation of the eyes, nose, throat and skin, headaches, shortness of breath, or fatigue and dizziness, the department said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Vog expected to hang around another day"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey performers are seen during a show today in Orlando, Fla. \n ELLENTON, Fla. >> After 146 years, the curtain is coming down on \"The Greatest Show on Earth.\" The owner of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus told The Associated Press that the show will close forever in May. \n The iconic American spectacle was felled by a variety of factors, company executives say. Declining attendance combined with high operating costs, along with changing public tastes and prolonged battles with animal rights groups all contributed to its demise. \n \"There isn't any one thing,\" said Kenneth Feld, chairman and CEO of Feld Entertainment. \"This has been a very difficult decision for me and for the entire family.\" \n The company broke the news to circus employees Saturday night after shows in Orlando and Miami. \n Ringling Bros. has two touring circuses this season and will perform 30 shows between now and May. Major stops include Atlanta, Washington, Philadelphia, Boston and Brooklyn. The final shows will be in Providence, Rhode Island, on May 7 and in Uniondale, New York, at the Nassau County Coliseum on May 21. \n The circus, with its exotic animals, flashy costumes and death-defying acrobats, has been a staple of entertainment in the United States since the mid-1800s. Phineas Taylor Barnum made a traveling spectacle of animals and human oddities popular, while the five Ringling brothers performed juggling acts and skits from their home base in Wisconsin. Eventually, they merged and the modern circus was born. The sprawling troupes traveled around America by train, wowing audiences with the sheer scale of entertainment and exotic animals. \n By midcentury, the circus was routine, wholesome family entertainment. But as the 20th century went on, kids became less and less enthralled. Movies, television, video games and the internet captured young minds. The circus didn't have savvy product merchandising tie-ins or Saturday morning cartoons to shore up its image. \n \"The competitor in many ways is time,\" said Feld, adding that transporting the show by rail and other circus quirks \u2014 such as providing a traveling school for performers' children\u2014 are throwbacks to another era. \"It's a different model that we can't see how it works in today's world to justify and maintain an affordable ticket price. So you've got all these things working against it.\" \n The Feld family bought the Ringling circus in 1967. The show was just under 3 hours then. Today, the show is 2 hours and 7 minutes, with the longest segment \u2014 a tiger act \u2014 clocking in at 12 minutes. \n \"Try getting a 3- or 4-year-old today to sit for 12 minutes,\" he said. \n Feld and his daughter Juliette Feld, who is the company's chief operating officer, acknowledged another reality that led to the closing, and it was the one thing that initially drew millions to the show: the animals. Ringling has been targeted by activists who say forcing animals to perform is cruel and unnecessary. \n In May of 2016, after a long and costly legal battle, the company removed the elephants from the shows and sent the animals to live on a conservation farm in Central Florida. The animals had been the symbol of the circus since Barnum brought an Asian elephant named Jumbo to America in 1882. In 2014, Feld Entertainment won $25.2 million in settlements from groups including the Humane Society of the United States, ending a 14-year fight over allegations that circus employees mistreated elephants. \n By the time the elephants were removed, public opinion had shifted somewhat. Los Angeles prohibited the use of bull-hooks by elephant trainers and handlers, as did Oakland, California. The city of Asheville, North Carolina nixed wild or exotic animals from performing in the municipally owned, 7,600-seat U.S. Cellular Center. \n Attendance has been dropping for 10 years, said Juliette Feld, but when the elephants left, there was a \"dramatic drop\" in ticket sales. Paradoxically, while many said they didn't want big animals to perform in circuses, many others refused to attend a circus without them. \n \"We know now that one of the major reasons people came to Ringling Bros. was getting to see elephants,\" she said. \"We stand by that decision. We know it was the right decision. This was what audiences wanted to see and it definitely played a major role.\" \n The Felds say their existing animals \u2014 lions, tigers, camels, donkeys, alpacas, kangaroos and llamas \u2014 will go to suitable homes. Juliette Feld says the company will continue operating the Center for Elephant Conservation. \n Some 500 people perform and work on both touring shows. A handful will be placed in positions with the company's other, profitable shows \u2014 it owns Monster Jam, Disney on Ice and Marvel Live, among other things \u2014 but most will be out of a job. Juliette Feld said the company will help employees with job placement and resumes. In some cases where a circus employee lives on the tour rail car (the circus travels by train), the company will also help with housing relocation. \n Kenneth Feld became visibly emotional while discussing the decision with a reporter. He said over the next four months, fans will be able to say goodbye at the remaining shows. \n In recent years, Ringling Bros. tried to remain relevant, hiring its first African American ringmaster, then its first female ringmaster, and also launching an interactive app. It added elements from its other, popular shows, such as motorbike daredevils and ice skaters. But it seemingly was no match for Pokemon Go and a generation of kids who desire familiar brands and YouTube celebrities. \n \"We tried all these different things to see what would work, and supported it with a lot of funding as well, and we weren't successful in finding the solution,\" said Kenneth Feld. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ringling Bros. circus to close after 146 years"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean hostage Park Chul-hong, seated right, and Filipino hostage Glen Alindajao, left, prepared to answer questions after being flown into Davao following their release today from their kidnappers in the volatile island of Jolo in southern Philippines. \n MANILA, Philippines >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said he has ordered his troops to bomb extremists who flee with their captives in a bid to stop a wave of kidnappings at sea, calling the loss of civilian lives in such an attack \"collateral damage.\" \n Duterte has previously stated that he had told his Indonesian and Malaysian counterparts their forces can blast away as they pursue militants who abduct sailors in waters where the three countries converge and bring their kidnap victims to the southern Philippines. He said in a speech late Saturday that he had given the same orders to Filipino forces. \n He said he instructed the navy and the coast guard that \"if there are kidnappers and they're trying to escape, bomb them all.\" \n \"They say 'hostages.' Sorry, collateral damage,\" he said in a speech to business people in Davao, his southern hometown. \n He said such an approach would enable the government to get even with the ransom-seeking militants. \"You can't gain mileage for your wrongdoing, I will really have you blasted,\" he said. \n His advice to potential victims? \"So, really, don't allow yourselves to be kidnapped.\" \n Duterte's remarks reflect the alarm and desperation of the Philippines, along with Malaysia and Indonesia, in halting a series of ransom kidnappings primarily by Abu Sayyaf militants and their allies along a busy waterway for regional trade. \n On Saturday, ransom-seeking Abu Sayyaf gunmen freed a South Korean captain and his Filipino crewman who were abducted three months ago from their cargo ship. \n The gunmen handed skipper Park Chul-hong and Glenn Alindajao over to Moro National Liberation Front rebels, who turned them over to Philippine officials in southern Jolo town in predominantly Muslim Sulu province. \n The Moro rebels, who signed a 1996 peace deal with the government, have helped negotiate the release of several hostages of the smaller but more violent Abu Sayyaf, which is blacklisted by the U.S. as a terrorist organization for kidnappings, beheadings and bombings. \n Duterte's adviser dealing with insurgents, Jesus Dureza, said he was not aware of any ransom being paid in exchange for the freedom of the sailors. At least 27 hostages, many of them foreign crewmen, remain in the hands of different Abu Sayyaf factions, he said. \n There have been persistent speculations, however, that most of the freed hostages have been ransomed off. \n Without a known foreign source of funds, the Abu Sayyaf has survived mostly on ransom kidnappings, extortion and other acts of banditry. \n A confidential Philippine government threat assessment report seen by The Associated Press last year said the militants pocketed at least 353 million pesos ($7.3 million) from ransom kidnappings in the first six months of 2016. \n The militants have mostly targeted slow-moving tugboats in the busy sea bordering the southern Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duterte orders troops to blast militants and their hostages"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police were investigating a shooting today near Kahaluu. \n Police closed Kamehameha Highway this afternoon to investigate a shooting in Kaneohe. \n The suspected shooter was in custody, and no injuries were immediately reported, police said. \n Police closed Kamehameha in both directions between Hunaahi and Hunalepo streets at about 4 p.m. to investigate. Traffic was being rerouted on Hunaahi and Hunalepo streets. \n The shooting comes one day after police fatally shot a man who police said hit an officer with a stolen truck at Malaekahana State Recreational Area. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kamehameha closed as police investigate shooting in Kaneohe"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "Honolulu lifeguards were assisting today after a boat overturned off Waikiki. \n The Coast Guard said they received a call about the overturned boat near the surf spot Publics at about 3:20 p.m. A good Samaritan reported having taken on some passengers of the overturned boat, reportedly a Boston Whaler, and one person was still with the overturned vessel. No injuries were immediately reported, and lifeguards were responding to assist, the Coast Guard said. \n Lifeguards reported the boat is about 15 feet long with an outboard motor, according to dispatch communications. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Boat capsizes off Waikiki"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "A 37-year-old man was in serious condition today after falling about 25 feet while mountain biking at Maunawili Park. \n The man was wearing a helmet when he fell off the trail at about 11:20 a.m., an Emergency Medical Services report said. \n He was taken by helicopter to awaiting paramedics who treated him and took him to a hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Mountain biker injured in 25-foot fall at Maunawili Park"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2000 \n Francis Keala, former police chief \n Memorial services for former Honolulu Police Chief Francis Keala will be held Thursday at Nuuanu Memorial Park & Mortuary and National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific at Punchbowl. \n Keala died of congestive heart failure Jan. 7 at his Honolulu home at the age of 86. He served as police chief from 1969 to 1983. \n Visitation will be from 8 to 10 a.m. at Nuuanu Memorial Park & Mortuary, 2233 Nuuanu Ave., with a memorial service from 10 to 10:45 a.m. \n The family will depart at 11 a.m. for a police station drive-by. \n An additional memorial service will be held at the National Cemetery of the Pacific from 11:30 to 11:50 a.m. \n The family requests donations in lieu of flowers to one the following organizations: Honolulu Police Community Foundation, Palama Settlement, Saint Louis Education Foundation, and Boys & Girls Club of Honolulu. \n Keala, a graduate of Saint Louis High School and the University of Hawaii, was the first person with a college education promoted to the helm of the Honolulu Police Department. He retired in 1983 after nearly 30 years with the department. \n Before becoming a police officer, he was a paratrooper officer in the 11th Airborne Division in Europe in the mid-1950s. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Memorial for former HPD chief Keala set for Thursday"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "Police were looking for a male suspect after a robbery at a Nuuanu business. \n The suspect brandished a weapon after entering the business at about 6:40 a.m. Friday and demanded property, police said. \n He took an undisclosed amount of cash from a 56-year-old woman and fled. Police opened a first-degree robbery investigation. \n The suspect remained at large Saturday morning. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police looking for Nuuanu robber"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police opened a sexual assault investigation after a 21-year-old man reported that someone sexually assaulted him while he was sleeping. \n The man reported that a male assailant assaulted him between midnight and 3:30 a.m. Friday. \n Police opened a first-degree sexual assault case. No one has been arrested. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD investigating sexual assault of 21-year-old man"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis shakes hands with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas during a private audience at the Vatican. \n VATICAN CITY >> The Vatican stressed the sacred nature of Jerusalem on Saturday as the Palestinian leader warned that prospects for peace could suffer if the incoming Trump administration goes ahead with plans to move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. \n The developments came as Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas met with Pope Francis and inaugurated the Palestinian embassy to the Holy See. \n Abbas said he had only heard through news reports of the proposal by U.S. President-elect Donald Trump to move the embassy to Jerusalem. \n The Palestinians strongly oppose the embassy move, saying it would kill any hopes for negotiating an Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement and rile the region by undercutting Muslim and Christian claims to the holy city. \n \"We hope that this news is not true, because it is not encouraging and will disrupt and hinder the peace process,\" he said. He urged Trump to open a dialogue with both Israelis and Palestinians. \n Trump hasn't yet laid out a clear Mideast policy, but has signaled he will be more sympathetic to Israel's hard-line right than previous administrations. \n In Paris on Sunday, the French government is hosting a Mideast peace conference attended by dozens of foreign ministers to show Trump's administration that most of the world wants a two-state solution for Israel and the Palestinians and is fed up with decades of conflict. \n The Vatican has long sought an internationally guaranteed status for Jerusalem that safeguards its sacred character. In its communique after the Abbas meeting, the Holy See didn't refer to Jerusalem by name but said during the talks \"emphasis was placed on the importance of safeguarding the sanctity of the holy places for believers of all three of the Abrahamic religions.\" \n During the meeting, Abbas presented Francis with gifts recalling Christianity's birthplace in the Holy Land, including a stone from the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem and documentation about the ongoing restoration of the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem. \n After the papal meeting, Abbas formally inaugurated the new Palestinian embassy across the street from one of the main gates of Vatican City. He pulled back a curtain revealing a plaque and extended the Palestinian flag from a flagpole outside a window. \n The embassy, located in the same building as the embassies of Peru, Ecuador and Burkina Faso, comes after recent accords in which the Vatican formally recognized the \"State of Palestine.\" \n \"This embassy is a place of pride for us and we hope all of the countries of the world will recognize the state of Palestine, because this recognition will bring us closer to the peace process,\" he said. \n Abbas had initially accepted an invitation to be in Paris on Sunday, but French officials say that visit has been postponed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope meets Palestinian leader; Vatican calls Jerusalem holy"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey, left, leaves the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> House Democrats still seething over FBI Director James Comey's handling of the election-year inquiry of Hillary Clinton confronted the law enforcement officer over his refusal to say whether the FBI is investigating possible links between President-elect Donald Trump's campaign and Russia. \n The contentious, closed-door session Friday reflected the frustration of Democrats who blame Comey's statements and actions in part for Clinton's loss to Trump. In July, Comey announced the findings of the FBI investigation that found Clinton's use of a private email server was \"extremely careless\" but not criminal. Then, days before the Nov. 8 election, he sent two letters to Congress, one announcing a review of newly found emails and then another saying there was no evidence of wrongdoing. \n The Justice Department inspector general announced this week that he is investigating Comey and the department. \n Democrats and Republicans who attended the all-member briefing on Friday with Comey and senior intelligence officials said several lawmakers pressed him in a tense session about his refusal to say whether there is an examination of alleged contacts between members of the Trump campaign and Russia. \n Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, said the meeting was contentious but said Comey handled himself well under difficult circumstances. \n \"Yesterday morning if you asked me if I thought Comey was at the end of his career \u2026 I probably would have said 'I think so,'\" King said. \"Now I think he deserves to be reassessed, just by the way he handled himself. I was impressed.\" \n Clearly frustrated with Comey was Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., who was forced to resign as head of the Democratic National Committee after hacked emails surfaced that suggested the party operation favored Clinton over her primary rival, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. \n She confronted Comey, according to a Democrat who attended the briefing. Lawmakers and other congressional officials spoke on condition of anonymity to freely discuss the private meeting. \n Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., repeatedly asked Comey if he had applied a \"double standard\" in disclosing investigations. Comey has previously said his standard was based on whether there is a need to reassure the public about a possible high-profile probe. \n \"Do you believe that standard has been met with reference to the possible investigation of the Trump campaign's possible connections to the Russian government? And if not, why not?\" Nadler pressed. The congressman told Comey that he should clarify whether the FBI is investigating, as he did with Clinton's email probe. \n According to Nadler, Comey responded no, he didn't think it was the same thing and said he couldn't comment further. \n \"That's what got many people in the room frustrated and upset,\" Nadler told The Associated Press on Saturday. \"He was being very hypocritical.\" \n A declassified intelligence report released last week said Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a hidden campaign to influence the election to favor Trump over Clinton, revelations that have roiled Washington. \n Trump and his supporters have staunchly resisted the findings and Trump has leveled a series of broadsides at U.S. intelligence agencies, even though he'll have to rely on their expertise to help him make major national security decisions once he takes over at the White House next week. He will be sworn in Jan. 20. \n After the closed-door session, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told reporters: \"The American people are owed the truth.\" \n \"There is a great deal of evidence to say that this is a high \u2013 an issue of high interest to the American people,\" Pelosi said. \"The strength, the integrity of our own democracy. And that for that reason, the FBI should let us know whether they're making \u2013 doing that investigation or not. They're usually inscrutable, as you saw in the public testimony in the Senate.\" \n In testimony to the Senate on Tuesday, Comey refused to say whether the FBI was investigating any possible ties between Russia and Trump's presidential campaign, citing policy not to comment on what the FBI might or might not be doing. \n \"I would never comment on investigations \u2014 whether we have one or not \u2014 in an open forum like this so I can't answer one way or another,\" Comey told the panel. \n Late Friday, the Senate Intelligence Committee announced it would investigate possible contacts between Russia and the people associated with U.S. political campaigns as part of a broader investigation into Moscow's meddling in the 2016 presidential election. \n In a statement, Sens. Richard Burr, R-N.C., the committee's chairman, and Mark Warner, D-Va., the panel's top Democrat, said the panel \"will follow the intelligence where it leads.\" \n Burr and Warner said that as part of the investigation they will interview senior officials from the Obama administration and the incoming Trump administration. They said subpoenas would be issued \"if necessary to compel testimony.\" \n According to the committee's statement, the inquiry will include: \n \u2014 A review of the intelligence that informed the declassified report about Russia's interference in the election. \n \u2014 \"Counterintelligence concerns\" related to Russia and the election, \"including any intelligence regarding links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns.\" \n \u2014 Russian cyber activity and other \"active measures\" against the United States during the election and more broadly. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House Dems press FBI on Russia, possible link to Trump camp"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2007 \n Shawn Hornbeck and his mother, Pam Akers, attend a Shawn Hornbeck Foundation function in Madison, Ill. It is the ten year anniversary of kidnapping victims, Shawn then 15, and Ben Ownby then 13, being found found Jan. 12, 2007. in the suburban St. Louis apartment of Michael Devlin. \n ST. LOUIS >> A former FBI agent who played a key role in cracking the disappearance of two Missouri boys, one of whom had been missing for nearly five years, is rejoicing in the 10-year anniversary of the rescues, known as the \"Missouri Miracle.\" \n Ownby was 13 when Devlin abducted him from a school bus stop in rural Franklin County. Four days later, he was found in Devlin's apartment along with Hornbeck, who was 15 and had been missing since 2002. Devlin later was convicted and is serving multiple life sentences. \n Ownby and Hornbeck have remained out of the limelight in recent years. Willett, 57 and retired from the FBI since 2010, attended Ownby's Eagle Scout ceremony years ago, and replied to a 2014 tweet from Shawn but never got a reply. \n Willett hasn't forgotten Jan. 12, 2007, when she and FBI Special Agent Tina Kinney were checking tips about white pickup trucks resembling one seen near Ownby's abduction. One led took them to a pizza restaurant in a St. Louis suburb, where the eatery's manager, Devlin, owned such a vehicle. \n Devlin wouldn't make eye contact with the investigators, and Willett said: \"my Spidey-senses were up, almost immediately.\" But he gave them permission to search his truck. \n \"I had a sense very early on, based on the way he was answering questions, that it wasn't quite adding up,\" Willett remembers of Devlin, who kept mentioning a godson named \"Shawn.\" When Willett told him that tire tracks at the kidnap scene could be the key in solving the case, Devlin lowered his head, told her he was a \"bad person\" and confessed that the godson \"Shawn\" was the missing Hornbeck. And that he also had Ownby. \n \"He said, 'I have Shawn.' I said, 'Take us to him,'\" she said. \n Accompanied by investigators, Devlin unlocked his apartment door and announced, \"The police are here,\" Willett said. The boys were playing video games. When Ownby ran to her, she told him, \"You're with the FBI, and you're safe.'\" \n She says she's reluctant to talk about the day the boys' disappearances ended. \n \"I want the story to be theirs to tell,\" she said. \"I'm an important cog in it, but it's a personal thing for each boy and their family. It's their story to tell.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-FBI agent recalls helping find 2 missing boys decade ago"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "COURTESY OF JAMES AND YOLANDA ACOL / MAY 2005 \n \"Peter Boy\" Kema Jr. \n HILO >> A court-appointed representative will determine whether there are grounds for a civil suit on behalf of the estate of a boy whose mother recently pleaded guilty to manslaughter in his death. \n The mother's plea deal confirmed almost 20 years after the 6-year-old boy's disappearance that he had died. \n \"My charge from the court is to examine the circumstances of Peter Kema's (Jr.) life and disappearance by gaining access to the records the state and others might have and then reach a conclusion as to whether or not I think there are any . claims that arise from that review of those documents,\" Lane said. \"I'll file a report with the family court with respect to that and probably make recommendations.\" \n Lane said a judge set protocol last year for representatives to determine liability in cases involving children who were wards of the state or in foster care. \n \"Bear in mind, wards of the state and foster children were really disenfranchised. They were frozen out,\" Lane said. \"They had no access to attorneys because of their minority status and because of their ward status with the state. So this, I thought, was a sea change that Judge Browning brought about by making it possible for foster kids or wards of the state to get access to an attorney if they get hurt, like everyone else has.\" \n Lane said redacted records that were previously released show the boy \"was tortured almost every day\" and that \"the state kept sending him back again and again to a family that was demonstrably unfit and violent, in my opinion.\" \n Jaylin Kema will testify against her husband at his trial set for April. \n Peter Kema Sr. has said he took the boy to live with an aunt. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Court appoints representative for 'Peter Boy' Kema"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fire burns at the Islamic Center of the Eastside in Bellevue, Wash. Police say a man is in custody after a suspicious fire severely damaged the mosque overnight. \n BELLEVUE, Wash. >> A man who was arrested early Saturday after a suspicious fire severely damaged a Washington state mosque was an occasional worshipper there who caused a ruckus last summer when he interrupted a prayer service by shouting profanities, a mosque official said. \n The fire was reported at about 2:45 a.m. Saturday at the Islamic Center of the Eastside in Bellevue. Authorities said that as firefighters doused the flames, police found a 37-year-old man near the building and arrested him for investigation of arson and malicious mischief. \n The fire destroyed the back of the building, but the extent of the damage was not yet clear, mosque board member Tanvir Rahman said in a phone interview. He described the suspect as mentally disturbed \u2014 which is how the suspect described himself in at least one of his many prior encounters with the police, court records show. \n \"He has been there before, but not a constant worshipper,\" Rahman said. \"He came in during a prayer service a few months back and shouted some profanities. Some of the people got him out and the police took him.\" \n According to a police report on that incident filed in King County District Court, the suspect entered the mosque on the evening of July 28, yelling wildly and waving his arms. When a worshipper asked how he could help the man, the suspect cocked his fist and threatened him, the officer wrote. \n Others grabbed him and pushed him outside, and he struck one worshipper, who declined to have the police pursue assault charges, the officer wrote. The suspect, who was described in the report as homeless, was cited for disorderly conduct. \n The suspect, who has not been charged in the mosque fire, has been arrested more than 50 times, including many times for property damage, King County court records show. \n Last June, he was arrested after smashing a window at the Nike Town store in downtown Seattle with a rock. When a Seattle police officer asked him why he did it, he responded that he was schizophrenic and wanted to go to jail, the officer noted in an incident report. \n \"He told me the many people trying to kill him and accuse him of crimes made him believe he should commit the crimes to go to jail,\" the officer wrote. \n Police spokesman Seth Tyler says investigators believe the man is the sole suspect. \n A public defender who represented the man in the Nike Town vandalism did not immediately return an email Saturday. The Associated Press is withholding the man's name because he has not been charged. \n The mosque was unoccupied at the time and no injuries were reported. \n There have been repeated incidents of threats and vandalism at the Bellevue mosque and others in recent months. A man was charged this week with a hate crime for threatening people there on Jan. 6, and a granite sign outside the Muslim Association of Puget Sound in neighboring Redmond was damaged twice. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man arrested after overnight fire at Washington state mosque"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators gather for a rally supporting immigrant rights, Saturday, Jan. 14, 2017 in Chicago. Immigrant rights advocates are planning demonstrations across the country in what they're calling a \"first salvo\" against President-elect Donald Trump's pledged hard line on immigration. \n WASHINGTON >> A standing-room-only crowd packed into a historic African-American church in downtown Washington today for one of dozens of rallies around the country supporting immigrant rights. \n People attending included immigrants who lack permission to be in the country and their relatives and supporters. Also present were elected officials, clergy and representatives of labor and women's groups. A line to enter Metropolitan AME Church stretched nearly a city block, and when a fire marshal declared the building full, dozens marched outside in cold, rainy weather to support the rally. \n Participants carried signs with messages including \"Resist Trump's Hate\" and \"Tu, Yo, Todos Somos America,\" which translates to \"You, me, we all are America.\" Speakers denounced President-elect Donald Trump for his anti-immigrant rhetoric and his pledges to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border and to crack down on Muslims entering the country. \n \"Many more like me feel ashamed of their status, because of the intolerance and hatred toward immigrants and refugees,\" said Max Kim, 19, who was brought to the U.S. from South Korea when he was 6 and lacks legal permission to stay in the country. \"I stand here because I have nothing to apologize for. I am not ashamed of my status because it is a constant reminder to myself that I have something to fight for.\" \n The crowd urged Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress not to undo the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, aimed at helping people like Kim who were brought to the country as children. \n \"It works and I'm living proof of it,\" said Martin Batalla Vidal, one of the 750,000 young immigrants covered by the program. Many DACA recipients are college-educated and politically savvy and have been willing to hold sit-ins and risk arrest to push for immigration changes. \n Elected officials in attendance said Trump's rhetoric and policy proposals are inconsistent with American values. \n \"We are not going to allow Donald Trump to bury the Statue of Liberty,\" said Sen. Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat. \"We are a nation for all people, regardless of religion, regardless of background, regardless of who you love.\" \n The protests mark the latest chapter in a movement that has evolved since 2006, when more than a million people took to the streets to protest a Republican-backed immigration bill that would have made it a crime to be in the country illegally. The bill was widely viewed as overly harsh and sparked a backlash that culminated in massive May Day marches across the country. \n The crowds this weekend are expected to be nowhere near as big as then, including rallies at a church in Washington and teachers' union hall in Chicago. In Los Angeles and San Jose, California, groups are holding cultural events to show their support of immigrants and opposition to Trump's proposals. \n In recent years, advocacy groups have started making direct appeals to lawmakers and the president. \n After multiple proposals failed in Congress, President Barack Obama in 2012 launched an executive effort to protect some young immigrants from deportation. \n The creation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, aimed at helping one of the loudest and most sympathetic immigrant groups, was heralded as a good first step by advocates who hoped it would be a prelude toward overhauling immigration laws. \n But that didn't happen, and Republican-led states pushed back against Obama's plans to expand the program. \n Now the focus is on the next administration, and the future of the movement seems as uncertain as Trump's plans. \n As a candidate, Trump promised his supporters stepped-up deportations and a Mexican-funded border wall, but it is unclear which plans the celebrity businessman will act on first, and when. And many immigrants are fearful of the campaign rhetoric but less motivated to protest in the absence of specific actions. \n Many participants Saturday said they would keep the pressure on Trump and said they planned to participate in next Saturday's Women's March on Washington. \n \"The threat of deportation is imminent for our communities,\" said Cristina Jimenez, executive director of United We Dream and one of the rally's organizers. \"We will keep fighting. We're not going back into the shadows.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Protesters denounce Trump's anti-immigrant rhetoric, plans"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actress and singer Jennifer Holliday poses for a photo during an interview in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Broadway star Jennifer Holliday has backed out as a performer at next week's presidential inaugural, saying she did not realize that her participation would be interpreted as a statement of support for President-elect Donald Trump. \n Holliday, best known for her Tony-winning role in Broadway's \"Dreamgirls,\" faced pressure from her gay, lesbian and black fans when it was announced she would sing at a Thursday concert at Washington's Lincoln Memorial. \n Holliday said in an interview today that she decided not to participate at 3 a.m. after reading commentary about how the decision was being seen. She apologized for a lack of judgment. \n \"It just really hit home for me,\" she said. \"The gay community has big part of my life and my career. I feel there really wouldn't be a Jennifer Holliday or a 'Dreamgirls' in the 21st Century without them. I needed to at least hear them out and learn why it would be such a great disappointment for them.\" \n Reading what was being said about her was painful, she said. \n She said other black people slammed her with insults such as \"Uncle Tom\" and other racial epithets. \"I had no idea it would be interpreted as a political statement.\" \n Several prominent entertainers have declined to perform at Trump inaugural festivities. Country star Toby Keith and actor Jon Voigt are in the lineup for Thursday's concert. \n Holliday's reversal was first reported by The Wrap ; the publication obtained a letter Holliday wrote to her fans. In an interview Friday with the AP, she said she had seen her performance as singing for people at the Lincoln Memorial, not singing for Trump. \n The celebrity wattage for Trump's inaugural festivities doesn't rival that of President Barack Obama's inaugurations, which attracted top names including Beyonce, Bruce Springsteen, U2, Alicia Keys, Kelly Clarkson, Eva Longoria and Jennifer Hudson, among others. But Trump has insisted that's how he wants it, saying the swearing-in festivities should be about the people, not the A-list stars. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jennifer Holliday backs out of Trump inauguration performance"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Space-X's Falcon 9 rocket with 10 satellites launches at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. The two-stage rocket lifted off to place 10 satellites into orbit for Iridium Communications Inc. \n LOS ANGELES >> A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off from California today, marking the company's first launch since a fireball engulfed a similar rocket on a Florida launch pad more than four months ago. \n The two-stage rocket lifted off from Vandenberg Air Force Base at 9:54 a.m. carrying a payload of 10 satellites for Iridium Communications Inc., which is replacing its entire global network with 70 next-generation satellites. \n The satellites were expected to be deployed about an hour after launch. \n About nine minutes after the rocket blasted off, to cheers from the control room, its jettisoned first stage landed upright on a so-called droneship in the Pacific Ocean south of Vandenberg \u2014 part of Spacex's effort to make boosters reusable. \n The company has succeeded six times previously with landings on a barge or ashore. \n A camera aboard the first stage gave viewers a you-are-there experience as it returned to Earth, flared landing rockets and made a perfect vertical touchdown on the floating pad. \n The return to flight is an important step for SpaceX, billionaire Elon Musk's California-based company that has about 70 launches in line, worth more than $10 billion. In addition to commercial launches, SpaceX ferries supplies to the International Space Station and is developing a Falcon capable of carrying astronauts to the station. \n SpaceX officials say they identified all possible causes of the Sept. 1 accident during prelaunch testing at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, and took corrective action. \n The accident destroyed the rocket and its payload \u2014 a satellite that Facebook wanted to use to spread internet access in Africa \u2014 and grounded the Falcon 9 program as an investigation took place. \n SpaceX announced this month that investigators concluded the accident involved a failure of one of three helium tanks inside the rocket's second-stage liquid oxygen tank. \n The investigation involved the Air Force, NASA, the National Transportation Safety Board and the Federal Aviation Administration, which issued a license for the launch. \n The September accident was the second time a Falcon 9 was destroyed. In June 2015, a Falcon loaded with space station supplies disintegrated shortly after liftoff. SpaceX determined that a support strut broke. \n The 10 satellites launched today are part of McLean, Virginia-based Iridium's project to replace its existing network of satellites that provide global voice and data communications. \n The program, called Iridium NEXT, was not only delayed by the SpaceX accident but again most recently as a powerful storm headed into California last weekend. \n Iridium plans six more Falcon 9 launches, each carrying 10 satellites, as part of a technology upgrade expected to be completed in 2018. \n SpaceX's effort to recover Falcon first stages is intended to reduce costs by recycling a major piece of the launch system. \n The first stage contains tanks for liquid oxygen and kerosene as well as nine engines that power the rocket and payload into space, then separates 2\u00bd minutes into flight as the single-engine second stage ignites and continues on to place payloads in the proper orbit. \n The first Falcon booster to safely land back on Earth now stands outside the company's headquarters. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "SpaceX launches first rocket since explosion in Florida"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Esteban Santiago is taken from the Broward County main jail as he is transported to the federal courthouse in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Just weeks before a gunman opened fire at Fort Lauderdale's airport, he walked into an FBI office in Alaska telling authorities the government was controlling his mind and that he was having terroristic thoughts. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. >> Just weeks before a gunman opened fire at Fort Lauderdale's airport, authorities said he walked into an FBI office in Alaska, telling agents the government was controlling his mind and that he was having terroristic thoughts. It's a daily occurrence for law enforcement agencies and authorities say the difficulty is in assessing whether people are reporting a credible threat, whether or whether they need medical help. \n \"A lot of resources, time and effort are all put into dealing with mentally challenged people and trying to sort through that type of information to find out what's valid,\" said Pat O'Carroll, former supervisor with the Secret Service and executive director of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. \n Relatives of the alleged airport gunman, Esteban Santiago, said his behavior had grown increasingly erratic in the year before the shooting. While there, his family said, he witnessed a bomb explode near two friends. \n Santiago's brother Bryan said at one point his bother requested psychological help but barely received any, and it's not clear to what extent he was ever diagnosed or treated, if ever, for mental illness. After the incident at the FBI office, Santiago was held for four days for an evaluation and released. \n Law enforcement says each hotline tip and visit is documented, but there is usually no record of whether someone appears to be mentally ill because authorities don't have the expertise to make that determination and don't want to stigmatize people. \n \"There are times of lucidness and you can't just reject everything the person says. Even if they have a frequent track record of calling up, they are going to be given the same amount of attention \u2026 so it is even more time consuming,\" O'Carroll said. \n In November, agents questioned an agitated and disjointed-sounding Santiago and called police, who took him for a mental health evaluation. Authorities said he clearly indicated at the time that he was not intent on hurting anyone, and that authorities had no legal right to detain him. Weeks later, he perpetrated one of the deadliest airport attacks in U.S. history, killing five people and wounding six, authorities said. \n Law enforcement officials and mental health experts agree the nation's crumbling mental health system has exacerbated the problem, often making officers de facto crisis counselors. \n In most states, the standards for involuntary hospitalization are stringent and require that someone be a threat to themselves or someone else. The FBI in Anchorage stressed that Santiago was not dangerous at the time they interviewed him. \n \"It's not an easy problem,\" said St. Charles Parish Sheriff Greg Champagne, president of the National Sheriffs' Association. \"There's no simple fix to say the FBI should've just locked this guy away because he's hearing voices.\" \n Experts are quick to point out that mental illness is not an indicator of violence. \n \"If you have a mental health issue you're more likely to be a victim of a crime than a perpetrator,\" Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. \n Sometimes those suffering with mental illness fixate on law enforcement and government agencies, creating constant intersections between the two. \n The Secret Service conducted a detailed investigation of 43 attacks on federal government officials and facilities between 2001 and 2013. Over half of the offenders experienced one or more mental health symptoms, including include paranoia, delusions and disorganized or odd thinking, according to the 2015 report. \n \"You can go through and look at a lot of the shootings, whether it's the Colorado theatre or Navy shipyard or Newton, obviously there were mental health issues involved,\" Bouchard said. \n In 2011, 22-year-old Jared Lee Loughner opened fire in a shopping center parking lot in Tucson, Arizona, killing six people, including U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords. Loughner had been exhibiting symptoms of mental illness and engaging in bizarre behavior in the years before, including hearing voices and talking about the government trying to control his mind. \n He once visited a sheriff's office to say his identity had been stolen and that his name and picture were being used online without his permission. It's unclear if that was true or whether it was part of the growing paranoia that plagued him as his illness worsened. \n Yet despite his growing symptoms, his concerned parents couldn't get him to see a mental health expert, according to a report by the Secret Service. \n Involuntary hospitalizations typically don't last more than three days and often function more as a holding place with little therapeutic benefit. Many patients are released with no follow-up appointments or medications, such as the case with Santiago, according to his brother. \n \"If the way we responded to heart attacks was to hospitalize people, save their life and discharge them after three or four days with no follow-up care, we'd have a lot of people dying and not recovering and that's in essence what I think we have with our mental health system,\" said Ron Honberg, senior policy advisor for the advocacy group National Alliance on Mental Illness. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Airport shooting highlights nexus between mentally ill, cops"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A plume of smoke and fire rises from the site where a fighter jet crashed during and airshow in Hat Yai, southern Thailand. A Thai air force pilot died when the JAS Gripen fighter jet crashed during an air show celebrating the country's Children's Day. \n BANGKOK >> A Thai air force pilot died when his fighter jet crashed at an air show Saturday during the country's Children's Day. \n Amateur video footage shows the JAS 39 Gripen jet maneuvering over the Hat Yai air base in southern Thailand when it suddenly lost altitude and crashed in a ball of fire away from spectators. \n The Ministry of Defense was investigating the cause of the crash. \n Deputy government spokesman Werachon Sukondhapatipakerachon said Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha expressed condolences to the pilot's family. \n Children's Day is usually observed with public outings at military bases. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pilot killed as Thai fighter jet crashes at air show"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pro-abortion rights activists celebrate during a rally at the Supreme Court in Washington. The tens of thousands of women flocking to Washington for a march on the day after Donald Trump's inauguration come packing a multitude of agendas, but are united in their loathing for Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> Call them rebels with a cause. Or two. Or three. Or 10. \n When throngs of women from around the nation converge on Washington for a march on the day after Donald Trump's inauguration, they will arrive driven by a multitude of motivations. \n Gay rights, gun control, immigrant rights, equal pay, reproductive freedom, racial justice, worker rights, climate change, support for vaccinations: They all make the list of progressive causes that are attracting people to the Women's March on Washington and its sister marches across the country and the world this coming Saturday. \n \"We are not going to give the next president that much focus,\" says Linda Sarsour, a national march organizer and executive director of the Arab American Association of New York. \"What we want from him is to see us in focus.\" \n But while Trump's name may not literally appear in the march's \"mission and vision\" statement, the common denominator uniting the marchers appears to be a loathing for the president-elect and dismay that so much of the country voted for him. \n \"This march feels like a chance to be part of something that isn't pity, isn't powerlessness,\" says Leslie Rutkowski, an American living in Norway who plans to fly back for the march. \"I hope it is unifying. I hope it flies in the face of Trump's platform of hate and divisiveness.\" \n Adds Kelsey Wadman, a new mom in California who's helping to organize a parallel march in San Diego: \"It's not just about Donald Trump the person. It's about what he evoked out of the country.\" \n The march in Washington is set to start with a program near the Capitol and then move toward the White House. It probably will be the largest of a number of inauguration-related protests. \n Christopher Geldart, the District of Columbia's homeland security director, said he expected the march to draw more than the 200,000 people organizers are planning for, based on bus registrations and train bookings. \n The focus of the march has been a work in progress since the idea of a Washington mobilization first bubbled up from a number of women's social media posts in the hours after Trump's election. \n The group's November application for a march permit summed up its purpose as to \"come together in solidarity to express to the new administration & Congress that women's rights are human rights and our power cannot be ignored.\" \n That phrasing rankled some who thought it was tied too closely to Hillary Clinton, the defeated Democratic nominee, whose famous Beijing speech as first lady declared that \"women's rights are human rights.\" The fact that the initial march organizers were mostly white women also generated grumbling, this time from minorities. Gradually, the march's leadership and its mission statements have become more all-inclusive. \n Recent releases from march organizers state the event \"intends to send a bold message to the incoming presidential administration on their first day in office, to leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, and to the world, that we stand together in solidarity and expect elected leaders to act to protect the rights of women, their families and their communities.\" \n America Ferrera, leading the celebrity contingent for the march, rolled out a long list of concerns in a statement announcing her role. \n \"Immigrant rights, worker rights, reproductive rights, LGBTQIA rights, racial justice and environmental rights are not special interests, they affect us all and should be every American's concerns,\" she wrote. \n Other prominent names involved with the march have put a spotlight on one concern \u2014 or another. \n Actress Scarlett Johansson, who plans to participate, put her focus on the incoming administration's intentions of \"reducing the availability of women's health care and attacking her reproductive rights.\" Actress Debra Messing, listed as a supporter of the march, wrote of the need to protect Planned Parenthood. \n Expect thousands of the marchers to turn up wearing hand-knitted pink \"pussyhats\" \u2014 sending a message of female empowerment and pushing back against Trump's demeaning comments about women. \n Scan #WhyIMarch posts on social media, and you'll find a wide-ranging list of reasons. A sampling: equal pay for women veterans, fighting chauvinism, empowering daughters, renouncing racism, higher pay for women who are college presidents. \n Wadman, the California mom, tweeted a #WhyIMarch photo with her 4-month-old son and this note: \"Because when my son asks me about this era of American history I don't want to tell him that I did nothing.\" \n Rutkowski, the American living in Norway, emailed that she's \"not completely satisfied\" with the mixed messages attached to the march. \n \"I also don't like\u2014 from what I've seen in the news and on Facebook \u2014 the proclivity for infighting,\" she wrote. \"But I believe that a quarter of a million female bodies \u2014 hopefully more, hopefully men, as well \u2014 will make the incoming administration and new Congress aware that we are watching, we are listening and we will resist.\" \n Carmen Perez, one of the march's national organizers, sees beauty in the many messages attached to the march: \"Women don't live single-issue lives and we are thrilled to be joined by women who understand and reflect the intersecting issues for which we stand.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Many motivations drive women to DC for inauguration protest"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People use a public wifi hotspot in Havana, Cuba. Home internet came to Cuba in December 2016, in a limited pilot program that's part of the most dramatic change in daily life here since the declaration of detente with the United States. \n HAVANA >> Two days before Christmas, Luis Gonzalez received a little Chinese modem from Cuba's state-owned telecommunications company. \n The 55-year-old theater producer connected the device to his phone and his laptop computer, which instantly lit up with a service unimaginable in the Cuba of just a few years ago \u2014 relatively fast home internet. \n \"It's really easy to sit and find whatever you need,\" Gonzalez said as he sat in his living room updating his Facebook account, listening to Uruguayan radio online and checking an arriving tourist's landing time for a neighbor who rents rooms in their building in historic Old Havana. \"Most Cubans aren't used to this convenience.\" \n Home internet came to Cuba last month in a limited pilot program that's part of the most dramatic change in daily life here since the declaration of detente with the United States on Dec. 17, 2014. \n While Cuba remains one of the world's least internet-connected societies, ordinary citizens' access to the internet has exploded over the last two years. Since the summer of 2015, the Cuban government has opened 240 public Wi-Fi spots in parks and on street corners across the country. Cubans were previously restricted to decrepit state internet clubs and hotels that charged $6-$8 for an hour of slow internet. \n In a country with an average monthly salary of around $25, the price of an hour online has dropped to $1.50, still steep but now well within the range of many Cubans with private income or financial help from relatives abroad. \n The government estimates that 100,000 Cubans connect to the internet daily. A new feature of urban life in Cuba is the sight of people sitting at all hours on street corners or park benches, their faces illuminated by the screen of smartphones connected by applications such as Facebook Messenger to relatives in Miami, Ecuador or other outposts of the Cuban diaspora. Connections are made mostly through access cards sold by the state monopoly and often resold on street corners for higher prices. \n The spread of connectivity has remotely reunited families separated for years, even decades. It's fueled the spread of Airbnb and other booking services that have funneled millions in business to private bed-and-breakfasts owners. And it's exposed Cubans to a faster flow of news and cultural developments from the outside world \u2014 supplementing the widespread availability of media spread on memory drivers. \n Cuban ingenuity has spread internet far beyond those public places: thousands of people grab the public signals through commercially available repeaters, imported illegally into Cuba and often sold for about $100 \u2014 double the original price. Mounted on rooftops, the repeaters grab the public signals and create a form of home internet increasingly available in private rentals for tourists and cafes and restaurants for Cubans and visitors alike. \n On the official front, Google and Cuba's state-run telecoms monopoly Etecsa struck a deal last month to store Google content like YouTube video on servers inside Cuba, giving people on the island faster, smoother access. \n While the explosion of internet in Cuba has taken place alongside the process of normalization started by Obama in 2014, it's unclear how much better relations have speeded up Cuba's move online. \n Obama said in announcing detente that he welcomed \"Cuba's decision to provide more access to the Internet for its citizens,\" but neither Obama's team nor Cuban officials have detailed whether that decision was directly linked to negotiations to restore diplomatic ties and began negotiations. \n What is clear is that Cuba began to dramatically increase access about six months later when the government began opening Wi-Fi spots around the country. For many Cubans, the start of home internet in December is potentially even more significant, breaking a longstanding barrier against private internet access in a country whose communist government remains deeply wary about information technology undermining its near-total control of media, political life and most of the economy. \n The pace of change in Cuba often depends on the state of relations with its giant neighbor to the north: both tensions with the United States and leaps forward like Obama's visit to Havana last year have prompted crackdowns by hardliners worried about the government losing control. While President-elect Donald Trump's administration has promised to take a harder line on Cuba, both opponents of President Raul Castro's government and those advocating closer relations favor more access to information for ordinary Cubans. \n The home internet test program selected some 2,000 residents of Old Havana to receive free connections for two months before a planned expansion and the start of billing for the service. Gonzalez said he would be able to receive 30 hours of his 128 kilobyte-per-second connection for $15, with the price increasing for faster connections, with 30 hours of a 2 megabyte-per-second connection available for $115. \n That's far slower and wildly more expensive than internet in most of the rest of the world. In the Dominican Republic, for example, a full month of relatively slow 2 megabyte-per-second internet, a speed most people would consider reasonable for applications such as streaming video, costs a little more than $20. \n Cuba depended on slow, expensive satellite internet until 2013, when it opened a fiber-optic cable to Venezuela that connected the island to the global online infrastructure. \n Cuba says that its still-high internet prices are a result of costs imposed by the U.S. trade embargo on the island. Independent observers blame the costs on political decisions to limit access, and on the cash-strapped socialist government's widespread use of its monopoly power to extract as much money as possible for goods and services considered luxuries. Many young people hope that the spread of access in recent years is the start of Cuba seeing internet more as a necessity and a right, like the free education and health care guaranteed by Cuba's socialist system. \n \"In my dreams, I'd like for the internet to be seen like arts and culture, and, as such, to be free for the whole population, just like access to education has been for the last 50 years,\" said David Vasquez, the 27-year-old director of the online magazine Cachivache Media. \"It's very hard to know what the future will bring.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cuba sees explosion in internet access as ties with U.S. grow"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Loretta Lynch speaks during a news conference accompanied by Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, left, and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. \n CHICAGO >> Chicago officials are pledging to revamp the city Police Department following a scathing federal report. \n A change in presidential administrations could spell uncertainty, though, for negotiating a court-enforceable improvement plan with the Justice Department. \n A report released Friday in the final days of Attorney General Loretta Lynch's tenure found that police in the nation's second-largest department had violated the constitutional rights of residents for years. They used excessive force frequently and shot at people who did not pose imminent threats. \n The findings come just a week before Donald Trump is sworn in as president, marking a change from a Democratic White House that has strongly backed the review process to a Republican one that has expressed far less support for federally mandated overhauls of troubled police agencies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago pledges improvements after scathing police report"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump speaks with reporters in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Donald Trump tore into civil rights legend John Lewis for questioning the legitimacy of the Republican billionaire's White House victory, intensifying a feud with the black congressman days before the national holiday honoring Martin Luther King Jr. and as the first African-American president prepares to leave office. \n Trump tweeted today that Lewis, D-Ga., \"should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results.\" \n The incoming president added: \"All talk, talk, talk \u2013 no action or results. Sad!\" \n Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to\u2026\u2026 \n mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results. All talk, talk, talk \u2013 no action or results. Sad! \n Lewis, among the most revered leaders of the civil rights movement, suffered a skull fracture during the march in Selma, Alabama, more than a half-century ago and has devoted his life to promoting equal rights for African-Americans. \n For many African-Americans the contrast between this inauguration and Barack Obama's first one, in 2009, was striking. \n The 16-term congressman said Friday that he would not attend Trump's swearing-in ceremony at the Capitol this coming Friday, and that it would be the first time he had skipped an inauguration since joining Congress three decades ago. \n \"You know, I believe in forgiveness. I believe in trying to work with people. It will be hard. It's going to be very difficult. I don't see this president-elect as a legitimate president,\" Lewis said in an interview with NBC's \"Meet the Press\" that is set to air Sunday. \n \"I think the Russians participated in helping this man get elected. And they helped destroy the candidacy of Hillary Clinton,\" Lewis said. \n Lewis' spokeswoman, Brenda Jones, declined to respond to Trump and said the lawmaker's \"opinion speaks for itself.\" \n \"We as a nation do need to know whether a foreign government influenced our election,\" she said. \n U.S. intelligence agencies have said Russia meddled in the election to help Trump win. After spending weeks challenging that assessment, Trump finally accepted that the Russians were behind the election-year hacking of Democrats. But he also emphasized that \"there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting machines.\" \n Democrat Clinton received 2.9 million more votes than Trump but lost the Electoral College vote. \n Lewis' Democratic colleagues quickly came to his defense. \n \"Let us remember that many have tried to silence repjohnlewis over the years. All have failed,\" tweeted House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. \n \"John Lewis is an American hero,\" Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., said in a tweet directed at Trump. \"You're a fake billionaire who won't release his taxes. Put down Twitter and get serious about governing.\" \n Trump continues to use Twitter to attack his adversaries, just as he did throughout the campaign. \n Trump's assertion that Lewis' district is \"falling apart\" and \"crime infested\" is hard to prove. \n Georgia's 5th Congressional District includes the Atlanta metro region, which has a large African-American population. The district is considered one of the nation's fastest growing areas, but its crime and poverty rates are higher than the national average. \n The area also covers part of the upscale Atlanta neighborhood of Buckhead, along with the headquarters for Fortune 500 companies such Coca-Cola and Delta Air Lines, the Georgia Institute of Technology, several historically black colleges and universities and the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, one of the world's busiest. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump unleashes Twitter attack against congressional critic"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama listens as Vice President Joe Biden speaks during a ceremony in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, where Obama presented him with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. \n WASHINGTON >> For Barack Obama, there's a presidential library to build, hundreds of millions of dollars to raise, causes to champion and a book to write. And don't forget that long-promised vacation with his wife. \n Looming retirement is looking like anything but for the 44th president. \n Obama's next chapter starts Friday when he becomes an ex-president. He'll be freer to speak his mind, set his own schedule and make some money. \n Already, Obama is looking ahead to the book he wants to write, and has had talks with Hollywood agent Ari Emanuel about arrangements that could include speaking gigs. \n At 55, Obama will be a relatively young ex-president, with plenty of time for a second act. He's ruled out running another campaign for political office \u2014 so has his wife \u2014 but he has pledged to stay an active in the national conversation. \n With President-elect Donald Trump headed to the White House, Democrats are eager for Obama to play the role of shadow-president, offering direction to those Americans who feel they lost their political compass the day Trump was elected. \n Obama has said he has plenty of ideas for how his party can revive itself, but after eight years as president, his role will be to offer guidance, not to micromanage. \n \"I think it's appropriate for me to give advice, because I need some sleep,\" Obama told NPR last month. \"And I've promised Michelle a nice vacation. My girls are getting old enough now where I'm clinging to those very last moments before they are out of the house.\" \n Obama is expected to keep a low profile for the first few months after Trump's swearing-in. \n Following some relaxation time with his wife and daughters in an unnamed location, the family will return to Washington, where they've rented a mansion in the upscale Kalorama neighborhood. \n Obama has repeatedly praised George. W. Bush for giving him room to operate without having the ex-president publicly second-guess him at every turn. Still, Obama has reserved the right to speak out against Trump if he pursues policies the president finds particularly odious, such as a ban on Muslim immigration or mass deportation of children brought to the U.S. illegally. \n \"The party is in bad state and there are no clear, obvious voices for Democrats yet,\" said Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University. \"If there's anyone who could stand up to a President Trump, it's going to be former President Obama.\" \n Obama may re-emerge in a more public way around the time he releases his book \u2014 probably sometime next year \u2014 and goes on a promotional tour. Obama's chief White House speechwriter, Cody Keenan, is expected to stay with his boss to help him craft the sequel to Obama's two previous best-sellers. \n Though Obama has yet to fully settle his plans, four individuals familiar with Obama's thinking said over the last year that he's discussed post-presidency arrangements with Emanuel, a leading talent executive. One of Emanuel's brothers is Obama's former chief of staff, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. \n It's unclear whether Obama will sign with Ari Emanuel. But the discussions suggest Obama has been looking to Hollywood for inspiration about ways to engage creatively and on multiple fronts, such as digital media and television. Emanuel didn't respond to a request for comment. \n Whatever direction he goes, Obama will not be pressed financially. Obama can expect to fetch an advance of more than $20 million for his book, said Keith Urbahn, a literary agent at Javelin DC who's handled best-sellers for top political figures. \n \"Half of the country still looks at him as their leader,\" Urbahn said. \"From a publishing perspective, he will probably end up with the highest advance of any ex-president in history.\" \n It won't be long until Obama and his wife start raising money for the Barack Obama Foundation, which is developing his presidential library and center in Chicago. The price tag is expected to approach half a billion dollars. \n The Obamas will have to hire personnel in the coming months as they engage more heavily in designing the center. While it will be several years before the library is up and running, the foundation has left open the possibility it might start some programming sooner. \n Former White House aide Amy Brundage, a spokeswoman for the foundation, said it would use 2017 to \"build upon the work that has begun\" to create a center that inspires people to take on big challenges. \n Obama also plans to stay involved in his My Brother's Keeper initiative, recently renamed the \"Task Force on Improving the Lives of Boys and Young Men of Color and Underserved Youth.\" He is also teaming up with former Attorney General Eric Holder on the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a new initiative to improve Democrats' hand when political districts are redrawn in 2020. \n The hub of Obama's activity will be his personal office, to be housed in the World Wildlife Fund headquarters not far from his rented home. For the first six months, he'll also have a government-funded office overseeing his transition to ex-president. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A young ex-president, Obama poised for a busy retirement"}

{"date": "January 14, 2017", "text": "The National Weather Service today issued a high surf advisory for the north and west facing shores of Oahu, Niihau and Molokai and the north facing shores of Maui until 6 a.m. tomorrow. A previously issued high surf warning was canceled. \n The high surf will continue to lower throughout the weekend and drop below advisory levels by tomorrow morning, but will remain at moderate levels, officials said. \n Surf is expected to be between 14 and 18 feet along the north and west facing shores of Niihau and Kauai and along the north facing shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui, 10 to 15 feet along west facing shores of Oahu and Molokai, and 6 to 10 feet along west facing shores of the Big Island. \n Officials expect high surf impacts with very strong breaking waves and strong longshore and rip currents. Breaking waves may occasionally impact harbors making navigation dangerous. \n The public is urged to stay well away from the shoreline along the affected coasts and heed all advice given to them by ocean safety officials. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf advisory issued for north and west facing shores"}

