{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this March 2006, file photo, Brendan Dassey is escorted out of a Manitowoc County Circuit courtroom in Manitowoc, Wis. A federal appeals court is about to consider the fate of the Wisconsin inmate featured in the Netflix series \"Making a Murderer.\" Dassey was sentenced to life in prison in 2007 in the death of photographer Teresa Halbach two years earlier. Dassey told detectives he helped his uncle, Steven Avery, rape and kill Halbach in the Avery family's Manitowoc County salvage yard. \n CHICAGO \u2014 Guessing how federal appeals court judges will rule based on the questions they ask in a hearing is more parlor game than science. \n Nevertheless, an attorney for the state of Wisconsin had barely started his argument Tuesday that Brendan Dassey's murder conviction should be reinstated when Judge Ilana Rovner stopped him cold. \n Rovner wanted to know if Dassey, convicted in the 2005 murder of photographer Teresa Halbach, would have concluded he could go home after answering questions by investigators, instead of being arrested. After all, he was a low-IQ, \"extremely suggestible\" 16-year-old, she noted. \n Wisconsin's deputy solicitor general, Luke Berg, was firm in his response: No specific promises were ever made. \n However, the exchange immediately highlighted a critical issue in the case: Even if Dassey wasn't given an explicit promise of leniency, did the way he was questioned \u2014 including lines such as, \"The truth will set you free\" \u2014 produce an involuntary confession? \n Don't you think, Rovner asked Berg, that investigators \"crossed the line?\" \n Rovner, nominated to the court by Republican President George W. Bush, is leading a three-judge panel of the Chicago-based 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. Dassey's murder conviction, sensationalized in the \"Making a Murderer\" documentary series, was overturned last August by William Duffin, a federal magistrate judge in Milwaukee. Duffin ruled that Dassey's constitutional rights were violated because investigators for the prosecution made false promises to Dassey during multiple interrogations. \n The state appealed that ruling, which put the case before the federal appeals panel. \n Judge Ann Williams, who was appointed to the appeals court by Democratic President Bill Clinton, also wanted to know about why one investigator suggested to Dassey that he was in sort of a father role during the questioning. \n Berg maintained that the investigators had acted properly, saying, \"I don't think they were even implied promises.\" He concluded by telling the panel that no crucial details confessed by Dassey \u2014 including how Halbach pleaded for her life, how she was breathing and the smell of her burned remains \u2014 were \"fed\" to Dassey during the questioning. \"None of those memories were planted,\" he contended. \"They were raw and real.\" \n Judge David Hamilton seemed to reprove Berg at one point, telling him: \"Obviously, there were vague promises of leniency.\" \n But Hamilton, an appointee of Democratic President Barack Obama, also interrupted Dassey's lawyer, Laura Nirider, moments after she began her arguments. Nirider spoke of the \"drumbeat of promises\" from investigators before \"every major admission\" made by Dassey. She said investigators \"overbore\" Dassey's will, getting him to admit to things that didn't happen. \n Hamilton told Nirider he had watched the videotape of Dassey's interrogations. \"I watched the whole thing,\" he said. \"I don't see any will being overborn.\" \n And Hamilton characterized some of the techniques used by the investigators on Dassey as \"calling him out\" on inconsistencies in his story. \n But Nirider argued that \"they fed him the answers\" they were looking for when he didn't give them the information they wanted to hear. \n More than 100 people attended the oral arguments, which were concluded in less than an hour. Among those present were members of Halbach's family and Kathleen Zellner, the attorney for Dassey's uncle, Steven Avery. \n The hearing was just one part of the appeal. \n In papers filed with the court, Berg argued that Dassey's confession was not coerced because the prosecutor's investigators who questioned him never made him any explicit promises. The questioning was marked by the two investigators alternately telling Dassey they were on his side, and pressing him to provide more details of the crime that they insisted they already knew. The Seventh Circuit, he added, \"has frequently upheld juvenile confessions where the police applied much more pressure than they did here.\" \n Duffin countered that the investigators made \"repeated false promises\" that, \"when considered in conjunction with all relevant factors, most especially Dassey's age, intellectual deficits and the absence of a supportive adult, rendered Dassey's confession involuntary.\" They also argue that the confession was based on the investigators feeding facts to him. \n There is no timetable for the panel to issue their ruling, but it could take months. \n If the judges decide that Dassey was unfairly convicted, the state will have to decide whether to put him on trial again. For now, Dassey has remained in prison. \n Dassey and Avery were convicted in separate trials of the 2005 murder of Halbach. The charred remains of the 25-year-old photographer were found outside of Avery's Manitowoc County home. Both are serving life terms in prison, although Dassey will become eligible for parole. \n The case was the subject of \"Making a Murderer,\" a 10-hour Netflix series that became an unexpected hit after it was released in December 2015. \n Avery was convicted largely on the basis of physical evidence, including blood, that contained his or Halbach's DNA. No physical evidence implicated Dassey. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judges question investigators' conduct in Brendan Dassey 'Making a Murderer' case"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "NEW DELHI >> India's space agency said it successfully launched more than 100 foreign nano satellites into orbit today aboard a single rocket. \n The Indian Space Research Organization said the nano satellites \u2014 those weighing less than 10 kilograms (22 pounds) \u2014 were sent into orbit on board its polar satellite launch vehicle in southern India. \n The agency said the launching of the 104 satellites was a record, overtaking Russia's feat of sending 37 satellites in a single launch in 2014. \n The nano satellites belong to various companies in the United States, the United Arab Emirates, Israel, the Netherlands and Kazakhstan, according to the ISRO. \n \"All 104 satellites were successfully placed in orbit,\" the Press Trust of India news agency quoted ISRO Chairman A.S. Kiran Kumar as saying. They included an Indian earth observation satellite. \n Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the \"remarkable feat by ISRO is yet another proud moment for our space scientific community and the nation.\" \n India has been striving to become a player in the multibillion-dollar space launch market, and has successfully placed light satellites into orbit in recent years. It hopes to eventually send astronauts into space. \n In September 2014, India successfully guided a spacecraft into orbit around Mars. Only the United States, the former Soviet Union and the European Space Agency had been able to previously do that. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "India launches more than 100 satellites into orbit"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This 2015 photo shows stickers given to clients after they get tested for HIV at the Austin Community Outreach Center in Austin, Ind. The nation is seeing a steady and substantial decline in the number of new HIV infections occurring each year. \n NEW YORK >> New calculations to better track HIV infections confirm that the U.S. is seeing a strong and steady decline. \n The number of new cases has been falling for years. But health officials wanted a clearer picture of how the epidemic was behaving. They count people when they were diagnosed with the AIDS virus \u2014 not when they actually contracted it, which can be months or years earlier. \n Counting infections instead of diagnoses is a more ideal gauge \u2014 a kind of speedometer that tells how fast the epidemic is actually moving, said David Holtgrave, an HIV researcher at Johns Hopkins University. \n The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention used blood test results to help date the infections. Their calculations showed new infections dropped by nearly 18 percent over six years, the CDC reported Tuesday. Though health experts expected a decline, they welcomed the confirmation. \n \"It's very exciting to see this kind of drop,\" said Ron Brookmeyer, a statistician at the University of California, Los Angeles. \n It suggests that stepped-up efforts to diagnose and treat infections are paying off, he added. \n The agency found that between 2008 and 2014, new infections fell: \n \u201418 percent in the overall population, from 45,700 to 37,600. \n \u201436 percent in heterosexuals. \n \u201456 percent in people who inject drugs. \n Two-thirds of the people who are diagnosed with HIV each year are gay and bisexual men. The CDC saw substantial declines in new infections in very young and in middle-aged men in that group. But there was a 35 percent increase in men ages 25 to 34, offsetting the other decreases. \n Officials also said they were able to estimate annual HIV infections in 35 states. No state saw an increase. Seven saw significant decreases \u2014 Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina and Texas. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "HIV infections fell 18 percent in 6 years"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This graphic explains the CRISPR-Cas9 method of gene editing. \n WASHINGTON >> Don't expect designer babies any time soon \u2014 but a major new ethics report leaves open the possibility of one day altering human heredity to fight genetic diseases, with stringent oversight, using new tools that precisely edit genes inside living cells. \n What's called genome editing already is transforming biological research, and being used to develop treatments for patients struggling with a range of diseases. \n The science is nowhere near ready for a huge next step that raises ethical questions \u2014 altering sperm, eggs or embryos so that babies don't inherit a disease that runs in the family, says a report Tuesday from the National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medicine. \n But if scientists learn how to safely pass alterations of the genetic code to future generations, the panel said \"germline\" editing could be attempted under strict criteria, including that it targets a serious disease with no reasonable alternative and is conducted under rigorous oversight. \n \"Caution is absolutely needed, but being cautious does not mean prohibition,\" said bioethicist R. Alta Charo of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. \n \"This committee is not saying we will or should do germline \u2014 heritable \u2014 editing. What we are saying is that we can identify a set of strict conditions under which it would be permissible to do it,\" Charo added. \"But we are far, far away from being ready to try.\" \n Genome editing should not go beyond healing the sick and enhance traits such as physical strength, what's commonly called \"designer babies,\" the panel stressed. \n But the public should get involved in these debates now, to say what might one day be acceptable. \n The long-awaited report offers advice \u2014 the prestigious academies cannot set policy. But it is considered a step toward creating international norms for responsible development of this powerful technology. The U.S. National Academies and its counterparts in Britain and China have been holding international meetings with the hope of doing just that. \n \"Genome editing is a new tool for gene therapy and it has tremendous promise,\" Charo said. But, she added, it has to be pursued in a way that promotes well-being and is responsible, respectful and fair. \n Genome editing is essentially a biological version of cut-and-paste software, allowing scientists to turn genes on or off, repair or modify them inside living cells. There are a few older methods but one with the wonky name CRISPR-Cas9 is so much faster, cheaper and simpler to use that it has spurred an explosion of research. \n Under development are ways to treat a range of diseases from sickle cell and hemophilia to cancer. In lab experiments using human cells or animals engineered with humanlike disorders, scientists are unraveling how gene defects fuel disease \u2014 and are even trying to grow transplantable human organs inside pigs. \n That kind of research is very promising, is adequately regulated today and should continue at full speed, the National Academies panel concluded. \n When it comes to the more sci fi-sounding uses, it's quite possible scientists will learn how to perform germline editing in five to 10 years, said panel co-chair Richard Hynes of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Safety is one reason for caution, he said, as scientists will have to learn whether editing one gene has unwanted downstream effects. \n Some critics argue that families plagued by inherited diseases already have other alternatives \u2014 adopt, use donated eggs, or undergo in vitro fertilization and discard resulting embryos that inherit the bad gene. But Charo noted that sometimes parents carry two copies of a lethal gene, guaranteeing any children inherit it. Others oppose the discarding of embryos for religious reasons. \n For some families, \"you can see there would be strong arguments for doing it\" if the other criteria are met, said Robin Lovell-Badge of Britain's Francis Crick Institute. \n Some countries prohibit any germline editing research. Others, such as Britain, allow laboratory research with genome editing in embryos, not for pregnancy but to understand human development. \n In the U.S., scientists can perform laboratory embryo research only with private, not government, funding. Any attempt at pregnancy would require permission from the Food and Drug Administration, which is currently prohibited from using federal funds to review any such request. \n \"The bottom line is there is no planetary government with enforcement power,\" Charo noted Tuesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "No designer babies, but gene editing to avoid disease? Maybe"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper, center, holds a press conference in Raleigh, N.C., today with House Democratic leader Darren Jackson, left, and state Senate Democratic leader Dan Blue, to say he will offer a compromise bill to Republicans so that HB2 can be repealed. \n RALEIGH, N.C. >> North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper proposed Tuesday what he called a compromise to repeal the state's so-called bathroom bill, saying a new measure is designed to allay fears by some over public bathroom safety. \n But a powerful leader in the Republican-controlled General Assembly dismissed it, signaling that any agreement between the governor and GOP lawmakers is still distant. Even a close Cooper ally in the gay rights movement said he didn't support the governor's idea, calling the proposal a distraction from a repeal of what's known as House Bill 2. \n The law approved last March by GOP lawmakers and then-Gov. Pat McCrory triggered backlash from businesses and LGBT advocates who say it's discriminatory because it requires transgender people to use restrooms in public buildings that correspond to the sex on their birth certificates. It also excludes sexual orientation and gender identity from local and statewide antidiscrimination protections. A federal trial to decide HB2 is scheduled to begin later this summer. \n Cooper's proposal comes as New Orleans welcomes the NBA All-Star game this weekend. The city of Charlotte was supposed to host multimillion-dollar event, but the NBA pulled out after the law was passed. The NCAA and Atlantic Coast Conference also moved several sporting events and businesses such as PayPal decided not to expand in North Carolina. \n \"It will bring back the NCAA, it will bring back the ACC, the NBA and it will bring back jobs,\" Cooper said. \n The proposal does away with House Bill 2 and increases penalties for crimes in public bathrooms, the governor said at a news conference with the top Democratic leaders in the House and Senate. It would also tell local governments seeking ordinances covering sexual orientation and gender identity to give legislators 30 days' notice before doing so. \n Lawmakers passed HB2 weeks after the Charlotte City Council voted to expand a local ordinance protecting people based on sexual orientation and gender identity at hotels, restaurants and other public buildings. \n HB2 supporters have argued letting people choose public bathrooms based on gender identity can be used as a pretense by sexual predators. The U.S. Justice Department and HB2 critics have said the threat is practically non-existent. \n Senate leader Phil Berger said the stronger punishments for crimes in bathrooms aren't enough. \n \"What is the governor's position on whether or not men should be allowed to share restrooms, lockers and showers with women and girls?\" Berger told reporters. \"I don't see this as a compromise. I don't see this as anything different that what he's been saying all along.\" \n Cooper's proposal represents a change in tactics by the new governor, who has been seeking a repeal-only bill. Cooper said HB2 \"doesn't do anything to protect anybody.\" His proposal appeared designed to pull in more votes from Republicans wavering on keeping the law. \n \"Regardless of whether I believe House Bill 2 addresses that problem in any way, I want to say this: I hear you and I have a proposal that specifically addresses your concerns,\" the governor said. \n In December, an apparent deal between Cooper \u2014 then the governor-elect \u2014 and the legislature to repeal HB2 collapsed. Interest picked up in recent days after a statewide sports development association warned legislators in a letter that action must be taken very soon or the state would be disqualified from hosting NCAA events for the next five years. \n Chris Sgro, executive director of Equality North Carolina, said the 30-day waiting period for local governments was unnecessary, saying Charlotte leaders deliberated publicly for a long time on their ordinance. And new penalties aren't needed because LGBT people are not a public safety risk, he said. \n \"I don't support the proposal. I think that what we need to do is be squarely focused on the repeal of HB2,\" Sgro told reporters. \"Every other piece of this conversation is a distraction.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "N. Carolina governor offers 'compromise' repealing LGBT law"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is seen at the State Department in Washington on Feb. 10. \n WASHINGTON >> The dramatic departure of President Donald Trump's hard-hitting national security adviser creates a vacuum of power and raises a key question about U.S. foreign policy: Will the pragmatists in the administration now gain clout? \n Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, both known as levelheaded technocrats, stand to fill some of the void. It would be a shift that would mollify anxious U.S. allies and even Republicans who worry Trump is veering too far from traditional U.S. positions. But the duo will be contending with Steve Bannon, Trump's influential senior adviser, and Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law, who is already playing an outsize role in his diplomacy. \n Trump hasn't named a replacement for Michael Flynn. Trump asked the former Army lieutenant general to resign Monday night amid revelations he misled Vice President Mike Pence about his contacts with Russia while President Barack Obama was still in office. Trump has tasked retired Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg with filling the role temporarily but is also considering two other retired military leaders to permanently replace Flynn. \n \"It's dysfunctional as far as national security is concerned,\" Republican Sen. John McCain said. \"Who is in charge? I don't know of anyone outside of the White House who knows.\" \n Critics of Trump's foreign policy plans are hoping the shakeup leads to a rethink of his desire to seek closer U.S.-Russian relations and a less hostile administration stance on Islam \u2014 a tone Flynn helped to set through often inflammatory statements about the religion. Many lawmakers from both parties were appalled to learn that Flynn, in the weeks before Trump's inauguration, discussed with Russia's ambassador sanctions that the Obama administration was imposing as punishment for Russia's alleged interference in the presidential election. \n Flynn, who in 2015 was paid to appear at a gala for Russian state-controlled television network RT, was the face of Trump's potential Russia reboot, designed around working with Russia to fight the Islamic State group. In Moscow, Russian lawmakers bitterly mused that American paranoia had forced Flynn out, while analysts there surmised that the Kremlin's honeymoon with Trump was ending. \n With Flynn out, it could fall to Tillerson to step into the role of chief envoy to Russia. Tillerson, who heads to Bonn, Germany, on Wednesday on his first official trip, is widely expected to meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov during the trip. He has long experience with Russian leaders and was awarded a friendship honor by President Vladimir Putin when he was Exxon Mobil CEO. \n Much depends on who replaces Flynn. It's unclear if Trump will go with someone having a similar world view and willingness to upset the status quo. In his brief three-week tenure, Flynn stepped up U.S. rhetoric toward Iran and helped spearhead Trump's controversial immigration order that sparked consternation and threats of retaliation in the Muslim world. \n \"I don't think it will slow the White House down too much,\" said Jim Carafano, a Heritage Foundation scholar who advised Trump's transition team on foreign policy. Carafano said Flynn's departure \"takes away a trusted voice of the president\" but that Trump would turn to other valued national security hands. \n That could also mean an expanded role for Bannon, the conservative media executive with outspoken views about Islam who has consolidated immense influence over Trump's foreign policy. Kushner, the husband of Trump's daughter, also could broaden his portfolio, which already has him as a prime Trump emissary to key regions like the Middle East and Latin America despite his dearth of diplomatic or government experience. \n Tillerson, too, has elicited concerns about his ties to Putin. But the oil man portrayed himself in a Senate confirmation hearing as well within mainstream U.S. thinking on Russia. And that view is prevailing on policy, at least for now, as the White House said Tuesday it is upholding the sanctions President Barack Obama imposed on Russia over Ukraine and the election meddling. \n Tillerson, who has kept a low public profile since being sworn in, hasn't commented on Flynn's departure or on Trump's early handling of foreign policy. \n But Mattis, speaking to reporters while traveling to a NATO defense ministers' meeting in Brussels, said Flynn's departure \"has no effect at all\" on him. \n \"It doesn't change my message,\" Mattis said. \n Like Tillerson, Mattis has emerged as part of the global reassurance team \u2014 Cabinet members familiar to foreign leaders who are easing concerns that Trump will follow through on combative rhetoric about upending U.S. foreign policy. On his first official trip abroad, to South Korea and Japan, Mattis insisted the U.S. wouldn't abandon its treaty allies despite Trump's suggestions that Washington would no longer bear the burden of other nations' defenses. \n \"The key question is what is the connective tissue between the president and the actual policy,\" said Derek Chollett, who held various national security posts under Obama. \"Every president reaches a point where they stop getting listened to. With Trump, it may happen sooner if there's a sense what he says isn't actually translated into policy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Flynn exit creates vacuum that Trump's pragmatists may fill"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n A suspicious package was reported near Fort DeRussy today in Waikiki. \n A team from the Army's 303rd Explosive Ordnance Battalion was called in to assess a suspicious package found outside a Fort DeRussy building in Waikiki. \n Maj. Lindsey Elder said the team found it was a bag of rocks with a message to the FBI \"that didn't make much sense,\" and no detonation was necessary. \n Police got the call at 1:45 p.m. today. \n Elder said the bag was outside Fort DeRussy's Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspicious package by Fort DeRussy was bag of rocks"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., is questioned by reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington today on the ouster of Michael Flynn, President Trump's national security adviser. \n WASHINGTON >> Questions about the Trump administration's ties to Russia are hardly going to disappear with the firing of national security adviser Michael Flynn. Investigations are underway, and more are likely by the new administration and on Capitol Hill. \n U.S. agencies, including the FBI, have been probing Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. And three congressional committees are conducting their own investigations that include looking at contacts between Russian officials and members of the Trump campaign and administration. \n This isn't the first time Trump has distanced himself from an adviser in light of a relationships with Moscow. In late August, Paul Manafort resigned as Trump's campaign chairman after disclosures by The Associated Press about his firm's covert lobbying on behalf of the former pro-Russian ruling political party in Ukraine. \n The New York Times reported late Tuesday that members of Trump's campaign, including Manafort, had repeated contacts with Russian intelligence officials during the year before the election. The U.S. knew about these contacts through phone records and intercepted calls, the Times said. \n Reached late Tuesday, Manafort told The Associated Press he has not been interviewed by the FBI about these alleged contacts. \n \"I have never knowingly spoken to Russian intelligence officers and I have never been involved with anything to do with the Russian government or the Putin administration or any other issues under investigation today,\" Manafort said. \n Officials who spoke with the Times anonymously said they had not yet seen any evidence of the Trump campaign cooperating with the Russians on hacking or other attempts to influence the election. \n Trump's own ties to Russia have been questioned in light of his friendly posture toward the long-time U.S. adversary and reluctance to criticize President Vladimir Putin, even for Putin's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014. \n \"This isn't simply about a change in policy toward Russia, as the administration would like to portray. It's what's behind that change in policy,\" said California Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, one of the congressional bodies investigating. Schiff said there are continuing questions about the Trump campaign's ties to Russia and whether anyone assisted Moscow in hacking. \n \"It's not just that an administration official was caught lying. It's that the national security adviser to the president was caught lying and on a matter of central importance. So this is big,\" Schiff said. \n The Obama administration said Russia interfered in the 2016 election with the goal of electing Trump. Trump has acknowledged that Russia hacked Democratic emails but denies it was to help him win. \n The investigations and the unusual firing of the national security adviser just 24 days into his job have put Republicans in the awkward position of investigating the leader of their party. Senior GOP lawmakers continue to deny Democrats' requests that an independent panel be established to carry out the Russia investigation. So the congressional probes are ultimately in the hands of the Republican chairmen, and the executive branch's investigation has been overseen ultimately by Trump appointees. \n On Tuesday, Republican leaders focused on the idea that Flynn misled Vice President Mike Pence about the nature of his contacts with the Russian ambassador \u2014 not on any questioning of the relationship between Flynn and the ambassador. Democrats say a key issue is whether Flynn broke diplomatic protocol and potentially the law by discussing U.S. sanctions with Moscow before Trump's inauguration. \n The Justice Department had warned the White House late last month that Flynn could be at risk for blackmail because of contradictions between his public depictions of the calls with the Russian ambassador and what intelligence officials knew about the conversations. \n \"You cannot have a national security adviser misleading the vice president and others,\" said Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. \n Daniel Jones, a former lead investigator on the Senate intelligence committee, said it's important that Congress investigate Flynn's ties to Russia and make sure that doesn't get lost in a broader probe into Russia and the 2016 election. \n \"This is a checks-and-balances issue,\" Jones said. \"This shouldn't be a political issue.\" \n On the other hand, California Rep. Devin Nunes, chairman of the House intelligence committee, said he was concerned Flynn's rights were violated in the interception of his conversations with the Russian ambassador. \n \"I'm just shocked that nobody's covering the real crime here,\" Nunes said. \"You have an American citizen who had his phone call recorded and then leaked to the media.\" \n Nunes said he intended to ask the FBI \"what the hell's going on here.\" \n The FBI has wide legal authority to eavesdrop on the conversations of foreign intelligence targets, including diplomats, inside the U.S. \n Flynn did not concede any wrongdoing in his resignation letter, saying merely that he \"inadvertently briefed the vice president elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian ambassador.\" \n Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, a member of the Senate intelligence committee which is already investigating Russia and the 2016 election, said Flynn's resignation raises more questions. \n For example, he said, there are open questions about how many conversations Flynn actually had with the Russians and whether other people knew he was having them. \n While North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate intelligence committee, said much of the panel's investigation will occur behind closed doors, Wyden said he planned to push to make the findings and hearings public. \n Republican Lindsey Graham, who is leading a Senate judiciary subcommittee investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 election, echoed Wyden's concerns about whether Flynn was acting alone and without direction in his contacts. White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump did not direct Flynn to discuss U.S. sanctions with the Russians. \"No, absolutely not,\" Spicer said. \n \"I think most Americans have a right to know whether or not this was a General Flynn rogue maneuver, or was he basically speaking for somebody else in the White House,\" Graham told CNN Tuesday. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Eric Tucker, Erica Werner, Richard Lardner, Chad Day and Deb Riechmann contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia cloud over Trump not likely to fade with Flynn exit"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Up to 15 helicopters, and over a 100 firefighters have been battling two massive wildfires that have burnt over 700 hectares since erupting on Monday evening. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand \u2014 Hundreds of people in the New Zealand city of Christchurch were evacuated from their homes today as wildfires threatened some suburbs. \n At least one home was burned down in the Port Hills. \n Selwyn Mayor Sam Broughton told The Associated Press that he was planning to declare a state of emergency, as was the mayor of adjacent Christchurch. He said changing winds had made the fires unpredictable. \n He said the region had been unusually dry for the past three years and that the grass in the hills had turned brown over the Southern Hemisphere summer. \n Smoke and ash was being blown across Christchurch, New Zealand's second-largest city. Broughton said displaced residents were staying at evacuation centers or with relatives. \n \"They need to look after one another, and make sure they have a place to go to tonight,\" he said. \n Phil Claude told Radio New Zealand he and his family ran down a grass track to escape the fire, which destroyed their home. \n \"I could see that the smoke and the flames were being blown right up toward our house,\" he said. \"And I just yelled 'Get out. Get out!'\" \n New Zealand's military has been deployed to provide water tankers and engineering equipment as well as firefighters and other personnel. \n A helicopter pilot died in a crash Monday while fighting the blaze. \n The military revealed the pilot, Cpl. David Steven Askin, had won one of the country's top awards for bravery, for his efforts in Afghanistan. A member of the elite Special Air Service, Askin's identity was kept secret at the time he won the Gallantry Star medal in 2014. He was cited for efforts that included helping save guests during the 2011 siege of the luxury Inter-Continental Hotel in Kabul that left at least 20 people dead. \n \"Corporal Askin was wounded by grenade and rifle fire, yet carried on his mission and rescued guests from the hotel as fire broke out,\" the Defence Force said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Zealand wildfires prompt hundreds of evacuations"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A stop sign camera at the Top Of Topanga overlook in Topanga, Calif. in 2010. \n DETROIT >> Young drivers aren't alone in behaving badly on U.S. roads, a trend that could be contributing to a spike in highway deaths. \n Well over half of drivers in every age group have texted behind the wheel, run a red light or driven faster than the speed limit in the last 30 days, according to a new study by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety. \n Younger drivers are the worst offenders. Eighty-eight percent of drivers ages 19 to 24 admitted to at least one of those behaviors. But even mature drivers skirted the rules more often researchers expected. For instance, 10 percent of drivers between 60 and 74 have texted or sent email from behind the wheel, while 37 percent of drivers over 75 said they'd driven through a light that had just turned red. \n \"It was a surprise that there were relatively high rates of these behaviors among the drivers we think of as safer,\" said Lindsay Arnold, a research associate with the AAA Foundation. \n Arnold said the responses were similar to those in past years, indicating a troubling trend. In 2015, U.S. traffic deaths rose 7 percent to 35,092, the largest single-year increase in five decades. They're expected to rise again in 2016 when that data is finalized. \n \"It points to the need to improve driver behavior if we're going to reverse this alarming trend,\" Arnold said. \n Teen driver education campaigns have had some success, foundation spokeswoman Tamra Johnson said. Now the organization is considering the best ways to reach drivers of other ages. \n The study found broad agreement on some issues. Eighty-seven percent of drivers said they have never driven when they thought they were close to the legal alcohol limit. Ninety-five percent said they had never driven within an hour of using marijuana. Eighty-eight percent of drivers say it's unacceptable to drive without a seat belt, and 82 percent support laws requiring motorcycle riders to wear helmets. \n But drivers' behavior sometimes contradicted their own instincts. More than three-quarters of drivers say it's unacceptable to text or email while driving, but 31 percent had done so in the last month and 8 percent do so often. Ninety-six percent of drivers say drowsy driving is a serious safety threat, but 29 percent had recently driven when they were so tired they had trouble keeping their eyes open. \n The study questioned 2,511 licensed drivers aged 16 and over. Among its findings: \n \u2014 The youngest drivers \u2014 those ages 16 to 18 \u2014 were less likely to engage in speeding, running red lights or texting while driving than drivers in their 20s through 50s. \n \u2014 Eighty-three percent of drivers \u2014 and 86.5 percent of drivers 75 or older \u2014 said they were more careful than other drivers on the road. \n \u2014 Just over half of drivers feel seriously threatened by drivers talking on cell phones, but 68 percent made a call while driving in the last 30 days. \n \u2014 Drivers ages 40-59 were the most likely to use a hands-free phone in the car. Drivers ages 16-18 and 75 or older were the most likely to hold their phones and talk while driving. \n \u2014 Twenty-three percent of drivers \u2014 and 36 percent of those ages 19 to 24 \u2014 think it's acceptable to drive 15 mph over the speed limit on a freeway. Forty-six percent of drivers say they have driven that fast on a freeway in the last 30 days. \n \u2014 Sixty percent of drivers say people who drive after using illegal drugs are a serious threat, but just 34 percent say the same about people who drive after using prescription drugs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Most drivers, not just young, are taking risks, study says"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Molokai Burger was damaged in a fire Monday on Molokai. \n A fire late Monday at a Molokai restaurant caused an estimated $150,000 damage, the Maui Fire Department said today in a news release. \n Molokai firefighters responded to a report of smoke at the Molokai Burger at 11:19 p.m. Monday and found flames in the kitchen. \n Firefighters had the blaze under control at 11:30 p.m., and extinguished it at about 1 a.m., the Fire Department said. \n Fire investigators said the fire appeared to be accidental, but could not determine the exact cause of the fire. \n The blaze caused an estimated $150,000 in damage to the building, but no damage estimate to the contents was available. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Molokai Burger fire causes $150,000 in damage"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 4, 2001, file photo, a man believed to be Kim Jong Nam, the eldest son of then North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, looks at a battery of photographers as he exits a police van to board a plane to Beijing at Narita international airport in Japan. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> The alleged murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half-brother could be the best cloak-and-dagger thriller North Koreans will never get to hear. And if they did, they'd likely need some plot explainers \u2014 few know Kim Jong Un even had a half-brother. \n While no country in the world has a cult of personality surrounding its leaders as intensive as North Korea's, the narrative is carefully groomed and highly selective, leaving even some of the most basic details unknown to the general public. Predictably enough, the existence of an elder half-brother \u2014 and particularly a somewhat rebellious, free-wheeling one \u2014 has never been part of the North's official leader narrative. \n It is simpler to keep the line of succession and power as clear and direct as possible. For the most part, that means grandfather, father and son. \n Ironically, or perhaps not, the swirling reports of the hit on half-brother Kim Jong Nam at a Malaysian airport come as the nation is gearing up for one of the biggest leader-reverence events of the year. \n It's called the \"Day of the Shining Star,\" the birth anniversary of the late leader Kim Jong Il, who was Kim Jong Un and Kim Jong Nam's father, though they had a different mother. \n The only holiday that is more important is the \"Day of the Sun,\" which marks the birthday of Kim Jong Un's grandfather, North Korea's founder and \"eternal president\" Kim Il Sung. \n The barrage of Kim adulation in North Korea is constant. There are even flower festivals held each year that feature begonias and orchids named \"Kimilsungia\" and \"Kimjongilia.\" On Wednesday, with no mention whatsoever of Kim Jong Nam's death in Malaysia in the state media, figure skating and synchronized swimming exhibitions were being held in the capital to mark the day. \n Beyond their frequent \"on the spot guidance\" trips and attendance at official events, details of the actual lives of North Korea's leaders are generally scant. Other members of the Kim family tree are rarely if ever mentioned. \n Kim Jong Un's younger sister, Kim Yo Jong, is a powerful member of the ruling elite, but that would also come as a surprise to many people here. Her name does appear from time to time on official guest lists or party positions, but without further elaboration. His other half-brother, Kim Jong Chul, and older half-sister, Kim Sul Song, are believed to be party members in good standing. \n Kim Jong Nam had long been much more problematic. \n Before Kim Jong Un emerged as the clear heir to his father, Kim Jong Nam had been seen by some outside observers as the country's likely next generation leader. \n Others thought he was not in line, but anyways he is believed to have fallen out of favor after he was caught at a Japanese airport in 2001 trying to go to Tokyo Disneyland. He had lived outside of the North for years and has a son who studied in France, though little solid facts are available. \n He had, however, made some sporadic comments in public suggesting that the North needed to reform in order to survive and questioning its hereditary rule, but also indicating he had no desire to switch places with his younger half-brother. \n If he was killed, the motive is as yet just another of many, many mysteries. \n And, of course, Kim Jong Un himself remains one of them. \n Five years into his reign, he is firmly established a daily fixture on the front pages of the state-run newspapers, a constant presence on the television news and the object of tremendous praise on countless billboards and propaganda posters across the country. In something of a break with past practice, his wife has been often seen with him in public \u2014 though less so recently. \n But to outsiders, it can be surprising how narrow the official narrative is. \n Purges, not surprisingly, aren't normally reported, though the brief trial and execution of Kim Jong Un's powerful uncle was prominently broadcast and signaled to many experts Kim Jong Un's effort to solidify his powerbase. On a more mundane level, it has never been confirmed if Kim Jong Un has children (he is believed to have at least one daughter), what his age is (probably 32 or 33) or many other basic biographical details. \n When asked about the gaps, officials regularly explain that it is because the still young Kim is too humble to want such attention for himself. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rumors highlight the hidden lives of North Korean leaders"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in this Feb. 12 photo, chairs the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration suggested Tuesday that peace between the Israelis and Palestinians may not come in the form of a two-state solution \u2014 a position that could represent a dramatic shift from what has been U.S. policy for more than 20 years. \n Speaking to reporters ahead of President Donald Trump's meeting Wednesday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a senior White House official said Trump is eager to begin facilitating a peace deal between the two sides and hoping to bring them together soon. \n But the official, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the meeting beforehand, said it will be up to the Israelis and Palestinians to determine what peace will entail \u2014 and that peace, not a two-state solution, is the goal. \n For decades, the U.S. position has been that Israelis and Palestinians must work through direct negotiations to establish two states living side by side, with Palestinians to ultimately create an independent state. All serious peace negotiations in that have time have assumed that the two-state solution was the basis for future peace. \n State Department officials expressed surprise at the comments and said Tuesday they were not aware of any policy shift on the desirability of a two-state solution. Three officials said the department was seeking clarification from the White House comments, which came as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was having dinner with Netanyahu. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. \n During his final White House news conference, Obama warned that the moment for a two-state solution \"may be passing\" and said the \"status quo is unsustainable.\" \n It was not clear if the White House had intended to declare a major shift in policy during the hastily arranged briefing Tuesday night. \n Netanyahu is scheduled to meet with Trump at the White House Wednesday. The two leaders will hold a joint press conference before convening for meetings and a working lunch. The prime minister will then head to Capitol Hill for meetings with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. \n Trump takes pride in his deal-making skills and said during his campaign that he'd love the challenge of negotiating a Mideast agreement. He has appointed his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, to lead the effort. \n The official said the visit was meant to mark a new, closer relationship between Israel and the United States, which grew strained during the Obama years. \n Trump and Netanyahu are likely to discuss peace efforts as well as expanded Israeli settlements, Iran and Trump's campaign pledge to move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. \n The latter would signal U.S. recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital, a move that would infuriate Palestinians. They claim the eastern sector of the city, captured by Israel in 1967, as their capital. \n American presidents have long struck a delicate balance addressing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, stressing the close U.S. friendship and lavishing the Jewish state with aid. But recent presidents also have tried to negotiate, and they have called out Israel for actions seen as undermining peace efforts, such as expanding settlements in the occupied West Bank. \n Trump told The Associated Press during his campaign that he wanted to be \"very neutral\" and try to get both sides together. But his tone became decidedly more pro-Israel as the campaign progressed. He has spoken disparagingly of Palestinians, saying they have been \"taken over\" by or are condoning militant groups. Some of his top aides challenge the legitimacy of Palestinian demands for a state. \n After repeatedly clashing with Obama for eight years, capped by a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning Israeli settlements, Netanyahu seemed relieved by Trump's arrival. Trump slammed the U.S. decision to abstain from the U.N. vote, saying in December that Israel is being treated \"very, very unfairly.\" \n Now in office, however, Trump has been forced to reevaluate and revisit his position on a number of issues \u2014 including those relating to Israel. \n After initially greeting Israel's settlement announcements with a shrug, Trump appears to be having second thoughts. In an interview with a pro-Netanyahu Israeli daily Friday, Trump said, \"I am not somebody that believes that going forward with these settlements is a good thing for peace.\" \n While the meeting is expected to be much warmer than Netanyahu's famously tense encounters with Obama, the Israeli leader will still need to tread with caution on sensitive issues like Israeli settlement construction, Iran and the war in Syria. \n In dealing with such a divisive president, Netanyahu will also face some potential pitfalls. Key constituencies, including congressional Democrats and many American Jews, oppose Trump's policies, while at home Netanyahu is under pressure from his hard-line allies to push for policies that Trump may not support. \n \"Netanyahu seeks to shift the discussion in the U.S.-Israel relationship away from settlements and peace and back to Iran so that he can put off the difficult political decisions that would roil his coalition and put his rule in jeopardy,\" said Yousef Munayyer, a political analyst and executive director of the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights. \n \"The challenge to Netanyahu is domestic,\" Munayyer added. \"He spent so much time arguing that Obama was the problem that now that we are in the post-Obama era, his right-wing coalition partners want to exploit the moment and take huge steps that would further isolate Israel, trigger international condemnation from other corners, and potentially destabilize the land and Israeli politics.\" \n Ahead of the visit, Netanyahu said he would handle ties with the U.S. in a \"prudent manner,\" but he steered clear of specifics. \n The Israeli prime minister is also scheduled to have breakfast Thursday with Vice President Mike Pence before departing back to Israel. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House: Mideast peace may not be 2-state solution"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "Police were investigating tonight after a suspicious package was reported in Waikiki. \n Police received a call about the the item near Fort DeRussy at about 1:45 p.m. \n Officers were still at the scene at about 7 p.m., police said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police respond to suspicious package in Waikiki"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police said an unexploded ordnance would be detonated tonight in a controlled blast at 2020 Farrington Highway. \n Police issued an advisory at 6:06 p.m. today that the military will perform a controlled blast at 6:15 p.m. in Nanakuli. \n The advisory said it would be conducted at 2020 Farrington Highway and may be heard for several miles. \n A police dispatch supervisor said the ordnance was found at the address above and would be detonated on site. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police warn of controlled blast to detonate ordnance in Nanakuli"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Nov. 15, 2012 photo, Pedro Hernandez appears in Manhattan criminal court in New York. Hernandez, a former store clerk was convicted today in one of the nation's most haunting missing-child cases. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Stan Patz, right, father of 6-year-old Etan Patz who disappeared on the way to the school bus stop 38 years ago, reacts after a news conference with Assistant District Attorney Joel Seidemann, following the second trial of Pedro Hernandez, whos convicted of killing the boy today in New York. \n NEW YORK >> Nearly four decades after 6-year-old Etan Patz vanished on the way to his school bus stop, a former convenience store clerk was convicted Tuesday of murder in a case that influenced American parenting and law enforcement. \n The jury verdict against Pedro Hernandez gave Etan's relatives a resolution they had sought since May 1979 and gave prosecutors a conviction that eluded them when a 2015 jury deadlocked. \n \"The Patz family has waited a long time, but we've finally found some measure of justice for our wonderful little boy, Etan,\" said his father, Stanley Patz, choking up. \n \"I am truly relieved, and I'll tell you, it's about time. It's about time.\" \n Hernandez, who once worked in a shop in Etan's neighborhood, had confessed, but his lawyers said his admissions were the false imaginings of a man whose mind blurred the boundary between reality and illusion. \n On the earlier jury, the lone holdout against conviction cited the mental health issue as a major reason for his stance. \n This time, the jury concluded Hernandez had a psychiatric disorder but hadn't imagined killing the boy, one member said. \n \"We decided he has an illness \u2026 but that didn't make him delusional,\" said Michael Castellon, a construction company attorney. \"We think that he could tell right from wrong. He could tell fantasy from reality.\" \n Hernandez, 56, showed no reaction on hearing the verdict, but his lawyers said he planned to appeal. Sentencing is scheduled for Feb. 28. \n \"In the end, we don't believe this will resolve the story of what happened to Etan back in 1979,\" said lawyer Harvey Fishbein. \n Etan became one of the first missing children ever pictured on milk cartons, and the anniversary of his disappearance has been designated National Missing Children's Day. \n His parents lent their voices to a campaign to make missing children a national cause, and it fueled laws that established a national hotline and made it easier for law enforcement agencies to share information about vanished youngsters. \n And his disappearance helped tilt parenting to more protectiveness in a nation where many families had felt comfortable letting children play and roam alone. As Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi put it when the trial opened last fall, Etan \"will forever symbolize the loss of that innocence.\" \n The long-awaited verdict had one prosecutor quoting the Bible \u2014 \"justice shall you pursue,\" Assistant District Attorney Joel Seidemann said \u2014 and Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. declaring that Hernandez' guilt had been \"affirmed beyond all lasting doubt.\" \n The verdict even spurred tears from some pro-conviction jurors from the first trial, who had attended the second one, though the lone holdout, Adam Sirois, said via text message that he hadn't changed his mind in feeling there wasn't enough evidence to convict. \n Still, the Patz family \u2014 which focused for years on another suspect before Hernandez's 2012 arrest \u2014 may never know exactly what became of the boy. \n Hernandez told authorities he'd left Etan's body, still living, in a box with some trash, but no trace of him has been found since he vanished in a then-edgy but neighborly part of lower Manhattan. \n The decades-long investigation took investigators as far as Israel, but Hernandez wasn't a suspect until renewed news coverage of the case prompted a brother-in-law to tell police that Hernandez in 2012 had revealed to a prayer group decades earlier that he'd killed a child in New York. \n Authorities would later learn that he'd made similar, if not entirely consistent, remarks to a friend and his ex-wife years earlier. \n After police came to Hernandez's home in Maple Shade, New Jersey, he confessed, saying he'd offered Etan a soda to get him into the store basement and choked him. \n \"Something just took over me,\" Hernandez said in one of a series of recorded confessions to police and prosecutors. He said he'd wanted to tell someone, \"but I didn't know how to do it. I felt so sorry.\" \n Prosecutors cast his confession as the chillingly believable words of a man unburdening himself, and they argued it was buttressed by the less specific admissions he'd made earlier. \n Defense lawyers and doctors portrayed Hernandez as man with psychological problems and intellectual limitations that made him imagine he'd killed Etan. \n His daughter testified that he talked about seeing visions of angels and demons and once watered a dead tree branch, believing it would grow. Prosecutors suggested Hernandez faked or exaggerated his symptoms. \n Defense lawyers also pointed to a different man who was long the prime suspect \u2014 a convicted Pennsylvania child molester who made incriminating remarks about Etan's case in the 1990s and who had dated a woman acquainted with the Patzes. The man was never charged and denies killing Etan. \n \"The defense threw a lot of theories out there,\" Castellon said, but they weren't convincing, though jurors deliberated for nine days. \n Ultimately, members of the jury that voted to convict felt Hernandez's remarks to the prayer group were both reliable and corroborated by multiple people, Castellon said. \n He said jurors also looked closely at the other suspect but concluded he was toying with authorities by making chilling statements but not confessing. \n Deliberations were difficult, but \"we had constructive conversations, based in logic, that were analytical and creative and adaptive, and compassionate,\" foreman Thomas Hoscheid said. \n \"And, ultimately, kind of heartbreaking.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'It's about time': Etan Patz's dad finds justice in verdict"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "Pono Life Sciences Maui LLC got the green light today to begin growing medical marijuana on the Valley Isle. \n Before retail sales can begin, the DOH still must contract with laboratories to test the potency and purity of the drugs, and the state's so-called seed-to-sale tracking system must be able to connect with its patient registry system to ensure patients do not purchase more than 4 ounces in a 15-day period. \n Hawaii legalized medical cannabis in 2000, but patients did not have a legal way to obtain the drug. Act 241, passed in 2015, allowed the state to issue eight licenses for a total of 16 production centers and 16 dispensaries: three on Oahu, one on Kauai and two each on Maui and Hawaii island. Dispensaries were allowed to open as early as July 15, but the state and dispensaries weren't ready. \n ", "author": "By Kristen Consillio kconsillio@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Fourth company gets OK to grow medical marijuana in Hawaii"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "COURTESY KAUAI POLICE DEPARTMENT \n A man found the grenade in his belongings on Saturday in Kalaheo. \n A live hand grenade was detonated in south Kauai by an Army Explosive Ordnance Disposal Team, Kaui Police said today. \n The live M22 grenade was discovered by a man and brought to the Kalaheo fire station Saturday. \n Police said the grenade was safely detonated with no injuries on Monday afternoon at a remote location in Kalaheo. \n A man who was a resident discovered the grenade in his belongings and walked it into the fire station. \n \"He was an elderly man,\" police spokeswoman Sarah Blane said. \"He had it in his possessions, but couldn't recall how he came upon it.\" \n Police said the grenade was an M22. \n According to the website UXOINFO.com, M22 grenades are used for signaling and laying smoke that's green, red, violet or yellow. \n Kauai police remind the public that if an object such as a grenade is found, do not disturb it and call police immediately. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Live grenade discovered on Kauai"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "A screen shot of Pearl City High School's website. \n An autistic high school student raped a classmate while the adult assigned to monitor him was taking a nap, said a federal lawsuit accusing Hawaii's statewide school district of negligence. \n The autistic student had a full-time one-on-one aide because he was known to be violent, the lawsuit filed Monday said. The aide was asleep when the 2012 attack happened during Pearl City High School band practice, the lawsuit said. \n The Associated Press doesn't typically name victims of sexual assault. The 10th-grade girl was in the back of the band at the percussion section when the larger 11th-grader raped her there and then again in a curtained area of the auditorium. \n The aide was sleeping in the audience section of the auditorium, the lawsuit said. \n State Department of Education spokeswoman Donalyn Dela Cruz declined to comment on pending litigation. Kyle Miyashiro, who was a vice principal at the time and is named as a defendant, referred questions to the school's principal who didn't immediately respond today. The aide, Bryan Simpson, is also named as a defendant and no longer works at the school, Miyashiro said. Simpson couldn't be reached for comment. \n The girl reported the rape to her mother and police, said her attorney Peter Hsieh. The autistic student was prosecuted in family court and convicted of two counts of first-degree sexual assault, Hsieh said. \n \"She dropped out of high school. She couldn't finish because of what happened to her,\" Hsieh said. But she later earned a GED diploma and is now studying bioengineering at the University of Hawaii, he said. \n \"She's basically turned an adverse situation as a motivator for her,\" he said, adding that it was her decision to pursue a civil lawsuit. \n In a separate, similar case, a jury last year determined that the Department of Education failed to protect a special education student who said she was raped by a special education classmate at Waianae High School. The jury awarded the girl and her mother about $810,000 in damages, but the state appealed. The case is before the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, said Hsieh, who also handled that case. \n The two lawsuits send a \"loud message that there is a lack of proper training and supervision of teachers, aides and assistants,\" Hsieh said, \"especially when it comes to children who have a history of violence.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Autistic student raped Pearl City classmate while aide napped, lawsuit says"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin listens during a meeting in Moscow, Russia on Feb. 6. Sen. John McCain said Putin was testing President Donald Trump after Russia reportedly launched a cruise missile in violation of an arms control treaty. \n WASHINGTON >> Russia has deployed a cruise missile in violation of a Cold War-era arms control treaty, a Trump administration official said Tuesday, a development that complicates the outlook for U.S.-Russia relations amid turmoil on the White House national security team. \n The Obama administration three years ago accused the Russians of violating the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by developing and testing the prohibited cruise missile, and officials had anticipated that Moscow eventually would deploy it. Russia denies that it has violated the INF treaty. \n U.S. intelligence agencies have assessed that the missile became operational late last year, said an administration official, who wasn't authorized to publicly discuss the matter and demanded anonymity. \n The deployment may not immediately change the security picture in Europe, but the alleged treaty violation may arise when Defense Secretary Jim Mattis attends his first NATO meeting in Brussels on Wednesday. It also has stirred concern on Capitol Hill, where Sen. John McCain, the Senate Armed Services Committee chairman, called on the Trump administration to ensure U.S. nuclear forces in Europe are ready. \n \"Russia's deployment of nuclear-tipped ground-launched cruise missiles in violation of the INF treaty is a significant military threat to U.S. forces in Europe and our NATO allies,\" McCain, R-Ariz., said in a statement today. He said Russian President Vladimir Putin was \"testing\" Trump. \n Trump's White House is in a difficult moment, with no national security adviser following the forced resignation Monday night of Michael Flynn. He is accused of misleading Vice President Mike Pence about contacts with a Russian diplomat while President Barack Obama was still in office. \n Meanwhile, a U.S. defense official said today that a Russian intelligence-collection ship has been operating off the U.S. east coast, in international waters. The official was not authorized to discuss an intelligence matter and so spoke on condition of anonymity. The ship had made a port call in Cuba prior to moving north, where it has been monitored off the coast of Delaware, the official said. \n The New York Times, which was first to report the missile deployment, said the Russians have two battalions of the prohibited cruise missile. One is at a missile test site at Kapustin Yar and one was moved in December from the test site to an operational base elsewhere in the country. \n The State Department wouldn't confirm the report. It noted that last year it reported Russia was in violation of its treaty obligations not to possess, produce or flight-test a ground-launched cruise missile with a range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers, or to possess or produce launchers for such missiles. \n \"The administration is undertaking an extensive review of Russia's ongoing INF treaty violation in order to assess the potential security implications for the United States and its allies and partners,\" State Department spokesman Mark Toner said. \n John Tierney, executive director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, said strategic stability on the European continent is at stake. \n \"If true, Russia's deployment of an illegal ground-launched cruise missile represents a very troubling development and should be roundly condemned,\" Tierney said. \n Sen. Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican, sees little reason for the U.S. to continue adhering to the INF treaty, in light of Russia's violations. He has recommended building up U.S. nuclear forces in Europe, which currently include about 200 bombs that can be delivered by aircraft. The U.S. withdrew land-based nuclear-armed missiles from Europe as part of the INF deal. \n The treaty has special significance in the recent history of arms control agreements. Signed in December 1987 by President Ronald Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, it has been credited with helping accelerate an end to the Cold War and lessening the danger of nuclear confrontation. It stands as the only arms treaty to eliminate an entire class of U.S. and Russian weapons \u2014 nuclear and conventional ground-launched ballistic and cruise missiles of intermediate range. \n The Obama administration had argued for maintaining U.S. compliance with the treaty while urging the Russians to halt violations. At the same time, the Pentagon developed options to counter Russian cruise missile moves, some of which would have involved bold military action. \n At his Senate confirmation hearing in February 2014, Ash Carter, who headed the Pentagon until last month, said disregard for treaty limitations was a \"two-way street,\" opening the way for the U.S. to respond in kind. He called Russia's violations consistent with its \"strategy of relying on nuclear weapons to offset U.S. and NATO conventional superiority.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. official: Russia deployed missile in violation of treaty"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "Hawaiian Electric Industries' profit in the fourth quarter was up 5.1 percent, as the company rebounded from costs related to its failed sale to Florida-based NextEra Energy Inc. \n Today the parent company of the state's largest electric utility reported a profit of $44.6 million or 41 cents share, compared with its profit of $42.3 million or 39 cents a share for the same period in 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2015, HEI had a net expense of $2.2 million for its proposed sale to Florida-based NextEra. The Hawaii Public Utilities Commission killed the proposed sale in July. \n HEI's revenue for the quarter totaled $617 million, down a percent from $624 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. \n For all of 2016, HEI's profit was $248.3 million, or $2.29 per share, compared to $159.9 million or $1.50 a share for 2015. The 55 percent increase was largely due to $58.2 million HEI got from NextEra as part of a breakup fee and the related cancellation of a liquefied natural gas contract. HEI had $15.8 million in NextEra-related expenses in 2015. \n The state PUC rejected NextEra's purchase of HEI due to concerns about mainland control and doubts about NextEra's commitment to the state's renewable-energy goals. Hawaii law says the electricity HEI sells must come from 100 percent renewable sources by 2045. \n In addition to a $90 million breakup fee \u00adNextEra paid to HEI, NextEra reimbursed HEI $5 million for transaction expenses. \n Excluding the payment from NextEra, HEI's core earnings in 2016 were $190.1 million, or $1.75 a share, up from $175.7 million, or $1.65 a share, in 2015. \n HEI also announced today that James Ajello, HEI's executive vice president and chief financial officer, will retire at the end of the first quarter of 2017. HEI named Gregory C. Hazelton, HEI's Senior Vice President, Finance, as his successor. \n HEI is the parent company of Hawaii's largest electricity utility and American Savings Bank. HEI serves about 95 percent of Hawaii's population through electrical utilities on Oahu, Maui, Molokai and Hawaii island. These utilities contributed $34.1 million in net income for HEI during the fourth quarter, up from $33.0 million a year earlier. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaiian Electric rebounds from failed NextEra sale"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Water gushes from the Oroville Dam's main spillway Tuesday, Feb. 14, 2017, in Oroville, Calif. Crews working around the clock atop the crippled Oroville Dam have made progress repairing the damaged spillway, state officials said Tuesday. \n OROVILLE, Calif. >> Authorities lifted an evacuation order Tuesday for nearly 200,000 California residents who live below the nation's tallest dam after declaring the risk of catastrophic collapse of a damaged spillway had been significantly reduced. \n Butte County Sheriff Kory Honea said residents can return home immediately. State water officials said they have drained enough of the lake behind Oroville Dam so that its earthen emergency spillway will not be needed to handle runoff from an approaching storm. \n Residents returning home \"have to be vigilant,\" and \"there is the prospect that we will issue another evacuation order \u2026 if the situation changes,\" the sheriff said. \n Crews also dropped giant sandbags, cement blocks and boulders on damaged areas Tuesday. \n Officials had ordered residents to flee to higher ground Sunday after fearing a never-before-used emergency spillway was close to failing and sending a 30-foot wall of water into communities downstream. \n Over the weekend, the swollen lake spilled down the unpaved emergency spillway for nearly 40 hours, leaving it badly eroded. The problem occurred six days after engineers discovered a growing hole in the dam's main, concrete spillway. \n Officials defended the decision to suddenly call for mass evacuations Sunday, just a few hours after saying the situation was stable, forcing families to rush to pack up and get out. \n \"There was a lot of traffic. It was chaos,\" said Robert Brabant, an Oroville resident who evacuated with his wife, son, dogs and cats. \"It was a lot of accidents. It was like people weren't paying attention to other people.\" \n Gov. Jerry Brown said Monday that he sent a letter to the White House requesting direct federal assistance in the emergency, though some federal agencies have been helping already. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Evacuation order lifted for nearly 200,000 Californians"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "MATT SAYLES/INVISION/AP \n Lady Gaga performed \"Moth Into Flame\" at the 59th annual Grammy Awards, on Sunday, in Los Angeles. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> Musicians Lady Gaga and Alicia Keys along with Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence are among more than 140 artists and celebrities condemning a Texas \"bathroom bill\" targeting transgender people. \n Britney Spears and late-night host Jimmy Kimmel also signed a letter today criticizing the Republican-backed efforts as a \"denial of basic human dignity.\" The bill would require people to use bathrooms that correspond to the sex on their birth certificate. \n It's similar to a North Carolina law that prompted rockers Pearl Jam and Bruce Springsteen to cancel concerts in that state last year. \n The Texas bill has yet to receive even a preliminary vote but public pressure is ratcheting up. Last week, the NFL suggested that Texas could be passed over for future Super Bowl sites if the proposal became law. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lady Gaga, Jimmy Kimmel condemn Texas 'bathroom bill'"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Monday, Feb. 13, 2017 photo, Zhong Jiye, a co-founder of Shenzhen Trump Industrial Co., demonstrates the use of one of his firm's high-end Trump-branded toilets at the company's offices in Shenzhen in southern China's Guangdong Province. \n SHANGHAI >> President Donald Trump's triumph in the fight to wrest back his brand for construction services in China could spell the end of more than 225 Trump-related marks here that don't belong to him, including Trump toilets, Trump condoms, Trump pacemakers and even a \"Trump International Hotel.\" \n After a decade of grinding battle in China's courts, an official finding in Trump's favor expected this week could signal a shift in fortune for the U.S. president's intellectual property. Also at stake are 49 pending Trump trademark applications \u2014 all made during his campaign \u2014 and 77 previously registered marks, most of which will come up for renewal during his term. \n Each win creates value for Trump's business empire \u2014 and raises ethics questions about his administration. Critics say the trademarks present conflicts of interest for Trump and may violate the emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution, which bars public servants from accepting anything of value from foreign governments unless explicitly approved by Congress. \n \"There can be no question that it is a terrible idea for Donald Trump to be accepting the registration of these valuable property rights from China while he's a sitting president of the United States,\" said Norman Eisen, who served as chief White House ethics lawyer for President Barack Obama. \"It's fair to conclude that this is an effort to influence Mr. Trump that is relatively inexpensive for the Chinese, potentially very valuable to him, but it could be very costly for the United States.\" \n China could use Trump's desire to control his brand to extend or withhold favor, particularly since its courts and bureaucracy reflect the imperatives of the ruling Communist Party. \n Eisen is involved in a lawsuit alleging that Trump's foreign business ties violate the U.S. Constitution. Trump has dismissed the lawsuit as \"totally without merit.\" \n The precise value of the trademarks is uncertain, but in a 2011 letter to then-U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, Trump wrote that he spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to defend his brand in China. \n He railed against Chinese courts for not recognizing that he was famous, writing that \"it appears the only two places in the world I am not well known are\" China and Macau. \n Trump's elevated profile as president will likely make it easier to protect his brand in China, said Zhou Dandan, a lawyer with Unitalen Attorneys at Law in Beijing, which has worked for Trump since 2006. Trademark authorities will almost certainly reject new \"Trump\" applications from unrelated parties, she said, and may take back rights from existing \"Trump\" trademark holders. \n That's what happened in the case nearing completion this week. \n Back in December 2006, Trump applied for rights to the Trump mark for construction services. He was rejected because China operates on a first-come-first-served principle and a man named Dong Wei had filed a similar application two weeks earlier. Trump appealed to Chinese authorities for 10 years and was rejected time and again, right up until the month before he declared his candidacy. \n Then something changed. China's trademark authorities published their decision to invalidate Dong's trademark for construction services on Sept. 6, 2016. Trump's application moved ahead, and if no one objects, the trademark will be registered to Trump on Tuesday. Dong could not be reached for comment. \n Why is Trump winning now, after years of failure? China's State Administration for Industry and Commerce and its foreign ministry did not reply to requests for comment. \n Alan Garten, chief legal officer of The Trump Organization, said the Chinese trademarks were already in the works before the election, and the president has turned management of his company over to his children and a team of executives. \n In an email, Garten wrote, \"The only mark we were seeking was one in the related class of construction which someone was improperly squatting on.\" \n Some lawyers say Trump may have benefited from a general hardening in China's stance toward trademark squatters, but others believe politics played a role. \n \"It would be hard to imagine that the judges, the Trademark Office and/or the Trademark Review and Adjudication Board were acting without some kind of guidance,\" said Dan Plane, a director at Simone IP Services, a Hong Kong intellectual property consultancy. \n Meanwhile, the makers of Trump-branded luxury toilets at Shenzhen Trump Industrial Co. say they will defend their brand, even if it means taking on the U.S. president. \n Co-founder Zhong Jiye said his Trump toilets have nothing to do with President Trump. The Chinese name brings together ideas of innovation and popularity, he said. And in English, the \"U\" makes a nice toilet-seat shaped logo. \n Trump toilets for the home can do pregnancy tests. Models for public use have disposable seat covers for improved hygiene. People use Trump toilets some 100 million times a year, Zhong said. \n Among them, he added, are customers at Zhongnanhai, the official residence of Chinese President Xi Jinping. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump toilets, condoms could be flushed after his China win"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Public White House tours that had been temporarily suspended, which is typical when there's a new president will resume on March 7. \n WASHINGTON >> Sen. Chuck Grassley can tell his wife that White House public tours are resuming on March 7. \n The tours had been temporarily suspended, which is typical when there's a new president. But the length of the suspension apparently had begun to cause angst, notably in Grassley's household. \n The Iowa Republican tweeted this past Sunday: \"Whoever monitors twitter at WH for businessman president Trump 'when is WH going to be opened for public tours?' Mrs G wants to know\" \n First lady Melania Trump gave Grassley and everyone else who'd been wondering an answer Tuesday when she announced that the popular tours are resuming early next month. \n \"I am excited to reopen the White House to the hundreds of thousands of visitors who come each year,\" she said in a written statement. \"The White House is a remarkable and historic site and we are excited to share its beauty and history. I am committed to the restoration and preservation of our nation's most recognizable landmark.\" \n Grassley tweeted his appreciation following Mrs. Trump's announcement. \n \"Mrs G appreciates WH responding 2my Twitter WH will open for public tours starting March 7 Im positive distraught Iowans will be very happy2\" he said. \n Tours of public areas of the White House are self-guided. Requests for a ticket must be submitted through a member of Congress. The tour route includes the Blue, Red and Green Rooms, the State Dining Room and the East Room, where Trump held a news conference Monday with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. \n The tours are available from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Tuesday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays, excluding federal holidays or unless otherwise noted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Melania Trump: White House public tours to resume March 7"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A catch of fish was unloaded, Feb. 2, from a commercial fishing boat at Pier 38 in Honolulu. A bill would require fishing boat owners who want a commercial license to provide to the state a copy of the employment contracts with every fisherman before the license is granted. \n A bill would require fishing boat owners who want a commercial license to provide to the state a copy of the employment contracts with every fisherman before the license is granted. \n The fishing industry is pushing back, saying it's already highly regulated by the federal government. The industry also initiated a universal contract to be signed by crew members and boat owners. \n Rep. Kaniela Ing says the universal contract and the idea of the industry policing itself are not enough. \n Ing's bill is being heard in the House Committee on Ocean, Marine Resources and Hawaiian Affairs today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House bill seeks more oversight over commercial fishing in Hawaii"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Disneyland visitors waited outside a parking garage after it was evacuated due to a fire in the garage in Anaheim, Calif. Monday. Several cars were destroyed or damaged by fires in the main parking structure Monday at Disneyland, authorities said. \n ANAHEIM, Calif. >> A fire broke out in Disneyland's main parking structure that burned eight cars and forced seven people to be treated for smoke inhalation, authorities said. \n No foul play was suspected, but investigators haven't given a cause for the Monday blaze at the Mickey & Friends Parking Structure. \n Four cars were destroyed and four others had damage from the fire, which brought losses estimated at $180,000, the Anaheim Police Department said. Thousands of cars are tightly packed into the structure daily. \n Seven Disney employees were treated for smoke inhalation, with four taken to hospitals. All were released later Monday, Sgt. Daron Wyatt said. \n Gray smoke could be seen pouring out of the structure when the blaze was first reported at about 5 p.m. It was extinguished about 30 minutes later. Hundreds of park visitors and employees were stuck outside the structure unable to get to their cars until the evacuation and shutdown ended after about two hours. \n \"A lot of people are just tired; they've been here all day. It's more of a nuisance than anything,\" Darren Clark, whose family of four couldn't get to their car because of the shutdown, told KNBC-TV. \"I'm kind of hoping it's not my vehicle.\" \n The Mickey & Friends Structure, with sections named for Disney characters and trams that take visitors to the entrance to the Disney Resort's two theme parks, is a familiar spot for millions of visitors who pay $18 to park. \n The Disney parks remained open as usual until 8 p.m. Disney representatives referred questions about the blaze to fire officials. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Investigators probe fire that burned 8 cars at Disneyland"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Head of U.S. Pacific Command, Adm. Harry B. Harris, left, Thai Chief of Defense Forces Gen. Surapong Suwana-Adth, center, and U.S. Ambassador to Thailand Glyn T. Davies, right, posed for a photo at the opening ceremonies of the Cobra Gold Thai-U.S. military exercise on Tuesday, in Sattahip, Thailand. Harris is the highest-ranking U.S. official to attend the annual exercise this year since Thailand's 2014 coup in an American bid to strengthen relations. \n SATTAHIP, Thailand >> The highest-ranking U.S. official to visit Thailand since a 2014 coup urged the country to restore democracy while reaffirming the partnership between the two nations, saying Tuesday that America needs \"a strong and stable ally\" in Southeast Asia. \n Adm. Harry B. Harris, the head of the U.S. Pacific Command, spoke at the start of the annual Cobra Gold Thai-U.S. joint military exercises, the largest in the Asia-Pacific region. \n \"We look forward to Thailand's reemergence as a flourishing democracy because we need Thailand as a strong and stable ally,\" Harris said. \"We need Thailand to get back to being the regional and global leader that it always has been.\" \n But even as he asked Thai leaders to step up, he made it clear the U.S. remains committed to the countries' military relationship. Harris' visit, planned under the Obama administration, is widely seen as a signal that the U.S. will continue to back Thailand. \n \"Folks, our alliance is a big deal,\" Harris said. \"Nations don't enter security treaty alliances lightly. It means we're in it for the long haul.\" \n Twenty-nine countries, including China, India and Malaysia, are participating in or observing the exercises. Some 3,600 American troops are attending this year, hundreds more than last year. \n Cobra Gold comes at an uncertain time for Thailand's relations with the U.S., China and Russia. \n Thailand, for decades a stalwart American ally, saw relations with the U.S. cool after its military overthrew a democratically elected government in 2014. In response to the coup, the U.S. froze millions in military aid. \n In the past few years, the Thai army has turned to Chinese and Russian tanks and helicopters to replace outdated American equipment. It also has been ramping up joint military exercises with China, and last year the army announced it would buy three Chinese submarines in a deal worth about $1 billion. \n China frightens many in Southeast Asia with expansionist policies in the South China Sea. However, China's claims do not clash with Thai territorial waters, paving the way for friendly relations. \n \"It's like a balancing scale,\" said Panitan Wattanayagorn, a professor at Bangkok's Chulalongkorn University and an adviser to Thailand's defense minister. \"Thailand is a small country between superpowers, and it has to balance to make sure the scale doesn't tip too much in one way.\" \n With an eye on China, the U.S. has been trying to draw Thailand closer again recently, despite political differences. \n \"Washington is sorely trying to show the Thai junta and Southeast Asian governments that it prioritizes formal relations with them,\" said Paul Chambers, research director at the Institute of Southeast Asian Affairs. \"In other words, geopolitics is more important than liberal values, regardless of human rights violations.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Head of U.S. Pacific Command urges democracy in Thailand"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "HILO >> The oldest telescope atop a dormant volcano on Hawaii's Big Island is getting a makeover this spring. \n The observatory has been operational since 1970 and was one of the first on the mountain. \n \"I look at the 2.2-meter telescope as being like a flagship for the University of Hawaii,\" Aspin said. \"Because it's a professional telescope. It's large enough you can do an incredible amount of good science.\" \n The project to upgrade the telescope was also intended to help make it fully automated, but Aspin said costs came in higher than expected. He estimates another $2 million to $3 million is needed for the telescope to be able to function remotely in Hilo. \n \"Our plan is to be first (on Mauna Kea) to run the whole night without human interaction,\" Aspin said. \n The Legislature has contributed $2.5 million toward the upgrades. Funding for adaptive optics, which adjust for distortion in the Earth's atmosphere, is being sought separately through NASA and science foundations. \n Aspin said the Office of Mauna Kea Management has given its approval for the repair plans to help ensure the safety of the public and protection of the environment. \n \"We're making sure we don't litter the place, making sure we don't leave paint chips around, making sure we protect visitors at the summit,\" Aspin said. \"That, for me, is important; that we look after that mountain. It's a precious place.\" \n The work is expected to wrap up in August. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mauna Kea's oldest telescope to be revamped"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "HAGATNA, Guam >> The federal government is moving forward with plans to pay claims to as many as 5,000 Guam residents and estates on behalf of those who experienced atrocities during the Japanese occupation of the island during World War II.  \n The 2017 National Defense Authorization Act that passed in December included reparations for those killed, injured or subjected to forced labor and other harmful acts by Japanese occupiers. \n \"The United States recognizes that, as described by the Guam War Claims Review Commission, the residents of Guam, on account of their United States nationality, suffered unspeakable harm as a result of the occupation of Guam by Imperial Japanese military forces during World War II, by being subjected to death, rape, severe personal injury, personal injury, forced labor, forced march, or internment,\" the law states. \n The war claims would be paid from the island's federal Section 30 funding, which is income tax money collected from federal workers on Guam and remitted to the local government each year. Any annual Section 30 funding in excess of $70 million would be earmarked to pay war claims. \n The Section 30 funding mechanism would continue every year until all claims are paid, Guam Del. Madeleine Bordallo's office has stated. \n Under the law, the surviving spouse or children of a Guam resident who died during the Japanese occupation, or as Guam was being liberated by the U.S. military, can claim $25,000. Rape or severe personal injury could result in a $15,000 payment, while those subjected to forced labor could get $12,000 and those who endured internment could qualify for $10,000. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal government moves to pay Guamanians war reparations"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / JAN. 13 \n A high surf warning Is in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for north- and west-facing shores of the islands from Niihau to Molokai, along with north-facing shores of Maui. \n Strong winds continue to whip across parts of Oahu, Kauai and Maui today. \n Meanwhile, warning-level surf is still building along north- and west-facing shores and was expected to peak this afternoon. \n A wind advisory was in effect for the windward sides of Oahu and Kauai and Maui's central valley until 6 p.m. today, the Weather Service said. \n Southwest winds were forecast to be 25 to 30 mph today with higher gusts, the advisory said. An advisory means sustained winds of at least 30 mph or gusts of at least 50 mph are expected. Motorists should use extra caution, the Weather Service said. \n A high surf warning remains in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for north- and west-facing shores of the islands from Niihau to Molokai, and along with north-facing shores of Maui. \n The northwest swell will build across the state tonight and peak today, bringing dangerously high surf to most north- and west-facing shores of the smaller islands, the Weather Service said. \n Surf was forecast to hit 25 to 35 feet for north-facing shores and 18 to 23 feet for west-facing shores. \n Ocean water will occasionally sweep across portions of beaches, and beachgoers can expect strong breaking waves and rip currents, the Weather Service said. \n Anyone entering the water could face significant injury or death, and boaters should be aware of more surfers or body boarders in the water, the Weather Service said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big surf, strong winds continue to buffet islands"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Press secretary Sean Spicer pointed as he answered questions from members of the media during the daily briefing in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n National Security Adviser Michael Flynn boarded Air Force One, Feb. 12, at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Fla., as he returned to Washington with President Donald Trump. Flynn resigned as Trump's national security adviser Monday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kellyanne Conway, senior adviser to President Donald Trump, watched during a meeting with parents and teachers, today, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump was told in late January that his top national security aide had misled his vice president, three weeks before Trump ousted adviser Michael Flynn amid a swirling public controversy over Flynn's contacts with a Russian official, a White House spokesman said today. \n Press secretary Sean Spicer said Flynn's firing on Monday was prompted by a gradual \"erosion of that trust\" and not any concern about the legality of the retired general's calls with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. Spicer said the president withheld judgment on Flynn until after the White House counsel's office conducted a review of the legal issues raised by the calls. \n Flynn's ouster appeared to be driven more public attention and by the idea that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other officials than by the content of his discussions. Still, the matter deepened questions about Trump's friendly posture toward Russia. \n \"This was an act of trust \u2014 whether or not he misled the vice president was the issue and that was ultimately what led to the president asking for and accepting the resignation of Gen. Flynn,\" Spicer said. \n Flynn's resignation came after reports that the Justice Department had alerted the White House weeks ago that there were contradictions between Trump officials' public accounting of the Russia contacts and what intelligence officials knew to be true based on routine recordings of communications with foreign officials who are in the U.S. \n Spicer said White House counsel's office reviewed the situation after it was flagged by the Department of Justice, and along with the president, the counsel determined that it did not pose a legal problem. \n The revelations were another destabilizing blow to an administration that has already suffered a major legal defeat on immigration, botched the implementation of a signature policy and stumbled through a string of embarrassing public relations missteps. \n White House officials haven't said when Trump was told of the Justice Department warning or why Flynn had been allowed to stay on the job with access to a full range of intelligence materials. \n Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a longtime Russia critic, said Congress needs to know what Flynn discussed with the ambassador and why. \n \"The idea that he did this on his own without any direction is a good question to ask,\" Graham added. \n Pence and others, apparently relying on information from Flynn, had said the national security adviser did not discuss U.S. economic sanctions against Russia with the Russian envoy during the American presidential transition. Flynn later told officials the sanctions may have been discussed, the latest change in his account of his pre-inauguration discussions with Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. \n Such conversations would breach diplomatic protocol and possibly violate the Logan Act, a law aimed at keeping private citizens from conducting U.S. diplomacy. The Justice Department had warned the White House late last month that Flynn could be at risk for blackmail because of contradictions between his public depictions of the calls and what intelligence officials. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan said Trump made the right decision in asking Flynn to step down. \n \"You cannot have the national security adviser misleading the vice president and others,\" Ryan said. \n Trump, who had been conspicuously quiet about Flynn's standing for several days, took to Twitter this morning and said the \"real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington?\" He ignored questions about Flynn from reporters during an education event at the White House this morning. \n Trump named retired Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg as the acting national security adviser. Kellogg had previously been appointed the National Security Council chief of staff and advised Trump during the campaign. Trump is also considering former CIA Director David Petraeus and Vice Admiral Robert Harward, a U.S. Navy SEAL, for the post, according to a senior administration official. \n Kellogg convened a brief meeting of the National Security Council staff this morning and urged them to continue with business as usual. Staffers have been told that Flynn's deputy, K.T. McFarland, a former Fox News analyst, is expected to stay at the White House. \n A U.S. official told The Associated Press that Flynn was in frequent contact with Kislyak on the day the Obama administration slapped sanctions on Russia for election-related hacking, as well as at other times during the transition. \n The officials and two people with knowledge of the situation confirmed the Justice Department warnings on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. \n The Washington Post was the first to report the communication between former acting attorney general Sally Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, and the Trump White House. The Post also first reported last week that Flynn had indeed spoken about sanctions with the Russian ambassador. \n Trump never voiced public support for Flynn after that initial report but continued to keep his national security adviser close. Flynn was part of Trump's daily briefing Monday and sat in on his calls with foreign leaders, as well as his discussions with visiting Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. \n The Kremlin had confirmed that Flynn was in contact with Kislyak but denied that they talked about lifting sanctions. Russian lawmakers today mounted a fierce defense of Flynn. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump was told in January that Flynn misled Pence, White House says"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "Big Island firefighters responded Monday evening to a fire that fully engulfed a home in Ocean View. \n The fire occurred at about 6:45 p.m. at an unpermitted single-story structure on the corner of Tradewind Boulevard and Ocean View Parkway. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 7:05 p.m. and extinguished it at 7:55 p.m., according to the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n No one was home at the time of the fire. \n The fire department said the structure is considered a \"total loss.\" The cause of the fire is under investigation and a damage estimate has yet to be determined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire destroys unpermitted home on Big Isle"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Small Business Administration Administrator-nominee and former wrestling entertainment executive Linda McMahon testified, Jan. 24, on Capitol Hill at her confirmation hearing. \n WASHINGTON >> In a rare display of bipartisanship, the Senate today confirmed former wrestling entertainment executive Linda McMahon to lead the Small Business Administration as part of President Donald Trump's cabinet. \n The Senate voted 81-19 to confirm McMahon, who helped start and grow World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said McMahon will \"prioritize growing jobs over growing government bureaucracy.\" \n \"In so many states, including mine, that's a welcome change from Washington,\" McConnell said. \n McMahon served as the chief executive officer at WWE before stepping down in 2009 to run for the Senate. She helped WWE grow from about a dozen employees into an enterprise with more than 800. \n She lost races in 2010 and 2012, spending nearly $100 million of her own money on the campaigns, but both of her Democratic opponents from Connecticut \u2014 Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy \u2014 endorsed her nomination to lead the Small Business Administration. \n Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., said she has opposed several of Trump's Cabinet nominees, but she supported McMahon because she understands the agency plays a vital role in the economy through loans, disaster assistance and educational services. She said McMahon also assured her that it was important to keep the SBA as a separate agency rather than merge it with the Commerce Department, a concept she had once endorsed when running for the Senate. \n The Senate has been split mostly along party lines on most of Trump's Cabinet choices. But McMahon breezed through her confirmation hearing, and a Senate panel moved her nomination to the full Senate with a vote of 18-1. \n Leading up to the vote for McMahon, the Senate on Monday narrowly approved Steven Mnuchin to serve as the next secretary of the Treasury Department despite strong Democratic objections over a banker they dubbed the \"foreclosure king.\" Later Monday, the Senate also approved David Shulkin to serve as the next secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs. \n The McMahon confirmation likely represents a lull before more hotly contested confirmation battles ensue, most notably that of Andrew Puzder to serve as the next labor secretary. Four Republicans on the Senate panel considering his nomination aren't saying publicly whether they will vote for him. \n The SBA is best known for the small business loans it makes and the disaster aid it provides to companies and entrepreneurs. The agency is also tasked with monitoring government officials' compliance with contract laws. Its budget is generally under $1 billion. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate confirms former wrestling exec McMahon to lead SBA"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a robbery where a male suspect stole items from a woman in Waikiki early today. \n At approximately 12:38 a.m., police said the suspect approached the 22-year-old woman on Tusitala Street and demanded property while holding a weapon. \n The suspect fled with the victim's property. Police said no arrest has been made at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman robbed in Waikiki"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A TV screen showed pictures of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his older brother Kim Jong Nam, left, at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hospital security personnel blocked the entrance of the forensic department at the hospital, in Putrajaya, Malaysia today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man believed to be Kim Jong Nam, the eldest son of then North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, looked at a battery of photographers, in May 2001, as he exited a police van to board a plane to Beijing at Narita International Airport, northeast of Tokyo. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Police were checking surveillance tapes today for clues about who may have assassinated the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at an airport in Kuala Lumpur, a senior official said. \n An autopsy will also be performed on the body of Kim Jong Nam, police said. Kim, 46, was targeted Monday in the shopping concourse at the airport and had not gone through immigration yet for his flight to Macau, said a senior government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the case involves sensitive diplomacy. \n He was taken to the airport clinic and then died on the way to the hospital, the official said. \n Kim told medical workers before he died that he had been attacked with a chemical spray, the official said. \n Selangor police chief Abdul Samah Mat said police were searching for clues in the CCTV footage. The airport is in Selangor near Kuala Lumpur. \n Kim Jong Nam was estranged from his younger brother, the North Korean leader. Although he had been tipped by some outsiders as a possible successor to his dictator father, others thought that was unlikely because he lived outside the country, including recently in Macau, Singapore and Malaysia. \n He reportedly fell further out of favor when he was caught trying to enter Japan on a false passport in 2001, saying he wanted to visit Tokyo Disneyland. \n Multiple South Korean media reports, citing unidentified sources, said Kim Jong Nam was killed at the airport by two women believed to be North Korean agents. They fled in a taxi and were being sought by Malaysian police, the reports said. \n A Malaysian police statement confirmed the death of a 46-year-old North Korean man whom it identified from his travel document as Kim Chol, born in Pyongyang on June 10, 1970. \"Investigation is in progress and a post mortem examination request has been made to ascertain the cause of death,\" the statement said. \n Ken Gause, at the CNA think tank in Washington who has studied North Korea's leadership for 30 years, said Kim Chol was a name that Kim Jong Nam has traveled under. He is believed to have been born May 10, 1971, although birthdays are always unclear for senior North Koreans, Gause said. \n Mark Tokola, vice president of the Korea Economic Institute in Washington and a former deputy chief of mission at the U.S. Embassy in Seoul, said it would be surprising if Kim Jong Nam was not killed on the orders of his brother, given that North Korean agents have reportedly tried to assassinate Kim Jong Nam in the past. \n \"It seems probable that the motivation for the murder was a continuing sense of paranoia on the part of Kim Jong Un,\" Tokola wrote in a commentary Tuesday. Although there was scant evidence that Kim Jong Nam was plotting against the North Korean leader, he provided an alternative for North Koreans who would want to depose his brother. \n The reported killing came as North Korea celebrated its latest missile launch, which foreign experts were analyzing for evidence of advancement in the country's missile capabilities. For the next several days, North Korea will be marking the birthday of its late leader Kim Jong Il, the brothers' father, though they have different mothers. The major holiday this Thursday is called the \"Day of the Shining Star\" and will be feted with figure skating and synchronized swimming exhibitions, fireworks and mass rallies. \n Since taking power in late 2011, Kim Jong Un has executed or purged a slew of high-level government officials in what the South Korean government has described as a \"reign of terror.\" The most spectacular was the 2013 execution by anti-aircraft fire of his uncle, Jang Song Thaek, once considered the country's second-most-powerful man, for what the North alleged was treason. \n Gause said Kim Jong Nam had been forthright that he did not have political ambitions, although he was publicly critical of the North Korean regime and his brother's legitimacy in the past. \n Kim Jong Nam had been less outspoken since 2011, when North Korean assassins reportedly tried to shoot him in Macau, Gause said, though the details of the attempted killing are murky. South Korea also reportedly jailed a North Korean spy in 2012 who admitted to trying to organize a hit-and-run accident targeting Kim Jong Nam in China in 2010. \n Despite the attempts on his life, Kim Jong Nam had reportedly traveled to North Korea since then, so it was assumed he was no longer under threat. Kim Jong Nam may have become more vulnerable as his defender in the North Korean hierarchy, Kim Kyong Hui \u2014 Kim Jong Un's aunt and the husband of his executed uncle, Jang Song Thaek \u2014 appears to have fallen from favor or died. She has not been seen in public for more than three years, Gause said. \n Kim Jong Il had at least three sons with two women, as well as a daughter by a third. Kim Jong Nam was the eldest, followed by Kim Jong Chul, who is a few years older than Kim Jong Un and is known as a playboy who reportedly attended Eric Clapton concerts in London in 2015. It's unclear what positon he has in the North Korean government. A younger sister, Kim Yo Jong, was named a member of the Workers' Party of Korea's Central Committee during a North Korean party congress last May. She has a position in a propaganda and agitation department and is known as Kim Jong Un's gatekeeper, Gause said. \n While the most likely explanation for the killing was that Kim Jong Un was removing a potential challenger to North Korean leadership within his own family, he could also be sending a warning to North Korean officials to demonstrate the reach of the regime. It follows the defection last year of a senior diplomat from the North Korean Embassy in London who has spoken of his despair at Kim's purges. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Malaysia official: Kim Jong Un's brother slain at airport"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "The right lane of Kamehameha Highway westbound at Kaonohi Street remains closed this morning as crews work to repair a sewage leak. \n The leak occurred at around 10 p.m. Monday night. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Westbound highway lane remains closed in Waimalu"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rumor, a German shepherd, and Kent Boyles take a lap around the ring during the best in show competition at the 140th Westminster Kennel Club dog show at Madison Square Garden in New York. CJ, a German shorthaired pointer, won best in show. \n NEW YORK >> She's no longer a Rumor at America's top dog show. \n A German shepherd called Rumor who just missed winning at the Westminster Kennel Club last year came back to score a big victory Monday night, beating out favored Preston the puli in the herding group. \n To the cheers of the crowd at Madison Square Garden, Rumor joined a miniature poodle, a Pekingese and a Norwegian elkhound in the best-of-seven final ring. She'll face three more group winners still to be picked Tuesday night, right before the champ is chosen. \n Rumor was the nation's No. 1 show dog last year when she came to the Garden. But she fell short when a German shorthaired pointer named CJ won in a surprise, and it was thought that Rumor would retire. \n Asked about the chances of 5-year-old Rumor adding to her 103 career championship ribbons, handler and co-owner Kent Boyles said, \"I have no idea. \u2026 You never know.\" \n \"Really good competition,\" Boyles said, adding that he was \"pretty nervous.\" \n Nearly 2,800 dogs across 202 breeds and varieties were entered. Plenty of them were early crowd favorites at the mostly filled Garden, if not winners. \n A toy fox terrier just wanted to stand still. A papillon lived up to its name \u2014 \"butterfly,\" in French \u2014 by fluttering around. And a sloughi, one of three new breeds at this year's show, kept yawning. \n Preston came in with 95 total wins, known for a black, corded coat so thick that it's often hard to see any of his features. It's also hard to handle \u2014 his hair takes up to five hours to dry, helped by a couple of industrial carpet blowers that create a \"swirly, tornado effect,\" handler and co-owner Linda Pitts said. \n In an upset, Duffy the Norwegian elkhound took the hound group. She topped Lucy the borzoi, second overall at Westminster last year, and Gia the greyhound, champ of the National Dog Show televised last Thanksgiving Day. \n Hound judge Polly Smith perked up some ears, too. In an interview shown on the scoreboard, she started out, \"This bitch epitomized type.\" That's the proper term for a female dog \u2014 predictably, it drew laughs and guffaws from the crowd. \n Chuckie the Pekingese won the toy group. Not yet 2, he already has a legacy as his pop Malachy won Westminster in 2012. A black miniature poodle pranced off with nonsporting group. \n The top of the sporting, working and terriers will be picked Tuesday night, followed immediately by best in show. \n DAZZLING DEBUT \n Watching little Raina McCloskey romp around the Westminster dog show ring with her borzoi buddy, it was hard to tell who was leading whom. \n Because, really, Briar was so big Raina could've ridden him. \n As fans noticed the unlikely pairing in the breed competition \u2014 a 7-year-old girl, in her aqua princess dress, galloping with her elegant 8-year-old pal \u2014 the sweet sound of \"awwwww\" filled the ring. \n \"Makes me teary-eyed,\" said her mom, Kari, of Delta, Pennsylvania. \n Handlers who take dogs into the ring at Westminster are almost always adults. There is a portion of the program for junior showmanship, yet even those participants are usually teenagers. \n \"Mommy, where do I go into the ring?\" Raina asked before boldly making her debut in the main draw. Her mother led a dog right behind them. \n When Raina presented Briar to judge Steven Herman, he leaned over and softly asked: \"Is he your friend?\" She nodded. \n Moments later, Raina took a tumble when her pink sneakers caught on a seam of the green, uneven carpet. She bounced up in a hurry without a worry, drew a loud cheer and finished the run alongside Briar. \n When her mother checked if she was OK, Raina said her elbow hurt. Her mom kissed the boo-boo. \n They both made the first cut of the 27 borzoi entries. \n \"I'm so proud of her, she did a great job,\" Kari said. \n Asked if she had a fun time, Raina simply smiled. Instead, she kept her eyes on Briar, nuzzling him. \n No words necessary. \n ONCE IS ENOUGH \n Reigning champion CJ the German shorthaired pointer was entered in the show and came to New York, but co-owner/hander Valerie Nunes-Atkinson isn't going to have him compete Tuesday. \n \"We're not going to tarnish the memory,\" she said. \n Westminster winners rarely try for a repeat \u2014 it's been more than 20 years since any champ stepped back into the Garden ring. The last dog to take two in a row at Westminster was an English springer spaniel in 1971-72. \n There is no prize money for winning Westminster. Instead, the payoff can come in breeding rights, so owners frequently are eager to retire their champions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rumor has it: German shepherd scores at Westminster dog show"}

{"date": "February 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary Betsy DeVos speaks at the Education Department in Washington. The country's new education chief got off to a rocky start with a dogged segment of the school universe, families of disabled children, when she admitted to being confused by a question at her confirmation hearing about a key federal law that has governed special education since 1975. \n Betsy DeVos got off to a rocky start with families of disabled children when she acknowledged being confused by a question at her confirmation hearing about a federal law that has governed special education since 1975. \n Now that DeVos is on the job at the U.S. Education Department, advocacy groups say they will be watching closely to see how much the billionaire school choice champion has learned and how her philosophy will affect the more than 6.5 million public school students who need special support in class. \n \"It's fair to say that there's a high level of anxiety from our members,\" said Denise Stile Marshall, executive director of the Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, which opposed DeVos' nomination. \n As education secretary, DeVos leads the department charged with enforcing the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA. The 42-year-old law entitles children who struggle to learn or have medical or developmental challenges to a \"free appropriate public education\" aligned with their state's academic standards. It includes services tailored to each child's needs and in the \"least restrictive environment\" where those needs can be met. To help states meet the excess costs, the federal government supplied $11.9 billion in funding in 2016. \n During her January hearing DeVos exasperated lawmakers and parents when, asked whether schools receiving taxpayer funding should be required to comply with IDEA, she replied it was \"best left to the states.\" When asked whether she was aware IDEA is a federal law, she answered, \"I may have confused it.\" \n Amid the backlash, DeVos wrote in a letter to Sen. Johnny Isakson of the Senate education committee that she is \"committed to enforcing all federal laws and protecting the hard won rights of students with disabilities.\" Half of the Senate voted against her confirmation, leaving Vice President Mike Pence to cast a tie-breaking vote to give her the job. \n Apparent technical issues that blocked public access to an IDEA-related website did nothing to instill confidence. \"It was not taken down and we are working to resolve ASAP,\" the department tweeted Feb. 8, the day after DeVos was sworn in. As of Monday, traffic was being redirected to a different department site, which included a note saying the department was working to resolve the technical issues. \n Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, both Democrats from Washington state who voted against DeVos, wrote to the secretary Friday requesting an explanation and assurances that missing information would be restored. \n The department did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday. \n About 13 percent of the nation's public schoolchildren receive special education services. The largest segment, 35 percent, have a specific learning disability that may disrupt their ability to write, spell or do mathematical calculations. About 21 percent have speech or language impairments and the balance have other health impairments, autism, emotional disturbances, developmental delays or intellectual disabilities, according to federal statistics. \n The graduation rate among students with disabilities was 63.1 percent in 2013-14, compared with the national average of 82 percent. \n DeVos' letter to Isakson was not enough for some advocacy groups, who also worry about DeVos' support for using public funding for vouchers to cover education at private schools that may not be subject to the rules of the IDEA civil rights law. \n \"Secretary DeVos has not expressed a strong commitment to public schools or to ensuring that all students, including students with disabilities, receive equal educational opportunities,\" the American Association of People with Disabilities said in a statement to The Associated Press this week. \"To date, she has not said or done anything to alleviate these concerns.\" \n But Ohio parent activist Tera Myers, who attended DeVos' hearing in Washington, D.C., said she is excited about DeVos and that school choice programs like those DeVos supports helped her son with Down syndrome when she became disillusioned with the education he was getting in the public system. Myers' son attended a private school under Ohio's state-funded Jon Peterson Special Needs Scholarship program, which pays for tuition and services at non-public schools. Accepting the scholarship meant the public district was no longer responsible for providing the free appropriate public education outlined by IDEA, something Myers said she freely accepted. \n \"For students with disabilities, I really believe even more so, that parents should have the option to choose. I understand that not every parent wants that choice and that's OK, and that's why it's important for there to be a myriad of choices for us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Advocates of disabled students closely watching new ed chief"}

