{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by Lawrence Berkeley National Lab shows physicist Dr. Arthur Rosenfeld at ceremonial launch of the ITRI-Rosenfeld Fellowship in Berkeley, Calif. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> Physicist Arthur Rosenfeld, who spearheaded breakthroughs in energy efficiency for lighting, refrigerators, televisions and other electronics while working at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, has died. He was 90. \n Rosenfeld died Jan. 27 at his home in Berkeley, said Lawrence Berkeley National Lab spokeswoman Julie Chao. \n Rosenfeld was known to his colleagues as California's \"godfather\" of energy efficiency, a field he is credited with creating. \n A native of Alabama, he was known for his detailed calculations, but also for his talent in translating the results into terms that could be easily understood. \n A particle physicist, he moved to Berkeley in the 1950s to work in the particle physics group of Luis Alvarez, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in physics in 1968. \n A turning point in his career came in 1973 when the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries declared an oil embargo. Knowing he would have to wait in a long line the next day to buy gas, he decided to calculate how much energy could be saved by turning off unused lights. \n \"After 20 minutes of uncovering light switches (and saving 100 gallons for the weekend), I decided that UC Berkeley and its Radiation Laboratory should do something about conservation,\" he wrote in a 1999 autobiography of his career, \"The Art of Energy Efficiency.\" \n He received numerous awards and honors, including the National Medal of Technology and Innovation in 2011 \u2014 the nation's highest honor for technological achievement \u2014 for the development of energy efficient building technologies. \n Gov. Jerry Brown said that during his first term as governor in 1975, Rosenfeld told him that simply by requiring more efficient refrigerators, California could save as much energy as would be produced by the then-proposed Sundesert Nuclear Power plant. \n \"We adopted Art's refrigerator standards and many others, did not build the power plant and moved the country to greater energy efficiency,\" Brown said in a statement after Rosenfeld's death was announced. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Art Rosenfeld, 'godfather' of energy efficiency, dies at 90"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester locked himself to the van carrying Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos that is stopped by protesters outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility today in Phoenix. \n PHOENIX >> Police made several arrests as protesters blocked enforcement vans from leaving a U.S. immigration office in Phoenix late today, fearing that a mother of two was headed for deportation. \n The protest surged at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility after Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos was taken into custody during a routine check-in with the agency, according to media reports. \n The activists said it was an attempt by President Donald Trump's administration to deport immigrants living in the country illegally who had previously not been a priority for deportation under the Obama administration. \n Fearing her deportation, dozens of immigration activists blocked the gates surrounding the office near central Phoenix in what the Arizona Republic says was an effort to stop several vans and a bus from leaving. \n The protesters said Garcia de Rayos was in one of the vehicles, which are used to transport people in ICE custody to detention centers, or to Arizona's border with Mexico for deportation. A Republic photo identified a woman looking through one of the vehicle windows covered by security screening as Garcia de Rayos. \n Late today, police gathered at the building and confronted protesters, many who chanting \"Justice!\" \n Police posted on Twitter that they arrested about seven protesters, but they added that the demonstration was mainly peaceful. \n \"Besides the few people engaged in criminal acts, most people out here are peaceful and exercising their rights properly,\" police said. \"Everyone remains safe so far. Hoping for continued cooperation and no more criminal conduct.\" \n Her arrest came just days after the Trump administration broadened regulations under which some people will be deported. \n \"We're living in a new era now, an era of war on immigrants,\" Rayos's lawyer, Ray A. Ybarra Maldonado, told the New York Times after leaving the building that houses the federal immigration agency. \n The report said that the demonstrators included several people who blocked vehicles or the facility gate. \n Puente Arizona, an immigrant advocacy group, said Garc\u00eda de Rayos came to the U.S. as a 14-year-old and now has two children. She was arrested on Wednesday while reporting to ICE, an annual requirement. \n Her status with the agency wasn't immediately late Wednesday. The Republic carried a statement from ICE officials, which said only that she was detained because of her prior conviction. \n Phoenix station KTAR reported that she was arrested in 2008 during a workplace raid and was later convicted of felony identity theft for possessing false papers. \n Despite her conviction, she was allowed to live in Arizona and checked in with ICE officials every six months. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AP writer Astrid Galvan contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police arrest protesters at Phoenix Immigration office"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Voters walk through a polling station in Dallas on Nov. 8. \n CONCORD, N.H. >> As President Donald Trump hurls unfounded allegations of colossal fraud in last fall's election, lawmakers in at least 20 mostly Republican-led states are pushing to make it harder to register or to vote. \n Efforts are underway in places such as Arkansas, Iowa, Maine, Nebraska and Indiana to adopt or tighten requirements that voters show photo ID at the polls. There is a move in Iowa and New Hampshire to eliminate Election Day registration. New Hampshire may also make it difficult for college students to vote. And Texas could shorten the early voting period by several days. \n Supporters say the measures are necessary to combat voter fraud and increase public confidence in elections. But research has shown that in-person fraud at the polls is extremely rare, and critics of these restrictions warn that they will hurt mostly poor people, minorities and students \u2014 all of whom tend to vote Democratic \u2014 as well as the elderly. \n They fear, too, that the U.S. Justice Department, under newly confirmed Attorney General Jeff Sessions, will do little to intervene to protect voters. \n Some election watchers see voting rights under heavy attack. \n \"What is really happening here is an attempt to manipulate the system so that some people can participate and some people can't,\" said Myrna Perez, director of the Voting Rights and Elections project at New York University's Brennan Center for Justice. \n Even so, there are more bills around the country aimed at making it easier to vote, according to the Brennan Center. Starting or expanding early voting and creating automatic voter registration are two popular proposals. \n Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York, for example, is backing a proposal to automatically register people to vote using their motor vehicle paperwork and to offer early voting for 12 days before Election Day. \n Many of the restrictive laws became possible after the U.S. Supreme Court in 2013 struck down a key provision of the federal Voting Rights Act that required certain states and counties, largely in the South, to get Justice Department approval before changing their election laws. The 2016 presidential election was the first without those protections, and voters in 14 states faced new restrictions on voting or registration. \n Kevin Hall, spokesman for the Iowa Secretary of State, said the voter ID legislation proposed there would provide for photo identification cards to anyone who needs one and would also update voting system technology. \n \"This is a commonsense approach just to protect the integrity of our election,\" he said. \"We want to make sure it's secure and boost voter confidence as well.\" \n In addition to eliminating same-day registration, New Hampshire Republicans want to add a residency requirement that critics say could prevent college students from voting. People can now vote in New Hampshire if they consider it their home. Proponents say the new measure would ensure that only people who truly live in the state can take part in elections. \n Many of these measures are certain to face court challenges. \n Before the presidential election, federal courts rolled back some of the toughest restrictions in North Carolina and Texas. Those cases are still working their way through the legal system, and voting rights groups are worried the new attorney general will abandon efforts made under the Obama administration to fight the restrictions. \n Over the past few years, \"states and localities were emboldened unlike ever before in employing a wide range of tactics to deny voting rights to people of color and people with disabilities,\" said Scott Simpson with the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. \"We expect that this will get much worse with a Justice Department that is hostile to voting rights.\" \n Trump has claimed without evidence that as many as 5 million people voted illegally in the presidential election, complaining that the voter rolls include dead people, non-citizens and people registered in multiple states. He has called for an investigation. \n Election experts are more concerned about the age of the nation's voting systems and their vulnerability to tampering. \n A federal commission responsible for working with states on those very issues is facing an uncertain future, after a House committee this week voted to eliminate it. The Election Assistance Commission was created after the \"hanging chad\" debacle in Florida during the 2000 presidential election. Republicans say the agency is a prime example of government waste. \n The commission is scheduled to make recommendations later this year on new standards for voting equipment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP lawmakers around the U.S. push for restrictions on voting"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Dec. 2, 2008 photo, a Pilgrim's Pride contract chicken farmer shows a three-week-old chick at a farm just outside the city limits of Pittsburg, Texas. \n DES MOINES, Iowa >> Former chicken farmers in five states have filed a federal lawsuit accusing a handful of giant poultry processing companies that dominate the industry of treating farmers who raise the chickens like indentured servants and colluding to fix prices paid to them. \n The farmers located in Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Texas allege that the contract grower system created by Tyson Foods, Pilgrim's Pride, Perdue Farms, Koch Foods, and Sanderson Farms pushed them deep into debt to build and maintain chicken barns to meet company demands. \n They say the companies colluded to fix farmer compensation at low levels to boost corporate profits, making it difficult for the farmers to survive financially. They are seeking class action status for the suit filed in federal court in Muskogee, Oklahoma. \n The scheme keeps farmers in a state of indebted servitude \"living like modern-day sharecroppers on the ragged edge of bankruptcy,\" the lawsuit filed on Jan. 27 says, quoting from the 2014 Christopher Leonard book \"The Meat Racket: The Secret Takeover of America's Food Business.\" \n Under the contract system, farmers provide the barns and labor to raise the chickens and the company provides chicks, feed and expertise to raise birds to slaughter weight. \n The companies named haven't yet responded to the lawsuit in court, but one denied the allegations. \n \"We want our contract farmers to succeed and don't consult competitors about how our farmers are paid. These are false claims,\" said Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for Tyson. \n He said the average contract farmer has been raising chickens for the company for 15 years and the compensation paid is clearly outlined in contracts farmers voluntarily sign. \n The five farmers who filed the lawsuit have quit raising chickens, and some of them say they are tens of thousands of dollars in debt. \n The farmers and their attorney declined to comment beyond the details in the lawsuit. But other chicken farmers who could be represented if the case is certified as class-action, spoke of going deep into debt to build modern chicken barns as long as two football fields with the promise of generous profit. \n \"The farmers put their homes and their farms in hock to borrow the money to build these things. Once they do, the companies have control over them period,\" said Mike Weaver, 62, of Fort Seybert, West Virginia, who's is in his 16th year of raising chickens for Pilgrim's Pride. \"We're hoping to bring about a change in this system. It has to be done. If not, the American family farmer is going to disappear.\" \n While Weaver said he does not have debt, he said that he knows farmers who have lost their farms. \n The lawsuit asks a federal judge to find the contractual scheme and the alleged agreements to fix payments to chicken growers unlawful under two sections of federal law, the Sherman Antitrust Act and the Packers and Stockyards Act. Farmers are seeking damages, costs and interest. \n The farmers said in the lawsuit their net incomes ranged between $12,000 and year and $40,000 a year despite working 12 to 16 hours a day every day of the year. \n \"Meanwhile, integrators like Pilgrim's Pride and Tyson rake in more than $1 billion and $3.9 billion a year, respectively, in profits,\" they said. \n The lawsuit said it expects tens of thousands of farmers to qualify as members of the class. \n The farmers are Haff Poultry in Oklahoma; Craig Watts, North Carolina; Johnny Upchurch, Alabama; Johnathan Walters, Mississippi and Brad Carr of Texas. \n The National Chicken Council, an industry trade group representing the companies, said with any contracting situation there will always be a disgruntled minority. \n \"The way that the system is set up, it's a performance-based and incentive system that rewards those farmers who invest who put in the most work and raise the healthiest birds,\" said Tom Super, the group's spokesman. \n He said the contract system has worked for nearly six decades because it benefits companies and farmers. \n Per capita chicken consumption has grown 9 percent from 2010 and is expected to reach 91.7 pounds per person this year, according to the National Chicken Council. U.S. consumers spend more than $90 billion a year on chicken, making it the number one meat protein consumed. \n On Tuesday, Tyson Foods said it has been subpoenaed by the Securities and Exchange Commission for an investigation it believes is tied to allegations that it violated antitrust laws, issues raised in two other lawsuits. Both of those lawsuits related to alleged price fixing and collusion. \n Some issues brought up by the farmers' lawsuit were addressed by USDA in the last month of the Barack Obama administration but the new administration of President Donald Trump delayed implementation of the rules until March or April. The rules would make it easier for farmers to sue and protect the legal rights of growers. \n The rules could \"open the floodgates to frivolous lawsuits,\" said Super, the industry trade group representative. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicken farmers say processors treat them like servants"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Kapalua Bay, Maui \n A 64-year-old Renton, Wash., woman died today despite efforts to save her, after being pulled from the ocean at Kapalua Bay on Maui. \n The woman was snorkeling with family when beachgoers noticed her unresponsive and brought her to shore, Maui Fire Department said in a news release. \n The good Samaritans began cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Firefighters, called at 12:33 p.m., arrived at 12:40 p.m., and took over CPR. Paramedics arrived shortly afterward, continuing life-saving measures, but she died at the scene. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Washington woman dies snorkeling on Maui"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks in Washington on Wednesday. \n WASHINGTON >> A nonprofit group will reject nearly $400,000 in federal grant money intended to fight violent extremism due to concerns over President Donald Trump's rhetoric, the Associated Press has learned. \n Unity Productions Foundation of Potomac Falls, Virginia, is the third nonprofit to recently reject federal funding for efforts to make it more difficult for extremist groups to recruit would-be terrorists. \n In a private message to donors reviewed by the AP, Unity said it would decline its grant of $396,585 to produce educational films challenging narratives supporting extremist ideologies and violent extremism \"due to the changes brought by the new administration.\" \n The Obama administration in its final days had awarded about $10 million in such grants to fight violent extremism to 31 nonprofits, schools, community organizations and municipalities through the Homeland Security Department. \n The foundation said it had planned to use the money to produce videos of Muslim scholars voicing opposition to terrorism and show Muslims engaged in social justice causes benefiting American society. \n The director of outreach for Unity Productions Foundation, Daniel Tutt, said the group was not prepared to publicly announce its decision but did not dispute the authenticity of the message to donors. \n \"We are monitoring the situation as it evolves, and we're just paying close attention to what changes may take place, and based on circumstances on the ground and with the program, and the possible name change that's going on, there's lots of rumors,\" Tutt said. \n Two other nonprofits previously said they were rejecting grants they had already been awarded under the program because of concerns that it could damage their credibility or come with uncomfortable strings attached. Many worry the Trump administration plans to change the program to focus on \"radical Islamic terrorists\" instead of all violent extremism. \n Two more groups said they would strongly consider rejecting their grants if the Trump administration targets Muslim extremists and not other groups. \n Leaders Advancing and Helping Communities in Dearborn, Michigan, said last week it was turning down $500,000 for youth development and public health programs because of the \"current political climate.\" Ka Joog, a leading Somali nonprofit in Minneapolis rejected nearly $500,000 for its youth programs. \n The nonprofit Washington-based Muslim Public Affairs Council was awarded $393,800 and has been working on a new intervention program that brings teams providing social services, mental health counseling and religious educators to communities across the country. Its leadership said the council would carefully review any change to the program, especially if it were to require them to fight their own religion. \n The board for the Islamic graduate school Bayan Claremont in California plans to review the language of its $800,000 award before accepting any money to be sure it does not place additional restrictions or impositions on them. \n Trump has endorsed what he describes as extreme vetting and ordered a temporary ban on visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries. \n Charities that already have worked with U.S. government agencies, including the CIA, Justice Department and Homeland Security Department, said they were reacting to discussions within the Trump administration to exclusively target \"radical Islamic terrorists\" under a U.S. program to counter violent extremism. \n The Homeland Security Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n A U.S. official with knowledge of the discussions said the Trump administration has been discussing changing the Obama administration program's name, established as a presidential strategy in 2011, to some iteration of \"countering Islamic extremism.\" The official spoke on condition of anonymity because this person was not authorized to speak publicly by name. \n Most of the 31 federal grants were promised to municipalities, but some were directed to nonprofit groups such as Life After Hate Inc. in Chicago, which received $400,000 for its work with former white supremacists \u2014 a large portion of which will ago to a partner group to work with individuals inspired by al-Qaida or the Islamic State group. \n The U.S. official said it was unclear whether groups such as Life After Hate would continue to receive funding or be included in any future program. \n The grants have not yet been distributed and paperwork is still being drawn up. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Citing Trump, 3rd nonprofit rejects funds to fight extremism"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Trump Tower is seen in New York in March 2016. The U.S. military is looking to rent space at Trump Tower for use when President Donald Trump returns to his longtime home in New York City. \n NEW YORK >> The Department of Defense is planning to lease space in New York's Trump Tower, the 68-story building where President Donald Trump has his home and business headquarters, and ethics experts are not happy about it. \n \"We shouldn't be in a place where we have to put questions of conflict of interest against questions of national security,\" said Jordan Libowitz of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics, a Washington-based watchdog. \n The leased space would be \"necessary for the personnel and equipment who will support the POTUS at his residence in the building,\" Defense Department spokesman J.B. Bridle said in a statement released Tuesday. \n It is not unprecedented for the U.S. government to lease space in order to provide support services for the president when he travels home; the Pentagon rented space at President Barack Obama's Chicago home. Trump Tower, however, happens to be an unusually expensive address where a floor with 13,000 to 15,000 square feet of space rents for about $1.5 million a year. \n The Secret Service and New York Police Department are already installed in the building to provide security for Trump's wife, Melania, and son, Barron, who have not yet moved to the White House, and for the president when he visits. \n According to public records filed Jan. 26, Trump transferred ownership of Trump Tower to the Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust as part of a promise to turn over the business to his sons. Critics say he still benefits from the trust. \n Trust documents obtained by the nonprofit news outlet ProPublica state that the \"purpose of the Trust is to hold assets for the exclusive benefit of Donald J. Trump.\" \n ", "author": "Los Angeles Times", "title": "Pentagon's plans to move into Trump Tower raise ethics concerns"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Opponents of the Dakota Access oil pipeline protest at the San Francisco Federal Building in San Francisco today. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> With the green light from the federal government, the company building the Dakota Access oil pipeline said Wednesday it plans to resume work immediately to finish the long-stalled project. Opponents of the $3.8 billion project meanwhile protested around the country in an action some dubbed their \"last stand.\" \n The Army on Wednesday granted the developer of the four-state oil pipeline formal permission to lay pipe under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota, clearing the way for completion of the disputed project. \n \"We plan to begin immediately,\" Vicki Granado, a spokeswoman for developer Energy Transfer Partners, said in an email to The Associated Press tonight night. \n Work had been stalled for months due to opposition by the Standing Rock Sioux, but President Donald Trump last month instructed the Army Corps of Engineers to advance pipeline construction. \n The tribe fears a pipeline leak could contaminate its drinking water. ETP says the pipeline is safe. \n \"Now, we all need to work together to make sure the project is completed safely and with as little disruption to the community as possible. This has been a very difficult issue for everyone who lives and works in the area,\" U.S. Sen. John Hoeven, a North Dakota Republican, said in a statement announcing that the final easement had been granted. \n Some members of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, which has been at the center of the debate for nearly a year, urged \"emergency actions\" via social media. The Indigenous Environmental Network told people to target fuel-transportation hubs and government buildings and to expect violence and mass arrests. \n Protesters posted an online list of about 50 events nationwide. There were large rallies, including one outside the White House, and smaller ones, such as in Des Moines, Iowa. \n A group of protesters in Chicago targeted a bank, and another group went to an Army Corps of Engineers office in New York City but was asked to leave when they started filming without a permit. Several people were arrested for blocking public access to a federal building in San Francisco. \n \"Today begins the next phase of mass resistance to Donald Trump's toxic Dakota Access pipeline,\" said Dallas Goldtooth, executive director of the Indigenous Environmental Network. \"This is our land, our water, our health, and our culture at stake \u2014 and if Donald Trump thinks we will give all of that up without a fight he is wrong.\" \n At a North Dakota encampment that's been the focus of the pipeline battle for months, the mood was tense, with a few dozen people milling about on a frigid morning and refusing to talk about their plans. Two men at the encampment ordered an Associated Press reporter to leave. \n Later, Joye Braun and Payu Harris, two pipeline opponents who have been at the camp since April, said in an interview at a nearby casino on the Standing Rock Sioux reservation that there's frustration but also resolve in the wake of the Army's decision. \n \"The goal is still prayerful, nonviolent direct action,\" Braun said. \n The tribe maintains the decision violates its treaty rights, and its attorneys have vowed to keep fighting in court. \n The 1,200-mile pipeline would carry North Dakota oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. Construction is nearly complete but has been stalled while the Corps and Dallas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners battled in court over the final segment. \n The Standing Rock Sioux, whose reservation is just downstream from the crossing, fears a pipeline leak would pollute its drinking water. The tribe led protests last year that drew thousands of people who dubbed themselves \"water protectors\" to the encampment near the crossing. Protesters and police sometimes clashed, leading to nearly 700 arrests. \n The camp's population has recently thinned to fewer than 300, and the Corps has notified remaining protesters that the government-owned land will be closed Feb. 22. \n On Wednesday, police or pipeline security continued to monitor the camp from nearby hills, as they have done for months. In the camp, few people were outdoors, where the wind chill sank to minus 20 degrees. The tribe itself has told camp occupants to leave, though there has been no effort to remove them. \n A new camp is being established on private land, according to Harris. \n \"This is not over. We are here to stay. And there's more of us coming,\" he said. \n Chase Iron Eyes, an American Indian activist who has called on people to return to the main camp rather than leave, encouraged that again in a statement and on social media. \n \"I'll see you on the front line,\" said Iron Eyes, who is facing a felony charge for allegedly inciting a riot during protest action last week near the camp. \n An assessment conducted last year determined the river crossing would not have a significant effect on the environment. However, the Army in December decided further study was warranted to address tribal concerns. \n The Corps launched a study on Jan. 18, but Trump signed an executive action six days later telling the Corps to proceed with construction. \n Workers earlier drilled entry and exit holes for the crossing, and oil has been put in the pipeline leading up to the lake in anticipation of finishing the project. CEO Kelcy Warren has said the work could be done in about three months. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Company to resume work to finish Dakota Access pipeline"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin shows the large crowd a map of the United States in which Oklahoma is declared the most pro-life state during her her speech to pro-life Oklahomans during Red Rose Day events today at the state Capitol. \n OKLAHOMA CITY >> While hundreds of anti-abortion activists descended on the Oklahoma Capitol for a rally on today, a GOP-led House committee failed to pass an anti-abortion bill in a move that could signal a shift in priorities for Republican lawmakers in a deep-red state. \n Three freshman Republicans on the House Public Health Committee joined with a Democrat voting against a bill to prohibit abortions based on the diagnosis of a fetal abnormality or Down syndrome. The 4-4 vote, which only temporarily stalls the bill, is a signal that at least some GOP lawmakers are growing weary of anti-abortion bills getting tied up in court. \n Oklahoma's Republican-led Legislature has passed some of the country's most far-reaching anti-abortion legislation, but many of the proposals have either been tossed by the courts or remain temporarily halted while lawsuits are pending. \n \"For the record, I'm a pro-life candidate, but I also believe in fiscal responsibility,\" said Rep. Marcus McEntire, R-Duncan, who voted against the measure. \"We don't have the money to defend this bill, so that's why I stood against it. \n \"I think we have business to do here, and the business is to get our financial ship righted again.\" \n The other Republicans who voted against the measure voiced similar concerns. \n Oklahoma is facing a budget hole of nearly $870 million, or about 12 percent of state spending, marking the third consecutive year of a budget gap as a result of the slumping energy industry and tax cuts approved in recent years. \n The bill stalled on the day of an annual anti-abortion rally known as Rose Day, when activists hand out roses to legislators to show their opposition to abortion. \n Chairman Rep. Mike Ritze said he was surprised Republicans voted against the bill and that he'll likely bring it up again next week. He held open the vote on the bill to give House Speaker Charles McCall an opportunity to cast a deciding vote, but McCall was out of town. \n \"I didn't know the vote would be that close,\" said Ritze, R-Broken Arrow. \n At least 11 anti-abortion bills have been introduced this session, including one that classifies the procedure as first-degree murder, but it's unlikely many of those will reach the governor's desk. The Legislature last year approved a bill to make it a felony punishable by up to three years in prison for anyone who performs an abortion, but Republican Gov. Mary Fallin vetoed it, saying it was clearly unconstitutional. \n \"If anything, what I think we saw from the vote today is that legislators want to get to work, legislators want to fix our roads, make sure that all Oklahomans have access to health care,\" said Tamya Cox, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood Great Plains. \"They don't want to have to continue to work on bills that are naturally going to end up in court.\" \n According to the Oklahoma State Department of Health, about 4,330 abortions were performed in Oklahoma last year, the fewest number since 2002. \n There currently are four clinics that offer abortion in Oklahoma, including two that opened within the last year in the Oklahoma City area. The others are in Norman and Tulsa. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Abortion bill stalls as activists rally at Oklahoma Capitol"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image provided by the U.S. Marshals Service shows convicted sex-offender Matthew Stager who was wanted by law enforcement. Stager was released from the Federal Correctional Complex in Petersburg Feb. 2, 2017, and was required to self-report to a transitional center in Texas the same day, but never showed up. \n PETERSBURG, Va. >> U.S. Marshals say a convicted sex offender with extensive facial tattoos who was at large has been arrested after he was recognized in the nation's capital. \n Deputy U.S. Marshal Chris Leuer said in a statement that Matthew Ezekiel Stager was spotted about 4 p.m. Wednesday. His arrest followed several reported sightings in Washington. \n Leuer says District police officers recognized the tattoo-covered suspect as he walked down the street near the D.C. Superior Court. Stager has tattoos on his face, head and neck. He was taken into custody without incident. \n News outlets reported that the 44-year-old was released Thursday from the Federal Correctional Complex in Petersburg. He failed to show up at a transitional center in Texas. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police capture tattoo-covered, just-released sex offender"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Aug. 6 photo, mourners carry the casket of Karina Vetrano from St. Helen's Church following her funeral in the Howard Beach section of the Queens borough of New York. \n NEW YORK >> The mother of a man charged in the strangulation death of a New York City runner says her son was raised to respect life and is not a criminal. \n Vita Lewis read a statement today saying her 20-year-old son, Chanel (shuh-NEHL') Lewis, is \"friendly, God-fearing and would not hurt anybody.\" She also says he has mental health problems and needs help. \n Police arrested Lewis on Saturday. They say evidence including genetic material was found under victim Karina Vetrano's fingernails and on her phone and neck. \n Police also say Lewis made detailed, incriminating statements to detectives. \n The 30-year-old Vetrano was attacked while running near her Queens home on Aug. 2. Her father found her badly beaten body in a secluded marsh. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mother says son arrested in runner's death is not a criminal"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 26 photo, President Donald Trump walks on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington after returning from a trip to Philadelphia. \n BOSTON >> In many Democratic-leaning states, the routine start of legislative sessions has been swept aside as lawmakers move to condemn or counteract the policies and directives of President Donald Trump. \n Democrats have filed a flurry of bills and resolutions seeking to shield their states from federal action on immigration, health care and a host of other hot button issues, in a reversal of the partisan maneuvering that played out in GOP-controlled states during Democrat Barack Obama's presidency. \n The emotionally charged activity renews the perennial debate over states' rights vs. federal authority, already evidenced by the court battle led by Washington state over the Republican president's temporary ban on travelers from seven Muslim-majority nations. \n In Massachusetts, Democratic lawmakers planned an unusual caucus to discuss \"what we can do as a state to express our displeasure with the actions of the president,\" said House Speaker Robert DeLeo. \n The strategy session, scheduled Wednesday but postponed by an ice storm, could prompt anything from symbolic resolutions to substantive legislation to \"override what is going on at the federal level,\" DeLeo said, though the Democratic leader conceded the limited power of states to supersede U.S. law. \n Anti-Trump efforts have dominated the legislative session in California, with Democrats proposing a wide range of bills to protect immigrant communities from deportation. Lawmakers hired former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to advise them on legal strategy as they prepare for clashes with the Trump administration. \n Democratic legislators in New York and New Jersey proposed bills to prohibit the Port Authority from enforcing the immigration ban and a bill in the Democratic-controlled New York State Assembly would force the state to divest holdings in companies that work on Trump's proposed border wall with Mexico. \n Carolyn Fiddler, a spokeswoman for the Washington, D.C.-based Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, said bills that would push back on restrictions for refugees have been introduced in more than a dozen states. \n In Illinois, a House committee voted 7-5 along party lines Wednesday to advance a bill that seeks to assure abortion would remain legal in the state should Roe v. Wade be overturned. \n \"After repeated threats from the White House and President Trump's remarks to strip abortion rights away from women, this legislation is necessary to safeguard a woman's right to make decisions that affect her personal health in Illinois,\" said Rep. Sara Feigenholtz, a Chicago Democrat and the bill's sponsor, in a statement. \n The potential dismantling of the federal Affordable Care Act prompted Democrats in Washington state to file legislation that would require health insurers to cover preventative services that were required as of Dec. 31 under the federal law. \n But Democrats control only about one-third of all legislative chambers in the U.S. and in some states, Republican legislators are coming to Trump's defense. \n In Missouri, where the GOP solidly holds the House and Senate, resolutions have been filed in support of easing Obama-era regulations and urging U.S. Senate confirmation of Scott Pruitt, Trump's nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency. \n And aggressive responses to Trump are not without peril for Democratic-leaning states since the president can threaten, and has threatened, to withhold federal funding, said David King, senior lecturer in public policy at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. \n \"The federal government has a big sledgehammer,\" said King, noting threats already directed at \"sanctuary cities\" in California and elsewhere that refuse to cooperate with immigration authorities. \n Legislatures have a key role to play in defending the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which delineates the rights of states to resist an overreaching federal government, King added. But he also cautioned against action that may be viewed as overtly partisan. \n He suggested that Democrats in Massachusetts, for example, invite members of the Republican minority to participate in discussions rather than simply caucus on their own. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democratic state legislators weigh moves to counter Trump"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The \"fire hose\" flow from Kilauea Volcano's Kamokuna ocean entry is seen today through a telephoto lens from the public lava viewing area, one-half mile east of the ocean entry. \n COURTESY HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The \"fire hose\" flow from Kilauea Volcano's Kamokuna ocean entry is seen today from the public lava viewing area, one-half mile east of the ocean entry. \n The \"fire hose flow\" of lava entering the ocean at Kamokuna on Hawaii island is now visible again. \n \"It's quite robust,\" said Janet Babb, spokeswoman for the U.S. Geological Survey's Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. She said the lava gushing into the ocean had been obscured by fumes and steam as it entered the water. \n The best estimate of the volume of lava flowing is between one and two cubic meters per second, or roughly 1 million to 2 million gallons of lava per hour, Babb said. \n Visitors to the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park can see the ocean entry from the lava viewing site, located on a point about half a mile east on the Kalapana side. \n \"Safety is always our top priority,\" he said. \n According to the USGS, the ocean surface temperature is 130 degrees at the lava entry site. \n There has been a perceived increase in the number of illegal lava tour boat operators, so the Coast Guard has ramped up enforcement. The Coast Guard identified two boats operating illegally out of Pohoiki Boat Ramp. \n Any commercial operator of a vessel carrying seven or more passengers for hire less than 100 gross tons must possess a master of self-propelled vessel license issued by the Coast Guard to operate on near coastal waters. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "'Fire hose' lava flow continues its spectacular show"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n The ocean entry from Kilauea Volcano on Feb. 2 after a sea cliff collapsed. \n The Coast Guard is ramping up efforts to stop illegal charter boat operations near where lava is entering the ocean off Hawaii island out of a concern for visitor safety. \n The additional enforcement is in response to the recent increased interest in the ocean entry from Kilauea Volcano, said Coast Guard Petty Officer 2nd Class Melissa McKenzie. \n Since Tuesday, the Coast Guard identified two tour boats operating illegally \u2014 both for operating a charter boat without a license to carry paying passengers and without a state license to operate out of Pohoiki Boat Ramp, McKenzie said. \n Coast Guard boarding officers boarded the vessels and put a stop to the voyage after discovering the violations, she said. The cases against the two vessels are ongoing. \n Capt. David McClellan, chief of prevention for the Coast Guard in Hawaii, said safety is the top priority. \n \"For boat operators, it is important to maintain situational awareness and not unnecessarily put yourself, your passengers or your boat in danger,\" he said. \n \"For visitors, it's important they check that their hired boat operators are licensed ensuring they possess the experience and training required to get them to the viewing area and back safely,\" he continued. \n Commercial tour boat operators must possess appropriate merchant mariner credentials to operate. Masters of commercial charters are also required to keep a state permit on board. \n Vessels for hire carrying less than 7 passengers must have a Coast Guard operator of uninspected passenger vessel license. Larger vessels must have a Coast Guard-issued certificate of inspection posted in a visible location. \n The spot where lava meets the ocean is one of the most dangerous areas of Volcano National Park because the lava bench could potentially collapse, sending dangerous projectiles into the air, the Coast Guard said. The steam also contains hydrochloric acid and glass particles. \n The Coast Guard urged tour boat operators to maintain a safe distance from both to ensure the safety of their passengers. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard steps up enforcement of illegal boat tours near lava flow"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General-designate, Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> The Senate today confirmed Sen. Jeff Sessions to be attorney general in the Trump administration despite fierce Democratic opposition to the Alabama Republican over his record on civil rights and immigration. \n The 52-47 nearly party-line vote capped weeks of divisive battles over Sessions, an early supporter of President Donald Trump and one of the Senate's most conservative lawmakers. \n Democrats laced into Sessions, casting him as too cozy with Trump and too harsh on immigrants. They asserted he wouldn't do enough to protect voting rights of minorities, protections for gays and the legal right of women to obtain an abortion. They fear immigrants in the country illegally won't receive due process with Session as the top law enforcement officer. \n \"Any attorney general must be able to stand firm for the rule of law even against the powerful executive that nominated him or her. In this administration I believe that independence is even more necessary,\" said Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va. \"His (Sessions') record raises doubts about whether he can be a champion for those who need this office most and it also raises doubts about whether he can curb unlawful overreach\" by Trump. \n Republicans say Sessions has demonstrated over a long career in public service \u2014 and two decades in the Senate \u2014 that he possesses integrity, honesty and is committed to justice. \n \"He's honest. He's fair. He's been a friend to many of us, on both sides of the aisle,\" Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said. \"It's been tough to watch all this good man has been put through in recent weeks. This is a well-qualified colleague with a deep reverence for the law. He believes strongly in the equal application of it to everyone.\" \n Sessions won unanimous backing from Senate Republicans but picked up the support of just one Democrat, Joe Manchin of West Virginia. \n Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley is expected to name a replacement for sessions as early as Thursday. Bentley has named six finalists for the Senate appointment, including state Attorney General Luther Strange and GOP Rep. Robert Aderholt. \n Strange is considered a leading candidate for the job since Bentley interviewed potential replacements for state attorney general, according to people close to the process. However, Bentley's office has said he has not made a decision. \n Today's vote came amid rising tension between Republicans controlling the chamber over delaying tactics by minority Democratic that have left fewer of Trump's picks in place than President Barack Obama had eight years ago. Democrats no longer have filibuster power over Cabinet picks, however, after changing Senate rules when they controlled the chamber in 2013. \n Next up for the Senate is Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., Trump's pick for health secretary. A final vote on Price could come late Thursday and success seemed certain. \n Democrats have solidly opposed Price, a staunch advocate of repealing Obama's health care overhaul and reshaping and scaling back the Medicare and Medicaid programs that provide health care to older and low-income people. \n But they've mostly accused Price, a wealthy former orthopedic surgeon, of conflicts of interest by acquiring stocks in health care companies and pushing legislation that could help those firms. \n They've especially targeted his acquisition of shares in Innate Immunotherapeutics, an Australian biotech firm that's said Price got a special insider's deal. Price, who has said he learned of the opportunity from a fellow lawmaker, Rep. Chris Collins, R-N.Y., had testified to Congress that the shares were available to all investors. \n \"If I were a prosecutor, I'd say this case has real potential,\" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said today. \n This week has featured overnight, round-the-clock Senate sessions as GOP leaders are grinding through a thicket of controversial picks. \n Epitomizing the sharp-edged partisanship surrounding confirmation of Trump's Cabinet nominees, Sen. Elizabeth Warren was given a rare rebuke Tuesday evening for quoting Coretta Scott King, widow of the late civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., in her 1986 criticism of Sessions. \n King wrote that as an acting federal prosecutor in Alabama, Sessions used his power to \"chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens.\" \n McConnell held that the Massachusetts Democrat had run afoul of rules about impugning a fellow senator. \n Sessions' nomination to a federal judgeship was rejected three decades ago by the Senate Judiciary Committee after it was alleged that as a federal prosecutor he had called a black attorney \"boy\" and had said organizations like the NAACP and the American Civil Liberties Union were un-American. \n At his hearing last month, Sessions said he had never harbored racial animus, saying he had been falsely caricatured. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senate confirms Sessions for attorney general"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren turned the normally staid Senate chamber into a stage for a national drama over politics and race, elevating her celebrity at a moment when liberals are hungry for a leader to take on Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> The words of the Senate Republican leader directed at Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren have turned into a rallying cry for liberals. \n \"ShePersisted\" was trending on Twitter after the Senate GOP majority silenced Warren late Tuesday night for criticizing colleague Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., by reading a 1986 letter from Coretta Scott King, the widow of Martin Luther King Jr. \n Prior to using an arcane Senate rule to rebuke Warren, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said: \"Senator Warren was giving a lengthy speech. She had appeared to violate the rule. She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted.\" \n Those final words popped up on Twitter with photos of trailblazing women such as Rosa Parks, who refused to surrender her bus seat to a white rider, abolitionist Harriet Tubman, suffragette Susan B. Anthony and first lady Eleanor Roosevelt. \n Photos of female athletes and images from the Jan. 21 march, when hundreds of thousands of women converged on various cities, also appeared on Twitter with the hashtag. \n Democrat presidential candidate Hillary Clinton referenced McConnell's comment about Warren persisting, adding in a tweet, \"So must we all.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'She Persisted' turns into rallying cry for liberals"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Army Capt. Matthew Ball, right, hugs his former interpreter Qismat Amin, as Amin arrives from Afghanistan, at San Francisco International Airport Wednesday, Feb. 8, 2017, in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> A soldier welcomed his Afghan interpreter to the United States on Wednesday after buying him a plane ticket to ensure his quick arrival amid concerns the Trump administration might try to expand its travel ban to Afghanistan. \n Army Capt. Matthew Ball yelled \"Qismat!\" as he ran and then hugged Qismat Amin at San Francisco International Airport in a series of emotional embraces that marked the end of a yearslong battle to get the translator out of his war-torn country. \n \"I'm so happy,\" Ball told The Associated Press after welcoming Amin. \"Yeah it feels great. I'm happy to see him. I'm sort of overwhelmed. He's here. It's been a long time.\" \n The interpreter waited nearly four years for his special immigrant visa. He lived in hiding after receiving death threats from the Taliban for helping American troops. \n His visa arrived two days after President Donald Trump signed an executive order suspending the nation's refugee program and temporarily halting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. \n Afghanistan was not among them, but U.S. officials said shortly after the order was signed that the list could be expanded to include other countries. The ban has since been placed on hold while it's being debated in the courts. \n Ball bought Amin a $1,000 plane ticket to San Francisco to get him to the U.S. as soon as possible. \n Amin has said he was nervous he would not feel welcome after Trump's order because he is an immigrant and Muslim. But those fears faded after he arrived to Americans holding signs that read \"Welcome to America\" and \"Welcome Home.\" \n \"Right now, I don't know what to say. I forgot my words,\" he said. \"Actually this has made me much, much stronger, seeing people with the welcome signs. I feel like I got a huge family right now, and I got a big family in Afghanistan. But right now I got a way bigger family than I ever expected.\" \n Ball, a law student at Stanford University, led a letter campaign with fellow students, including many veterans, lobbying Congress to inquire about why it was taking so long for Amin to get a visa. \n More than 13,000 Afghans and their immediate family members have been waiting to get a special immigrant visa for aiding the U.S. mission, according to the U.S. State Department. \n Congress approved an additional 1,500 visas in December and extended the program until the end of 2020, but advocates say the number is woefully inadequate. \n Ball said the U.S. government should speed up the yearslong visa process for interpreters and cultural advisers in Afghanistan because their lives are at risk after helping U.S. troops. \n America's longest war, which began in response to 9/11, has grinded into its 16th year. Afghan soldiers and police have been suffering heavy casualties in their battle against a resilient Taliban insurgency, while U.S. forces continue to hunt down al-Qaida and Islamic State militants. \n Ball said Amin protected his life during a yearlong mission in one of Afghanistan's most dangerous areas. \n The former Army ranger, who is now in the Reserves, said he is happy he was able to return the favor by helping Amin get to safety. \n Amin will live at Ball's home in Palo Alto for now. \n Amin planned to call his mom to let her know he had arrived safely. Then he wanted to head to the beach to see the ocean for the first time. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Soldier welcomes Afghan translator to U.S. with bear hug"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Solar panels line farmland that former President Jimmy Carter owns in his hometown of Plains, Ga., as a reporter walks through before a ribbon cutting ceremony. \n PLAINS, Ga. >> Former President Jimmy Carter said Wednesday millions of jobs could be created in the United States if President Donald Trump embraced renewable energy sources such as geothermal, solar and wind power. \n Carter, a Democrat who was the first U.S. president to install solar panels at the White House, said he hoped the Republican Trump would give it \"deep consideration.\" \n \"Sometimes there's a philosophical objection to this by some \u2014 I'll say right-wing Republicans \u2014 but he has a high priority of job creation,\" Carter said in an interview with The Associated Press. \"If they just remember the tremendous potential of creating millions of jobs in America just from renewable energy sources, that would be a very good counter-argument to those who oppose the concept of global warming being caused by human activity.\" \n Trump has sent mixed signals on whether he will try to slow Earth's warming temperatures and rising sea levels. During the transition, Trump met with prominent climate activists Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio, but he has also appointed oil industry champions who want to reverse President Barack Obama's efforts to rein in emissions. \n The vast majority of peer-reviewed studies and climate scientists agree the planet is warming, mostly due to man-made sources. Under Obama, the U.S. dramatically ramped up production of renewable energy from sources such as solar, in part through Energy Department grants. \n Carter, a former peanut farmer from southwest Georgia, on Wednesday celebrated the installation of solar panels on 10 acres of farmland he owns in Plains, where he and former first lady Rosalynn Carter grew up and still have a home. \n Carter, who is 92, leased the land to Atlanta-based SolAmerica Energy, which owns, operates, and sells power generated from solar cells. The company estimates the project will provide more than half of the power needed in the town of 755 people. \n \"It shows what a small town can do, what one farmer can do,\" said Carter. \"It's also a very good source of income for farmers who can get as much as $500 per acre per year by allocating some of their land to solar panels.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Carter: Renewable energy can help Trump create jobs"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supreme Court Justice nominee, Neil Gorsuch is seen on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today slammed the court that is deliberating his immigration and refugee executive order as being \"so political,\" part of a relentless pounding of the judiciary branch that prompted a rebuke from his nominee for the Supreme Court. \n Speaking to a group of police chiefs, Trump said his immigration order was \"done for the security of our nation.\" He quoted from the portion of the immigration law that he said gave him the power to enact the ban, calling it \"beautifully written\" and saying \"a bad high school student would understand this.\" \n \"Courts seem to be so political and it would be so great for our justice system if they would be able to read a statement and do what's right,\" he added. \"And that has to do with the security of our country, which is so important.\" \n Trump's comments come as the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is weighing the appeal of his executive order on immigration, including a temporary travel ban on people from seven Muslim-majority countries. In a hearing Tuesday, judges on the appeals court challenged the administration's claim that the ban was motivated by terrorism fears, but also questioned an attorney's argument that it unconstitutionally targeted Muslims. \n Since a lower court judge blocked the order last week, Trump has criticized the decision. He labeled the judge in the case a \"so-called judge\" and called the ruling \"ridiculous.\" \n Legal experts, Democrats and some Republicans criticized Trump's remarks as jeopardizing the independence of the judiciary and attempting to use political influence to sway the courts. \n Trump's nominee for the Supreme Court joined the criticism Wednesday in a meeting with Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut. \n Blumenthal said Judge Neil Gorsuch described the president's comments about the judiciary as \"demoralizing and disheartening.\" \n Gorsuch's confirmation team confirmed the judge's comments. \n In his speech, Trump sought to link his comments about the court battle over his executive order to the law enforcement community in attendance. \n \"We have to allow you to do your job,\" he said. \"And we have to give you the weapons that you need, and this is a weapon that you need and they're trying to take it away from you.\" \n The president has repeatedly said people are \"pouring in\" since the ban was put on hold and suggested that blocking the order would be dangerous for U.S. citizens. \n Wednesday morning he tweeted, \"Big increase in traffic into our country from certain areas, while our people are far more vulnerable, as we wait for what should be EASY D!\" \n The administration has not provided any information to support his claims. \n Customs and Border Protection, the agency in charge of screening people who arrive at U.S. ports, including airports, has not responded to multiple requests to detail how many visa holders from the seven designated countries have been allowed into the United States since a federal judge temporarily blocked the government from implementing the travel ban. \n The State Department previously said fewer than 60,000 visas were provisionally revoked after the order was signed and those people would now be allowed to travel to the U.S. Trump's order banned travel to the U.S. for people from Syria, Sudan, Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Yemen and Libya. It also suspended the country's refugee global program. \n As of Wednesday afternoon 641 refugees from 13 countries, including five whose citizens were barred from the U.S. under the travel ban, had arrived since a federal judge in Washington ruled against the government. \n During his meeting with police leaders, Trump also continued his promises to reduce violence in Chicago, saying that \"no one in America should be punished\" because of their birthplace. He pledged to provide resources to police departments and promised \"zero tolerance\" for violence against law enforcement. \n Trump also promised to work on combating drug abuse and said there should be resources to deal with a \"mental health crisis.\" \n Hundreds of members of the Major Cities Chiefs Association and Major County Sheriff's Association were in the standing room crowd, some in uniform but the majority in plain clothes. \n They snapped photos with their phones as the president spoke, but clapped sparingly when he asked whether they were in agreement with his views on the immigration ban. His comments about combatting drug abuse and the targeting of police officers drew a more unanimous response from the crowd. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump slams the courts, his court nominee hits back"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ivanka Trump, daughter of President-elect Donald Trump, arrives at Trump Tower in New York. Nordstrom shares sunk after President Trump tweeted that the department store chain had treated his daughter \"so unfairly\" when it announced last week that it would stop selling Ivanka Trump's clothing and accessory line. \n Though he has tweeted in the past about companies such as the U.S. automakers, Boeing and Carrier, ethics experts saw the fact that this one was about a business run by his daughter raising conflict-of-interest concerns and even carrying an implicit threat. \n In the message, Trump said, \"My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by Nordstrom. She is a great person \u2014 always pushing me to do the right thing! Terrible!\" Posted first on his personal account, it was re-tweeted more than 6,000 times in less than an hour. It was also retweeted by the official POTUS account. \n Trump's presidency has raised unprecedented concerns about ethical conflicts. His plan to separate himself from his sprawling real estate business has been criticized by ethics experts, who say it doesn't do enough to make sure that Trump won't make decisions to personally benefit himself, his family or his company. \n Kathleen Clark, a government ethics expert, said the Nordstrom tweet is problematic because other retailers may think twice now about dropping the Ivanka Trump brand for fear of getting criticized publicly by the president. She said it was especially disturbing that Trump retweeted his message on the official White House account. \n \"The implicit threat was that he will use whatever authority he has to retaliate against Nordstrom, or anyone who crosses his interest,\" said Clark, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis. \n Clark defended the president's right to use his personal Twitter account to express his views, however, pointing out that government workers at the EPA recently set up alt-EPA accounts to criticize the president's policies. \"A government employee, even a president, is allowed to tweet in his personal capacity.\" \n Trump has feuded with several consumer brands before and after winning the presidency. After Macy's dropped his line of ties and shirts during the summer of 2015 over his comments about immigrants, Trump singled Macy's out for having a tough holiday season. \"Good news, disloyal Macy's stock is in a total free fall. Don't shop there for Christmas,\" he tweeted that December. And in January of this year, he scolded General Motors for \"sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border.\" \"Make in U.S.A. or pay big border tax,\" he said. \n Nordstrom reiterated Wednesday that its decision was based on the brand's performance. Since it confirmed its decision about the brand last week, the company has been responding to disappointed or angry shoppers on its Twitter, stressing that its reasons were based on poor performance. Nordstrom shares had dropped after the tweet, like those of other companies Trump has mentioned in the past, but they later recovered to close more than 4 percent higher. \n A social media campaign called \"Grab Your Wallet\" has urged a boycott of stores that stock Ivanka Trump or Donald Trump products, though the companies that have stopped ordering or cut back on the Ivanka Trump brand have not mentioned it. \n Nordstrom said last week its decision was based on the Ivanka Trump brand's performance, and that each year it replenishes about 10 percent of its supply with new products. On its website alone it has more than 2,000 products on its website alone. \"Reviewing their merit and making edits is part of the regular rhythm of our business,\" it said. \n Retailer Belk Inc. said Wednesday it will no longer be carrying the Ivanka Trump brand on its website, but will still offer the merchandise at its stores. The New York Times reported that TJX Cos., which operates T.J. Maxx, told employees not to display Ivanka Trump goods separately and to discard the brand's signs, according to a memo obtained by the paper. TJX spokeswoman Doreen Thompson confirmed the memo and said the communication was \"intended to instruct stores to mix this line of merchandise into our racks, not to remove it from the sales floor.\" She said that \"at this time, we continue to offer the line of merchandise.\" \n Rosemary K. Young, senior director of marketing at Ivanka Trump, said last week that the brand is expanding and saw \"significant\" revenue growth last year compared to the previous year. Ivanka Trump has said she would take a leave of absence from her clothing and accessories business as well as the Trump organization. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump was responding to an \"attack on his daughter\" when he posted the tweet and that \"he has every right to stand up for his family and applaud their business activities, their success.\" \n \"For someone to take out their concern with his policies on a family member of his is not acceptable,\" Spicer said. \n Trump's tweet was posted at 10:51 a.m., a little over 20 minutes after the scheduled start of the president's daily intelligence briefing in the Oval Office. Spicer waved off reporters' questions about the timing, saying the president was not otherwise occupied when he wrote the tweet. \n It's not the first time Trump's tweets have at least temporarily affected a stock. \n \"What we are seeing is that we are living in a world with a different kind of chief executive in the White House,\" said Matthew Shay, president and CEO of the National Retail Federation trade group. \"He has a strong opinion on issues. We are learning to work in the environment.\" \n Retailers drop brands all the time because of poor performance, said brand consultant Allen Adamson, but given a highly charged political environment, perception is reality for loyal Trump fans. \n \"It is clearly hard for Nordstrom to tell the story that it is dropping (the brand) for business reasons,\" said Adamson, founder of the consulting firm Brand Simple. \"The timing is awful. The environment is full of companies taking political stands. So in this environment, it will be perceived as a political statement. Nordstrom is getting dragged into this even though they may not want to be.\" \n He said that the best advice he can give companies is to be clear, firm and succinct in their message. \n But one thing is evident: \"They shouldn't get into a Twitter war with the president,\" he added. \"That is a no-win situation.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump criticism of Nordstrom raises conflict concern"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People camped out on a sidewalk, in June 2015, in Kakaako. State lawmakers are exploring setting up \"safe zones\" for homeless people to camp, one of an array of offbeat solutions to its homelessness crisis which ranks worst in the nation. \n State lawmakers are exploring setting up \"safe zones\" for homeless people to camp, one of an array of offbeat solutions to its homelessness crisis which ranks worst in the nation. \n They're also considering allowing people to lease their driveways for homeless people to live in cars or tents and allowing counties to set up parks featuring mobile homes, traditional Hawaiian thatched homes and shipping containers. \n But Gov. David Ige's office is fighting the bills, saying state-sanctioned homeless encampments are unsafe and contradict federal housing recommendations, risking Hawaii's federal housing money. \n \"Some of these areas that are being identified as potential homeless campgrounds are very isolated, difficult for people to get to, so it's not necessarily a given that even if you provide it that people would go there,\" said Scott Morishige, the governor's homelessness coordinator. \n A state task force said sanctioned encampments are a bad idea because they encourage a nomadic lifestyle and divert money needed for permanent housing. \n Portland and Seattle, which allowed legal camping, struggled with safety issues, just as Honolulu did when it set up a camp in the early '90s that had to be shut down by police, Morishige said. \n But the pace of new affordable housing development is not keeping up with demand, and the question of where people should go while the number of homeless people outstrips the number of homes and shelter beds remains unanswered. \n Will Espero, chairman of the Senate Housing Committee, is pushing for a large-scale sanctioned encampment on Sand Island, an industrial area in Honolulu. \n \"At the very least, Sand Island today has recreational camping that at full capacity will hold 400 people,\" Espero said. \"You could have 400 people there tomorrow. But instead they're living in parks.\" \n Tom Brower, chairman of the House Housing Committee, said Ige's opposition to the bills is ironic because the state has allowed homeless encampments to exist. \n \"The only time they enforce is when the community screams and yells about it for months,\" said Brower, who was attacked at a Honolulu homeless encampment two years ago when taking photos of living conditions. Setting aside places where people can legally camp, including driveways, would make it easier to enforce laws in other areas, he said. \n \"It's not that we want people to camp in someone's driveway,\" Brower said, \"but with the situation we have now people camping everywhere\u2026would that stop them from camping somewhere else where they shouldn't be?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Legislators consider 'safe zones' for homeless encampments"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2015 \n The state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism said Wednesday about 9.1 million travelers are expected to come the islands. \n State economists are forecasting the number of visitors to Hawaii will likely rise 1.5 percent this year. \n The state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism said Wednesday about 9.1 million travelers are expected to come the islands. This would mark the sixth straight year of record visitor arrivals. \n Last year Hawaii's economy grew 2.1 percent, faster than the national rate of 1.4 percent. This year, the state forecasts the economy will expand at a slower rate of 1.8 percent. \n Construction, tourism and health care fueled job gains in 2016, helping drive the unemployment rate down to 2.9 percent in December. The jobless rate was below 3 percent in all counties except Hawaii County, where it stood at 3.1 percent. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "State predicts 1.5 percent rise in Hawaii visitors in 2017"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Oysters are unloaded on Deal Island, Md. in Dec. 2013. Researchers outlined in a report published this month that a new strain of disease-causing bacteria has been found thriving along the Atlantic Coast which can contaminate oysters or other shellfish. \n CONCORD, N.H. >> Researchers have found a new strain of bacteria thriving along the Atlantic Coast that can contaminate shellfish and sicken seafood lovers. \n Cheryl Whistler and her colleagues at the University of New Hampshire discovered the new strain of the leading seafood-transmitted bacterial pathogen in the world. \n Whistler is hoping the discovery of what they call ST631 will give public health agencies along the Atlantic Coast and in Canada the data they need to develop tools to reduce the risk of sickness from eating contaminated shellfish. \n The research is detailed in the Journal of Clinical Microbiology. \n ST631 is a strain of the bacteria, known as Vibrio parahaemolyticus. It causes an estimated 45,000 infections in the U.S. each year. Symptoms of an infection include diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Study finds new bacterial strain can contaminate shellfish"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, followed by acting Secretary Phil Rosenfelat and her husband Dick DeVos Jr., arrives to address department staff, at the Education Department in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is trying to mend fences with educators, parents and activists across the country following a bruising confirmation battle. \n Addressing Education Department staff members on Wednesday, DeVos vowed to work with everyone, including her opponents, in ensuring the best education for American children. \n DeVos is a wealthy Republican donor and school choice champion. She won confirmation in the Senate on Tuesday by the slimmest possible margin. Vice President Mike Pence had to cast a historic tie-breaking vote after two Republican senators opposed her, concerned she would not support public schools. \n Meanwhile, parents, teachers and others across the country are looking for clues as to whether DeVos will fulfill their hopes or reinforce their fears. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos seeks to mend fences after bruising confirmation"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Union flags displayed on a tourist stall, backdropped by the Houses of Parliament and Elizabeth Tower containing the bell know as Big Ben, in London. \n LONDON >> Britain's House of Commons gave its final approval Wednesday to a bill authorizing the government to start exit talks with the European Union, despite fears by opposition lawmakers that the U.K. is setting out on the rocky path to Brexit with a sketchy roadmap. \n As the votes were being tallied, a few pro-EU legislators whistled Beethoven's \"Ode to Joy,\" the bloc's anthem. But the decisive 494-122 result was another big step on Britain's road to the EU exit door. \n The bill now goes to the House of Lords, which has the power to delay \u2014 but not to derail \u2014 the legislation; it should become law within weeks. \n Lawmakers had backed the bill by a 498-114 margin during an earlier vote last week, so Wednesday's result by a similar margin was not a surprise. \n It came after three days of debate in which opposition lawmakers tried to pass amendments guaranteeing Parliament a bigger role in the divorce process and setting rules for the government's negotiations with the 27 other EU nations. \n Pro-Brexit Conservative Iain Duncan Smith said that \"tonight we have started the process of delivering on \u2026 what the people wanted.\" But Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron, who opposed the bill, vowed to fight on. \n \"In a democracy, you respect the result but you do not wave the white flag and give up,\" he said. \n Pro-EU lawmakers had hoped to prevent an economy-shocking \"hard Brexit,\" in which Britain loses full access to the EU's single market and faces restrictions or tariffs on trade. One amendment would have committed the government to continuing tariff-free trade with the EU; another sought to guarantee the residency rights of EU citizens already living in Britain; another called for a new referendum on the eventual divorce terms. \n All were defeated, as pro-EU lawmakers from Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative Party backed the government despite their reservations. \n But the government appeared to bow to opposition pressure by promising lawmakers they will get to vote on an exit deal before it is finalized by the bloc. \n \"We do expect and intend that that will happen before the European Parliament debates and votes on the final agreement,\" May said Wednesday. \n Some pro-EU lawmakers say the promise does not go far enough. They say the vote would be meaningless unless Parliament is given the power to send the government back to the EU negotiating table. Otherwise, rejecting the deal could mean chaotically forcing Britain out of the bloc without any new arrangements in place. \n Labour Party Brexit spokesman Keir Starmer said opponents of Brexit \"haven't got everything we wanted\" but are \"chipping away\" at the government's position. \n The government didn't want to let Parliament debate the bill that passed Wednesday at all. It was forced to introduce the legislation after a Supreme Court ruling torpedoed May's effort to start the process of leaving the 28-nation bloc without a parliamentary vote. \n Most British lawmakers backed the losing \"remain\" side in last year's EU membership referendum, but voted to trigger Brexit out of respect for voters' wishes. \n The debate has caused ructions in the largely pro-Europe Labour Party, the largest opposition group in Parliament. Party leader Jeremy Corbyn ordered Labour lawmakers to back the bill, but more than 50 rebelled, including business spokesman Clive Lewis. Lewis resigned from Labour's senior Commons team after denying his leader, whose job many party members believe he covets. \n The bill is likely to face further challenges in the House of Lords. Pro-EU peers there \u2014 who are appointed for life and don't have to worry about re-election \u2014 are likely to seek new amendments. But any changes they pass would have to be approved by the Commons. \n The government wants to pass the bill through Parliament by early March and trigger Article 50 of the EU's key treaty \u2014 starting a two-year divorce process \u2014 by March 31. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UK's House of Commons passes bill authorizing Brexit"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Cedar Chavarria was wheeled into District Court in a wheelchair on Feb. 3. He was unable to move normally and kept his head lowered the entire time he was in court. An Oahu grand jury indicted the 26-year-old man Tuesday after he allegedly stabbed a 28-year-old man in an apparently unprovoked attack in Waikiki. \n An Oahu grand jury has indicted a 26-year-old man after he allegedly stabbed a 28-year-old man in an apparently unprovoked attack in Waikiki. \n The grand jury charged Cedar Chavarria Tuesday with attempted second-degree murder in the Jan. 31 stabbing of a man in a pedestrian walkway on Kalakaua Avenue. \n Chavarria's arraignment is set for Monday before Judge Colette Garibaldi at Circuit Court. He remains in custody at the Oahu Community Correctional Center on $100,000 bail. \n Police said the victim suffered stab wounds to his neck and chest and was transported to Queen's Medical Center in serious condition. \n Officers located Chavarria on Ala Wai Boulevard and recovered a 6-inch knife from his jacket. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man indicted in Waikiki stabbing"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People march outside developer Energy Transfer Partners headquarters, protesting the Army Corps of Engineers approval of the final section of the Dakota Access oil pipeline. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> With the federal government about to green-light the final phase of the Dakota Access pipeline, opponents of the project called today for protests around the world in an action they dubbed their \"last stand.\" \n Some members of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, which has been at the center of the debate for nearly a year, urged \"emergency actions\" via social media. The Indigenous Environmental Network told people to target fuel-transportation hubs and government buildings and to expect violence and mass arrests. \n Protesters posted an online list of nearly 50 events in 23 states and the District of Columbia. In one early rally, several people were arrested for blocking public access to a federal building in San Francisco. \n At a North Dakota encampment that has been the focus of the pipeline battle for months, the mood was tense, with a few dozen people milling about on a frigid morning and refusing to talk about their plans. They ordered an Associated Press reporter to leave. \n The Army said Tuesday that it would allow the pipeline to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota. That crossing is the last big chunk of construction. The official permission to complete the pipeline, known as an \"easement,\" could come as early as Wednesday. \n The tribe maintains that the move will violate its treaty rights, and its attorneys have vowed to keep fighting in court. \n In court documents filed Tuesday, the Justice Department said the Army intends to cancel further environmental study and allow pipe to be laid beneath Lake Oahe. \n The Army is involved in pipeline approval under the river because the Army Corps of Engineers manages the river and its system of hydroelectric dams, which is owned by the federal government. \n The 1,200-mile pipeline would carry North Dakota oil through the Dakotas and Iowa to a shipping point in Illinois. Construction is nearly complete but has been stalled while the Corps and Dallas-based developer Energy Transfer Partners battled in court over the final segment. \n The Standing Rock Sioux tribe, whose reservation is just downstream from the crossing, fears a pipeline leak would pollute its drinking water. The tribe led protests last year that drew thousands of people who dubbed themselves \"water protectors\" to the encampment near the crossing. Protesters and police sometimes clashed, leading to nearly 700 arrests. \n Energy Transfer Partners insists the pipeline will be safe. \n The camp's population has recently thinned to fewer than 300, and the Corps has notified remaining protesters that the government-owned land will be closed Feb. 22. \n On Wednesday, police or pipeline security continued to monitor the camp from nearby hills, as they have done for months. In the camp, few people were outdoors, where the wind chill sank to minus 20 degrees. The tribe itself has told camp occupants to leave, though there has been no effort to remove them. \n Chase Iron Eyes, an American Indian activist who has called on people to return to the camp rather than leave, encouraged that again in comments in a statement and on social media. \n \"I'll see you on the front line,\" said Iron Eyes, who is facing a felony charge for allegedly inciting a riot during protest action last week near the camp. \n An assessment conducted last year determined the river crossing would not have a significant effect on the environment. However, the Army in December decided further study was warranted to address tribal concerns. The Corps launched a study on Jan. 18, but President Donald Trump signed an executive action six days later telling the Corps to proceed with construction. \n The Army notified Congress on Tuesday that it planned to do so. \n The pipeline builder is poised to begin drilling under Lake Oahe as soon as it has approval. Workers have drilled entry and exit holes for the crossing, and oil has been put in the pipeline leading up to the lake in anticipation of finishing the project. CEO Kelcy Warren has said the work could be done in about three months. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oil pipeline opponents call for protests in 'last stand'"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. listened during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, after the Senate confirmed Betsy DeVos as education secretary. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The statue honoring former South Carolina governor and U.S. senator \"Pitchfork\" Ben Tillman is seen, in July 2015, on the grounds of the Statehouse in Columbia, S.C. Rule 19 stems from a notorious 1902 incident in which two South Carolina senators got into a fistfight on the Senate floor. \n WASHINGTON >> A fistfight on the Senate floor involving two Southern \"gentlemen\" gave rise to Rule 19, the arcane Senate directive that Republicans used more than a century later to silence Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren. GOP lawmakers rebuked Warren Tuesday night for speaking against colleague and Attorney General-nominee Jeff Sessions. \n She was silenced for reading the letter that Coretta Scott King wrote three decades ago criticizing the Alabama senator's record on race. Senators barred Warren from speaking on the Senate floor until Sessions' confirmation vote. \n CONDUCT UNBECOMING \n Rule 19 states that senators may not \"directly or indirectly, by any form of words impute to another senator or to other senators any conduct or motive unworthy or unbecoming a senator.\" \n It states that when, in the opinion of the presiding officer, a senator violates that decorum, the presiding officer \"shall call him to order and \u2026 he shall take his seat.\" \n RAUCOUS HISTORY \n In the Senate, where men are referred to as \"gentleman\" and women are called \"gentle lady,\" the rule stems from a notorious 1902 incident in which two South Carolina lawmakers got into a fistfight on the Senate floor. According to the Senate historian's office, Sen. John McLaurin raced into the Senate chamber and said fellow Democrat Ben Tillman was guilty of \"a willful, malicious, and deliberate lie.\" \n Tillman \u2014 a fiery populist who had earned the nickname \"Pitchfork Ben\" for threatening to bring a pitchfork to prod then-President Grover Cleveland to act on the economy \u2014 spun around and punched McLaurin squarely in the jaw. The Senate \"exploded in pandemonium as members struggled to separate both members.\" The fracas ended, \"but not without stinging bruises both to bystanders and to the Senate's sense of decorum,\" according to an account on the historian's office website. \n The Senate censured both men and added to its rules the provision that survives today as part of Rule 19. \n SELECTIVE ENFORCEMENT \n Enforcement of Rule 19 has been rare, and the historian's office wasn't sure when it was last enforced. \n Some longtime Capitol observers recalled a 1988 dispute between Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa., and Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. Heinz said Gramm broached Senate protocol with caustic remarks. Gramm withdrew the language in question. There was no official rebuke. \n Heinz was also involved in a 1979 dispute with fellow Republican Sen. Lowell Weicker of Connecticut. After heated words, the two men shook hands and no further action was taken. \n Democrats cited more recent statements that appeared to violate Rule 19, but in which no action was taken: \n \u2014In 2015, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said McConnell \"looked me in the eye\" and \"told every Republican senator \u2026 a simple lie.\" \n \u2014 In 2016, Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., lambasted the \"cancerous leadership\" of then-Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev. \n FIGHTS CONTINUE \n Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., said last week that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. had engaged in a \"tear-jerking performance\" that \"belongs at the Screen Actors Guild awards\" as he opposed President Donald Trump's travel ban on some Muslim countries. No rebuke followed. \n Other Democratic senators read from King's letter in the Senate chamber Tuesday night and today after Warren was told to sit down. None was punished. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "1902 fistfight gave rise to arcane rule that silenced Warren"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Health and Human Services Secretary-designate, Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga. pauses while testifying on Capitol Hill in Washington at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> Worried about the nearly 20 million people who buy their own health insurance policies, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans are weighing how to stabilize a wobbly market, government and industry officials say. \n The goal is to soothe jittery insurance companies that may bolt next year, while reassuring consumers anxious about the future. That could also buy time for more ambitious GOP attempts to rework the health care law. \n Some of the changes can be carried out single-handedly by the new administration, but others may require congressional action or cooperation. \n The measures would affect not just those consumers on the subsidized marketplaces under \"Obamacare,\" but also people purchasing directly from an insurer or through an independent agent. The two groups have become intertwined. This year's sharp premium increases in the health law markets also hit consumers buying individual policies on the outside, but they are not eligible for financial assistance from the government. \n No final decisions appear to have been made. Trump administration officials would not comment ahead of an expected Senate vote on confirming Georgia Rep. Tom Price as the new health secretary. \n But a Republican congressional aide familiar with the internal discussions said the regulatory changes that the administration is considering include: \n \u2014 Tightening rules for \"special enrollment periods\" that allow consumers to sign-up outside of the standard open enrollment window. Insurers have complained that some people take advantage of such opportunities to get coverage when they need care and later drop out, raising costs for everyone else. \n \u2014 Loosening a provision of the Affordable Care Act that prevents insurers from charging older customers more than three times the premium for young adults. It's unclear how this would happen, since the limitation is specified in the law. But the GOP aide said the administration might be able to find wiggle room. Before the Obama health law, insurers routinely charged older customers five times or more what younger people paid. The ACA has made insurance more affordable for older adults, but critics say that's pricing out the young and healthy. AARP is already mobilizing to try to head off any attempt to make older customers pay more. \n \u2014 Shortening the 90-day grace period to pay premiums for consumers who get subsidized coverage. Insurers complain this makes it easier for people to game the system. \n \u2014 Shortening the current health law sign-up season, which runs about 90 days. \n \u2014 Relaxing rules on how insurers structure their networks of hospitals and doctors. Republicans tend to think those should be set by states. \n The GOP aide spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. Another person familiar with the administration's thinking said the points were on target. The regulatory changes mirror requests by insurers, who argue they would help check premiums. \n A White House regulatory website lists a health insurance market stabilization rule as \"pending review.\" \n Along with the administration, congressional Republicans would have a role to play in stabilizing the markets, by stepping back from several previous efforts to block \"Obamacare\" financing. \n Chief among them is the fate of billions in subsidies that help low- and moderate-income people cover high insurance deductibles and copayments. More than half of the consumers in the government marketplace get these subsidies, and insurers say they are essential. House Republicans have questioned their legality. \n Other financing issues involve the health care law's complicated internal system for stabilizing premiums. It has not worked as intended, partly because of GOP efforts to deny financing to the Obama administration. \n After promising to quickly shred Obama's law and replace it with a conservative approach, Republicans seem to be slowing down and thinking things over. Every lawmaker has thousands of constituents potentially affected. \n At a hearing last week, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden, R-Ore., answered critics by saying it's \"beyond the pale\" to suggest that Republicans just want to cut coverage. \n He said the country isn't going back to the days when \"through no fault of your own (if) you have some disease that keeps coming at you \u2026 sorry, you're on your own and you're destitute. \n \"That's not the choice here,\" said Walden. \"The choice is how we get it right.\" \n About 12 million people have signed up for coverage this year through the health law's subsidized markets, according to federal and state figures. \n Congressional experts estimate that another 8 million buy individual policies outside the government markets. Consumers in this group get no federal subsidies, but they have also seen their premiums shoot up. Many are self-employed business people or early retirees, constituencies considered receptive to Republicans. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump administration weighs health insurance 'stabilization'"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo, right, is joined by incumbent President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, left, as he speaks to reporters after winning the election in Mogadishu, Somalia. \n MOGADISHU, Somalia >> A former prime minister who holds dual Somali-U.S. citizenship was declared Somalia's new president Wednesday, immediately taking the oath of office as the long-chaotic country moved toward its first fully functioning central government in a quarter-century. \n Incumbent President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud conceded defeat to former prime minister Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo after two rounds of voting, saying that \"history was made; we have taken this path to democracy.\" \n Fears of attacks by extremist group al-Shabab limited the election to members of the upper and lower houses of parliament instead of the population at large. Lawmakers voted at a heavily guarded former air force base in the capital, Mogadishu, while a security lockdown closed the international airport. \n Thousands of cheering Somalis quickly poured into the streets in jubilation, chanting the new president's name. Cheering soldiers fired into the air. \"Somalia will be another Somalia soon,\" said Ahmed Ali, a police officer celebrating in the crowd. \n Mohamud held a slight lead over Farmajo, 88 votes to 72, after the first round of 21 candidates, but Farmajo won the second round among the three candidates remaining, with 184 votes to Mohamud's 97. \n \"This victory represents the interest of the Somali people. This victory belongs to Somali people, and this is the beginning of the era of the unity, the democracy of Somalia and the beginning of the fight against corruption,\" Farmajo said. \"There is a daunting task ahead of me, and I know that.\" \n Farmajo, who is in his mid-50s and holds degrees from the State University of New York in Buffalo, was prime minister for eight months before leaving the post in 2011. When he was in office, al-Shabab was expelled from Mogadishu, his campaign biography says. He had lived in the United States since 1985, when he was sent there with Somalia's foreign affairs ministry. \n Somalia began to fall apart in 1991, when warlords ousted dictator Siad Barre and then turned on each other. Years of conflict and al-Shabab attacks, along with famine, left this Horn of Africa country of about 12 million people largely shattered. \n Across Mogadishu, Somalis had gathered around TV screens at cafes and homes, eagerly watching the vote. \"We need an honest leader who can help us move forward,\" said Ahmed Hassan, a 26-year-old university student. \n Somalia's instability landed it among the seven Muslim-majority countries affected by President Donald Trump's executive order on immigration, even though its government has been an increasingly important partner for the U.S. military on counterterrorism efforts, including drone strikes against al-Shabab leaders. \n The new president, Farmajo, can travel to the United States on his U.S. passport. \n In a sign of the dangers that remain in Mogadishu, two mortar rounds fired by suspected extremists late Tuesday hit near the election venue. There were no such attacks reported in the capital Wednesday and no public statements by al-Shabab. \n The international community pushed Somalia to hold the election as a symbol of strength, with the U.S. pouring in hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years for political and economic recovery. But the election was marred by reports of widespread graft in a country recently ranked as the world's most corrupt by Transparency International. \n The legislators voting \u2014 275 members of the lower legislative house and 54 senators \u2014 were selected by the country's powerful, intricate network of clans. Weeks ago, a joint statement by the United Nations, the U.S., European Union and others warned of \"egregious cases of abuse of the electoral process.\" \n With reports of votes being sold for up to $30,000 apiece, \"This is probably the most expensive election, per vote, in history,\" the Mogadishu-based anti-corruption group Marqaati said in a report released Tuesday. \n \"We encourage Somalia's new administration to take credible steps to stamp out corruption and to establish strong electoral institutions to enable a free and fair one person one vote poll in 2020,\" State Department spokesman Mark Toner said as the U.S. congratulated Farmajo. \n Tremendous challenges remain for Somalia and its new president, even beyond graft, al-Shabab attacks and an economy propped up in part by the country's diaspora of more than 2 million people. \n An African Union peacekeeping force of more than 20,000 is making plans to pull out of the country by the end of 2020, leaving the job to national security forces that observers have said remain underprepared. \n Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees are under pressure to return home as neighboring Kenya's government seeks to close the world's largest refugee camp, Dadaab, by the end of May. Human rights groups have warned that Somalia is hardly equipped to support the returnees \u2014 especially as the United Nations and others warn that drought is creating a humanitarian crisis for almost three million Somalis. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former prime minister, a U.S. citizen, wins Somalia vote"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police are seeking witnesses to the collision that occurred at the intersection of Highway 19 and Kaakepa Street Tuesday afternoon in Pepeekeo. \n A 9-year-old boy is in critical condition after he was struck by a vehicle while walking in a marked crosswalk in Pepeekeo. \n Police are seeking witnesses to the collision that occurred at the intersection of Highway 19 (Hawaii Belt Road) and Kaakepa Street Tuesday afternoon. \n Shortly before 3 p.m., police said a gray 1995 Chevy Lumina driven by an 82-year-old Pepeeko man was traveling north on the highway when the vehicle struck the child. \n The boy, also of Pepeeko, was crossing the street with a 49-year-old man. Police said the adult pedestrian was uninjured. \n The victim was taken to Hilo Medical Center and flown to Queen's Medical Center. \n Police arrested the driver on suspicion of first-degree negligent injury and driving without a license. He was released pending further investigation. \n Police ask anyone who witnessed the collision to call officer Marcos Santos at 961-2213. The public may also call the police department's non-emergency line at 935-3311 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Witnesses sought in critical pedestrian accident on Big Isle"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A faint shadow from the Earth is cast over part of the Moon during a penumbral lunar eclipse, seen from Manila, Philippines. Early Saturday, Feb. 11, 2017, a partial eclipse and Comet 45P will share the sky. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> A full moon and comet share double billing in a special night sky show this weekend. \n A lunar eclipse starts everything off Friday night. The moon will pass into Earth's outer shadow, or penumbra. The moon won't be blacked out like in a full eclipse. Only part of the moon will be shaded, but it should be easily visible from much of the world. \n Comet 45P, meanwhile, will zoom past Earth early Saturday morning. It will be an extremely close encounter as these things go, passing within 7.7 million miles of Earth. Its relative speed: 14.2 miles per second, or a breakneck 51,120 mph. \n The comet, glowing green, will be visible in the constellation Hercules. Binoculars and telescopes will help in the search. \n Stargazers have been tracking Comet 45P for the past couple of months. The ice ball \u2014 an estimated mile across \u2014 comes around every five years. It's officially known as Comet 45P/Honda-Mrkos-Pajdusakova, named after the Japanese, Czech and Slovak astronomers who discovered it in 1948. The letter P stands for periodic, meaning it's a recurring visitor to the inner solar system. \n The Slooh network of observatories will provide a live broadcast from the Canary Islands for both big events. \n The eclipse will last more than four hours, beginning at 12:32 p.m. HST. The action will unfold early Saturday in Europe, Africa and western Asia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Full moon, comet starring in night sky show this weekend"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alex Jones, second from right, an American conspiracy theorist and radio show host, was escorted by police out of a crowd of protesters after he said he was attacked in Public Square in Cleveland, during the second day of the Republican convention in July 2016. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pedestrians walked near a large video screen, on Jan. 20, in downtown Chicago, displaying the presidential inauguration of Donald Trump. Trump's assertion that the media often fails to cover terrorist attacks is false, but he's hardly alone in making the claim. The statement is just the latest by Trump to echo a website known for trafficking in dubious allegations of plots and cover-ups. \n President Donald Trump's assertion that the media often fails to cover terrorist attacks is false, but he's hardly alone in making the claim. The statement is just the latest by Trump to echo a website known for trafficking in dubious allegations of plots and cover-ups. \n \"You've seen what happened in Paris and Nice. All over Europe it's happening. It's gotten to a point where it's not even being reported. And in many cases, the very, very dishonest press doesn't want to report it. They have their reasons and you understand that,\" Trump said in a speech to military commanders at Tampa's MacDill Air Force Base Monday. \n That allegation was quickly disproven by numerous articles and broadcast clips detailing many of the very attacks the White House said had been overlooked or underreported. But versions of the same accusation have long gone unquestioned on Infowars, a website run by former public access cable host Alex Jones. \n \"Scandal: Mass media covers up terrorism to protect Islam,\" a headline on Jones' site alleged last July. \"Fake news: Mainstream media whitewashes Islamic terror in Berlin,\" proclaimed another, last December. \n There's no evidence that Trump gets his information from the site. But Trump voiced his admiration for Jones when the Infowars host interviewed him in December 2015. \n \"Your reputation is amazing,\" then-candidate Trump told Jones. \"I will not let you down. You will be very impressed, I hope, and I think we'll be speaking a lot.\" \n Jones responded: \"I hope you can uncripple America\u2026\" \n Days after the election, Jones said that Trump had called him to \"thank your viewers, thank your listeners for standing up for this republic.\" \n Jones, whose site has alleged that the Newtown, Connecticut, school shooting was a hoax and that the September 11, 2001, terror attacks involved the federal government, is \"America's leading conspiracy theorist,\" said Mark Fenster, author of \"Conspiracy Theories: Secrecy and Power in America.\" \n Such allegations have always had their believers, but those who traded in the tales mostly existed on the fringes, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a University of Pennsylvania professor specializing in political communication. \n \"You weren't watching it. I wasn't watching it. Certainly our political leaders weren't watching it,\" she said. But the internet has given organs devoted to such claims more visibility and acceptability. Jones' YouTube channel has nearly 2 million subscribers. \n With Trump, the country has a leader who repeats such allegations as if they are plausible, said Fenster, a professor of law at the University of Florida. Political campaigns sometimes see candidates make vague references to dark forces, but for a sitting president to regularly engage in an \"unfiltered set of allegations\" is well beyond the norm, Fenster said. \n Trump's allegations about the media and those made on Infowars are just the latest to echo one another. Their shared assertions include: \n \u2014 President Barack Obama may not have been born in the United States. \n It's hard to know where these allegations originated, but Infowars has been making the \"birther\" argument for years, alleging that documents showing Obama was born in Hawaii were fake. \n \"Shocking new birth certificate proof Obama born in Kenya?\" asked an Infowars headline in August 2009. \"New Obama birth certificate is a forgery,\" said another, in April 2011. \n The latter was shortly after Trump appeared on the television show \"The View,\" in March 2011, during which he falsely said that nobody from Obama's childhood remembered him, and that he was obligated to prove his birth in Hawaii. \"Why doesn't he show his birth certificate?\" Trump said. Last September, Trump said he accepted that Obama was born in the U.S. \n \u2014 Thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated after 9/11. \n Trump was criticized after a November 2015 political rally in which he said that \"thousands and thousands of people were cheering\" in New Jersey when the World Trade Center came down. Questioned afterward, Trump insisted that he had seen the celebrations on television that day. \n There's no evidence such celebrations took place. But accounts of Muslims cheering terrorist attacks have been a repeated theme on Infowars. \n \"I live in Jersey and Trump is right: Muslims did celebrate on 9/11 in NJ\u2026 We saw it!\" headlined an article in November 2015. Soon afterward, the site ran another story, \"Exclusive: Radical U.S. Muslims celebrate, shoot fireworks after terrorist attack,\" featuring an anonymous man who said that on the night of the Paris attacks he heard people celebrating four or five blocks away from his home outside Detroit. \n \u2014 Millions of people voted illegally for Hillary Clinton. \n Trump won the presidency with an Electoral College victory despite losing to Hillary Clinton by nearly 3 million votes. He has said he was cheated out of a rightful win in the popular vote. \n \"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally,\" the president said on Twitter on November 27. Numerous state elections officials, many of them Republicans, said there is no evidence of widespread voting fraud. But Trump ordered an investigation. \n His allegations have been echoed, if not preceded, on Infowars, which alleged widespread voter fraud well before Election Day. \n \"Dead people and illegal immigrants are being registered to vote all over America,\" the site headlined in early October. \n In mid-November, Infowars posted a story headlined: \"Report: Three million votes in presidential election cast by illegal aliens.\" The story cited a Texas businessman, Greg Phillips, who claimed to have compiled a list of 3 million illegal votes by non-citizens. On January 27, Trump Tweeted that he was looking forward to seeing Phillips' evidence. \"We must do better!\" Trump wrote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's assertions echo conspiracy website"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Joe Maldonado, the first openly transgender member of the Boy Scouts, shows off the uniform he received from Scout leader Kyle Hackler to wear to his first meeting in Maplewood, N.J. \n MAPLEWOOD, N.J. >> A New Jersey boy has become the first openly transgender member of the Boy Scouts one week after the Boy Scouts of America changed its policy to allow transgender children to join the organization. \n \"I am accepted,\" Joe Maldonado said Tuesday night as he put on a Cub Scout uniform. \n The 9-year-old joined Pack 20 in Maplewood following the organization's decision to allow transgender scouts, The Record reported (http://bit.ly/2lqlgPh). Maldonado had been banned from a Cub Scout group in Secaucus before the policy change. \n \"This is fun; I'm so proud,\" he said during the meeting. \n Scout leader Kyle Hackler taught Maldonado the Cub Scout salute and oath. \n \"This means you're the same as Scouts all over the world,\" Hackler told Maldonado. \n The scout's mother, Kristie, said she was \"proud of the fight\" she had put up after the Northern New Jersey Council of Boy Scouts last year told her Joe would not be allowed to continue to be a member of Pack 87 in Secaucus. \n The Boy Scouts changed their policy of referring to the gender on birth certificates to determine eligibility last week after Maldonado's story gained national attention. \n The Boy Scouts of America decided in 2013 \u2014 after heated debate \u2014 to allow openly gay youth as scouts. The Scouts lifted a blanket ban on gay troop leaders and employees in July 2015 amid intense pressure. \n The national Girl Scouts organization, which is not affiliated with the Boy Scouts, has accepted transgender members for years. \n The Boy Scouts released a statement welcoming the Maldonado family. \"Moving forward, the BSA will continue to work to bring the benefits of our programs to as many children, families and communities as possible,\" the statement said. \n Maldonado told the newspaper she had decided to bring her son to Maplewood because she did not want to go back to Secaucus, where she said scouting officials told her some parents had complained last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Boy Scouts welcome first transgender boy after policy change"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2006 \n Hawaiian music legend Palani Vaughan died at age 72. \n Hawaiian music legend Palani Vaughan died of natural causes, according to the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office. \n Vaughan, 72, died Dec. 8 from a heart complication called amyloidosis, a condition of abnormal protein build-up that affects the function of organs. \n He is best known for his four-album series honoring King David Kalakaua that portrayed Kalakaua's commitment to perpetuating traditional Hawaiian culture. \n In 1978, he won the Na Hoku Hanohano Awards' Best Traditional Album and Best Produced recording and was honored in 1981 as Male Vocalist of the Year. \n In 2006, Vaughan was honored with the Hawaii Academy of Recording Arts Lifetime Achievement Award. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Cause of death released for Hawaiian music legend Vaughan"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke to the Major County Sheriffs' Association and Major Cities Chiefs Association, today, in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today slammed the court that is deliberating his immigration and refugee executive order for having motivations he described as \"so political.\" \n Speaking to a group of police chiefs and sheriffs, Trump honed in on the language used in a provision detailing presidential powers to limit \"inadmissible aliens.\" \n The provision states that when a president finds that the entry of foreigners may be detrimental to U.S. interests, the president may \"suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate.\" \n \"It was written beautifully,\" Trump told the attendees, asserting that even \"a bad high school student would understand this.\" \n \"Courts seem to be so political and it would be so great for our justice system if they would be able to read a statement and do what's right,\" he added. \"And that has to do with the security of our country, which is so important.\" \n The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is weighing the appeal of Trump's executive order on immigration, which temporarily suspends the country's refugee program and bans travel for citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries. In a hearing Tuesday, judges on the appeals court challenged the administration's claim that the ban was motivated by terrorism fears, but also questioned an attorney's argument that it unconstitutionally targeted Muslims. \n Hundreds of members of the Major Cities Chiefs Association and Major County Sheriff's Association were in the standing room crowd, some in uniform but the majority in plain clothes. \n They snapped photos with their phones as the president spoke, but clapped sparingly when he asked whether they were in agreement with his views on the immigration ban. His comments about combatting drug abuse and the targeting of police officers drew a more enthusiastic response from the crowd. \n Trump, in his remarks, sought to link his comments about the court battle over his executive order to the law enforcement community in attendance. \n \"We have to allow you to do your job,\" he said. \"And we have to give you the weapons that you need, and this is a weapon that you need and they're trying to take it away from you.\" \n Trump also reiterated his vow to reduce violence in Chicago, saying that \"no one in America should be punished\" because of their birthplace. He pledged to provide resources to police departments and promised \"zero tolerance\" for violence against law enforcement. \n Trump also promised to work on combating drug abuse and said there should be resources to deal with a \"mental health crisis.\" \n Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump defends travel ban, questions judges"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Pedestrians on King Street made their way to University Avenue on Monday. \n A second cold front this week is expected to begin moving down the island chain late Friday, ushering in the possibility of another bout of windy and rainy weather this weekend, the National Weather Service said. \n Related: \n High surf warning in effect for most islands \n Behind the departing front, a drier air mass is settling over the islands and will usher in pleasant conditions and colder-than-normal nighttime temperatures through Thursday, the Weather Service said. \n Thursday night, impacts from the approaching cold front will begin reaching the islands. \n A rain band associated with the incoming front will reach Kauai Friday and move down the island chain through Sunday. Forecasters said there was a chance for \"widespread flooding over the smaller islands as the front moves through.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Approaching cold front may bring more wind and rain"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. reacted to being rebuked by the Senate leadership and accused of impugning a fellow senator, Attorney General-designate, Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., today, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image from Senate Television, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., speaks on the floor of the U.S. Senate in Washington, Monday, about the nomination of Betsy DeVos to be Education Secretary. \n WASHINGTON >> The turbulent national debate over race, gender and free speech consumed the normally staid Senate today after the GOP majority voted to silence Sen. Elizabeth Warren, abruptly elevating her celebrity status at a moment when liberals are hungry for a leader to take on Donald Trump. \n The highly unusual rebuke of the Massachusetts Democrat came as the Senate weighed President Donald Trump's nominee for attorney general, GOP Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, who seemed headed toward a nearly party-line confirmation this evening. It also gave frustrated Democrats a rallying cry weeks into a presidency that is dividing the country like few before. \n \"I certainly hope that this anti-free-speech attitude is not traveling down Pennsylvania Avenue to our great chamber,\" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York warned darkly as Democrats jumped at an opening to link the GOP's conduct to that of Trump himself. \"This is not what America is about \u2014 silencing speech, especially in this chamber.\" \n \"I hope that maybe we've all been chastened a little bit,\" chided the No. 2 Senate Republican, John Cornyn of Texas. \"We're at a pretty challenging time in our nation's history when many people who were surprised and disappointed at the last election are unwilling to accept the results. \u2026 I only hope that after the passage of some time they will return to their senses.\" \n But the debate immediately took on overtones of race and gender. Warren was rebuked as she was reading a letter by Martin Luther King Jr's widow, Coretta Scott King, opposing Sessions' ultimately unsuccessful nomination to a federal judgeship in 1986. Subsequently, several male senators stood up and read from the same letter but without drawing objections, leading Democratic activists to proclaim that Senate Republicans were interested only in silencing a woman. \n The moment inspired a Twitter hashtag, #LetLizSpeak, and clips from C-SPAN2 went viral. \"By silencing Elizabeth Warren, the GOP gave women around the world a rallying cry,\" fellow Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris of California said over Twitter. \n Warren was chastised under a little-used Senate regulation, Rule 19, which bars any senator from impugning the motives of any other or imputing \"any conduct or motive unworthy or becoming of a senator.\" The Senate historian's office could not immediately say when the rule was last invoked, but Democrats accused Republicans of selectively enforcing it. They noted the GOP did not apply it when, for example, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas accused Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of lying in relation to a dispute over the Export-Import Bank two years ago. \n This time, Warren drew a warning from the presiding officer as she quoted Tuesday evening from a letter written by the late Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts that referred to Sessions as \"a disgrace.\" She continued with her speech, and began quoting from Coretta Scott King's letter and an accompanying statement that accused Sessions, a federal prosecutor at the time, of using the power of his office to \"chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens.\" \n Democrats are portraying Sessions as a threat to civil rights, voting rights and immigration; Republicans have defended Trump's choice to be the top law enforcement officer as a man of integrity who will be an independent voice in the new administration. \n McConnell stood and invoked Rule 19, saying that Warren has \"impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from Alabama\" in quoting the words from Mrs. King. \n Warren, meanwhile, seen as a possible presidential candidate in 2020 along with a handful of other Senate colleagues, was given an even bigger platform to assail Sessions, the GOP and Trump. \n \"This is about Coretta Scott King's letter. And that's all this is about,\" Warren said after finishing more than an hour's worth of television interviews in the ornate rotunda of a Senate office building. \"And Mitch McConnell didn't want me to read that letter. He stopped me. And so I went out and read the letter anyway and posted it on a live feed.\" \n Democrats challenged McConnell's ruling, but the GOP majority voted to uphold it, barring Warren from speaking on the floor throughout the remainder of the debate over Sessions. \n \"She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted,\" McConnell said in words that sparked still more liberal outrage and Twitter hashtags. \n In the aftermath, Democrats expressed outrage that Warren had been silenced while quoting from the words of a civil rights hero, as a party that's struggled over the best way to challenge Trump found something all could agree on. \n Associated Press writer Andrew Taylor contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP elevates Warren's standing by ordering her silenced"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo provided by the Presidential Photographers Division, Malacanang Palace, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, left, berates erring policemen during an audience at the Presidential Palace grounds in Manila on Tuesday. \n MANILA >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte berated more than 200 policemen accused of a variety of offenses, threatening on national television Tuesday that he would send them to a southern island to fight militants dreaded for beheading captives. \n Duterte's expletive-filled outburst against the officers at Manila's presidential palace was his latest tirade against a police force that he has called \"rotten to the core.\" He recently banned the national police from carrying out his anti-drug campaign after a group of officers used the crackdown as a cover to kidnap and kill a South Korean man in an extortion scandal. \n The 228 policemen from metropolitan Manila are accused of a range of administrative and criminal offenses, including extortion and illegal arrests. Some have tested positive for drug use, regional police spokeswoman Inspector Kimberly Molitas said. \n Duterte, a longtime crime-busting city mayor and government prosecutor who ran after erring policemen and soldiers before he rose to the presidency last June, said he had wanted to punish the policemen by ordering them to clear the murky Pasig River by the presidential palace of water lilies, but that the river was clear of lilies. \n So he ordered them instead to prepare in two weeks for a two-year deployment to Basilan Island, the birthplace of the brutal Abu Sayyaf extremist group, where he said some police stations have been blown up by the terrorists. \n \"If you survive, come back here,\" Duterte told the policemen, who were made to stand in the sun before him outside the Malacanang palace. \"If you die there, I'll tell the police not to spend to bring you here and just bury you there.\" \n Duterte said the policemen can opt to resign but warned them about getting involved in criminal syndicates like some former police and military personnel. \n \"I will create a battalion just to keep track of your movements because it has been the sad experience of this country that the most vicious criminals are mostly ex-police or sometimes, ex-military men,\" he told the policemen, their heads bowed, threatening them with death if they venture into crime. \n \"Sorry, I won't think twice, you would really be the ones to go down in extrajudicial killings,\" said Duterte, who stood beside top police officials. \n Some rogue policemen have mulcted street vendors and ordinary Filipinos, while others have killed drug dealers, seized and sold their methamphetamine, a strongly addictive stimulant locally known as shabu, then pocketed the money, Duterte said. \n \"If you're mad at me, wait until my presidency ends, then let's go into a gunbattle,\" said the president, who started his six-year term in June. \n Duterte abruptly ended his talk to lead a Cabinet meeting, but asked the policemen to wait for him under the sun. \n More than 7,000 suspected drug dealers and addicts had been killed in Duterte's anti-drug crackdown before he prohibited the 170,000-strong police force from serving as the main enforcer of the campaign last week amid the scandal over the South Korean businessman's murder. \n Troops will be tapped to temporarily replace the policemen, Duterte said, prompting human rights groups to express alarm due to what they say is the military's equally notorious image. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine leader angrily scolds 228 police officers on TV"}

{"date": "February 8, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This combination file photo shows Donald Trump, right, stands on the 14th fairway during a pro-am round of the AT&T National golf tournament at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Md. on June 27, 2012, and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left, playing golf in Yamanakako village, west of Tokyo, on July 23, 2016. \n TOKYO >> Japan is charting its own course to deal with a radically different U.S. president, an approach that will be tested at the end of this week when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe meets Donald Trump in the White House and on the golf course in Florida. \n Some other leaders of America's closest neighbors and allies, from Mexico to the United Kingdom, have been singed by their encounters with Trump. Japanese officials are optimistic the invitation to visit Trump's \"Winter White House,\" an exclusive club he owns in Palm Beach, signals a more positive outcome. \n \"We hope that the two leaders can deepen relations and trust in Florida,\" Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in announcing the trip. \n Abe, who departs Thursday, has moved quickly since the U.S. election to try to win Trump over. He was the only world leader to meet him before the inauguration, and will be the second to do so since Trump took office, after British Prime Minister Theresa May. Abe and Trump hold talks in Washington, D.C., on Friday before flying to the president's Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida. \n \"We're going to have a round of golf, which is a great thing,\" Trump told a sports radio interviewer, according to a transcript released Sunday by the White House. \"That's the one thing about golf. You get to know somebody better on a golf course than you will over lunch.\" \n In a culture where gift-giving is often obligatory, Japan also may come bearing presents. Abe gave the president-elect a high-end golf driver at their November meeting in New York. This time, according to media reports, the government is trying to put together a package of investments and loans that would create jobs in America. \n \"They think that they have to bring something to please Mr. Trump, because his pledge is America first, and bring all the employment to the United States, as well as business investment to the United States,\" said Mieko Nakabayashi, a former lawmaker who teaches at Waseda University in Tokyo. \n The strategy seems to be an update of Japan's playbook from the U.S.-Japan trade wars in the 1980s and 1990s, said Aurelia George Mulgan, a Japan expert at the Canberra campus of the University of New South Wales in Australia. \n \"Japanese prime ministers and ministers often went to the United States \u2026 bearing a package of such offerings,\" she wrote in a commentary posted online Wednesday. \"Gift diplomacy could also be twinned with the tactic of substitution compensation, where Japan would not agree with a particular U.S. demand but would offer some other kind of concession instead.\" \n She added in an email exchange that the golf outing may help Abe replicate another element of the 1980s: the close \"Ron-Yasu\" relationship that then-Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone built with President Ronald Reagan. \n The outreach to Trump carries risks. \n \"Frankly, I have doubts about the idea of him playing golf,\" Makoto Koga, a retired lawmaker from Abe's party, said on a weekly TV political talk show last weekend. \"It may not be necessarily a good idea to get too close or friendly with someone like Mr. Trump, who seems to be impulsive or simple-minded.\" \n Britain's May was criticized at home for inviting Trump to visit, shortly before Trump announced a travel ban on people from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull are smarting from phone calls with Trump. Nieto canceled his planned visit over a disagreement about the wall Trump has pledged to build along the U.S.-Mexico border. \n Trump has attacked Japan's trade and exchange rate policies, and during the campaign, demanded that Japan and other allies pay more of the cost of stationing U.S. troops in their countries. \n Japan's has responded firmly but politely, taking issue with Trump's assertions when it disagrees, but avoiding comment on issues such as the travel ban. \n As the meeting with Trump approaches, it is the unpredictability of America's new leader that worries government officials and analysts the most. \n \"We never know whether Mr. Trump would do some kind of a surprise,\" Nakabayashi said. \"And we're not sure whether Mr. Abe is prepared for that.\" \n ___ \n Associated Press writer Mari Yamaguchi contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "With golf and gifts, Japan's Abe cuts own path with Trump"}

