{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People watch from the other side of the La Digue river as water roars past the destroyed Petit Goave bridge, as Hurricane Matthew passes over, in Petit Goave, Haiti, Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016. \n PETIT-GOAVE, Haiti >> Hurricane Matthew churned toward the Bahamas early Wednesday with a spreading mix of high winds, heavy rains and a dangerous storm surge, leaving widespread damage and human suffering behind in Haiti's poor, rural southwestern peninsula. \n At least 11 deaths had been blamed on the powerful storm during its weeklong march across the Caribbean, five of them in Haiti. But with a key bridge washed out, roads impassable and phone communications down, the western tip of Haiti was isolated and there was no word on dead and injured. \n Forecasters said the high winds, pounding rains and storm surge were already beginning to have an impact in the southern Bahamas as the powerful Category 3 hurricane left Haiti and eastern Cuba behind and marched toward the island chain over open waters Wednesday. \n A day earlier, Matthew swept across a remote area of Haiti with 145 mph winds, and government leaders said they weren't close to fully gauging the impact in the vulnerable, flood-prone country where less powerful storms have killed thousands. \n \"What we know is that many, many houses have been damaged. Some lost rooftops and they'll have to be replaced while others were totally destroyed,\" Interior Minister Francois Anick Joseph said. \n The hurricane also had made landfall Tuesday night near Cuba's sparsely populated eastern tip with no immediate reports of major damage. \n By Wednesday it was moving again over open waters on a forecast path expected to take it very near Florida's Atlantic coast by Thursday evening. \n At 5 a.m. EDT (0900 GMT) Matthew's eye was about 65 miles (110 kilometers) north-northwest of the tip of eastern Cuba. Matthew had top sustained winds of 125 mph (205 kph) and was heading north at 10 mph (17 kph) as it was taking aim at the Bahamas. \n Tropical storm conditions began spreading over the southeastern Bahamas early Wednesday, with hurricane conditions expected to follow later, the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said. \n Bahamas Prime Minister Perry Christie voiced concern about the potential impact on the sprawling archipelago off Florida's east coast. \n \"We're worried because we do not control nature,\" he said. \n The hurricane center said winds had slightly decreased overnight as Matthew dropped from a Category 4 to a still powerful Category 3 storm early Wednesday. But forecasters warned such fluctuations in intensity were expected and that Matthew would remain a powerful and dangerous storm over coming days. \n There was growing concern on the U.S. East Coast, which was expected to come under threat after Matthew made a two-day surge up the length of the Bahamas. People raced to supermarkets, gas stations and hardware stores, buying up groceries, water, plywood, tarps, batteries and propane. \n Florida Gov. Rick Scott urged coastal residents to prepare for the possibility of a direct hit and line up three days' worth of food, water and medicine. The White House said relief supplies were being moved to emergency staging areas in the Southeast. \n South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said she would issue an evacuation order Wednesday so 1 million people would have time to leave the coast. The Red Cross put out a call for volunteers there. \n In Haiti, where international aid efforts were stymied Tuesday because of the lack of access to the hardest-hit areas, many residents of flooded areas seen by Associated Press reporters were wading through shin-high waters. \n Muddy rivers and tributaries continued to rise as water flowed down hillsides and mountains, making more flash floods and mudslides possible even Matthew tracked away from the country. \n Matthew was at one point a Category 5 storm, making it the most powerful hurricane in the region in nearly a decade. It blew ashore around dawn Tuesday in Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and a place where many people live in shacks of wood or concrete blocks. \n Mourad Wahba, U.N. secretary-general's deputy special representative for Haiti, said at least 10,000 people were in shelters and hospitals were overflowing and running short of water. Wahba's statement called the hurricane's destruction the \"largest humanitarian event\" in Haiti since the devastating earthquake of January 2010. \n Surging waters ripped away a bridge in the flooded town of Petit Goave, preventing any road travel to the hard-hit southwest. Local radio reported water shoulder high in parts of the southern city of Les Cayes. \n Milriste Nelson, a 65-year-old farmer in the town of Leogane, said neighbors fled when the wind tore away the corrugated metal roof on their home. His own small yard was strewn with the fruit he depends on for his livelihood. \n \"All the banana trees, all the mangos, everything is gone,\" Nelson said as he boiled breadfruit over a charcoal fire. \"This country is going to fall deeper into misery.\" \n Haitian authorities had tried to evacuate people from the most vulnerable areas ahead of the storm, but many were reluctant to leave their homes. Some sought shelter only after the worst was already upon them. \n Rainfall totals were predicted to reach 15 to 25 inches in Haiti, with up to 40 inches in isolated places. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Ben Fox and Jennifer Kay in Miami, Evens Sanon and Dieu Nalio Chery in Haiti, Ramon Espinosa in Baracoa, Cuba, and Joshua Replogle in the Bahamas contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bahamas next up for Matthew after destructive path in Haiti"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED ORESS \n An Amazon Echo sits on a table in New York. The gadget, which listens to you, answers questions and carries out tasks like calling an Uber or turning on your lights, is finding a place in millions of living rooms. However, it will soon face competition from Google and Apple. \n NEW YORK >> Does your home really need a \"smart speaker\" that can answer questions, call you an Uber, turn off the lights or play music when you ask? You may be about to find out. \n Two years ago, Amazon introduced the Amazon Echo, an unassuming, $180 cylinder that sits atop a kitchen counter or bookshelf, acting as a personal assistant that listens to you and does your bidding. Initially, the gadget's main purpose was a little difficult to discern . But Echo and its Alexa voice recognition software have since become a sleeper hit, with an estimated 3 million gadgets sold as of April, according to research firm Consumer Intelligence Research Partners. \n MAKING THE HOME \"SMART\" \n Now the Echo is getting some company. On Tuesday, Google announced a similar smart speaker called Google Home, which will be available in November for $129. It will perform many of the same tasks as Echo, including playing music and fielding questions plus controlling compatible lights and appliances. The Google Assistant that works with Home will also be able to access your calendar, Google Maps and other services if you allow. \n Apple has opened up its Siri personal assistant so that third-party developers can create new features for it, much the way Amazon has done with its Alexa software. Google Assistant is also opening up to outside apps in December. Sony is working on Xperia Agent , a digital assistant that connects to devices in the home. \n All these companies are chasing the smart-home market, which could grow to be a $71 billion global industry by 2018, up from $33 billion in 2013 and $25 billion in 2012, according to Juniper Research. That's growing fast, although it's still much smaller than the smartphone market, which the research firm IDC valued at about $412 billion in 2015. \n But while the Echo carved out an early success, it remains to be seen whether voice-recognition smart speakers will truly break into the mainstream. \"They're early, (but) the market is early, and we have a long way to go,\" said David Smith, an analyst at research firm Gartner. \n LEARNING NEW SKILLS \n One key to the Echo's success was Amazon's willingness to work with third-party developers, allowing it to add new functions each week, making it easy for owners of the speaker to discover new ways to use it. (It launched with a few dozen so-called 'skills' and now has thousands). \n \"Initially we got it for music,\" said Brian Bishop, a business analyst in Tomball, Texas, whose family uses two Echos. \"Later, when it controlled the lights and fans and outlets, that just made it even better.\" \n Interest in smart homes appears to be rising as more people become enamored with their smartphones. A recent online survey of more than 4,600 adults in the U.S. by Forrester Research's Technographics found 57 percent of them either had used or were interested in using a smart home device such as lights or thermostats designed for remote control. \n The Echo's hands-free operation filled an undiscovered niche in the smart-home universe. Users can just say the wake word \"Alexa\" and direct it to do a task like turn on lights or set a timer. Since you don't need to use a smartphone or tablet, that sets it apart from other smart home systems like those offered by Samsung or Apple. \n SPEAK TO ME \n People seem to have an easier time talking to a speaker that has no other interface than they do talking to a smartphone. \n \"I've never used Cortana. I don't use Google and my wife doesn't use Siri, but everybody talks to Alexa,\" Bishop from Texas said. \"I couldn't really tell you why. That was the only way to communicate, so we all got in the habit.\" \n Buck Wise, an advertising executive in Portland, Oregon, tried several variants of smart home systems, but said the Echo worked best for him because of the hands-free speaker. He has lights, blinds, and his garage door synced with the Echo. \n \"Alexa truly is the brain of our home and it would feel like 100 steps backwards to get through a day without her,\" Wise said. \n What won him over? Commanding the device just by speaking \u2014 and without having to fire up an app \u2014 basically did the trick, he said. \n BIG AMBITIONS \n Google has a lot of catching up to do. Amazon first hinted at its Echo ambitions in a Super Bowl ad featuring Alec Baldwin and seen by more than 100 million people. \n Beginning in April the Echo went on sale at retail outlets including Best Buy, Home Depot electronic stores such as RadioShack and others. The same month, Amazon opened up its smart home capabilities to let all developers of smart home functions integrate with Alexa. It's also launched two other Echo-like devices, the smaller $50 Dot \u2014 which it now sells in six-packs so people can have one in every room \u2014 and the portable $100 Tap, to give Alexa even broader reach. \n Dave Limp, Amazon's senior vice president for devices, says the goal is for Alexa to keep getting smarter as it continues to build new \"skills\" over the coming years. \"The hope is you can ask Alexa anything and it will be able to respond correctly, quickly and be able to be there,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Smart speakers' are angling to colonize your living room"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "Electrical power was restored to 5,440 customers in Waianae, Nanakuli, Makaha and Wahiawa this morning, according to Hawaiian Electric Co. \n The outage was first reported at 6:40 p.m.Tuesday and power was restored at 1 a.m. Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HECO restores power to customers in Leeward, Central Oahu"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Rev. Catherine Brown, left, speaks in favor of the Chicago Police Accountability Council (CPAC) at City Hall as the Public Safety Committee gets ready to vote on COPA, a new police oversight board, Monday. \n CHICAGO >> Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel's plan to create a new agency to investigate police shootings and misconduct allegations is moving toward approval, even as critics say it's not strong enough to keep a close eye on a police force with a reputation for brutality. \n After months of community hearings, a City Council committee on Tuesday voted to recommend the new agency be approved by the full council on Wednesday. \n It would replace the Independent Police Review Authority, which was discredited by long delays in completing investigations that nearly always sided with officers. \n Chicago police have been criticized since the release of a video showing the 2014 death of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager shot 16 times by a white police officer. The video sparked protests and calls for Emanuel to resign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago council considers Emanuel's plan for police probes"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hong Kong student pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong shouts slogans outside a magistrate's court in Hong Kong. Wong has been detained by Thai officials after arriving to give a talk at a university, his political party said. Demosisto said in a Facebook post that the party was unable to contact Wong after he arrived at Bangkok's main airport. \n BANGKOK >> Thai authorities, reportedly acting on a request from Beijing, detained a Hong Kong teen pro-democracy activist on his arrival at Bangkok's airport in the latest sign of what rights groups said Wednesday is China pressuring neighbors as it tries to quash dissent at home and overseas. \n Demosisto said in a Facebook post that the party was unable to contact Joshua Wong after he arrived at Bangkok's main airport late Tuesday on his way to give a talk at a university. \n The group said it got word early Wednesday from a Thai student activist who was expected to meet Wong that he had been detained at Suvarnabhumi Airport after Thai authorities received a request from the Chinese government about his visit. \n Wong, who turns 20 next week, was one of the high-profile student leaders behind the huge pro-democracy street protests two years ago that marked the former British colony's most turbulent period since China took control in 1997. In August, a Hong Kong court sentenced him to community service for his role in the protests, which closed down parts of the city for months. \n There was no immediate comment from Thai authorities. \n \"Demosist strongly condemns the Thai government for unreasonably limiting Wong's freedom and right to entry, and requests the immediate release of Wong,\" the party's Facebook post said. \n The Thai student activist who was to have met Wong, Netiwit Chotipatpaisal, said in a Facebook post that Wong had \"been confined at the immigration in Thailand because there's a request from Chinese government to Thai authority.\" \n He did not immediately give any proof of such a request. \n \"I have not had a chance to speak to Wong since he was detained at the airport. I was told that he is still at the airport in Bangkok but will not be allowed in and will soon be deported,\" Netiwit said. \n Wong was also turned back in May 2015 when trying to enter Malaysia to speak at seminars in four cities. Malaysian officials said Wong was banned from entering the country but did not explain why. \n The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Public Security did not immediately respond to faxed questions. \n Wong's party, Demosisto, which was founded earlier this year, advocates a referendum on \"self-determination\" on the future status of Hong Kong, which is in the middle of a 50-year transition period to Chinese rule. \n Human rights activists called for Wong's release. \n \"Thailand's arrest of Joshua Wong, a well-known pro-democracy activist in Hong Kong, sadly suggests that Bangkok is willing to do Beijing's bidding. Wong should be freed immediately and allowed to travel and exercise his right to free expression,\" said Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch. \n Two years ago, Wong became one of the most prominent leaders of massive pro-democracy protests that shut down major thoroughfares in Hong Kong for 11 weeks. He and other youthful demonstrators demanded that the government drop a Beijing-backed plan to restrict elections for the city's top leader, but their movement fizzled out after authorities refused to grant concessions. \n Wong was scheduled to give a talk at Chulalongkorn University about a new generation of political activism. Last month, Demosisto scored a stunning Hong Kong election victory when its candidate, 23-year-old Nathan Law, won a seat in the legislature. Wong was unable to join the race because he is still too young, according to election rules. \n The rejection of Wong comes during a politically sensitive time in Thailand, which has been run by the military since they seized power in a 2014 coup. The government has shown zero tolerance for dissent and has cracked down hard on its own student activists who have protested the military rule. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "HK party says Joshua Wong has been detained in Thailand"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tulsa police officer Betty Shelby, right, is escorted from the Tulsa County Sheriff's office into a courtroom with her attorney Shannon McMurray, left, in Tulsa, Okla., Shelby is charged with first degree manslaughter in the Sept. 16, 2016 killing of Terence Crutcher. \n TULSA, Okla. >> Attorneys for a white Oklahoma police officer who killed an unarmed black man are asking in court records for investigators to keep as evidence a handgun that an anonymous tipster claims the man fired a day before the fatal shooting. \n Tulsa police officer Betty Jo Shelby is charged with first-degree manslaughter in the Sept. 16 shooting of 40-year-old Terence Crutcher. Shelby shot Crutcher after she arrived on a street to find Crutcher's SUV stopped in the middle of the road. Shelby has pleaded not guilty and is on unpaid leave. \n One of Shelby's lawyers, Shannon McMurray, said Tuesday that a man called last week and claimed Crutcher was seen Sept. 15 walking on a different street and firing a gun, and that police were notified and recovered a gun left in the road. \n \"What, if any, material value (the gun) has is to be determined at a later date,\" McMurray said. \"We don't know, but both sides look at every piece of potential evidence to include and exclude. Otherwise, we wouldn't be doing our jobs.\" \n Police found the gun more than 2 miles from where Crutcher was shot the next day. It's not clear whether anyone was harmed in the alleged gun-firing incident. \n Police spokeswoman Jeanne MacKenzie declined comment Tuesday. Police Chief Chuck Jordan has said that Crutcher did not have a gun on his body or in his SUV when he was shot. \n Damario Solomon-Simmons, an attorney for Crutcher's family, said Shelby's defense team is trying to divert attention from the fact that Crutcher is seen without a weapon and with his hands up on videos from a dashboard patrol car and a police helicopter. \n \"It is sad, but not surprising, that Officer Shelby's counsel continues to promote irrelevant information in an attempt to distract from undisputed facts that Officer Shelby shot and killed Terence Crutcher without provocation or justification,\" he said in a statement Tuesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oklahoma officer's attorneys want handgun kept as evidence"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "Hawaii public school students made slight gains over last year in English language arts and math on the Smarter Balanced Assessment, according to test results released tonight by the state Department of Education.\u00a0 \n More than 90,000 Hawaii students took the more rigorous Common Core-aligned test this spring. The assessment satisfies federal requirements that students be tested annually in reading and math in grades 3 through 8 and once in high school. \n Overall, 51 percent of students met or exceeded the achievement standards in English language arts, the DOE said in a news release. That's up from 48 percent of students the previous year \u2014 the first year Hawaii students took the Smarter Balanced exams. \n Meanwhile, 42 percent of students met or exceeded the achievement benchmarks in math, compared with 41 percent of students the year prior. \n Within the seven individual grades tested, all grade levels saw improvements over the previous year in students testing proficient in language arts. On the math portion of the test, all but two grade levels \u2014 7th and 8th \u2014 saw increases or maintained proficiency levels. \n \"The second year of results show incremental improvements and our second year of data provides a solid foundation for comparisons moving forward,\" schools Superintendent Kathryn Matayoshi said in a statement. \"Our schools are invested in the higher standards of this test and we hope to build on our momentum each year to ensure that our students are prepared for college, careers and community life after high school.\" \n In language arts, the state's fifth- and 11th-graders performed best, with 56 percent of students in both grades meeting or exceeding benchmarks. On the opposite end, 47 percent of seventh-graders tested proficient in language arts. In math, the state's third-graders performed best, with 54 percent of students meeting or exceeding standards, while just 30 percent of 11th-graders tested proficient in math. \n The Smarter Balanced tests two years ago replaced the Hawaii State Assessment and are designed to emphasize critical thinking, problem solving and analytical thinking over rote memorization. Students are required to show how they reached their answers, and if they answer correctly, they get a more difficult question. \n Seventeen states and the Bureau of Indian Affairs administered the exam in the spring. The tests are seen by some as advantageous because they can provide an \"apples-to-apples\" comparison of student performance among participating states. \n Test scores compiled by the DOE from 10 other states that have so far released results show Hawaii students in grades 3 through 8 performed similarly or better than five other states in math, and better than three other states in language arts. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "English, math assessment scores up for Hawaii students"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Yahoo reportedly scanned hundreds of millions of email accounts at the behest of U.S. intelligence or law enforcement. The scans reportedly selected messages that contained a string of unknown characters. \n NEW YORK >> Yahoo scanned hundreds of millions of incoming emails at the behest of U.S. intelligence or law enforcement, according to a report published Tuesday. \n The internet company conducted the surveillance last year after receiving a classified demand from the National Security Agency or the FBI, Reuters said in its story. The report cited three former Yahoo employees and another unidentified person familiar with the matter. \n Those individuals told Reuters that the government pushed Yahoo to search for a string of letters, numbers or other characters. That meant the fishing expedition could have involved finding a specific phrase or code in the text of an email or an attachment. \n NON-DENIALS AND DENIALS \n Yahoo built a special software program to comply with the government's request, according to Reuters. \n The Sunnyvale, California, company did not deny the report in a Tuesday statement that described itself as a company \"that complies with the laws of the United States.\" The Department of Justice and the FBI did not immediately respond to requests for comment. \n Google, whose Gmail is the world's largest email service, said Tuesday that it hadn't received a similar spying request from the request from the U.S. government. If it had, Google said, its response would be, \"No way.\" \n Microsoft, whose email service also is larger than Yahoo's, also said it has \"never engaged in the secret scanning of email traffic.\" Twitter, which doesn't provide email service but does allow users to exchange direct messages, likewise said it has never received such a request and would challenge it in court if it did. \n YAHOO'S LATEST EMAIL PROBLEM \n The report will likely test the bounds of Yahoo users' already stressed loyalty. \n Yahoo late last month disclosed that hackers had broken into at least 500 million user accounts to steal email addresses, birthdates, phone numbers and passwords. That theft, the biggest breach ever at an email provider, occurred in 2014 when Yahoo's security was run by Alex Stamos, who now holds a similar job at Facebook. \n The cooperation with the government's spying on emails created a rift between Stamos and Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer, prompting Stamos to leave in June 2015, according to Reuters. \n Questions over Yahoo's stewardship of user email could threaten the company's deal to sell its online operations to Verizon Communications for $4.8 billion. \n Verizon could renegotiate the terms or call the deal entirely if it the fallout from the massive hacking attack drives Yahoo users away from its email and other services, such as news, finance and sports. \n After news of the breach broke last month, Verizon said it intended to act in its best interests without elaborating. Verizon had no comment on the Reuters report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Yahoo gave U.S. intel agencies access to email"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "A 42-year-old Kalihi man is in custody after he allegedly assaulted a police officer Monday who was trying to arrest him following a fight. \n The incident occurred at 12:20 p.m. at a Meyers Street home after the suspect allegedly punched a 40-year-old woman several times in the face, threw her on a bed and choked her. \n Besides being arrested on suspicion of first-degree assault of a law enforcement officer, the suspect also faces charges of abuse, resisting arrest and several outstanding contempt warrants. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi man accused of assaulting officer trying to arrest him after fight"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican vice-presidential nominee Gov. Mike Pence, right, and Democratic vice-presidential nominee Sen. Tim Kaine stand before the audience during the vice-presidential debate at Longwood University in Farmville, Va. today. \n FARMVILLE, Va. >> Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine aggressively challenged Indiana Gov. Mike Pence over a long list of Donald Trump's controversial positions and statements tonight, drawing a vigorous defense from the Republican No. 2 on Trump's tax history. But Pence left Trump's demeaning comments about women, Barack Obama's citizenship and broader questions about temperament go largely unchallenged. \n Pence and Kaine, who have received little attention in a race focused on Trump and Hillary Clinton, faced off for 90 minutes in the only vice presidential debate of the campaign. \n With the close White House race perhaps starting to tip in Clinton's favor, Pence outlined a detailed conservative agenda on tax policy, entitlements and immigration. He was strikingly more prepared and more detailed in his answers than Trump was in last week's first presidential debate. He was also more consistent in painting the Democratic ticket as career politicians unwilling to shake up Washington. \n \"Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want more of the same,\" Pence said. \n There was a striking difference in the two men's manner. Kaine, Clinton's usually easygoing No. 2, went on the attack from the start, repeatedly interrupting and challenging Pence. Pence, an equally genial politician, was unflappable. \n Kaine pressured Pence to answer for some of his running mate's provocative statements, using Trump's own words such as dismissing some women as pigs or slobs. He also challenged Pence on Trump's decision to break with decades of campaign tradition by not releasing his taxes. \n \"Donald Trump must give the American public his tax returns to show he's prepared to be president, and he's breaking his promise,\" Kaine said. \n Asked about reports that Trump might not have paid any federal taxes for years, Pence said his running mate \"used the tax code just the way it's supposed to be used, and he did it brilliantly.\" \n Records obtained by The New York Times showed Trump suffered more than $900 million in losses in 1995 that could have allowed him to avoid paying federal income taxes for as many as 18 years. \n Kaine, too, defended his running mate's weaknesses, chiefly the public's questions about her honesty and trustworthiness. He said that while Trump was \"selfish,\" Clinton had devoted her career to helping children and families. \n On national security, Kaine revived Trump's frequently flattering comments about Russian President Vladimir Putin. \n \"He loves dictators,\" Kaine said. \"He's got like a personal Mount Rushmore: Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong Un, Moammar Gadhafi and Saddam Hussein.\" \n Pence tried to flip the tables by accusing Kaine's running mate of stoking Russia's belligerence. \n \"The weak and feckless foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama has awaked an aggression in Russia that first appeared in Russia a few years ago,\" Pence said. \"All the while, all we do is fold our arms and say we're not having talks anymore.\" \n On criminal justice, Kaine argued that Trump's embrace of \"stop and frisk\" style policing was a mistake. Pence argued that Clinton has used police shootings to argue that there is \"implicit bias\" in police departments, and he said the Democrats should \"stop seizing on these moments of tragedy.\" \n Kaine quickly shot back: \"I can't believe you are defending the position that there's no bias.\" \n Kaine and Pence are far less familiar to most Americans than their running mates, who are among the most well-known figures in the country. Both vice presidential candidates have spent years in politics, are well-liked by colleagues and are deeply religious. \n While their performances were unlikely to dramatically change the way voters view Trump and Clinton, the nationally televised debate was nevertheless a spotlight opportunity for to introduce themselves to Americans, energize party loyalists and potentially sway the shrinking pool of undecided voters. \n Today's debate was the only time Kaine and Pence will face off in this election, while Trump and Clinton tangle in three debates. \n Clinton was widely viewed as the winner of her opening debate with Trump, rattling the real estate mogul with jabs about his business record and demeaning statements about women, and responding to his attacks with calm rejoinders. New public opinion polls have showed her improving her standing in nearly all battleground states. \n At least some of Clinton's bounce is likely attributable to Trump's conduct coming out of the debate. He redoubled his criticism of a beauty queen and her weight, one of the topics Clinton raised in the debate, and went on a pre-dawn Twitter tirade trying to disparage the former Miss Universe. \n While Trump has five weeks until Election Day to regain his footing, early voting is already underway in some states. \n The vice presidential showdown at Virginia's Longwood University was moderated by Elaine Quijano of CBS News. While last week's first presidential debate was watched by a record-setting television audience of 84 million people, Tuesday's contest was expected to have smaller viewership given Pence and Kaine's lower profiles in the campaign. \n Trump watched the debate from his Las Vegas hotel and couldn't resist a piece of the night's spotlight, promising to live-tweet the proceedings from his famed Twitter account. \n He weighed in with a few short thoughts \u2014 including \"Both are looking good! Now we begin!\" and then \"@mike_pence is doing a great job \u2013 so far, no contest!\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kaine attacks, Pence fights back in VP debate"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 6, 1953, file photo, four school children watch a teacher giving them a lesson via television at home in Baltimore, Md. TV was key to the world baby boomers were born into: a newly modernized world whose every problem (with the possible exception of the Cold War) seemed to promise an available solution. \n NEW YORK >> Unlike baby boomers, television has no birth certificate. \n TV's arrival, depending on how you see it, can be marked at any of a number of moments in the last century. \n Maybe 1927, when 21-year-old Philo Farnsworth transmitted the image of a horizontal line to a receiver in the next room of his San Francisco lab. \n Or maybe 1939, when the RCA Television Pavilion opened at the New York World's Fair with the exciting news that RCA's National Broadcasting Co. would expand from radio into TV, and, to spread the word, telecast the ceremony to the scattering of 2,000 TV sets throughout all of New York City. \n But the handiest year for TV's genesis is 1946 \u2014 when technology, optimism and renewed consumer buying power joined forces at World War II's conclusion and gave broadcast television a belated kick-start. \n By chance (or is it?), the same year that ushered in the TV age is also seen as the kickoff for the baby-boom generation \u2014 the population boom of kids born between 1946 and 1964. \n TV was key to the world baby boomers were born into: a newly modernized world where every problem (with the possible exception of the Cold War) seemed to point to a solution that was just around the corner. Polio would be cured! Man would go into space! Electricity, thanks to atomic energy, would soon be \"too cheap to meter.\" Even African-Americans, oppressed for so long, had new reason for hope. \n The UNIVAC computer, introduced in 1951, would count the U.S. population and forecast Dwight D. Eisenhower's 1952 presidential win. It could even help volunteers find love and marriage, as TV host Art Linkletter demonstrated on his 1950s game show, \"People Are Funny.\" \n TV chronicled this bracing wave of wonder and potential, and built upon it as an essential part of what set boomers apart: They were pampered and privileged and groomed for a sure-to-be-glorious tomorrow. \n No wonder kids claimed TV as their own. No wonder TV eagerly returned the favor, singling them out as an irresistible demographic. \n Granted, there wasn't much prime-time network programming in the fall of 1946, and what there was seemed targeted to adults (including Gillette-sponsored sports every Friday on NBC and, on the DuMont network every Wednesday, TV's first soap opera). \n But kids were squarely in the sights of TV programmers by December 1947, when \"Howdy Doody\" premiered on NBC as a weekday children's show. Set in fictional Doodyville, where stringed puppets cavorted with its flesh-and-blood host, \"Buffalo Bob\" Smith, \"Howdy Doody\" during its 13-year run would prove to be a huge hit, and much more: a formative influence on nearly every baby boomer's childhood. \n For a glimpse of early boomers, check YouTube for archived clips of \"Howdy Doody,\" which welcomed kids to the Peanut Gallery, the name it coined for its studio audience. Captured on vintage '50s kinescopes, those youngsters represent a TV face (albeit made up, regrettably, of only white faces) of the surging boomer generation. \n Then, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy and Ricky Ricardo celebrated the birth of a son on \"I Love Lucy\" \u2014 the same day the sitcom's star, Lucille Ball, gave birth to a son with her real-life husband and leading man, Desi Arnaz. \n This couple's fact-and-fiction child took his place as \"the crown prince of the television generation and baby boomers,\" says Robert Thompson, director of Syracuse University's Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture, with infant Desi, Jr., soon \"anointed on the cover of the first TV Guide.\" \n Thus did TV and the boomers grow up together. And as the nation overall embraced television's early offerings, such as Milton Berle's comedy revue, Ed Sullivan's variety hour and \"Lucy,\" youngsters realized they had a special bond with TV. \n That is, they could use it as an embryonic form of rebellion against their elders, years before the campus unrest with which their generation would become identified. Those children innately understood that television, despite being welcomed into every living room, wasn't \"good\" for them. This made watching TV all the more appealing as they fought their parents' constant pleas to \"go outside and play.\" \n Today, more than a half-century later, the TV experience isn't nearly so much about viewing as immersion. It doesn't just bring the world to the audience, it IS the world. As TV merges with the natural world, it also continues to merge with other screened devices, further increasing its presence. \n So where does this leave aging boomers? They may still recall a TV universe of only three or four channels on a TV screen, when the viewer had to walk to the set to change channels. \n It's been a long time since TV consecrated boomer teens with a daily rock 'n' roll dance show, \"American Bandstand.\" With that, its host, Dick Clark, is said to have \"created youth culture.\" \n Boomers, the pioneering swath of youth culture, this year observe birthdays ranging from 52 to 70. \n TV is getting older, too. But unlike boomers, it enjoys constant renewal. It never looks its age, whatever that may be. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Growing up together, TV and baby boomers were a perfect fit"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A map of earthquake faults in part of Southern California is seen during a news conference Sept. 29, in Rancho Cordova, Calif. \n SAN DIEGO >> California emergency officials say a period of elevated risk of a large earthquake on the San Andreas Fault is over. \n The update today by the Governor's Office of Emergency Services came a week after a series of small jolts under the Salton Sea in Southern California near the 800-mile-long fault. \n The U.S. Geological Survey had said the swarm temporarily increased the risk of a bigger earthquake, but that risk quickly decreased over time. The largest quake in the swarm was a magnitude 4.3. \n Earthquake swarms have occurred under the Salton Sea in the past. \n The last time the southernmost section of the San Andreas Fault ruptured was in 1680, more than 330 years ago. \n Scientists estimated the probability of a quake with a magnitude of 7.0 or higher on the southern San Andreas fault being triggered was as high as 1 in 100 and as low as 1 in 3,000. The average chance for such an earthquake striking on any given week is 1 in 6,000. \n Gov. Jerry Brown signed legislation last week to develop a statewide warning system to inform Californians of impending earthquakes through their cellphones, radios and other devices. \n \"California is earthquake country,\" said Mark Ghilarducci, the director of the state's Office of Emergency Services. \"We must always be prepared and not let our guard down.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Period of elevated quake risk on San Andreas Fault is over"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during a roundtable meeting with energy executives, today, in Denver. \n CONCORD, N.H. >> Sen. Kelly Ayotte's embrace of Donald Trump as a role model for children \u2014 and her abrupt reversal \u2014 underscored the risks the Republican presidential candidate poses for purple-state GOP senators who like her are battling for their political lives. \n Ayotte, seeking a second Senate term from New Hampshire, used a televised debate against Democratic challenger Gov. Maggie Hassan to say she \"absolutely\" would tell a child to aspire to be like Trump. Her campaign quickly distributed a statement afterward saying she \"misspoke,\" and Tuesday she told reporters that \"neither Donald Trump nor Hillary Clinton have set a good example.\" \n Ayotte's remark proved irresistible for Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., an active campaigner for her party who's had repeated, sharp exchanges with Trump. \n \"Think about it: @realDonaldTrump calls Latinos rapists, African Americans thugs, & women fat pigs, & Kelly Ayotte thinks he's a role model,\" Warren tweeted. \n Democrats chortled that Ayotte, considered one of the more vulnerable GOP incumbents, had fumbled with potentially devastating consequences for her re-election bid. They said she wounded herself twice: first by citing as a role model a candidate who's openly ridiculed women, the handicapped and others and second by a retreat that smacked of insincerity and political repositioning. \n \"I assume this question we're going to hear a lot more of in Senate debates, and Kelly Ayotte created the textbook on how not to answer,\" said Democratic pollster Geoffrey Garin. \n Democratic pollster Celinda Lake said it was \"the unqualified nature of it and her tone\" that made Ayotte's comment truly damaging. \"It's like, 'What are you talking about, sister?'\" she said. \n With the GOP's 54-46 Senate control at stake in November, Ayotte is among a half-dozen Republicans in competitive campaigns or running in swing states like Ohio, Florida and North Carolina that will help determine whether Trump or Clinton takes the White House. Asked Tuesday whether Trump was an exemplar for children, several of them avoided the trap. \n \"The simple answer is no\" and neither is Clinton, Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., who's not endorsed Trump, told reporters in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. \"Let's just say the vulgarity and gratuitous insults of people. This is not exactly the way I encourage my kids to behave.\" \n Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., also facing re-election, stopped short of labeling Trump a role model. Blunt \"believes Missourians should choose their own role models,\" said campaign spokesman Burson Snyder. \n And Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C., said, \"I, like many Americans, take issue with some of the rhetoric and actions that have come from both him and Hillary Clinton, and neither are people I'd hold up as exemplary role models.\" \n Trump slightly trails Clinton in the latest national polls after his latest taunts, which have included mimicking how the Democrat staggered to a car after being diagnosed with pneumonia and jeering a former Miss Universe for gaining weight. In a startling departure from most presidential candidates' efforts to avoid alienating blocs of voters, Trump has denigrated the handicapped, women, Hispanics and others. \n \"The message is run as local a race as possible, and try to stay away from Trump as much as you can,\" said Ron Bonjean, a GOP strategist. \n On Monday night, Ayotte initially answered indirectly when a debate moderator asked if she would point to Trump as a role model for children. When the questioner persisted, she said, \"I believe he can serve as president so absolutely I would do that.\" \n The campaign of Hassan, a two-term governor, quickly produced a 60-second internet ad featuring Ayotte's response and juxtaposing it with Trump comments imitating a handicapped reporter, referring to a woman's \"fat, ugly face\" and describing Fox News' Megyn Kelly as having \"blood coming out of her wherever.\" \n Around 39 percent of New Hampshire voters are independents, with Republicans slightly outnumbering Democrats in the remaining group. \n That makes questions like Monday night's difficult for Ayotte. Distancing herself from Trump risks upsetting his supporters, but embracing him too tightly could alienate independents and Clinton voters, whom she will need for re-election. \n Clinton has led Trump by modest margins in recent New Hampshire polls. \n Ayotte has labored all year to express her views about Trump. She initially said she would support Trump but not endorse him, then in August said would vote for him but not endorse him. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senator reverses embrace of Trump, showing his risks for GOP"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President Bill Clinton spoke to a crowd at the Dow Event Center in Saginaw, Mich. while campaigning for his wife, presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, on Monday. \n ATHENS, Ohio \u00bb Bill Clinton is trying to avoid muddling his message again as he campaigns for his wife in battleground Ohio a day after he described President Barack Obama's signature health care law as \"the craziest thing in the world.\" \n This time, Bill Clinton only briefly mentioned health care as he spoke for 45 minutes today at Ohio University. The former president lamented that too many Americans \"can't get affordable health insurance premiums in a lot of places\" if they don't work for large companies, and he said his wife offers solutions. \n It was a far cry from his remarks Monday in Flint, Michigan. \n \"You've got this crazy system where all the sudden 25 million more people have health care and then the people are out there busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week, wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half,\" Bill Clinton said then. \"It's the craziest thing in the world.\" \n The former president made no reference today to those earlier statements, even as they continued to reverberate, prompting responses from the White House and his wife's top aides. \n Separately today, Bill Clinton also sidestepped reporters' questions about Trump bringing up his marital infidelity. \n \"He's been making those attacks from the beginning of this campaign, so I don't think that's anything new,\" Clinton said in Marietta, Ohio. \n His relationship with a White House intern was the subject of his 1998 impeachment. Bill Clinton did not respond to specific questions about Trump's recent suggestion that Hillary Clinton also was not \"loyal\" to her husband. \n Seemingly aware that he should avoid fanning the flames, Bill Clinton told reporters, \"My job is very limited: I'm supposed to tell people why she's the best choice to be president.\" \n The exchanges are the latest reminder that the 42nd president is both a tremendous asset and a wild card for his wife's candidacy. \n He draws enthusiastic crowds eager to a see a former president who is anything but a normal political spouse, but he's also generated unwanted stories, including this summer when he approached Attorney General Loretta Lynch for a private meeting at an airport. The meeting was days before the FBI announced that it would not recommend any charges against Hillary Clinton related to her use of a private email server while she served as Obama's secretary of state. \n John Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, tried to tamp down any controversy over his health-care riff. \"We need to fix the problems, and I think that's what President Clinton was referring to,\" Podesta said. \n In Ohio, Bill Clinton told the mostly student crowd today that Hillary Clinton supports a so-called \"public option,\" a government insurance plan to compete alongside private plans marketed in Affordable Care Act exchanges. \n At the White House, Obama spokesman Josh Earnest said it was not \"exactly clear what argument\" Bill Clinton was making in Michigan. Earnest said Obama still has \"strong confidence\" in the law, and he cited subsidies that still allow \"the vast majority\" of shoppers in the individual policy market to find affordable coverage. \n \"President Obama has of course acknowledged that with cooperation from Democrats and Republicans in Congress, there are some things that could be done to further strengthen the law,\" Earnest said, \"and you know, that's something that Secretary Clinton has vowed to pursue if she is elected president of the United States, and President Obama is certainly going to do everything he can to support that effort.\" \n In Ohio, Bill Clinton deflected a heckler early in his remarks. As he began to speak, a man yelled at the former president for signing a 1994 crime law that included stiffer sentences for many federal crimes. Clinton told the man \"Hillary didn't vote for the crime bill,\" but noted \"Senator Sanders\" did, referring to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination. \n Clinton's overall remarks focused on why Hillary Clinton would be better for the economy than Trump, who Bill Clinton described as playing on working class voters' economic frustrations with lies and empty promises. \n \"Answers work better than anger,\" he said. \"Empowerment better than resentment. Bridges work better than walls.\" \n Associated Press reporters Nancy Benac at the White House and Steve Peoples in Farmville, Virginia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bill Clinton avoiding controversy after health-care riff"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This evidence photo on display at a news conference, Monday, at Los Angeles Police headquarters shows a fake gun that was found after the fatal shooting of a hispanic man on Sunday. The police chief disclosed details of Saturday's shooting of Carnell Snell, in South Los Angeles and a separate fatal police shooting of a Hispanic man Sunday amid heightened tensions over police shootings involving blacks and other minorities in California and elsewhere. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An Oct. 1 screenshot from security camera video, released by the Los Angeles Police Department and posted on its website on Oct. 4, shows a suspect holding what appears to be a gun in the moments before he was fatally shot by officers in a police killing that has generated widespread protests. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Los Angeles police released surveillance video today showing an 18-year-old black suspect running from police while holding what appears to be a gun in his left hand just before he was fatally shot by officers in a death that has generated rowdy protests. \n The footage shows a man crouching behind an SUV and pulling a handgun from the waistband of his sweatpants. He then tucks the gun back into his waistband and runs around the corner of a strip mall as officers run after him. \n The footage posted to the police department's YouTube channel does not show officers shoot Carnell Snell because that location was not within the viewing range of the surveillance camera. But police said the video supports the account Chief Charlie Beck gave Monday justifying the shooting. \n Beck said Snell had a fully loaded semi-automatic handgun in one hand and turned toward officers when they fired Saturday. \n The video was made public just as Black Lives Matter organizers gathered this morning to protest Snell's killing at a meeting of the Los Angeles Police Commission. The board of civilian overseers convened at midmorning and was later closed to the public after demonstrators interrupted speakers and shouted for Beck's resignation. \n One woman who said her son had been killed by police threatened to kill officers herself. No arrests were made. \n Protester Melina Abdullah accused police of selectively releasing a portion of video to justify the shooting and \"posthumously assassinate the character of our brother Carnell Snell.\" \n \"I don't care if he had a gun,\" she shouted. \"His life matters.\" \n The 45-second clip is the only surveillance footage that has emerged connected to the shooting, though detectives are searching for more, according to Officer Sal Ramirez, a police spokesman. \n The department typically releases video of police operations only when ordered to do so by courts. But Beck told reporters that the video of Snell with the gun was made public to promote public safety and correct misinformation about shooting. \n \"I think it's important to put forward information to clarify so that people can put these events, tragic as they are, in perspective,\" he said. \"This is not done in any way to denigrate Mr. Snell.\" \n Commission president Matt Johnson warned that it too early to determine whether the shooting was justified or not. \n \"No matter what the circumstances, these events are tragic for the loved ones of the deceased, the friends and community members,\" Johnson said. \"While it's certainly not the same as losing a loved one, these incidents are also tragic for the individual officers involved. It's no one's desire to take another man's life.\" \n Beck offered additional details today about the portion of the shooting that was not captured by video. \n Seconds after Snell is shown running out of the camera's frame, he sprinted between two houses and turned toward officers while holding the gun, Beck said. \n Officers fired three shots. Snell climbed a fence and turned again toward officers, who fired three more times, and that's when he collapsed, Beck said. \n The pursuit began when officers tried to pull over a car Snell was in because it had temporary paper license plates that did not match the year of the vehicle. Beck said has said that was a possible indication to officers of a stolen car and something commonly seen in vehicles used by criminals for drive-by shootings. \n Snell, seated in the car's back seat, looked at officers and then ducked down \"as if to hide from them,\" Beck said. \n The chief also addressed another fatal shooting over the weekend, that of an unidentified Hispanic man. Beck said the man pointed a replica that looked like a real gun at police and officers opened fire because they feared for their lives. \n The shootings come amid heightened tensions over police actions involving black people and other minorities across the country. \n Snell was the third black man in five days to die in confrontations with police in Southern California. \n Last Tuesday, Alfred Olango was fatally shot by an officer in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon when Olango took a \"shooting stance\" and pointed at an officer with what turned out to be a 4-inch vape pen \u2014 an electronic cigarette device. \n On Friday, Reginald Thomas died after being shot with a Taser by police in Pasadena. He was armed with a knife and was described by family members as mentally ill. \n Meanwhile, the family of a black man killed by police in Sacramento in July demanded murder charges Monday against two officers heard on a dash-cam video talking about trying to hit the man with their police cruiser before he was shot 14 times. \n Associated Press writers Christopher Weber and John Antczak in Los Angeles contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "LAPD releases video showing suspect with gun before shooting"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Stephen Wojciehowski. Police say Wojciehowski, who wore a bikini fashioned out of see-through plastic wrap on a New Jersey beach is facing a criminal charge. He was arrested Monday,\\ and was released pending further court proceedings. \n BEACH HAVEN, N.J. \u00bb Police say a 59-year-old man who wore a bikini fashioned out of see-through plastic wrap on a New Jersey beach is facing a criminal charge. \n They say Stephen Wojciehowski spent two days on a Long Beach Island beach wearing a homemade bikini in which his genitals were clearly exposed and was charged with lewdness. \n NJ.com reports the Stafford Township man was arrested Monday and was released pending further court proceedings. \n A woman who answered the phone at his house said \"nobody's here\" and hung up. It's unclear if he has an attorney who could comment on his behalf. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man charged with wearing clear bikini on Jersey beach"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / MAY 2015 \n Signs warning of a shark being sighted were put up along Kuhio Beach in Waikiki. October is when swimmers and surfers in Hawaii appear to be at greater risk of getting bitten by a shark. \n October is when swimmers and surfers in Hawaii appear to be at greater risk of getting bitten by a shark. \n Based on the statistically-bolstered risk, state Department of Land and Natural Resources Division of Aquatics Resources Administrator Bruce Anderson is recommending that beachgoers exercise a little more caution. \n In a news release, the land department said in 2012 there were two bites in October. \n In October 2013, there were three, then four in October 2014, and three in October 2015. \n \"The three bites last October were all around Oahu, off different coasts of the island, and took place over a span of 20 days,\" Anderson said. Two were very serious, with victims losing part of a limb. It was an unprecedented spike, but like nearly every spike in shark incidents, the most likely explanation is just chance.\" \n Another possible explanation, according University of Hawaii research funded by the land department, is that sharks give birth in the fall. \n About 25 percent of the female tiger sharks in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands migrate to the main islands in the fall to give birth, the state land department reported. \n The increased number of sharks in near-shore waters, combined with their need to feed to replenish lost energy stores, may increase the likelihood of a bad encounter with a human. \n State land department data, from 1980 through 2015, show that there were 122 unprovoked shark bites in Hawaiian waters. \n Twenty-six of those, or 21 per cent, occurred during the month of October, the state land department said, citing with well-known victims such as Michael Coots, who lost his lower right leg in a shark attack while bodyboarding at Kauai's Majors Bay; and Bethany Hamilton who lost her left arm just below the shoulder in 2003 in a shark attack while at Tunnels, a surf spot on Kauai's North Shore. \n So far, no October bite has been fatal. \n \"October is the month with the greatest number of shark bites,\" said Anderson. \"We recommend ocean users exercise a little more caution this month especially, and also through the end of the year. The chance of being bitten by a shark in Hawaiian waters is always extremely small, but does increase a bit during this time frame.\" \n \"The best thing ocean users can do to minimize their risk of shark bites is to utilize beaches with lifeguards, stay near other people, and don't go too far from shore. Also, avoid murky water and areas near stream mouths.\" \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "History of October shark attacks spurs cautionary advice"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange participated via video link at a news conference marking the 10th anniversary of the secrecy-spilling group in Berlin, Germany, today. Assange said that WikiLeaks plans to start a series of publications this week, but wouldn't specify the timing and subject. \n BERLIN \u00bb WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange promised \"significant\" disclosures on subjects including the U.S. election and Google in the coming weeks as the secret-spilling group marked its 10th anniversary today. \n Assange said WikiLeaks plans to start publishing new material starting this week, but wouldn't specify the timing and subject. Speaking by video link to an anniversary news conference in Berlin, he said the leaks include \"significant material\" on war, arms, oil, internet giant Google, the U.S. election and mass surveillance. \n WikiLeaks hopes \"to be publishing every week for the next 10 weeks,\" Assange said. \n WikiLeaks, which released Democratic National Committee emails days before the party's national convention earlier this year, wouldn't say who or what campaign would be affected by the upcoming U.S. election leaks. Assange said speculation that he or WikiLeaks intend to harm Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton is \"false.\" \n Asked whether he feels any personal affinity with Clinton's Republican rival, Donald Trump, Assange replied: \"I feel personal affinity really, I think, with all human beings.\" \n \"I certainly feel sorry for Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump,\" he added. \"These are two people that are tormented by their ambitions in different ways.\" \n Sweden is seeking Assange's extradition in a rape investigation. He hasn't left the Ecuadorean Embassy in London since 2012. Assange denies the rape allegation and says he fears being extradited to the U.S. to face espionage charges if he leaves. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "WikiLeaks' Assange promises leaks on U.S. election, Google"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "Maui police warned the public today about a man impersonating a police officer and trying to pull a woman driver over in Pukalani. \n Police said the man was driving an unmarked silver four-door sedan with flashing a blue-and-white light on his dashboard. On Monday, he tried to pull over the woman, but she didn't feel safe and called police while continuing to drive. \n The man took off in his vehicle when an officer arrived. \n Police urged anyone who encounters a similar situation and feels unsure about the person making a traffic stop, to drive to a well-lit or public area where there are other people before stopping. \n Try to get a license plate number and any identifying details of the vehicle and the driver, police said. \n If the officer is not in uniform, ask for official police identification or call 911 to verify the stop. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui police warn public about man impersonating officer"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n Radar showed heavy rain over parts of Hawaii island and Maui this morning. \n CANADA FRANCE HAWAII TELESCOPE \n This webcamera image from the Canada France Hawaii telescope showed snow on the ground around the telescope at the summit of Mauna Kea. \n Update 10:45 a.m. \n The National Weather Service dropped a flood advisory for Hawaii island after heavy rains over south Hilo and Puna eased. \n A flash flood watch remains in effect for Maui and the Big Island as unstable atmospheric conditions and moisture in the atmosphere could trigger more heavy rain and even thunderstorms through this afternoon. \n Update 8:40 a.m. \n The flood advisory for Hawaii island has been extended through 11:15 a.m. this morning. \n The earlier flood advisory for the island of Maui has expired. \n Weather radar at 8:06 a.m. showed moderate to heavy rainfall over portions of south Hilo ad Puna districts at up to 1 inch per hour. \n Forecasters said the heavy rains are expected to continue for a few more hours. \n Locations in the advisory inculde, but are not limited to, Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Keaau, Ninole, Ookala, Laupahoehoe, Pepeekeo, Orchidland Estates and Hawaiian Acres. \n Update 5:45 a.m. \n Weather officials extended the flood advisory for Hawaii island and the island of Maui until 8:15 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., respectively. \n At 5:02 a.m., weather radar showed heavy rain still falling near Hilo, at around 1 inch an hour. \n Weather radar at 5:22 a.m. showed heavy rain near Kaupo on Maui. Rain was falling at a rate of up to 2 inches per hour. \n Locations in the Maui advisory include but are not limited to Kaupo, Kipahulu, Nahiku, Keanae, Hana, Wailua, Kailua, Hamoa and Haleakala National Park. \n Locations in the Hawaii island advisory include but are not limited to Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Mountain View, Keaau, Ninole, Ookala, Laupahoehoe, Pepeekeo, Glenwood, Orchidlands Estates and Hawaiian Acres. \n A flash flood watch remains in effect for both islands through this afternoon. \n Update 2:14 a.m. \n The National Weather Service in Honolulu has issued a flood advisory for Hawaii island until 5:15 a.m. \n At 2:11 a.m., radar showed heavy rain near Hilo. Rain was falling at a rate of 1 to 2 inches per hour. \n Locations in the advisory include, but are not limited to, Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Mountain View, Keaau, Ninole, Ookala, Laupahoehoe, Pepeekeo, Glenwood, Orchidlands Estates and Hawaiian Acres. \n \"Rainfall and runoff will also cause hazardous driving conditions due to ponding, reduced visibility and poor braking action,\" weather officials said. \n A flash flood watch is also in effect for the Big Island through this afternoon. \n Previous coverage \n Heavy rains pounded parts of the Big Island and Maui, which are under a flash flood watch and flood advisory. \n \"At 11:22 p.m., radar indicated heavy rain near Kaupo. Rain was falling at a rate of 1 to 1.5 inches per hour,\" said the Maui flood advisory, which covers Kaupo, Kipahulu, Nahiku, Keanae, Hana, Wailua, Kailua, Hamoa and Haleakala National Park. The advisory is in effect until 2:30 a.m. Wednesday. \n The Hawaii island advisory is in effect until 2:15 a.m. and covers Hilo, Hawaiian Paradise Park, Honomu, Mountain View, Keaau, Ninole, Ookala, Laupahoehoe, Pepeekeo, Glenwood, Orchidlands Estates and Hawaiian Acres. \"At 11:04 p.m., rain gauge reports indicated heavy rain falling near Hilo. Rain was falling at a rate of 1 to 2 inches per hour,\" the Big Island advisory said. \n Both islands are also under a flash flood watch until Wednesday afternoon, according to the National Weather Service. Forecasters said a \"combination of abundant moisture and instability from an upper-level disturbance near Hawaii may trigger heavy rain and flash flooding through Wednesday.\" \n Web cameras on Mauna Kea also showed a light dusting of snow on the summit Tuesday afternoon. \n Forecasters said southeasterly winds may bring vog to some islands. \"We will have the potential for locally heavy rain through much of the state and a chance for thunderstorms for the Big Island this afternoon. Maui and Big Island look to be the highest threat for flooding,\" they said. \n The forecast calls for mostly cloudy skies with numerous showers in leeward areas and more rain in windward areas through Wednesday morning. Some of the showers could be heavy. \n Highs will be between 83 and 88 degrees, but the weather could feel hotter because of the humidity. \n Tradewinds should begin returning later Wednesday, but are likely to be light and forecasters said more afternoon showers are possible in leeward areas Wednesday afternoon. \n The heavy rains prompted a brown water advisory for Pearl Harbor and Ala Wai Harbor. \n The state Department of Health is asking the public to stay out of flood waters and storm water runoff, \"due to possible overflowing cesspools, sewer manholes, pesticides, animal fecal matter, dead animals, pathogens, chemicals, and associated flood debris.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "More heavy rain possible on Maui, Hawaii islands"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Waves crashed against a seawall in Baracoa, Cuba, today, before the arrival of Hurricane Matthew. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People stood on the coast watching the surf produced by Hurricane Matthew, on the outskirts of Kingston, Jamaica on Monday. \n PETIT-GOAVE, Haiti >> Hurricane Matthew slammed into Haiti's southwestern tip with howling 145 mph winds today, knocking down trees and tearing off roofs in the poor and largely rural area, while inundating neighborhoods in floodwaters and mud. \n By nightfall, at least 11 deaths had been blamed on the powerful storm during its week-long march across the Caribbean. But with a key bridge washed out, impassable roads and phone communication cut off with Haiti's hardest-hit area, there was no way to know how many people might be dead or injured. \n Matthew, slightly weakened but still a dangerous Category 4 storm with 130 mph winds, whipped at Cuba's sparsely populated eastern tip tonight, as it headed for a two-day run up the length of the Bahamas that would take it near the U.S. coast. \n Twenty-foot waves pounded the seafront promenade in the Cuban town of Baracoa. Powerful winds rattled the walls of homes and heavy rain caused some flooding. But state media said late today there were no immediate reports of serious damage. \n Hours after Matthew made landfall on Haiti's now-marooned southwestern peninsula, government leaders said they couldn't fully gauge the impact. \n \"What we know is that many, many houses have been damaged. Some lost rooftops and they'll have to be replaced while others were totally destroyed,\" Interior Minister Francois Anick Joseph said. \n At least five deaths were blamed on the storm in Haiti, including a 26-year-old man who drowned trying to rescue a child who fell into a rushing river, authorities said. The child was saved. The mayor in flooded Petit Goave reported two people died there, including a woman who was killed by a falling electrical pole. \n Four deaths were recorded in the neighboring Dominican Republic and one each in Colombia and in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. \n Forecasters said Matthew could be threatening Florida by Thursday night and would likely push its way up the East Coast through the weekend. The forecast triggered a rush by Americans to stock up on food, gasoline and other emergency supplies. \n The storm \u2014 at one point the most powerful hurricane in the region in nearly a decade \u2014 blew ashore around dawn in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, hitting a corner of Haiti where many people live in shacks of wood or concrete blocks. \n Mourad Wahba, U.N. secretary-general's deputy special representative for Haiti, said at least 10,000 people were in shelters and hospitals were overflowing and running short of water. Wahba's statement called the hurricane's destruction the \"largest humanitarian event\" in Haiti since the devastating earthquake of January 2010. \n Matthew left the peninsula that runs along the southern coast of Haiti cut off from the rest of the country. A bridge in the flooded town of Petit Goave was destroyed, preventing any road travel to the hard-hit southwest. Local radio said water was shoulder high in parts of the city of Les Cayes. \n Milriste Nelson, a 65-year-old farmer in the town of Leogane, said his neighbors fled when the wind ripped the corrugated metal roof from their home. His own small yard was strewn with the fruit he depends on for his livelihood. \n \"All the banana trees, all the mangos, everything is gone,\" Nelson said as he boiled breadfruit over a charcoal fire in the gray morning light. \"This country is going to fall deeper into misery.\" \n Haitian authorities had tried to evacuate people from the most vulnerable areas ahead of the storm, but many were reluctant to leave their homes. Some sought shelter only after the worst was already upon them. \n Before cellular communications went out in the southwestern town of Jeremie, one resident described seeing panicked people who didn't evacuate coastal homes and were frantically seeking shelter at dawn. \n \"Some people who lived by the sea are walking with their things through flooded streets looking for somewhere to go,\" said Iralien St. Louis, a photographer who was hunkered down at his home. \n Matthew was expected to drop 15 to 25 inches of rain, and up to 40 inches in isolated places of Haiti, along with up to 10 feet of storm surge and battering waves. \n \"They are getting everything a major hurricane can throw at them,\" said Dennis Feltgen, a meteorologist with the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. \n Matthew briefly reached the top classification, Category 5, as it moved across the Caribbean late last week, becoming the strongest hurricane in the region since Felix in 2007. \n Late tonight, the storm's center was moving back into open waters from Cuba's northeastern coast. It was heading north at 8 mph. Its sustained winds were 130 mph. \n In the U.S., Florida Gov. Rick Scott urged coastal residents to prepare for the possibility of a direct hit and line up three days' worth of food, water and medicine. The Red Cross put out a call for volunteers in South Carolina. And the White House said relief supplies were being moved to emergency staging areas in the Southeast. \n People raced to supermarkets, gas stations and hardware stores, buying up groceries, water, plywood, tarps, batteries and propane. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said she would issue an evacuation order Wednesday so 1 million people would have time to leave the coast. \n In the storm-hardened Bahamas, Prime Minister Perry Christie voiced concern about the looming hurricane. \"We're worried because we do not control nature,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hurricane Matthew's death toll rises as it moves toward Bahamas, Florida"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestured with a firing stance as he announced issuing sidearms to army troopers during his visit to its headquarters in suburban Taguig city east of Manila, Tuesday. \n MANILA \u00bb Philippine leader Rodrigo Duterte told President Barack Obama \"you can go to hell\" in a speech Tuesday that was his strongest tirade so far against the U.S. over its criticism of his deadly anti-drug campaign, adding that he may eventually decide to \"break up with America.\" \n He also lashed out anew at the European Union, saying the bloc, which has also criticized his brutal crackdown, \"better choose purgatory, hell is filled up.\" \n Since becoming president in June, Duterte has had an uneasy relationship with the U.S. and with Obama and has declared intentions to bolster relations with China and Russia as he revamps Philippine foreign policy that has long leaned on Washington. \n The brash-speaking leader also has been hypersensitive to criticism over his anti-drug crackdown, which has left more than an estimated 3,000 suspected drug dealers and pushers dead in just three months, alarming the United Nations, the EU, the U.S. and human rights watchdogs. \n In a speech before a local convention attended by officials and business executives, Duterte outlined his disappointments with the U.S., which has asked his government to stop the widespread killings and has questioned whether human rights are being violated. He also described Washington as an unreliable ally, saying Filipino forces have not benefited from joint combat exercises with U.S. troops. \n \"Instead of helping us, the first to criticize is this State Department, so you can go to hell, Mr. Obama, you can go to hell,\" Duterte said. Then addressing the EU, he said: \"Better choose purgatory, hell is filled up.\" \n In a later speech at a synagogue in Makati city in the Manila metropolis, Duterte warned he may decide to \"break up with America\" in his most serious threat so far to push relations back with Washington. \n \"Eventually I might, in my time, I will break up with America,\" he said without elaborating. \"I would rather go to Russia and to China.\" \n In Washington, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Tuesday that the U.S. had not received any official request from Duterte or any other Philippine official to alter any aspect of bilateral cooperation. \n \"This is an alliance that is robust and that benefits both of our countries,\" Earnest said. \"Even as we protect this strong alliance, the administration and the United States of America will not hesitate to raise our concerns about extra-judicial killings. We remain deeply concerned by reports of widespread extrajudicial killings by or at the behest of government authorities in the Philippines. The use of that kind of tactic is entirely inconsistent with universal human rights and the shared values of our two countries.\" \n Duterte has given assurances that he would not abrogate a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty with the U.S. and will maintain the long alliance with America, one of his country's largest trading partners and provider of development and military aid and defense equipment. \n The U.S. has expressed concern over the extrajudicial killings and urged Duterte's government to ensure law enforcement efforts comply with human rights obligations. Last month, Obama canceled a planned first meeting with Duterte on the sidelines of an Asian summit in Laos after the Filipino leader blurted \"son of a bitch\" in warning the U.S. leader not to lecture him on human rights ahead of their meeting. Duterte later expressed regrets over his remarks. \n Angered by U.S. criticism, Duterte has made a series of public pronouncements that he could scale back the activities and presence of visiting U.S. troops in the country. \n Last week, Duterte said the joint U.S.-Philippine combat exercises to be held this week, the first of his presidency, would also be the last of his tenure. The exercises, centering on amphibious landing drills, started Tuesday under some uncertainty because of those remarks. \n Marine commanders from both sides said at the opening ceremony that the exercises, involving 1,100 American and 400 Filipino military personnel, are aimed at improving readiness by the two countries to respond to a range of crises while deepening their historic ties. \n U.S. Embassy officials said Washington has not been formally notified by the Philippine government of any move to scrap other planned drills. Such a move by the Philippines would impede Washington's plans to expand the footprint of U.S. forces in Southeast Asia to counter China. \n A Philippine military spokesman for the ongoing exercises, Capt. Ryan Lacuesta, sidestepped the question of whether Duterte's remarks have affected the troops and the atmosphere of the drills. \n U.S. Marine Brig. Gen. John Jansen said that aside from promoting regional security, the exercises have helped save lives in terms of fostering more rapid and organized responses to disasters like Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. \n \"Our alliance remains a key source of stability in the Asia-Pacific region,\" Jansen said, expressing confidence \"that we will continue to build our partnership and capabilities together.\" \n While the Obama administration maintains that its alliance with the Philippines remains \"ironclad,\" a senior U.S. diplomat cautioned Duterte last week against more anti-U.S. posturing. Many of Duterte's stunning pronouncements have typically been walked back by other Philippines officials. \n \"I think it would be a serious mistake in a democratic country like the Philippines to underestimate the power of the public's affinity for the U.S. That's people power,\" Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Russel told The Associated Press. \n Russel did not draw a direct comparison, but past Philippine presidents have been toppled by popular protests dubbed \"people power,\" including former dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who was ousted in 1986. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duterte tells Obama 'you can go to hell,' warns of breakup"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Albuquerque Police officer Dominique Perez testifies, Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2016 in Albuquerque, N.M. Perez, one of two former police officers standing trial on murder charges in the death of a homeless man took the stand Tuesday to testify in his own defense, marking the first time either officer has spoken publicly about the 2014 shooting that killed 38-year-old James Boyd and derailed the officers' law enforcement careers. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. >> A former Albuquerque police officer standing trial on a second-degree murder charge in the shooting death of a homeless camper will testify in his own defense for a second day Wednesday. \n Dominique Perez was one of nearly 20 officers to respond to a 2014 police standoff with James Boyd \u2014 who suffered from paranoid schizophrenia and pulled knives on two officers who were first to respond to reports of his illegal campsite. \n Perez told jurors Tuesday that he opened fire because a K-9 officer who did not have a weapon in hand appeared to come within arms' reach of Boyd and his knives. Perez was standing downslope from the K-9 officer and Boyd during the standoff in the Sandia Mountain foothills. \n An analysis later determined that the K-9 handler was roughly 9 feet from Boyd. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutor questions ex-officer charged in shooting death"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "A brush fire with plumes of smoke drifted within range of at least one Hawaiian Airlines flight waiting to take off at Kahului Airport on Maui Tuesday morning, causing coughing among several passengers. \n The flight took off to Honolulu without incident, but the blaze burned an estimated 7 acres near the Kahului heliport, authorities said. \n No damages or injuries were reported, and the cause of the fire is undetermined, fire officials said. \n County firefighters were on the scene at around 11:30 a.m. and found about an acre of brush burning near Kala Road and Kuhea St. on the east side of the airport. \n In a second blaze Tuesday, Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto said Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar conducted a scheduled cane burn between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. near the area . It is unclear if the two were connected. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Fire near Kahului airport burns seven acres"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "A 23-year-old man who died Sunday in a possible alcohol-related, one-car crash in South Kona was identified today by police as Jackson Mathers of Milolii. \n An autopsy found he died of injuries from the crash, Hawaii island police said. \n Police said Mathers lost control along in a turn in Mamalahoa Highway while heading southbound in Honalo near the 114-mile marker and crashed into a utility pole at about 2:35 a.m. Sunday. \n He was ejected from a 2013 Subaru station wagon and sustained critical injuries. He was taken to Kona Community Hospital where he died several hours later. \n Police say speed, inattention and alcohol may be factors in the crash. \n Anyone with information about the crash is asked to call officer Justin Hooser at 324-4646 ext. 229. Anonymous tips can be made to CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n Mathers was the 22nd traffic fatality on the Big Island this year compared to 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man who died in South Kona car crash is identified"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "The pilot of a helicopter and his two passengers escaped injuries today on Hawaii island after making an emergency landing in the Pu'u O Umi Natural Area Reserve near Waimea. \n The pilot made the emergency landing on the north flank of the mountain range, north-northwest of Waimea in an area not accessible by vehicles, Hawaii County officials said. The incident was reported at about 9:30 a.m. \n Emergency crews found the helicopter upright, with obvious damage to the main and tail rotor blades, officials said. \n No injuries were reported, and the pilot and passengers were transported to safety. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Copter pilot, passengers uninjured in emergency landing on Hawaii island"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Marc Hubbard walked into Federal Court this morning before pleading guilty. Hubbard, 47, of North Carolina, faces a maximum 20-year prison term at sentencing in February. \n The man accused of scamming the University of Hawaii out of $200,000 for a Stevie Wonder concert to benefit the school's athletic department pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court this morning to wire fraud. \n Marc Hubbard, 47, of North Carolina, faces a maximum 20-year prison term at sentencing in February. \n \"First, I would like to apologize to the court for my actions,\" Hubbard said then added that his mistake was helping co-defendant Sean Barriero, who previously pleaded guilty to wire fraud. \n Hubbard admitted that he duped UH officials into forking over the $200,000 and scammed a UH supporter out of $50,000. The money was supposed to be used to secure Wonder for an August 2012 concert. After UH publicly announced the concert and started selling tickets, a Wonder representative contacted UH and told school officials that there was not going to be a concert because Wonder didn't authorize or know about it and didn't get any of the school's money. \n Barriero, 48, a British citizen living in Miami, Florida who was a go-between on the deal, pleaded guilty in 2012 to transferring UH's stolen $200,000 and agreed to cooperate with the government against Hubbard. He faces sentencing on the same day as Hubbard and faces a maximum 10-year prison term. \n A special state Senate committee that investigated the university's handling of the bungled concert said the incident tarnished the university's reputation. \n The committee said no one at the university looked into whether the agent was an authorized representative of the singer. They also faulted a lack of oversight and communication in the school's athletics department, general counsel and disbursing office. \n \"The University of Hawaii thanks the responsible law enforcement officials and prosecutors for their hard work in successfully closing this case,\" said university spokesman Dan Meisenzahl. \n A University of Hawaii task force reporting to the Board of Regents said the school allowed itself to be deceived because those involved in the financial transactions lacked judgment and didn't take responsibility. \n The university reassigned athletic director Jim Donovan after the failed concert came to light. Donovan later left the university. \n As part of a plea deal, prosecutors will recommend that Hubbard's sentence run concurrently with the sentence he receives for a similar case in Pennsylvania. \n He is scheduled to be sentenced in Pennsylvania next week. \n \u2014\u2014- \n The Associated Press contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "By Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Promoter pleads guilty in UH Stevie Wonder concert scam"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Robert Mann, right, the brother of Joseph Mann, who was killed by Sacramento Police in July, discusses the shooting of his brother during a news conference Monday, Oct. 3, 2016, in Sacramento, Calif. Mann, accompanied by his sister, Deborah, center, and attorney John Burris are demanding that the officers involved in shooting of Joseph Mann, 50, be charged with murder and that the U.S. Department of Justice open a civil rights investigation of the Sacramento Police Department. \n Sacramento, Calif. \u00bb The family of a man killed in july by Sacramento police after 911 callers reported he was waving a knife and acting erratically demanded that two officers face murder charges after dash-cam video revealed they talked inside their police cruiser about running him down. \n Joseph Mann, who was mentally unstable and homeless, dodged the cruiser twice and was shot 14 times less than a minute later by the two officers. \n The officers \"behaved like big game hunters closing in on an animal,\" said John Burris, a lawyer for the Mann's family said Monday. \n The demand for the murder charges came as Los Angeles police chief Charlie Beck defended his officers in the fatal shootings of a black man Saturday who police say was armed with a loaded semi-automatic gun and a Hispanic man on Sunday who officers say was wielding replica handgun. \n The latest police shootings happened amid heightened tensions over police actions involving black people and other minorities across the country, and followed two more fatal encounters between California police and black men last week in San Diego and Pasadena. \n In the Sacramento case, police have said Mann was waving a knife in the air and doing karate moves in the streets just before police responded. But Burris told reporters he was not threatening anybody and that the two officers who shot him, John Tennis and Randy Lozoya, should face a U.S. Justice Department civil rights investigation in addition to murder charges. \n The officers can be heard on the recording saying \"I'm gonna hit him\" and \"OK, go for it\" before appearing to drive their cruiser twice at Mann, who managed to scramble out of its way both times. The officers then stopped the cruiser, got out of it, pursued him on foot and opened fire. \n \"Mann was standing stationary on a sidewalk with no one in close proximity when the officers unloaded their guns,\" Burris wrote in a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch. \n Sacramento police spokesman Matthew McPhail said police are \"encouraged to assess each circumstance and think critically about the tools at their disposal.\" \n McPhail and other police spokespeople did not immediately respond to a request to interview Tennis and Lozoya. Sacramento Police Officers Association President Timothy Davis did not respond to telephone and email messages seeking comment on behalf of the two officers. \n Sacramento City Attorney James Sanchez declined to comment on whether police were aware of what Tennis and Lozoya said in the car. McPhail did not respond to messages asking the same question. \n The Sacramento District Attorney's Office is reviewing the recordings and police reports, spokeswoman Shelly Orio said. \n Tennis and Lozoya were put on a brief leave after the July 11 shooting and returned to work on desk duty instead of patrol the following week. An administrative review of their actions is underway. \n \"It doesn't service anybody's interest with the public or the city, even the officers themselves or the family of the deceased, to have any sort of determination to be made before the investigation is complete,\" McPhail said. \n Surveillance videos show Mann doing the karate moves, zigzagging as he walked around a down-and-out commercial neighborhood in north Sacramento where many businesses are shuttered. \n On police 911 recordings, callers said a man was waving a knife in the air, had a gun in his waistband and appeared to be mentally ill. Police found a knife but no gun after Mann was killed. \n Family members have described Mann as a college graduate who loved politics and economics, and succeeded in several careers before deteriorating into mental illness about five years ago. They said he had been living on the streets and struggled with drugs before his death. \n Toxicology tests revealed Mann had methamphetamine in his system the day he died, police said. \n The videos released showed a first police cruiser that arrived alongside Mann as he was walking down a street. Mann turned away from that vehicle when another cruiser with the two officers approached him, talking inside their cruiser about hitting Mann. \n When Mann ran out of the car's way, the officer driving the cruiser backed it up and turned to aim in Mann's direction again. It accelerated toward Mann, who ran across a median. The cruiser stopped and the officers got out. \n Mann is heard on audio from the video saying he did not have a gun. \n About 15 seconds later, 18 shots were fired \u2014 14 hit Mann. \n It was extremely rare for audio to be captured describing what the officers were thinking as the events leading up to Mann's shooting unfolded, said Kevin LaHue, a private attorney in Los Angeles who has worked on numerous federal civil rights cases involving police tactics. \n \"Having this sort of real-time insight into the thought process of the officers and their use of force, I think that is very unique,\" LaHue said. \n Mann's death is the latest of at least five fatal police shootings in Sacramento over the past three years of people who did not comply with officers' orders and had a weapon other than a firearm, said Francine Tournour, who oversees city public safety accountability. \n \"I'm seeing a pattern,\" Tournour said. \n Tournour said she plans to recommend that the department change its approach to de-escalating crisis situations, introduce scenario-based training and possibly add a staff position. \n The chief of police answers to the city manager but maintains discretion over police training and policies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Family of black man shot 14 times by police wants charges"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Horseback riders make their way through an encampment near North Dakota's Standing Rock Sioux reservation on Friday, Sept. 9, 2016. \n Mandan, N.D. \u00bb North Dakota authorities have issued an arrest warrant accusing a pipeline protester on horseback of charging at a police officer. \n Mason Redwing, of Fort Thompson, South Dakota, is wanted on felony charges of terrorizing and reckless endangerment in the Sept. 28 incident near St. Anthony. He's also wanted on a previous warrant for criminal trespass. \n The Morton County Sheriff's Office says the officer shouted a warning and pointed a shotgun loaded with non-lethal beanbag rounds to defuse the situation. \n Court documents don't list an attorney who can speak on Redwing's behalf. His home telephone is not listed. \n Thousands of people have protested the four-state Dakota Access pipeline in southern North Dakota in recent months. Several protesters disrupted a governor candidate debate in Bismarck on Monday. No one was arrested. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oil pipeline protester accused of terrorizing officer"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "New Haven, Conn. \u00bb A Connecticut school district is banning clown costumes and any \"symbols of terror\" during this year's Halloween season as authorities investigate the authenticity of a number of clown-related social media posts. \n New Haven Public School officials said Monday principals and building leaders have been requested to ban the costumes until additional information is available. \n This comes amid an investigation involving police into an account on the photo-sharing social media site Instagram. The account uploaded four photos showing menacing-looking clowns with captions telling several area schools to \"watch out\" and \"wait and see\" whether the alleged threats are fake. \n School officials say there's no indication the incident poses any real threat to students at this time. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Schools ban clown costumes amid investigation"}

{"date": "October 4, 2016", "text": "Fort Myers, Fla. \u00bb Authorities say two men were wounded when a gun accidentally discharged at a southwest Florida gun show. \n The Lee County Sheriff's Office says one man was reloading a gun when it fired. The bullet hit the man's finger and then hit another man's foot. Officials are classifying the shooting as an accident and no criminal charges are expected. \n Authorities didn't provide details about the extent of the men's injuries. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 men wounded by accidental discharge at Florida gun show"}

