{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "Police arrested a 59-year-old man Wednesday on suspicion of 22 counts of second-degree forgery, 21 counts of third-degree identity theft and one count each of second-degree theft and unauthorized possession of confidential and personal information. \n Police said the suspect cashed a 65-year-old woman's stolen and forged checks at a Wahiawa bank from Nov. 30 to Feb. 16. \n Police said the victim discovered the checks and reported it to the bank. \n The suspect was identified and arrested. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested for allegedly cashing checks stolen from woman"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Women mourn near the apartment in Albuquerque, N.M., tonight, where the body of a 10-year-old girl who police said was sexually assaulted, strangled then dismembered was found. On the day the girl was going to celebrate her 10th birthday, she was found dead Wednesday in her family's apartment by Albuquerque police, her dismembered remains lying under a burning blanket. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A memorial for a 10-year-old girl who police said was sexually assaulted, strangled then dismembered is seen at an Albuquerque, N.M., apartment building tonight. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. \u00bb It was in early morning darkness that officers scrambled to sort out the chaos at an Albuquerque apartment complex where a couple had reportedly been attacked, the woman bleeding from a head injury and the man with a black eye and wearing blood-stained shorts. \n The woman told officers her 10-year-old daughter was still inside apartment number 808 from which they had escaped. \n What the officers didn't know was that the child was already dead, her battered and dismembered body partially wrapped in a blanket and set ablaze. \n With the fire alarm blaring, they busted in the front door and searched the smoke-filled apartment for Victoria Martens. In the bathroom, the real crime began to come into focus. \n Investigators took into custody the girl's mother, her boyfriend and his cousin. \n The community was left struggling to understand how a blossoming elementary school student who loved swimming and gymnastics could have been the target of such violence. \n Details of what New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and law enforcement officials described as an unspeakable crime emerged in a criminal complaint made public Thursday. Police said Victoria was injected with methamphetamine, sexually assaulted, strangled and stabbed before being dismembered. \n The killing happened on the day Victoria was going to celebrate her 10th birthday. \n \"This homicide is the most gruesome act of evil I have ever seen in my career,\" Albuquerque Police Chief Gorden Eden Jr. said. \n The girl's mother, 35-year-old Michelle Martens, her 31-year-old boyfriend, Fabian Gonzales, and his 31-year-old cousin, Jessica Kelley, face charges of child abuse resulting in death, kidnapping and tampering with evidence. Gonzales and Kelley also face charges of criminal sexual penetration of a minor. \n Gonzales denied having involvement with Victoria's death while reporters yelled questions at him as he was led out of the police station in handcuffs late Wednesday. The girl's mother said nothing as she taken from the police station to a police cruiser and driven away. \n Kelley today was booked into the county jail after being released from the hospital for injuries that stemmed from her jumping from the apartment's balcony in an effort to evade police. She probably won't make her initial court appearance until Saturday, said court spokeswoman Camille Baca. \n Bail was set at $1 million each for Martens and Gonzales at their first court appearance Thursday afternoon. The two did not speak in court, and the public defense lawyer who represented them did not comment about the allegations. \n As news spread about Victoria's death, neighbors and friends built a makeshift memorial under a tree near the apartment complex, adorning it with stuffed animals and candles. Some hugged while others cried and prayed. \n In the evening, dozens of people gathered for a candlelight vigil and the shrine grew. \n Christie Zamora said Victoria attended her gymnastics class every Saturday and always seemed happy. \n \"She was incredibly social,\" Zamora said. \"It's just so tragic.\" \n Another shrine was erected at Petroglyph Elementary School, where Victoria had just started the new school year. \n School officials said in a statement that, like the rest of the community, their hearts ache. \"Victoria is in our thoughts and prayers as we hold our children just a little tighter on this sad day,\" the statement read. \n Neighbors said Victoria's mother worked at a nearby grocery store deli and they were shocked to see a mugshot of her in an orange jail jumpsuit. \n Mugshots of Martens and Gonzales released by police showed them with bruises on their faces. According to the complaint, Gonzales said his cousin hit him and Martens with an iron, prompting him to jump over the balcony and run to a neighboring apartment for help. Martens also found her way outside. \n Police initially went to the apartment complex early Wednesday after the neighbor reported the disturbance. \n Victoria's mother told police she met Gonzales online about a month ago and that he drugged the girl so he could calm her down and have sex with her, the complaint said. \n Gonzales pleaded no contest to a charge of child abandonment in 2015. He was not being monitored by probation officers because New Mexico Department of Corrections officials were unaware of a judge's order requiring supervised probation, said corrections spokeswoman Alex Sanchez. \n Tim Korte, a spokesman for Albuquerque's 2nd District Court, said court records show the judgment mandating probation monitoring for Gonzales was sent to the corrections department in 2015. \n Kelley's record includes battery, domestic violence and drug charges. The Albuquerque Journal reported that Kelley acted as a lookout while a woman allegedly raped another inmate at a regional detention center in 2012. \n Martens told police she allowed Kelley to stay in her apartment after Kelley was recently released from prison. \n Online court records show no criminal history in New Mexico for Martens. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gruesome killing of New Mexico girl stuns friends, neighbors"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lawyer John Henry Browne talks with reporters in Seattle, Wash, Thursday, Aug. 25, 2016, after his Russian client, Roman Seleznev, was convicted in U.S. District Court of hacking into U.S. businesses. Seleznev could face more than 30 years in prison when he's sentenced Dec. 2, 2016. \n SEATTLE >> A jury has convicted a Russian man of hacking into U.S. businesses to steal credit card information and orchestrating an international online theft scheme that netted him millions of dollars. \n Roman Seleznev could face up to 40 years in prison for stealing millions of credit card numbers that he sold on underground internet forums. \n Prosecutors say the thefts led to almost $170 million in losses around the world and made him \"one of the most prolific credit card traffickers in history.\" \n After the verdict Thursday Seleznev's lawyer, John Henry Browne, vowed to appeal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian convicted in masterminding global online theft ring"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / OCT. 2015 \n In this file photo, a fresh cup of coffee is surrounded by freshly roasted coffee beans at the Honolulu Coffee Experience. \n Why is it that some people crave several cups of coffee a day while others stop at only one or two? \n A growing body of evidence suggests that the amount of coffee we consume is determined by our genetic makeup rather than the amount of sleep we got the night before. \n Coffee is one of the most popular beverages worldwide, second only to tea and water, researchers say. And drinking hefty amounts of coffee has been associated with several health benefits. \n Recent reports have linked coffee consumption with improvements in short-term memory, as well as a reduced risk of developing multiple sclerosis, melanoma, Type 2 diabetes and liver cancer. It might also be good for your heart. \n In a new paper published Thursday in Scientific Reports, a team of researchers describe the discovery of a gene variant that appears to limit coffee drinking. \n The authors report that among more than 1,200 people living in Italy, those with the genetic variant PDSS2 tend to drink one fewer cup of coffee per day then those without the variation. \n Further analysis revealed that expression of the PDSS2 gene appears to inhibit the body's ability to break down caffeine. If that's the case, people with this variant would require less coffee to get a strong caffeine jolt because the caffeine would linger in their system for a longer time. \n To confirm their findings, the researchers replicated the study in a group of 1,731 people from the Netherlands. Although the results were similar, the effect on the number of cups of coffee people drank was slightly lower. \n The authors of the paper say they would like to see their findings confirmed with even larger-scale studies. For now, however, they feel fairly confident that they have identified a gene that has never before been connected to coffee drinking. \n \"The results of our study add to existing research suggesting that our drive to drink coffee may be embedded in our genes,\" first author Nicola Piratsu, a genetics researcher at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, said in a statement. \n And you thought you were just tired. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times \n ", "author": "By Deborah Netburn Los Angeles Times", "title": "Your coffee habit may be written in your DNA"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ORLANDO SENTINEL VIA AP \n Visitors brave the rain to view the 49 crosses at the makeshift memorial outside Orlando Regional Medical Center on June 19. The crosses were erected by an Illinois man to honor each of the victims in the Pulse massacre. \n ORLANDO, Fla. \u00bb Orlando Health and Florida Hospital will not bill survivors of the Pulse nightclub massacre for out-of-pocket medical expenses, officials announced Wednesday.  \n Instead, the hospitals will write off an estimated $5.5 million or more in care. \n \"The pulse shooting was a horrendous tragedy for the victims, their families and our entire community,\" Orlando Health President and CEO David Strong said. \"During this very trying time, many organizations, individuals and charities have reached out to Orlando Health to show their support. This is simply our way of paying that kindness forward.\" \n Its main hospital \u2014 Orlando Regional Medical Center \u2014 treated 44 of the more than 50 victims who needed immediate medical attention from the June 12 attack that killed 49 people. The nightclub is only a couple of blocks from the Level 1 trauma center. \n Nine of the Pulse patients died shortly after arriving at ORMC, and their families also will not be charged, hospital officials said. One victim remains hospitalized there. \n At Orlando Health, bills will be sent to health insurers for patients who had coverage, but whatever those policies don't cover will be absorbed by the hospital chain, said spokeswoman Kena Lewis. \n At Florida Hospital, which treated a dozen of the clubgoers, officials said they would not even bill the victims' insurance for the treatment, nor will they bill for follow-up surgeries the survivors may need. \n \"It was incredible to see how our community came together in the wake of the senseless Pulse shooting,\" said Daryl Tol, Florida Hospital's president and CEO. \"We hope this gesture can add to the heart and goodwill that defines Orlando.\" \n Survivors welcomed the news. \n \"I was so worried because I can't afford any of that,\" said Mario Lopez, 34, who was visiting from Miami when he went to the club after a friend's housewarming party. \n \"I just went out for a fun night with friends. No one expected this to happen. My life was turned upside down, and then I had to worry about how I was going to pay back the hospital.\" \n Lopez, who is uninsured, was grazed by a bullet and had fragments explode into his left side. After he was hit, he fell and split his elbow on a shard of glass. His seven-hour hospital visit left him with a new nightmare: a potential $20,000-bill. \n \"It's a huge relief\" to know he won't have to pay, he said. \n At Orlando Health, Lewis said the hospital would work with victims who will need future surgeries as a result of the shootings. \n \"We can't predict the future needs of these patients, their financial situations or what the state or federal governments may require us to do for charity policies,\" she said. \"While we can't assume the answer is free care forever, we will use our very generous charity and financial assistance policies to assess the best way\" to help. \n As it is, the hospital chain is expecting to shoulder at least $5 million in unreimbursed care for the Pulse victims, many of whom had extensive injuries, Lewis said. Florida Hospital officials said the bills there totaled more than $525,000. \n As for Lopez, his physical wounds are healing, he said, but the emotional trauma still feels raw at times. \n \"It's tough,\" he said. \"Each day, I have my moments.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Orlando Sentinel (Orlando, Fla.)  \n ", "author": "By Kate Santich and Christal Hayes Orlando Sentinel", "title": "Florida hospitals won't bill Pulse nightclub shooting victims"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "DALLAS \u00bb The vagina is a welcoming home for Zika. In a new study published today, researchers at Yale University found that Zika reproduced in the vaginas of pregnant mice four to five days after infection and that the virus spread from the vagina to the fetal brain. \n Studying Zika in mice is tricky. A mouse's immune system fights off the infection, making the animal quite resistant to Zika. When researchers want to study the infection in mice, they first tweak the animal's immune system to make it more susceptible. \n But in this case, researchers using a pipette to infect regular mice with Zika in the vagina found that even in mice with a robust immune system, the virus managed to reproduce. \n We already know that Zika can spread through sex. The second documented case of sexually transmitted Zika was in Dallas earlier this year. In that case, the virus was spread through sex between two men. Last month, the first case of a woman spreading Zika to a man through sex was reported. \n This study adds to the evidence that the virus can thrive in the vagina. A previous study showed that Zika persists in a woman's vaginal mucus 11 days after infection. It persists a lot longer in men: the virus can linger in semen up to six months after infection. \n Not only did Zika thrive in the vagina, according to the latest study, but it spread to the fetal brain and caused weight loss, the researchers said. That was true even in mice whose immune systems were not tweaked and therefore should have had a natural resilience to the infection. \n Zika is known to cause a wide range of birth defects in humans including microcephaly, vision loss and joint problems. A study released Tuesday by Brazilian and American doctors showed just how broad that range of defects can be. The researchers said Zika can lead to enlarged ventricles \u2014 the fluid-filled cavities in the brain \u2014 as well as brainstem malformation in babies. \n Experiments on mice should not be applied broadly to humans but the Yale researchers do end their paper by asking: \"How might our findings apply to humans?\" They say that since we are more susceptible to Zika than mice, Zika \"introduced into the human vagina is likely to replicate more robustly than in the vaginal cavity of (regular) mice.\" \n Advice on how to avoid Zika has already been expanded to include messages about safer sex. Some countries have even called on women to delay pregnancy until the epidemic is under control. This new study adds more uncertainty to how long the virus can hang out in various parts of the human body after infection. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Dallas Morning News \n ", "author": "By Seema Yasmin The Dallas Morning News", "title": "Zika flourishes in the vagina, study finds"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / NOV. 13, 2011 \n President Barack Obama speaks during a news conference at Ko Olina in West Oahu during the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation conference in Honolulu in 2011. \n NOAA / RICHARD PYLE/ BISHOP MUSEUM/ SEPT. 30, 2014 \n A deep reef fish community off Kure Atoll in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument consists of fish found no where else but Hawaii. \n President Barack Obama will expand the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument by hundreds of thousands of square miles, creating the world's largest marine reserve and permanently protecting coral reefs and deep sea marine habitats from activities such as commercial fishing and mineral mining, the White House announced this evening. \n The designation will quadruple the size of the current protected area surrounding the uninhabited Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, which was designated as a national monument by George W. Bush in 2006. \n The White House also announced that Obama will address the World Conservation Congress in Honolulu on Wednesday. The conference, which is being held in the United States for the first time, is expected to attract as many as 10,000 people, including government dignitaries, scientists, environmentalists and business leaders. The conference will focus on the climate crisis, the unprecedented rate at which species are becoming extinct and the effects that damaged ecosystems are having on the world's economies. \n The U.S. Coast Guard has issued \"VIP security zone\" restrictions for the waters around Kailua and Honolulu Airport from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. \n Obama will then travel next Thursday to Midway Atoll, located within Papahanaumokuakea, to mark the significance of the monument expansion and \"highlight first-hand how the threat of climate change makes protecting our public lands and waters more important than ever,\" according to a White House press release. \n \"It is now fair to say that the president has as strong as an environmental legacy and track record as any president in generations,\" U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, who was singled out by the Obama administration as playing a crucial role in the president's decision, told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. \n Obama's decision follows months of debate in Hawaii between the longline fishing industry, which has opposed the expansion, and the plan's supporters, which include a long list of local lawmakers; hundreds of scientists; and environmental organizations including The Pew Charitable Trusts. \n In addition to members of the longline fishing industry, the proposed expansion has been opposed by former U.S. Sen. Daniel Akaka and former Hawaii Gov. George Ariyoshi, as well as more than two dozen state lawmakers, including House Speaker Joe Souki and Senate President Ron Kouchi. Kouchi later changed his position to support expansion. \n Opponents of the expansion argued that it would negatively effect Hawaii's fishing industry, potentially driving up local fish prices and increasing imports. At a protest rally at the Capitol last month, critics also argued that the federal government shouldn't be dictating what happens in local waters. \n \"The ocean belongs to us,\" Ariyoshi told the media at the rally. \"We ought to be the ones who decide what kind of use to make of the ocean. And we don't want someone from the outside to come, or people from the outside to come, and tell us how to live with the ocean.\" \n The federal government has long had jurisdiction over the area that will be protected, however, and the idea of expanding the monument has had local backing. \n In January, prominent Native Hawaiian leaders sent Obama a letter proposing the idea, arguing that the waters surrounding the Northwest Hawaiian Islands contained sharks and large, predatory fish that have been heavily overfished elsewhere and were in need of protection. \n The letter was signed by William Aila, deputy director of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands; Nainoa Thompson, president of the Polynesian Voyaging Society; and Kamanaopono Crabbe, head of the state Office of Hawaiian Affairs, among others. \n Schatz noted that the rhetoric for and against expansion had grown heated in recent weeks and that he hoped both sides could now work toward finding common ground. \n \"We are quite confident that this is in the best interest of not just the ecology of the Pacific Ocean, but our ability to catch and eat fish going forward,\" he said. \"This is not a situation of whether we want to catch fish or look at fish. It's about making sure the ocean is sustainable for generations to come.\" \n U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono also issued a statement congratulating the president for his leadership in protecting ocean resources. \n \"President Obama's efforts to enhance protections for our ocean ecosystem will help to combat climate change, preserve biodiversity, and honor cultural traditions,\" Hirono wrote. \"As part of his announcement, I appreciate the president's recognition of the importance of commercial fishing to Hawaii's way of life and our shared goal of supporting Hawaii's sustainable pelagic fisheries.\" \n Obama will expand the protected area around the Northwest Hawaiian Islands using the Antiquities Act of 1906, which affords him unilateral power to designate U.S. lands and waters as national monuments. \n Specifically, the monument will be expanded from 139,800 square miles to 582,578 square miles \u2014 an area about twice the size of Texas. The expansion is expected to provide critical protections for more than 7,000 marine species, including endangered whales and sea turtles, and black coral, which are believed to be the longest-living marine species in the world, capable of living for more than 4,500 years, according to the White House. \n Commercial fishing and mineral extraction will be prohibited in the monument area. However, recreational fishing, removal of fish and other resources for Native Hawaiian cultural practices and scientific research will be allowed in the area by permit. The originally proposed boundaries of the monument have also been pushed back around Kauai and Niihau to ensure that small boat fishermen can still fish in the nearby waters. \n Federal agencies will also sign an agreement with Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources and Office of Hawaiian Affairs that will provide the state agencies with a greater management role in the area. \n As \"ocean acidification, warming and other impacts of climate change threaten marine ecosystems, expanding the monument will improve ocean resilience, help the region's distinct physical and biological resources adapt and create a natural laboratory that will allow scientists to monitor and explore the impacts of climate change on these fragile ecosystems,\" the White House said in its press release. \n Obama's decision came on the heals of an announcement by Gov. David Ige that after listening to both sides of the debate he supported expanding Papahanaumokuakea. \n \"You may be familiar with the Hawaiian proverb, E ola ke kai, e ola kakou \u2014 as the ocean thrives, so do we,\" Ige wrote in a letter to Obama on Wednesday. \"This proposal strikes the right balance at this time for the waters surrounding the Hawaiian Islands, and it can be a model for sustainability in the other oceans of planet Earth.\" \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke", "title": "Obama expands Papahanaumokuakea marine reserve; plans Oahu trip"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "MANCHESTER, N.H. >> Hillary Clinton said that Donald Trump has unleashed the \"radical fringe\" within the Republican Party, including anti-Semites and white supremacists, dubbing the billionaire businessman's campaign as one that will \"make America hate again.\" \n Trump rejected Clinton's allegations today, defending his hard-line approach to immigration while trying to make the case to minority voters that Democrats have abandoned them. \n The ping-pong accusations come as the two candidates vie for minorities and any undecided voters with less than three months until Election Day. Weeks before the first early voting, Trump faces the urgent task of revamping his image to win over those skeptical of his candidacy. \n In a tweet shortly after Clinton wrapped up her speech in the swing state of Nevada, Trump said she \"is pandering to the worst instincts in our society. She should be ashamed of herself!\" \n Clinton is eager to capitalize on Trump's slipping poll numbers, particularly among moderate Republican women turned off by his controversial campaign. \"Don't be fooled\" by Trumps efforts to rebrand, she told voters at a speech in Reno, saying the country faced a \"moment of reckoning.\" \n \"He's taking hate groups mainstream and helping a radical fringe take over one of America's two major political parties,\" she said. \n Trump tried to get ahead of the Democratic nominee, addressing a crowd in Manchester, New Hampshire just minutes before Clinton. \n \"Hillary Clinton is going to try to accuse this campaign, and the millions of decent Americans who support this campaign, of being racists,\" Trump predicted. \n \"To Hillary Clinton, and to her donors and advisers, pushing her to spread her smears and her lies about decent people, I have three words,\" he said. \"I want you to hear these words, and remember these words: Shame on you.\" \n Trump tried to turn the tables on Clinton, suggesting she was trying to distract from questions swirling around donations to The Clinton Foundation and her use of her private email servers. \n \"She lies, she smears, she paints decent Americans as racists,\" said Trump, who then defended some of the core \u2014 and to some people, divisive \u2014 ideas of his candidacy. \n Clinton did not address any of the accusations about her family foundation in her remarks. Instead, she offered a strident denouncement of Trump's campaign, charging him with fostering hate and pushing discriminatory policies, like his proposed temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States. \n Her speech focused on the so-called alt-right movement, which is often associated with efforts on the far right to preserve \"white identity,\" oppose multiculturalism and defend \"Western values.\" Discussions about the alt-right movement became the subject of a Twitter war Thursday, with people on both sides of the debate tweeting under the hashtag #altrightmeans. \n \"#altrightmeans we don't want to kill you we just want you to go away,\" tweeted one person. \n \"#altrightmeans white supremacy. That's all Alt Right is. Another code word for white supremacy. Nothing more nothing less,\" another tweet said. \n Clinton's campaign also released an online video that compiles footage of prominent white supremacist leaders praising Trump, who has been criticized for failing to immediately denounce the support he's garnered from white nationalists and supremacists, including former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke. \n Trump, who also met Thursday in New York with members of a new Republican Party initiative meant to train young \u2014 and largely minority \u2014 volunteers, has been working to win over blacks and Latinos in light of his past inflammatory comments and has been claiming that the Democrats have taken minority voters' support for granted. At rallies over the past week, the Republican presidential nominee cast Democratic policies as harmful to communities of color, and in Mississippi on Wednesday he went so far as to label Clinton \"a bigot.\" \n \"They've been very disrespectful, as far as I'm concerned, to the African-American population in this country,\" Trump said. \n Many black leaders and voters have dismissed Trump's message \u2014 delivered to predominantly white rally audiences \u2014 as condescending and intended more to reassure undecided white voters that he's not racist, than to actually help minority communities. \n Cornell William Brooks, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, told C-SPAN's \"Newsmakers\" Thursday that Trump has not reached out to the organization for any reason. He added that Trump refused the group's invitation to speak at its convention. \n \"We're going to make it clear: You don't get to the White House unless you travel through the doors of the NAACP,\" Brooks said. \"More importantly, you don't get to the White House without addressing the nation's civil rights agenda.\" \n Before the meeting in New York, several protesters unfurled a banner over a railing in the lobby of Trump Tower that read, \"Trump = Always Racist.\" They were quickly escorted out by security as they railed against Trump for \"trying to pander to black and Latino leaders.\" \n \"Nothing will change,\" they yelled. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Lerer reported from Reno, Nevada. Jill Colvin contributed reporting from Washington. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Reach Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/JonLemire and Lerer at http://twitter.com/llerer \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton says Trump will 'make America hate again'"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "THE RECORDER VIA AP / JUNE 2011 \n This file photo shows Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Aaron Persky, who drew criticism for sentencing former Stanford University swimmer Brock Turner to only six months in jail for sexually assaulting an unconscious woman. \n SAN FRANCISCO \u00bb A California court said today that a judge who was harshly criticized and subjected to a recall campaign for the leniency of a six-month jail sentence for a former Stanford University swimmer who sexually assaulted an unconscious woman will no longer hear criminal cases, a move that came at his own request. \n Santa Clara County Presiding Judge Rise Pichon said she has granted the request for reassignment of Judge Aaron Persky. \n \"While I firmly believe in Judge Persky's ability to serve in his current assignment, he has requested to be assigned to the civil division, in which he previously served,\" Pichon said in a statement. \"Judge Persky believes the change will aid the public and the court by reducing the distractions that threaten to interfere with his ability to effectively discharge the duties of his current criminal assignment.\" \n The move is not necessarily permanent. The assignment is subject to an annual review and takes effect Sept. 6. \n Pichon said that another judge's desire to transfer to Palo Alto has made a quick swap with Persky possible. Normally such changes don't happen until a new year. \n Persky ordered the six-month sentence for Brock Turner, a Dayton, Ohio, resident who had been attending Stanford on a swimming scholarship. The judge cited a probation department recommendation and the effect the conviction will have on Turner's life. \n Authorities say Turner sexually assaulted the girl while she was passed out near a trash bin. \n The case sparked a national debate on college drinking and sexual assault and led to a recall effort against the judge. \n Michelle Dauber, the Stanford law professor behind the recall effort, said that while the move from Persky is welcome, the recall attempt will continue, in part because Persky \"can still transfer back to hearing criminal cases any time he chooses.\" \n \"The issue of his judicial bias in favor of privileged defendants in sex crimes and domestic violence still needs to be addressed by the voters of Santa Clara County,\" Dauber said in an email. \"In our opinion, Judge Persky is biased and should not be on the bench.\" \n Dauber and other organizers have said they will begin collecting signatures in April to qualify the issue for the November 2017 ballot. \n Persky had already departed from two sex-crimes cases since his June sentencing of the 20-year-old Turner exploded in national media. \n On Monday he formally recused himself from deciding whether to reduce a San Jose plumber's felony child pornography charges to misdemeanors. \n That came two months after the district attorney's office removed Persky from a different sexual assault case, saying \"we lack confidence\" in the judge's ability to decide it impartially. \n In addition to his supervising judge, attorneys who have argued in front of Persky cite his abilities. Santa Clara County deputy public defender Gary Goodman in June called him a \"solid and respected judge,\" while defense attorney Barbara Muller said he's \"one of the fairest judges\" in the county. \n A jury convicted Turner, a former Olympic hopeful, of sexually assaulting the young woman he met at a campus fraternity party in January 2015 after she passed out behind a trash bin. \n The sentence along with the long and much-shared statement the victim read in court made the case a national rallying cry for a reconsideration of how rape is handled by the law. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge over Stanford sex assault leaving criminal cases"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fitness machine stands on a damaged concrete structure at the scene of a blast at a sports complex in Chimay, Belgium on Friday. One person is reported to have been killed and at least two injured in an accidental explosion at a sports center near the French border. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police inspectors survey the scene of a blast at a sports complex in Chimay, Belgium on Friday. One person is reported to have been killed and at least two injured in an accidental explosion at a sports center near the French border. \n CHIMAY, Belgium \u00bb One person was killed and at least four were injured in Belgium in an accidental explosion at a sports center near the French border. \n Chimay police Chief Pierre Maton said early Friday that the blast was most likely \"a gas explosion,\" but an investigation into the cause was ongoing. \n The blast in the town of Chimay, 75 miles south of the capital Brussels, happened just after midnight local time. \n Several dozen police and firefighters were on the scene and the area had been cordoned off, but the damage was not as serious as initially feared. Windows were blown out of the two-story building, and one corner of the structure was badly damaged but there was no major collapse. \n Firefighters were on the scene early Friday morning clearing the rubble and securing the building. \n Police said they believed they have retrieved all the people from the rubble. \n Chimay has a population of about 10,000 and is known for one of Belgium's most famous breweries. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "1 dead, at least 4 injured in Belgium in accidental blast"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Human rights activist Ahmed Mansoor shows Associated Press journalists a screenshot of a spoof text message he received in Ajman, United Arab Emirates today. Mansoor was recently targeted by spyware that can hack into Apple's iPhone. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb The much-talked-about hack that would allow governments to spy on your every move through your iPhone and iPad has become reality.  \n Apple issued a security update for those devices Thursday after researchers discovered spyware that turns hand-held Apple devices into the mother of all snoops, allowing remote operators to intercept all voice and data communications and pass along every photograph and video. \n Researchers said spyware had never been found before this month that could \"jailbreak\" an iPhone or iPad and seize total control of its functions. \n Efforts to use the spyware have surfaced in Mexico and the United Arab Emirates, where critics of the government appear to have been targeted for surveillance. \n \"There's pretty much nothing that this spyware couldn't get off the iPhone,\" said Bill Marczak, one of two researchers at the Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto who discovered the spyware. \"It's a total and complete compromise of the phone.\" \n Thursday's development is a hit on the reputation of Apple products as largely hack-proof, and it raises questions over whether the spyware is in widespread use by authoritarian governments around the world. \n The Israeli company thought to have produced the spyware said in a statement that it insisted that governments that bought its products use them only in lawful ways. Coding in the spyware indicates it has been around since 2013. \n The spyware's existence also calls into question the security of widely used encrypted communications programs such as WhatsApp and Telegram, both of whose contents can be intercepted on a compromised device before they are scrambled, according to a San Francisco cyber forensics company, Lookout, that joined Citizen Lab in the probe. \n The story of how the researchers uncovered the spyware and the evidence of its use is worthy of a spy novel itself. \n Marczak and a colleague, John Scott-Railton, began tracking the spyware, which they call the Trident exploit, after a human rights defender in the United Arab Emirates alerted researchers to suspicious text messages. \n The rights activist, Ahmed Mansoor, received a text message on his iPhone on the morning of Aug. 10. It said in Arabic: \"New secrets about torture of Emiratis in state prisons,\" and contained a hyperlink to an unknown site. A similar text message arrived the next day. \n Mansoor was wary. He'd already been targeted by other attempts. In all cases, the text messages were bait to get him to click on a link, which would have led to the infection of his Apple iPhone 6 and the control of the device through spying software created by NSO Group, a shadowy Israeli surveillance company, Marczak said. \n Marczak and his colleague infected a test iPhone of their own and \"watched as unknown software was remotely implanted on our phone,\" the two said in a report. They then contacted Lookout to help in reverse-engineering the spyware. \n They quickly learned that the infection would have turned Mansoor's iPhone into a pocket undercover spy \"capable of employing his iPhone's camera and microphone to eavesdrop on activity in the vicinity of the device, recording his WhatsApp and Viber calls, logging messages sent in mobile chat apps and tracking his movements.\" Viber is another common communications program. \n NSO Group, based in Herzliya, on the northern outskirts of Tel Aviv, was founded in 2010 and describes itself as a leader in \"cyber warfare\" and a vendor of surveillance software to governments around the world. It maintains no website and keeps a low profile. \n The Citizen Lab report said NSO Group had been sold to a San Francisco private equity group, Francisco Partners Management LLC, in 2014. A call of inquiry to that group led an NSO Group spokesman, Zamir Dahbash, to call McClatchy. \n He offered a statement that said the company's mission was \"to help make the world a safer place\" and that it sold only to authorized government agencies to help them \"combat terror and crime.\" NSO Group does not operate any of its systems, he said, only selling the software. \n \"The agreements signed with the company's customers require that the company's products only be used in a lawful manner. Specifically, the products may only be used for the prevention and investigation of crimes,\" Dahbash said. \n He would answer no further questions and would not confirm that the company had contracts with any agencies of the UAE government or with the government of Mexico, where another case emerged of efforts to infect iPhones with NSO spyware. \n As the researchers traced the activities of their own infected iPhone, it led to an infrastructure of some 200 websites and servers used by NSO Group. The team then punched in the internet addresses to Google and Twitter \"to see if anybody was sharing links to them,\" Marczak said. \n That's when they came across a tweet by Rafael Cabrera, a Mexican editor who works for Aristegui Online, a muckraking portal that has repeatedly broken stories on alleged influence trafficking by President Enrique Pena Nieto and his wife. Cabrera noted in the tweet that he'd gotten a \"weird\" text message that seemed to bait him to click on a suspicious link. \n \"We realized, oh my gosh, this guy received links which were connected to these websites that we connected to NSO Group,\" Marczak said. \n Cabrera, trapped in a traffic jam in Mexico City, said in a brief cellular phone interview that three members of Aristegui Online had been targeted with the text messages. In addition to himself, the portal's lead investigator, Daniel Lizarraga, and another prominent journalist, Salvador Camarena, received texts. \n All were on the team that in November 2014 revealed that Pena Nieto's wife had received a $7 million mansion from one of the government's biggest contractors. The team also took part, along with McClatchy and scores of other media outlets around the world, in the probe of the Panama Papers, the trove of documents from a Panamanian law firm that opened a window earlier this year on the murky world of offshore shell companies. \n Among the revelations from the documents was that the contractor who had built the mansion for the Mexican first lady had also sought to create a string of offshore trusts and companies to hide more than $100 million. \n Cabrera said he could not pin blame on who might have wanted to spy on his iPhone. \n \"I can't say if it was an individual or if it was the government,\" Cabrera said. \n The type of spyware sold by NSO Group routinely costs at least $1 million, according to a report by Lookout, making it a tool available mainly to governments.  \n Apple Inc. was notified by Citizen Lab and Lookout on Aug. 15 of the vulnerability in the iPhones and iPads, and it said the security update provided Thursday blocked the use of Trident spyware. \n \"We advise all of our customers to always download the latest version of iOS to protect themselves against potential security exploits,\" Apple spokesman Fred Sainz said in an email. \n But Marczak said Apple devices, like all others, faced an increasing onslaught from malware. \"Nothing is hack-proof, really,\" he said. \"There's always ways into these devices.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 McClatchy Washington Bureau  \n ", "author": "By Tim Johnson McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "Update your iPhone or iPad: Israeli cyber-spy firm can hack you"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Myanmar Military personnel examine the Htilominlo Pagoda in Bagan, Myanmar. Using brooms and their hands, soldiers and residents of the ancient Myanmar city famous for its historic Buddhist pagodas began cleaning up the debris Thursday from a powerful earthquake that shook the region and damaged nearly 200 temples. \n BAGAN, Myanmar >> It was a time of conquest and conversions. Above all, it was a time of construction, on a scale never seen before. Over 250 years, from the 11th century onwards, the rulers of Bagan built more than 10,000 magnificent religious monuments. \n The stupas, temples and monasteries became the defining emblems of Bagan, the capital of the Pagan (pronounced PUH'-gahn) empire that ruled Myanmar from roughly 1044 to 1287. \n On Wednesday, scores of the monuments \u2014 of which only about 2,200 remain \u2014 were damaged in a powerful 6.8 magnitude earthquake. Yet much of what fell was modern material, sanctioned by Myanmar's former army rulers who had put top priority on restoring the temples with little regard for the original architectural styles. \n King Anawratha, who unified the country formerly known as Burma, and his successors built the temples in a frenzy, believing they would gain spiritual merit. Still, piety didn't stop them from making war or killing to gain power. \n One king, Narathu, slew his father, elder brother, and one of his wives. He also killed the architect of the magnificent Dhammayangi temple so he couldn't repeat the feat, and chopped off the hands of sloppy workmen. \n As more and more monuments rose in the dusty plains of central Myanmar, Bagan became the political, economic and cultural center of the empire, promoting religious as well as secular studies, including philosophy, astrology, medicine, law and Pali, the language of Buddhist scriptures. The city became an educational destination for monks from as far away as India, Sri Lanka and Cambodia. \n But Bagan declined as rapidly as it rose. \n It was abandoned around 1287 for reasons not entirely clear, and the city \u2014 once home to up to 200,000 people \u2014 was reduced to the status of a small town. Some historical accounts cite Mongol invasions but others dispute that, saying the Mongol armies may not have reached the city. \n But the dead city left a legacy that future generations are benefiting from. \n Bagan covers more than 80 square kilometers (32 square miles) of a flat plain. It is the country's biggest tourist attraction, and along with Cambodia's Angkor Wat and Indonesia's Borobudur temple, the temples of Bagan are considered one of Southeast Asia's major historical landmarks. \n Yet unlike those Southeast Asian archaeological cousins, Bagan is not listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO due to a tangled modern tale of neglect followed by a fervid if misguided effort at renovation in the 1990s, partly to restore damage from a 1975 earthquake. \n As the ground shook on Wednesday, the tremors dislodged spires, loosened bricks and cracked the mortar, revealing modern material that was the result of haphazard restoration by the former military regime. \n These efforts drew widespread international condemnation and forced UNESCO to deny Bagan the World Heritage Site stamp, even though it acknowledged that \"these monuments represent the outstanding artistic and technical achievement of an original and innovative Buddhist school of art.\" \n Much of the blame lies with the junta that took power in 1988, after crushing a pro-democracy movement. By 1995, restoration was in full swing to complete the work before the Visit Myanmar Year in 1996, which the generals of this once-pariah nation hoped would bring in much-needed tourist income. \n The plan was a limited success, due to still underdeveloped infrastructure and a boycott call by human rights groups against the military regime, which had placed pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest. The country emerged from military rule this year after Suu Kyi's party won to become the country's de facto leader. \n Pierre Pichard, a UNESCO consultant who had long been associated with Bagan, said impressing visiting generals rather than cultural priorities dictated restoration while military-ordered excavation has been done \"hastily, without proper preparation and without the requested scientific methodology and records.\" \n UNESCO was even more disturbed when a 60-meter (198-feet) -high viewing tower opened in 2005, saying it's out of scale and detracts visually from the historical monuments. \n State tourism authorities responded that the tower would prevent tourists from climbing on fragile pagodas and stupas and damaging them. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Peck reported from Bangkok. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Quake damages scores of Myanmar's heritage Bagan temples"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the National Marine Fisheries Service shows a prematurely weaned Hawaiian monk seal pup being restrained by a veterinarian so he may be fed a mashed fish formula aboard the research vessel Oscar Elton Sette in Kailua-Kona. \n Four malnourished Hawaiian monk seals have been taken from remote atolls to a Big Island hospital for the endangered animals to be fed fish and fluids to boost their weight, officials said. \n The seals also will receive antibiotics during their stay at the facility in Kailua-Kona. \n Two of the seals were prematurely weaned by their mothers. One is a yearling, and the fourth is an extremely underweight five-year-old. Three of the animals are females. \n Only about 1,300 of the animals remain in the wild and their population in the isolated Northwestern Hawaiian Islands is declining about 2 percent a year, said Charles Littnan, lead scientist for the Hawaiian Monk Seal Research Program at the National Marine Fisheries Service. \n He hopes nursing malnourished seals back to health will help stem the decline. \n Construction of the monk seal hospital two years ago has given officials treatment options they previously lacked. Known as Ke Kai Ola, it is operated by the Marine Mammal Center, a California-based nonprofit veterinary research hospital. \n \"All of these pups and young animals would have been left behind in the past and almost certainly would have died,\" Littnan said. \n Over time, Littnan hopes the rescued seals will help boost the seal population. \n Biologists captured the seals during a trip this summer. A research vessel took them to Kailua-Kona on Wednesday. \n Last summer, researchers brought back six seals from the remote island chain and one seal from Niihau island. Fewer seals needed help this year, Littnan said. \n Biologists and veterinarians study the seals over time to evaluate their weight. Seals with a girth of less than 35 inches will probably have a hard time surviving and would be good candidates for rescue, Littnan said. . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "4 malnourished Hawaiian monk seals taken to Kona hospital"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "The U.S. guided missile destroyer USS Stout entered Georgia's Black Sea port of Batumi in July 2009. A U.S. Navy ship fired three warning shots in the direction of an Iranian boat that was approaching another American ship head-on in the North Arabian Gulf on Wednesday, U.S. officials said, in an escalation of encounters in the region this week. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A U.S. Navy ship fired three warning shots in the direction of an Iranian boat that was approaching another American ship head-on in the North Arabian Gulf on Wednesday, U.S. officials said, in an escalation of encounters in the region this week. \n According to U.S. Navy Cmdr. Bill Urban, the Iranian boat came within 200 yards of the USS Tempest and ignored several bridge-to-bridge radio calls and warning flares. It finally turned away after the USS Squall, which was with the USS Tempest, fired three warning shots from its .50-caliber gun, said Urban, a spokesman for the Navy's 5th Fleet. \n \"This situation presented a drastically increased risk of collision, and the Iranian vessel refused to safely maneuver in accordance with internationally recognized maritime rules of the road,\" said Urban. \n The incident was one of three encounters that U.S. ships had with Iranian Revolutionary Guard boats in the Gulf on Wednesday. And they came a day after four small Iranian boats approached the USS Nitze at high speed in the Strait of Hormuz. The boats veered off after the U.S. fired flares. \n The same Iranian boat that harassed the USS Tempest also crossed in front of the USS Stout three times at a high rate of speed on Wednesday in the same region. Urban called it an \"unsafe intercept\" and said the USS Stout, a guided missile destroyer, had to maneuver to avoid a collision. \n In the third incident, three Iranian boats crossed in front of the USS Tempest at high speed, coming within 600 yards of the ship. The Tempest and the Squall are patrol ships. \n Pentagon Press Secretary Peter Cook acknowledged the three incidents today, but said he did not have details. He said the U.S. ships are conducting themselves in a safe and professional manner and they will continue to take whatever steps they need to protect themselves. \n Video of the incident involving the USS Nitze shows American sailors firing flares and sounding the warship's horn as the Iranian boats approached. A sailor can be heard saying that the weapons on the Iranian boats were \"uncovered, manned.\" \n Iran's defense minister said today that his naval forces will warn or confront any foreign ship entering the country's territorial waters. \n The semi-official Tasnim news agency quoted Gen. Hosein Dehghan as saying that \"if any foreign vessel enters our waters, we warn them, and if it's an invasion, we confront.\" He added that Iranian boats patrol to monitor traffic and foreign vessels in its territorial waters. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. warship fires warning shots at Iranian boats"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "The Maui Police Department has begun a month-long field test on the use of body cameras. \n The current field test, which began Aug. 18, is using the body-worn Axon camera made by TASER. \n In a news release, Maui police said another field test is planned involving cameras made by two other manufacturers. \n The Maui Police Department has received grants totaling less than $200,000 to purchase a body-worn camera system. \n According to Taser website, the Aexon camera system has a battery that lasts for 12 hours, uses Wi-Fi to stream encrypted video and Bluetooth to send images to a data collection system, and a buffer provision that captures images two minutes before an event. \n Last year the Kauai Police Department was the first department in the state to outfit its officers with body cameras. \n In July, Honolulu Police Department Maj. Andrew Lum told The Honolulu Star-Advertiser the department has been testing different vantage points by placing cameras on officers at eye, shoulder and chest levels. The testing also includes putting the camera-equipped officers into different scenarios and analyzing the recordings to detect obstructions and measure visibility. \n Lum said the department's pilot project, which will allow officers to wear the devices on their patrols, could begin in November. It's expected to last three to six months. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui police begin field-testing body cameras"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE \n Max Mattos, 49, of Kea\u02bbau, Kawika Nobriga, 33, of Pahoa and Sabrina Jaeger, 30, of Pahoa were to appear in a Hilo District Court this morning for allegedly stealing 80 pounds of avocados from a Puna orchard. \n Two Big Island men and a woman were to appear in a Hilo District Court this morning for allegedly stealing 80 pounds of avocados from a Puna orchard. \n Max Mattos, 49, of Keaau and Kawika Nobriga, 33, of Pahoa, were arrested and charged with second-degree criminal trespass and second-degree theft this week. Their bail was set at $2,500 each. \n Sabrina Jaeger, 30, of Pahoa, was arrested on a bench warrant and charged with contempt of court. She was released after posting $300 bail. \n Puna police on Wednesday were called to an orchard off Highway 132 in the Kapoho area at 4:45 p.m. The farm owner and a friend had blocked a pickup truck loaded with 80 pounds of avocados. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Trio charged with theft, contempt in foiled avocado poaching"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE \n This graphic shows what different weather computer model projects of the path of a storm system in the East Pacific. The margin of error on the computer models is large when looking beyond three to five days. But some models show the storm passing over or near Hawaii. \n NOAA / GOES WEST \n This composite satellite image shows an area of thunderstorms, lower center, that has an 80 percent chance of developing into a tropical depression over the next five days. Tropical Storm Lester, near Mexico, formed overnight. \n Forecasters are watching two storm systems in the East Pacific that have the potential to bring high surf, and more muggy conditions and rain to Hawaii starting next week. \n But the systems are still too far away to know if they will pass close enough to Hawaii to affect island weather. \n One of the weather systems strengthened into Tropical Storm Lester overnight, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. \n The other system, about 1,700 miles southeast of Hawaii island, has an 80 percent chance of developing into a tropical depression over the next five days, forecasters said today. If it develops into a tropical storm in the Central Pacific, it could be the first named storm of the Central Pacific hurricane season and would be called Ulika. If it becomes a storm in the East Pacific, it will be named Madeline. \n Some computer models show the storm passing over or near the Big Island late next week. However, the margin of error on the models this far in advance is large. \n Jeff Powell, the lead forecaster at the Honolulu office of the National Weather Service, said forecasters should have a better idea of the path of the closer system by early next week. \n Meanwhile, Lester is packing sustained winds of 60 mph as it moved away from the coast of Mexico. \n At 11 a.m., the storm was 470 miles south-southwest of Baja California, moving west-northwest at 10 mph. \n Lester is forecast to strengthen into a hurricane this weekend. Depending on its path and the strength of the winds, the storm could send some surf to east shores of the Hawaiian islands next weekend. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Forecasters monitor 2 storm systems in East Pacific"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "Criminal and administrative investigations have been initiated after a rookie Honolulu police officer allegedly assaulted an Uber driver. \n However, since no charges have been filed, police have not released any information on the incident. \n The officer has been on the police force for one year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Honolulu police officer under investigation for alleged assault of Uber driver"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "Mark Garrity, deputy director of the Department of Transportation Services, has been named acting director. \n He will replace Michael Formby, who will serve as the acting executive director of the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation, or HART, until board names an interim or permanent executive director. Formby replaced Dan Grabauskas who resigned last week. \n Garrity has been with the City since 2013. Prior to joining the city, he helped plan transit projects in Honolulu, Phoenix, Portland and Abu Dhabi. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City names acting director for Department of Transportation Services"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "A fire in Waipahu Wednesday caused $210,000 damage to a two-story home and its contents. \n However, fire investigators haven't determined the cause of the blaze, which was reported at 5:11 p.m. on Waikele Loop. \n The fire was brought under control at 5:24 p.m. \n Two people were at home and escaped without injuries. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire investigators continue search for cause of Waipahu house fire"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "The state wants to expand the proposed ban on swimming with dolphins to 200 miles from shore. \n The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration this week proposed a rule which would prohibit approaching a Hawaiian spinner dolphin within two nautical miles. \n The ban would include commercial swim-with-dolphins programs. \n However, Bruce Anderson, administrator of the Department of Land and Natural Resources' Division of Aquatic Resources, said: \"We believe NOAA's preferred option is reasonable. Two of the five initial alternatives involved closing off entire areas designated as essential daytime habitats. We felt that was going a little too far, but we can support approach rules and eliminating swim-with-dolphins activities.\" \n \"The proposed regulations would be in effect within two nautical miles of the main Hawaiian Islands, and within certain designated waters between Maui, Lanai, and Kahoolawe. We will recommend NOAA expand that beyond two miles, all the way out to the limit of the Exclusive Economic Zone, which is 200 miles from shore. We don't see a rationale for a two-mile limit.\" \n Public hearings on NOAA's proposed regulations will be held next month with a final decision expected next year. \n Public comment period for the proposed rule ends Oct. 23. \n The National Marine Fisheries Service says spinner dolphins are being deprived of rest during the day and becoming stressed out. \n Commercial tour operators oppose the ban because it would cover waters out to two nautical miles, which is where 98 percent of Hawaii's spinner dolphins rest after they've spent the night feeding and where dolphin tour excursions occur. \n Ann Garrett, assistant regional administrator of the National Marine Fisheries Service's protected-resources division for the Pacific Islands, told the Associated Press that dolphins have been found to be burning calories at a higher rate because they are forced to be vigilant as people approach their pods. \n Garrett said that NOAA wants to require swimmers, snorkelers and others in the water to stay at least 50 yards from the animals. \n Anderson also hopes NOAA will develop a plan to monitor the effectiveness of the proposed rule, once it goes into effect. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State seeks larger zone for ban on swimming with dolphins"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A giant pearl measuring 1ft wide, 2.2ft long and weighing 75lb was displayed in the lobby of the Puerto Princesa Tourism Office in Puerto Princesa city, Palawan province in southwestern Philippines Thursday. \n MANILA \u00bb A Filipino fisherman in western Palawan island has found possibly the world's biggest pearl, but he didn't know it. \n For 10 years, the 75-pound pearl was hidden in a bag under a bed. The fisherman's family would rub it with their hands before going out to sea in the belief it would bring them luck, said relative Aileen Amurao. \n Amurao, who is also Puerto Princesa city's tourism officer, said Thursday that the man gave her the pearl last month for safekeeping because he was moving to a new place. \n The pearl was sitting on a bench in her home for weeks until she found time to check the internet, and she was shocked to learn that it could be the world's biggest at 2.2 feet long and 1 foot wide. \n The fisherman, his father and brothers found the irregular-shaped pearl inside a giant clam that stuck to their boat's anchor when they sought refuge from a squall on a reef, Amurao said. \n The fisherman did not want to be identified, she said. \n She said that she, the fisherman and his family decided to turn over the pearl to the city mayor, who had it displayed in a glass case in Puerto Princesa's city hall to attract tourists. The fisherman will receive a still-unspecified reward from the local government, Amurao said, adding that he never intended to sell it. \n Experts from the University of the Philippines have expressed interest in inspecting the pearl, but she said no date has been set for their visit. \n It would not be the first time giant pearls have been found off Palawan. \n A 20-pound pearl, called Pearl of the King, was found in Palawan in 1939, and is on display in a hotel at the central island resort of Boracay. Local media have reported that fishermen had recovered other huge pearls in the province, including one reportedly weighing 54 pounds. \n The Guinness World Records lists a 718.50 carat baroque abalone pearl as the biggest of its kind, measuring 5.5 inches in length, 3.1 inches wide and 1.6 inches thick. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For 10 years, possibly biggest pearl was hidden under bed"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "GOAKAMAI.ORG \n A traffic camera at Kapiolani Boulevard and Keeaumoku Street shows traffic backing up on Kapiolani Boulevard after an accident involving an overturned vehicle. \n Honolulu police reopened all lanes of Kapiolani Boulevard in both directions at Atkinson Drive. \n Police contra-flowed lanes after a vehicle overturned in a traffic accident. \n Police reported the closure at 5:41 p.m. and reopened the road by 6:15 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kapiolani Boulevard reopened at Atkinson Drive after accident"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nigel Farage, ex-leader of the British UKIP party, speaks as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, left, listens, at Trump's campaign rally in Jackson, Miss. \n JACKSON, Mississippi >> Donald Trump is linking his \"movement to take back the country\" to Britain's surprising vote to leave the European Union. \n He invited Nigel Farage, an architect of the withdrawal campaign, to join him on stage at a rally Wednesday night in Jackson. \n Farage, the outgoing head of the United Kingdom Independence Party, said \"anything is possible\" if enough people band together, and predicted that Trump's presidential campaign would \"smash the establishment.\" \n Farage helped propel the Independence Party from the political fringe to a position as influential power broker. Over the past few years, the party has won over large numbers of voters from other parties by appealing to concerns about globalization and large-scale immigration. Farage, who had pushed for the June 23 referendum on whether Britain should remain in the European Union, stepped down as party leader shortly after his side won. \n Farage noted that his movement was an underdog in public opinion polls but ultimately triumphed. He predicted that Trump, who supported Britain's departure from the European Union, would stage a comeback and win in November. \n Trump called Farage's appearance an honor and said, \"The nation's working people will take control again.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Leader of British movement to leave EU joins Trump at rally"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "EAST HAVEN, Conn. >> A former professional wrestler who once grappled with the likes of Hulk Hogan is now running for a state representative seat in Connecticut. \n Tracey hung up his boots and tights more than 25 years ago, but for five years he was known as \"Dave Paradise\" in the then-World Wrestling Federation. \n Now, Tracey is challenging incumbent state Rep. James Albis, a Democrat, for the seat. Tracey, who's running as a Republican, owns three local businesses and has lived in East Haven for 17 years. \n Tracey says he's running because he cares about the town's residents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former pro wrestler running for state representative seat"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "SISTERS OF CHARITY OF NAZARETH VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by Sisters of Charity of Nazareth shows Sister Paula Merrill. Sister Margaret Held and Merrill, two nuns who worked as nurses and helped the poor in rural Mississippi, were found slain in their home and there were signs of a break-in and their vehicle was missing, officials said today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Mississippi Bureau of Investigation agent takes a bag with evidence from the Durant, Miss., home of two slain Catholic nuns who worked as nurses at the Lexington Medical Clinic, to his vehicle today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police officials confer outside the Durant, Miss., home of two slain Catholic nuns who worked as nurses at the Lexington Medical Clinic today. The clinic office manager and a Durant police officer discovered their bodies inside the house after both nuns did not report for work. \n DURANT, Miss. \u00bb Two nuns who worked as nurses and helped the poor in rural Mississippi were found slain in their home, perhaps victims of a break-in and vehicle theft, officials said today.  \n Authorities would not say if they have a suspect but disclosed that they'd recovered a car missing from the home and were towing it to a crime lab for analysis. They also did not release a cause of death, but the Rev. Greg Plata said police told him the sisters were stabbed. \n The nuns were identified as Sister Margaret Held and Sister Paula Merrill, both 68. Their bodies were taken to a state crime lab for autopsies. \n The women, both nurse practitioners, were found Thursday morning when they didn't report to work at a nearby clinic, where they provided flu shots, insulin and other medical care for children and adults who couldn't afford it. \n \"They were two of the sweetest, most gentle women you can imagine. Their vocation was helping the poor,\" said Plata, who oversees a 35-member Catholic church the sisters attended. \n Maureen Smith, a spokeswoman for the Catholic Diocese of Jackson, said there were signs of a break-in at the home and the nuns' vehicle was missing. \n Later, Warren Strain, spokesman for the Mississippi Department of Public Safety, said the blue Toyota Corolla was found abandoned Thursday evening on a secluded street barely a mile from the home, the vehicle apparently undamaged. He said police haven't determined when the car was abandoned and it was being towed to the state crime lab near Jackson, Mississippi's capital city. \n Authorities didn't release a motive and it wasn't clear if the nuns' religious work had anything to do with the slayings. \n \"I have an awful feeling in the pit of my stomach,\" said Durant Assistant Police Chief James Lee, who is Catholic. \n Police Chief John Haynes said officers are checking video from surveillance cameras in town to see if they spot anything unusual. \n Merrill had worked in Mississippi for more than 30 years, according to the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth in Kentucky. She was from Massachusetts and joined the order in 1979. \n Two years later, she moved to the South and found her calling in the Mississippi Delta community, according to a 2010 article in The Journey, a publication by the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth. \n When asked about her ministry, Merrill was humble. \n \"We simply do what we can wherever God places us,\" Merrill said. \n A video on the order's website detailed her work, interviewing her and her patients talking about the care they had received. \n \"What really appalls me is over 60 percent of the children live in poverty,\" Merrill said. \n Earlier in her career, she helped bring a tuberculosis outbreak under control in the region, said Lisa Dew, who managed the Lexington Medical Clinic where the sisters worked. \n \"They'll help anybody they can help. They'll give you the shirt off their back,\" she said. \n Merrill saw children and adults, and helped in other ways. \n \"We do more social work than medicine sometimes,\" Merrill told The Journey. \"Sometimes patients are looking for a counselor.\" \n After Hurricane Katrina in 2006 left much of the town was without power for weeks, the sisters allowed people over to their house to cook because they had a gas stove. \n They were skilled in stretching resources, and routinely produced amazing dishes out of what seemed like a very small home garden, said Sam Sample, lay leader of St. Thomas Catholic Church in Lexington, where the sisters were members. \n \"These ladies didn't require any fanfare, any bells and whistles. They would just keep their nose to the grindstone, doing what had to be done,\" he said. \n The small congregation at St. Thomas typically gathered on Thursday nights for Bible study and a meal. \n Held was a member of the School Sisters of St. Francis based in Milwaukee, and its U.S. Province Leadership team issued a statement that members were \"deeply shocked and grieved\" by the killings. They noted Held had 49 years with the order and devoted herself to \"living her ministry caring for and healing the poor.\" \n Dr. Elias Abboud worked with the sisters for years and agreed to help build the Lexington clinic because \"you could feel their passion about serving the people, helping the poor. They loved it.\" \n Abboud estimated that the clinic provided about 25 percent of all the medical care in the county, which has a population of about 18,000, according to U.S. Census Bureau estimates for July 2015. \n The Catholic community in Mississippi is relatively small. Of nearly 3 million people, the diocese said there are about 108,000 Catholics. \n The two nuns provided almost all the care at the clinic, and many in the community wondered what would happen to it now \u2014 and the people it served. \n \"I think their absence is going to be felt for a long, long time. Holmes County, it's one of the poorest in the state,\" Dew said. \"There's a lot of people here who depended on them for their care and their medicines. It's going to be rough.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 nuns killed in Mississippi; signs point to home break-in"}

{"date": "August 25, 2016", "text": "BRIDGEPORT, Conn. >> Following a growing trend citywide, a Bridgeport jury returned a not guilty verdict for a reputed gang member who was accused of shooting a 19-year-old man. \n Officials say the jury's not guilty verdict is the fourth returned in a row for defendants implicated in gang-related shootings. \n Police Chief Armando Perez called the verdict \"just disgusting\" and claimed it was evidence that juries are being intimidated by gangs. Members of the Green Boyz, a gang Kirkland is said to be involved with, attended the two-day trial. \n Kirkland had been accused of shooting a 19-year-old man who police found wounded on the road in May 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reputed Bridgeport gang member cleared in May 2015 shooting"}

