{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin makes a toast during a ceremony for receiving diplomatic credentials from foreign ambassadors in the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia. \n MOSCOW >> A top Russian diplomat and Vladimir Putin's spokesman said today that Russian experts were in contact with some members of President-elect Donald Trump's staff during the presidential campaign, a period in which the United States accused Russia of hacking into Democratic Party emails systems. \n A spokeswoman for Trump denied the assertion, but it raised the ongoing suspicions about the president-elect's relationship with Putin's government that had dogged his campaign with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. \n Russia is hopeful that a Trump presidency will herald improved relations with the United States. But, in a sign of the cold realism that Putin is known for, Moscow is not betting on an immediate drastic turnaround in the strained relationship. \n And while Trump himself has said he wants to be friends with Russia and join forces in the fight against terrorism, he has outlined few specifics as to how he would go about it. President Barack Obama began his presidency with a similar goal, only to see progress unravel over the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria. \n Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told The Associated Press in an interview in New York that Russian experts had contacts with people in both the Trump and Clinton campaigns. He said such contacts are \"quite natural, quite normal.\" \n \"And our experts, our specialists on the U.S., on international affairs \u2026 Of course they are constantly speaking to their counterparts here, including those from Mr. Trump's group,\" Peskov said. \n \"Of course, it's quite natural that Russian experts are trying to maintain the dialogue with people from different camps. It's very important to understand the main streams, and understand the main tendencies, nuances and the positioning of different parties, different camps here in the United States,\" he said. \n Peskov said Russia has \"a very good relationship\" with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and relationships with some academics and U.S.-Russia experts involved in foreign policy, which he also called \"normal.\" Earlier, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov was quoted as telling the Interfax news agency that \"there were contacts\" with influential people in Trump's circle. \"I don't say that all of them, but a whole array of them supported contacts with Russian representatives.\" \n Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks denied such contacts. \n \"It never happened,\" she said. \"There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign.\" \n Hicks also said there are no meetings planned between Peskov and Trump or anyone with the campaign. \n Among Trump's inner circle was Paul Manafort, a longtime Republican operative who'd advised a pro-Russian Ukrainian political party before its ouster over alleged corruption. Manafort left the campaign after those contacts were made public. \n The U.S. government believes Putin might have interfered in the presidential election. The intelligence community has concluded that Russia was responsible for hacking into the emails of the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and gave them to WikiLeaks, which released them. Some embarrassed and damaged the Clinton campaign. \n In his comments, Ryabkov was careful not to overpromise. \n \"We do not feel any euphoria,\" he said, recalling ups and downs in the Washington-Moscow relationship under both Republican and Democratic administrations. \n \"We wouldn't like our public \u2026 to have an impression that we are full of some rosy expectations. I have to say that the judgments about Russia aired by members of the Trump campaign and people from his entourage were quite tough. And we didn't see any reason to revise our view that the election campaign in the U.S. in fact saw a bipartisan anti-Russian consensus.\" \n Still, speaking with the careful phrasing befitting the spy he once was, Putin has made it clear he expects a great deal from Trump. And, Trump has suggested he wants a far more transactional relationship with Putin than Obama has had. \n Trump's rise to the White House puts two men into seats of global power who are paradoxically both remarkably similar and wildly different. \n Trump's praise of the Russian president as a strong leader, his suggestion that the U.S. could abandon its NATO commitments and his vehement complaints about allegedly biased news media all appear to parallel Putin's view of the world. \n Trump has repeatedly called for better relations with Russia, frequently musing about a rosy world in which Russia and the U.S. get along. On Wednesday, Putin did the same, hoping that the \"degraded\" relations between the two countries would improve once Trump takes over. Putin noted, however, that the tension \"is not our fault.\" \n Trump made no specific mention of Russia in his first post-election comments but made clear that he wants good relations with all nations \"willing to get along with us.\" \n Putin would be pleased if the U.S. dropped the sanctions imposed for Russia's annexation of Crimea and its involvement in the continuing war in eastern Ukraine. That could appeal to Trump's sense that he is the master of the deal. \n \"I believe that Trump is a practical man; he will lift sanctions on Russia that are harmful to U.S. business,\" Putin aide Sergei Glazyev told the state news agency Tass. \n The U.S. sanctions have been a strong factor in Russia's economic decline over the past two years, along with a plunge in prices for oil, its major export. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia eyes better ties with Trump; says contacts underway"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters will resume a search Wednesday for the body of a 20-year-old man who fell off a cliff into rough ocean conditions Tuesday morning. \n The man, reportedly a visitor, was hiking with three friends along Puka Maui Trail in East Maui when he fell about 20 feet from a sea cliff at around 11 a.m., Maui firefighters said. \n He was last seen climbing up a steep rocky cliff area when he lost his footing and fell about 20 feet into the ocean, or a blow hole, near the water's edge, said Maui Fire Department spokesman Edward Taomoto. The man's companions saw him fall and called for help after losing sight of him in the water. \n On Tuesday afternoon, Maui firefighters in a helicopter saw the man's body wash up on the rocks but then swept back into the ocean, Taomoto said. \n Puka Maui Trail is near the 7-mile marker on Hana Highway, and it is a 90-minute hike to the ocean from the highway. Taomoto said the area was wet from overnight rain and the trail was slippery. \n Firefighters searched by helicopter, on a boat and from land, and lifeguards assisted on two rescue watercraft. \n Taomoto said dangerous surf of 20 to 25 feet hampered Tuesday's search. \n Firefighters on a rescue boat had to stay 200 yards from shore because of the rough surf, and firefighters on shore couldn't walk the shoreline, which is mostly bluffs overlooking the ocean, Taomoto said. \n In addition, brown water from mountain stream runoff prevented divers from entering the ocean. \n Taomoto said firefighters ended their search at about 5:30 p.m. Tuesday because of darkness and planned to shift to a recovery mission when they resume their search at first light Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Search for body of visitor who fell from Maui sea cliff to resume"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sharon Keith, center-left, who works in a store near where a shooting took place, Wednesday, Nov. 9, 2016, in downtown Seattle, cries as she talks to reporters about the shooting. Authorities say a man escaped on foot after firing into a crowd and wounding five people outside a convenience store in downtown Seattle. \n SEATTLE >> A man opened fire on a crowd outside a convenience store in downtown Seattle, wounding five people and setting off an intense police search, authorities said. \n Seattle Assistant Police Chief Robert Merner said four men and one woman were hurt after an argument near Pine Street and Third Avenue outside a 7-Eleven store near a busy bus stop. \n \"There was some type of argument that took place, a suspect walked away and then fired into crowd striking those individuals,\" Merner said. \n All five people shot were taken to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. Harborview Medical Center spokeswoman Susan Gregg said the condition of one woman and two men wounded improved by Wednesday night from serious to satisfactory condition. \n She said two other men remained in critical, but stable condition in intensive care. \n The five victims range in age from 20s to 50s and sustained injuries to their legs, chest and neck, Gregg said. \n Authorities were searching for and trying to identify the gunman, who fled the scene on foot, Merner said. Streets in the area were closed while police investigated the scene and interviewed witnesses. \n Merner said officers don't believe the incident is related to anti-Trump protests happening near the area at the time. \n \"As far as we know, it seems to be a personal argument,\" he said. \n The manager of the 7-Eleven, Sharon Keith, told reporters she heard what sounded like firecrackers and told everyone to get down while she went to lock the door. \n She said she could see multiple people on the ground outside afterward. \n \"How do you describe that, there were multiple people down, a lot of blood,\" she said, her voice breaking. \n Police were also investigating an exchange of gunfire earlier in the day in Seattle that wounded two men. \n Seattle Mayor Ed Murray said in a statement Wednesday night that he was thankful all the victims were alive and receiving treatment. \n \"Seattle Police do not currently believe the shootings are linked, nor do they believe there is any tie to tonight's march,\" Murray said. \"However, gun violence remains an epidemic in our country that we must work to address in any way we can. Today's shootings are a reminder of how much work we have left to do.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police search for gunman after 5 injured in Seattle shooting"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "A Navy helicopter crew from Marine Corps Base Hawaii at Kaneohe Bay rescued three stranded boaters off Maui on Tuesday afternoon after the boaters' engine died, the U.S. Coast Guard said. \n The boat crew used an emergency locator beacon at about noon to notify the Coast Guard that they needed help. \n The Coast Guard found the beacon was properly registered, contacted the registered contact, and found that the boaters had departed earlier in the day in a 17-foot boat from Kahana, Maui for the north side of Molokai. \n A Coast Guard helicopter was dispatched, but an H-60 Navy helicopter crew in the area conducting other operations heard the homing beacon and responded. \n The Navy crew, from Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron 37, hoisted the boaters from the boat and flew them to Kahului Airport. \n \"My crew did exactly what they train to do,\" said Lt. Cmdr. Megan Barnett, pilot of the H-60. \"From hearing the beacon and looking out for a possible vessel, to spotting them waving life jackets at us, all the way through safely executing the approach to the vessel and recovering all three personnel without incident.\" \n No one was injured, and the boat was salvaged and towed to Molokai, the Coast Guard said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Stranded boaters rescued off Maui"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters plan to search for a third day on Thursday for the body of a 20-year-old man who fell into the ocean while hiking Puka Maui Trail in East Maui. \n A large swell that hampered search efforts on Tuesday decreased on Wednesday, but another giant swell is expected on Thursday. \n Maui Fire Department spokesman Edward Taomoto said a fire helicopter will assess the ocean conditions in the morning to determine whether divers can enter the water and rescue watercraft can be deployed. He said firefighters were expecting a northwest swell to build to warning levels again Thursday and into Friday. \n About 11 a.m. Tuesday, the Maui visitor was hiking with three friends along Puka Maui Trail, near the 7-mile marker on Hana Highway, when he fell about 20 feet into the ocean or a blowhole near the water's edge, Taomoto said. \n The man's friends saw him climbing a steep rocky cliff when he lost his footing and plunged into the ocean, Taomoto said. \n His friends called for help and firefighters began searching by land, sea and air, but large surf and stream runoff hampered their search and prevented divers from entering the water. \n Taomoto said the 20- to 25-foot surf on Tuesday forced a fire rescue boat and two lifeguard watercraft to stay at least 400 yards from shore. \n Firefighters in a helicopter briefly saw the man's body wash up on the rocks Tuesday afternoon before another swell pulled it back into the water. Crews have not seen the body again. \n On Wednesday, the large swell diminished to about 6 to 8 feet, allowing divers to search underwater near an underwater lava tube where the victim's body was seen washing up on the rocks. \n Besides the divers and fire helicopter, two rescue watercraft also assisted in Wednesday's search. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui firefighters will continue searching ocean for missing body"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police search for evidence after an explosion outside the French Embassy in Athens, Thursday, Nov. 10, 2016. Two unidentified individuals riding a motorcycle threw a grenade at the building and the explosion slightly injured a police officer, according to the Greek media. \n ATHENS, Greece >> A hand grenade attack outside the French Embassy in central Athens slightly wounded a policeman early Thursday, police said, days before outgoing U.S. President Barack Obama is due to visit the Greek capital. \n Authorities said the policeman, who had been on guard outside the embassy, was wounded when unknown assailants threw a hand grenade outside the embassy building, located opposite Parliament on a major avenue. \n Police shut down the area to vehicles and pedestrians for several hours while anti-terrorism forensics experts combed the scene for evidence. \n The government condemned the attack and described it as an act of terrorism, adding that the police would track down the culprits. \n \"The relations of friendship and solidarity between Greece and France can't be affected in the slightest by such terrorist acts,\" government spokesman Dimitris Tzanakopoulos said in a statement released by his office. \n Greece has a history of domestic militants who periodically carry out bomb or shooting attacks against authorities, diplomatic locations or businesses. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for Thursday's attack, and it was unclear why the French Embassy was targeted. \n Police said the attack was apparently carried out by two people on a motorbike. A bike matching the description was later found in a central Athens neighborhood popular with anarchists and was being examined to determine whether it was the one used in the attack. \n Authorities said it appeared the policeman had only been slightly wounded because he had been inside an armored guard post outside the embassy entrance. \n The attack came days before Obama arrives in Athens on Nov. 15 for an expected overnight visit. Left-wing organizations have announced they will hold protests during Obama's stay. \n The U.S. has frequently been regarded with misgivings in Greece, in part because of Washington's supportive stance during the military dictatorship that ruled the country from 1967-1974. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Grenade thrown at police at French Embassy in Greek capital"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Black Lives Matter activist Jedidah Brown, right, confers with Father Michael Pfleger before a march in the wake of the fatal shooting of Joshua Beal in the Mount Greenwood neighborhood of Chicago. \n CHICAGO >> A largely white Chicago neighborhood that many police officers and firefighters call home took center stage this week in the city's tensions over gun violence, race and policing as protests erupted following the fatal police shooting of a black man. \n Some residents used racial slurs, revved motorcycle engines and yelled \"go home\" Tuesday night as protesters with the Black Lives Matter movement demanded an investigation into the death of 25-year-old Joshua Beal. It was the second confrontation in Mount Greenwood since Beal, who police say was armed, was shot Saturday in what police said was a road rage incident following a funeral. \n When the latest protest erupted, as Donald Trump was being elected president, residents of the southwest Chicago neighborhood expressed the same kind of fears \u2014 often using racially charged and profanity-laced language \u2014 that the country saw voiced among the white working class audiences that clamored to Trump's rallies in recent months. \n When protesters tried to conduct a prayer, some residents shouted \"CPD, CPD\" in support of the Chicago Police Department. \n \"I think there is a concern about protecting the neighborhood. But the larger concern from some people is protecting the neighborhood from people who don't look like them,\" said John Lyons, who is white and lives in Mount Greenwood with his wife and two young daughters. \n \"It is a very ugly side to our neighborhood and our community,\" Lyons said. \n Unlike some of the largely black neighborhoods that have borne the brunt of the city's violence that has left hundreds dead and thousands injured this year, Mount Greenwood has very little crime. A quiet community on the outer edge of Chicago, it's a neighborhood of neat homes and small family businesses. \n There have been just 14 robberies and not a single homicide in the last year in the neighborhood, according to statistics compiled by the Chicago Tribune. The police district responsible for Mount Greenwood has seen fewer than half the number of homicides this year than the district to the immediate northeast. \n Over the years, Mount Greenwood has attracted residents looking for a safe atmosphere to raise their families in the city. Many are firefighters, police officers and other city employees. \n That feeling of safety was shattered when an off-duty police officer fatally shot Beal, residents said. Investigators said Beal was armed with a handgun during a melee sparked by a road rage incident involving Beal and others who had just left a funeral in their car. \n The incident also led authorities to arrest the dead man's brother on allegations that he attacked a police officer, tried to disarm him and threatened to kill him. \n \"Who brings a gun to a funeral?\" asked an incredulous Peggy Hederman, who has owned a Lindy's Chili & Gertie's Ice Cream franchise in the neighborhood for a quarter century. \n When protesters arrived demanding an investigation and the release of any video of the shooting \u2014 a common request since the city was forced last year to release video of a white officer fatally shooting a black teenager 14 times in 2014 \u2014 residents confronted them. \n \"I think they just feel they had to stand up for the policemen that are in the community and serve the community,\" Hederman said. \"You do feel around here a connection to the police (because) they're your neighbors.\" \n Ja'Mal Green, a black activist who took part in the Tuesday protest, said what unfolded that night reminded him of watching Martin Luther King Jr. marching across his television screen. \n \"To see them so openly be racist to our faces, to tell us to go back home to the ghetto,\" he said, \"felt like we were back in those '60s videos.\" \n The Rev. Michael Pfleger, a white Roman Catholic priest who joined Green and others at the Tuesday night protest, said he had not felt \"that kind of hatred\" since a protest march decades ago in Chicago in which King was struck in the head with a rock. \n \"A police officer said, 'We've got to get you out of here. They hate you and I don't think we can protect you,'\" Pfleger said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Racial tension flares in mostly white Chicago neighborhood"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police officers help to install concrete barriers around Trump Tower, the home of President-elect Donald Trump, in New York, Wednesday, Nov. 9, 2016. A day after Trump, against all odds, won election as America's 45th president, Hillary Clinton on Wednesday lamented that the nation proved to be \"more divided than we thought\" but told supporters: \"We owe him an open mind and a chance to lead.\" \n WASHINGTON >> The true test now begins for Donald Trump. \n The Republican president-elect paid little attention to transition planning leading up to his stunning victory. With 72 days before he takes control of the executive branch, Trump and his senior team on Wednesday immediately began the herculean task of picking a Cabinet and tapping hundreds of appointees to senior roles in key departments \u2014 State, Defense, Homeland Security, Commerce and Treasury among them \u2014 many requiring multiple security reviews or Senate confirmation. \n \"They have a long way to go,\" said Max Stier, president and CEO of the Partnership for Public Service, an outside group that was working with both campaigns on transition planning since the summer. \"It's imperative to have the right people brought in fast and they're prepared.\" \n Stier described the transition as \"a point of maximum vulnerability\" for the nation. \n As president-elect, Trump is entitled to get the same daily intelligence briefing as President Barack Obama \u2014 one that includes information on U.S. covert operations, information gleaned about world leaders and other data gathered by America's 17 intelligence agencies. \n Trump's senior team huddled privately to being a more focused period of transition planning. The group included the transition chairman, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, Vice President-elect Mike Pence and daughter Ivanka Trump's husband, Jared Kushner, among others. \n The team is putting a premium on quickly filling key national security posts, according to people familiar with the conversations but not authorized to discuss them publicly. \n \"We had a great meeting and I thought it was valuable. And lots of work has been done,\" said Sessions, a top Trump adviser. \"So it's the beginning, really a solid beginning. First phase of the beginning. \" \n Bill Hagerty, Trump's director of presidential appointments, declined to detail a timeline for Trump's first personnel moves. A chief of staff is traditionally appointed in the initial weeks after an election. \n \"It's something that's got to be pretty close held until the president-elect is ready to begin to announce appointments,\" he said. \n A small transition team has been meeting since early August to discuss legislative priorities and plans for taking over agencies. While Christie provided Trump with weekly updates, until now, the campaign and transition operations functioned as relatively distinct entities and in different cities \u2014 Trump's campaign in New York and the transition team in Washington. \n An organizational chart for the transition team obtained by The Associated Press confirms that some familiar names are playing senior roles shaping a Trump admnistration. \n National security planning was being led by former Michigan Rep. Mike Rogers, who previously worked for the FBI. Joseph \"Keith\" Kellogg, a retired Army lieutenant general, was heading defense planning. For domestic issues, the Trump transition team was relying on the leadership of Ken Blackwell, a former Cincinnati mayor and Ohio secretary of state. \n A Trump spokesman did not respond to questions about the team, but key allies rejected the notion he was behind where he should be in transition planning. \n \"Donald Trump is taking this very seriously,\" Priebus said, suggesting that Trump's deal-making skills would enable him to quickly \"make things happen for the American people.\" \n \"He will get things done,\" Priebus declared. \n It's far from clear who would occupy Trump's Cabinet and senior staff. His inner circle is famously small, defined by loyalty to the president-elect and largely devoid of establishment leaders. \n Trump offered a roadmap for prospective administration figures while on stage during his victory speech early Wednesday. \n The president-elect praised Christie, who joined Trump on stage as he declared victory, despite Christie's abysmal poll numbers at home and continued scrutiny for the so-called Bridgegate scandal. \n Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani emerged as one of Trump's closest advisers and regular traveling partners in the campaign's final stretch. The former federal prosecutor is a possible fit for a post like attorney general or national security adviser. \n Sessions was the first major Capitol Hill lawmaker to back Trump. His hard-line immigration views became a centerpiece of the insurgent campaign. Sessions' chief of staff, Rick Dearborn, has also emerged as a key figure in transition planning. \n While many Republican national security leaders shunned Trump, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn was the Republican nominee's most experienced national security voice. Flynn accompanied Trump when he received his first classified intelligence briefing. \n Steven Mnuchin, a Goldman Sachs veteran and CEO of a private investment firm, served as Trump's finance chairman and instantly becomes a contender for Treasury secretary. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich could emerge as a possible secretary of state. Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, who was considered for Trump's running mate and chairs the Foreign Relations Committee, may also be in line for a job. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump begins to play catch up on transition to White House"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "Maui farmer Alika Atay, who played a high-profile role in the 2014 Maui County anti-GMO ballot initiative, came from behind in the final vote count early this morning to overtake former Councilman Dain Kane and win a seat on the Maui County Council, according to the state Office of Elections. \n Atay, who earned 23,320 votes to Kane's 22,512, will take the Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu seat being vacated by Councilman Mike Victorino, who is reaching his term limit. \n Kane, 54, held the seat from 1998 to 2004. \n Atay, 62, is one of the leaders of the SHAKA Movement, which led Maui County's first successful initiative. It was nullified last year by a U.S. District Court judge, but is currently on appeal with the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui farmer comes from behind to win County Council seat"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth is greeted by supporters before a private luncheon today, , in Springfield, Ill. \n  CHICAGO >> Fresh off her election to the U.S. Senate, Tammy Duckworth pledged to Chicago commuters and downstate residents today that she'd work with a White House and Congress controlled by Republicans. \n With hopes dashed that that she might be part of a wave that returned the chamber to Democratic control, Duckworth said she will cooperate with Donald Trump and his Capitol Hill allies \u2014 as long as it benefits taxpayers. \n \"If the new administration proposes policies that are good for the people, I'll work with them, but if they propose policies that are bad for the people, I will lead the charge to stand up,\" she said. \n The two-term representative from Hoffman Estates, who also stopped in Springfield and Peoria, entered one of the most closely watched Senate tilts as a heavy favorite against GOP Sen. Mark Kirk and will be the second woman to represent Illinois in that chamber. \n Democrats had counted on a win in Illinois as they looked to retake control of the U.S. Senate, given that Illinois has long backed Democrats for statewide office, especially in presidential election years, but Republicans held onto their slim majority when GOP incumbents won in Missouri, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Wisconsin. \n Duckworth is the second person with Hawaii ties to hold the U.S. Senate seat from Illinois. Hawaii-born Barack Obama gave up the seat to run for president in 2008. Duckworth raduated from McKinley High School in Honolulu and attended the University of Hawaii. \n After winning election Tuesday, Duckworth spoke about growing up in Hawaii in a family that had to use food stamps after her father lost his job, and also recounted the day 12 years ago when the helicopter she was co-piloting in Iraq was shot down, resulting in her losing both legs. \n \"I wake up every morning now, trying to be worthy of my crew and their struggle, to be worthy of this miraculous second chance,\" Duckworth said in speaking about the members in her unit who carried her body to safety. \n Kirk, a first-term senator, had worked for months to convince voters that he was independent of his party by criticizing Trump as \"racist\" and \"delusional\" and talking up his record of breaking from Republicans on issues such as gun control and gay marriage. \n But he hurt his own campaign with a series of controversial statements, including last month, when he had to apologize to Duckworth after mocking her immigrant background \u2014 she was born in Bangkok to a Chinese-Thai mother and American father \u2014 and her family's military history during a debate. Two organizations withdrew their endorsements, calling the remarks racist. \n Kirk also had apologized for referring to South Carolina U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, who's unmarried, as a \"bro with no ho,\" and was criticized for saying President Barack Obama was acting like \"the drug dealer in chief\" when his administration delivered $400 million cash to Iran contingent on the release of American prisoners. \n In his concession speech, Kirk repeated an invitation to meet Duckworth at a Chicago tavern for a beer to \"bury the hatchet.\" The two will do so Friday, Veterans Day, since both are military veterans, though Duckworth noted her allergy to alcohol means she'll have a soda. \n Duckworth served as director of the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs after losing her first bid for Congress in 2006. In 2009, Obama appointed her to a leadership post at the federal VA. \n Kirk, whose 2010 election made him only the second Republican to represent Illinois in the U.S. Senate in a quarter-century, suffered a stroke in 2012. He battled questions during the race about whether he was still healthy enough to do the job. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duckworth pledges cooperation with GOP after winning U.S. Senate seat"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "U.S. MARINE CORPS \n U.S. and Philippine Marines fire down range while conducting ground assault maneuvers during Balikatan 16, at Crow Valley, Philippines on April 14,. \n MANILA >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has approved the continuation of joint military exercises with U.S. forces, but the number of drills will be reduced and will exclude mock assaults, defense officials said Wednesday. \n Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said Duterte also allowed the government to proceed with a 2014 defense accord with Washington permitting U.S. forces to be stationed temporarily at five designated Philippine military camps, along with their warships and planes. \n Duterte had previously threatened to end military exercises with the U.S. and the presence of American forces in the country in about two years, saying the Philippines' still ill-equipped troops have not benefited from America's superior military. \n Lorenzana said he and other security officials explained to the president at a Cabinet meeting on Monday how the Philippines benefits from the annual maneuvers. \n \"We presented to him the long years of bilateral relationship,\" Lorenzana said. \"The Armed Forces of the Philippines enumerated the benefits obtained from these exercises.\" \n U.S. Embassy spokeswoman Molly Koscina cited the swift response of American forces after Typhoon Haiyan ravaged the central Philippines in 2013. U.S. personnel reached the area four hours after the Philippines sought help. \n U.S. troops, aircraft and aid, along with those from other countries, have been credited with preventing more casualties after the powerful storm struck. Haiyan left more than 7,300 dead or missing. \n \"That can't happen unless you have an alliance and that you train together and work together,\" Koscina said. \n Defense department public affairs chief Arsenio Andolong said the changes in annual joint maneuvers will be discussed with American military officials led by U.S. Pacific Command chief Harry Harris Jr. at a Nov. 22 meeting in Manila. \n Duterte ordered assault exercises to be discontinued, the defense department said. \n Andolong said two naval exercises involving amphibious beach landing and boat raids may be stopped. A largescale exercise called Balikatan or shoulder to shoulder will be retained but will shift its focus to disaster response, humanitarian aid and counter terrorism, he said. \n \"We still have to discuss with the Americans what form this will take as it will be modified,\" Lorenzana told The Associated Press. \n Duterte has opposed combat exercises, saying in September that China did not want such maneuvers. While wanting to scale back engagements with the U.S. military, Duterte has reached out to China and Russia for possible deals, including the acquisition of weapons and defense assets. \n Lorenzana said he expected no major change in the Philippines' treaty alliance with the U.S. following the electoral victory of Donald Trump. \n \"Through the years, whoever wins, Democrat or Republican, the U.S. interest in the Asia-Pacific region has remained the same,\" Lorenzana said. We do not see any change with Trump's win.\" \n \"It has been a longstanding friendship that some misunderstanding and irritants along the way cannot alter in a grave way,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines to end assault drills with U.S., but military ties will continue"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated file artist rendering made available by the TMT Observatory Corporation shows the proposed Thirty Meter Telescope, planned to be built atop Mauna Kea. \n Hearings are still underway for a permit to build what would be one of the world's largest telescopes on Mauna Kea, but a group challenging the project is already appealing to the state Supreme Court. \n Thirty Meter Telescope opponents are challenging various decisions that have been made regarding contested-case proceedings, including affirming the hearings officer and an order limiting each party's questioning of a witness to 30 minutes. \n In 2011, telescope opponents requested so-called contested-case hearings before the state land board approved a permit to build on conservation land. The hearings were held, and the permit was upheld. Opponents then sued. In December 2015, the state Supreme Court revoked the permit, ruling the land board's approval process was flawed. That meant the application process needed to be redone, requiring a new hearing. \n Honolulu attorney Richard Wurdeman filed the appeal Monday for members of Mauna Kea Anaina Hou and KAHEA: The Hawaiian Environmental Alliance. He's the same attorney who withdrew from representing the group in the hearings, citing scheduling conflicts. He could not immediately be reached for comment Wednesday. \n \"We believe there's no merit to this appeal, said Dan Meisenzahl, spokesman for the University of Hawaii, which is applying for the permit. \"We look forward to completing a fair and impartial hearing process.\" \n The hearings started last month and continue next week. \n The land board affirmed retired Big Island Judge Riki May Amano over objections from telescope opponents who wanted her replaced. Mauna Kea Anaina Hou argued that there was an appearance of impropriety because Amano rode in a vehicle with an employee of the Office of Mauna Kea Management during a visit of project's site. But the land board found that Amano rode with a state law enforcement officer and there was no evidence of an appearance of impropriety. \n The hearings have been moving slowly and Amano recently restricted cross-examination of witnesses to 30 minutes per party. There are about two dozen people participating in the quasi-judicial proceedings who are allowed to cross-examine witnesses. \n \"We're not trained lawyers and sometimes it's difficult to figure out the way in which to ask questions,\" said Kealoha Pisciotta, one of the group's leaders. \n Wurdeman filed the appeal directly to the state Supreme Court because of a law that took in effect in August that allows certain contested-case hearing decisions to bypass the Intermediate Court of Appeals. \n State Rep. Scott Saiki, who introduced the measure, said previously that the telescope project was one of the cases that inspired the bill. The law aims to streamline the appeal process and to allow for decision to be made more quickly, he said. \n Telescope officials have said they want a permit in place by the end of the year or early next year in order to resume construction in 2018. They recently announced that a mountain in the Canary Islands, Spain, is the primary alternative in case the telescope can't be built in Hawaii. \n \"We continue to support (the land board's) commitment in carrying out a fair, transparent and expedient process,\" said Thirty Meter Telescope spokesman Scott Ishikawa. \"We remain hopeful that a permit can be issued in a timely manner to allow TMT construction in April 2018.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Telescope foes appeal hearing decisions to Hawaii high court"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Noor Wadi, a second-year law student, cried as she hugged a friend after speaking with fellow students gathered at the University of Texas at Austin to protest the Trump election on Wednesday. \n BIRMINGHAM, Ala. \u00bb Across America, many members of minority groups awoke today to something that had seemed an implausible nightmare just a day earlier: President-elect Donald Trump. \n After a race that shattered norms of civility and restraint, Trump's ascendency to the White House on the power of overwhelming white support left some with the sinking feeling that they now live in a country where they simply don't matter. Some said they even worry that they are potentially in danger because of the color of their skin, the God they worship or the language they speak. \n \"I'm like literally an enemy of the state now,\" said Black Lives Matter activist Mercutio Southall, 32, who was roughed-up by Trump supporters a year ago after disrupting one of the candidate's rallies in Birmingham. \n Trump received minority votes in his stunning win over Democrat Hillary Clinton, and he made conciliatory comments about unity in his victory speech. But some minority citizens who didn't support the Republican nominee said they fear what the next four years might bring. \n \"It looks like we are going back to the back of the bus,\" said NAACP member George Rudolph, 65, a black Vietnam veteran whose wife Sarah was seriously injured in the Ku Klux Klan church bombing that killed four black girls in Birmingham in 1963. \n Rudolph said Trump's election evokes a time decades ago when segregationist Alabama Gov. George Wallace stoked crowds with similar rhetoric. \n In Los Angeles, just hours after Trump was projected as the next president, Martha Arevalo of the Central American Resource Center said her office already was fielding calls from immigrants who fear they will be targeted for deportation under a Trump presidency. \n \"This is very, very scary for our families, and they are afraid,\" said Arevalo, the center's executive director. \"What we are telling them is we will continue to fight and we will continue to try to protect them as much as possible.\" \n The nature of the divided vote is behind some of the concern. After promising to \"make America great again\" \u2014 which some heard as a call to return the nation to a time when white men ran almost everything \u2014 Trump won the presidency with staggering support from white men. Exit polls and unofficial returns reflected that his backers were older, more male and overwhelmingly white compared to Clinton supporters. \n Clinton drew support from a diverse coalition resembling the one that twice elected Barack Obama as president. She carried women, young voters and nonwhites with margins that could leave her actually winning the national popular vote while losing the electoral tally. \n At North Carolina Central University in Durham, sophomore Jamon Carlton said he still hadn't figured out how Trump had won in a country that seemed to embrace hope and the inclusion of everyone eight years ago. He worried Trump's victory might embolden closet bigots and lead to more dangerous displays of anger. \n \"It could become confrontational. Man, I hope it doesn't come to that,\" said Carlton, who voted for Clinton. \n Bennett McAuley and Derrick Swick, a gay-transgender couple in Durham, said they feel especially vulnerable just weeks away from a Trump presidency. \"Hell, I'm a white man and this is a really uncomfortable morning,\" Swick said. \n Just hours after Trump' election, the head of Alabama's largest Islamic congregation said he awakened to messages from female Muslims worried about whether it was safe to wear their religious coverings in public. \n \"People on social media and otherwise are very concerned about all the talk about banning Muslims and having Muslims to register, so there is a lot of concern,\" said Ashfaq Taufique, president of the Birmingham Islamic Society. \n Trump has tried to walk back some of his harshest campaign comments, such as calling Mexican immigrants \"rapists;\" proposing a ban on Muslims entering the United States, and advocating mass deportations. His victory speech struck a gentler tone that some found encouraging, and Clinton noted that Trump had won the right to govern. \n \"We owe him an open mind and a chance to lead,\" she said in her concession speech. \n Imelda Salazar, an immigrant rights organizer in Chicago, isn't there yet. She broke down into tears while discussing Trump's win. \n \"I haven't slept. I'm sad. I'm angry and all that,\" she said. \"But one thing that stands out the most is I'm not alone.\" \n Javier Benavidez, executive director of the Southwest Organizing Project in Albuquerque, New Mexico, said activists there likely would hold peaceful demonstrations each time Trump visits the state as president. For now, they plan a Native American healing ceremony in reaction to his election. \n \"Confronting this new terrain is frightening,\" Benavidez said. \n Associated Press writers Amy Taxin in Santa Ana, California; Russell Contreras in Las Vegas; Jocelyn Gecker in San Francisco; and Jeffrey S. Collins in Durham, North Carolina; Sophia Tareen in Chicago; and Corey Williams in Detroit contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Some minorities find 'President-elect Trump' scary prospect"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / SEPT. 2015 \n Grassroot Institute President and CEO Kelii Akina at his downtown office. Akina upset Office of Hawaiian Affairs veteran Haunani Apoliona for the OHA at large trustee seat in Tuesday's General Election, according to final results released this morning. \n Keli'i Akina, president of the Grassroot Institute of Hawaii, upset Office of Hawaiian Affairs veteran Haunani Apoliona for the OHA at large trustee seat in Tuesday's General Election, according to final results released this morning. \n Akina garnered 163,699 votes, or 37.4 percent, to Apoliona's 156,158, or 35.7 percent, with the remaining 26.9 percent not voting, after the last 9,000-plus votes were counted early today. \n Akina waged a spirited campaign against Apoliona, who has served continuously on the board since first being elected in 1996. \n It was Akina's second campaign for OHA and he recognized the challenge of taking on a well-known incumbent. \"Name recognition is a huge advantage for any candidate who has it, but we've made use of all forms of media to build our own name recognition,\" he told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser Tuesday night. \n Akina was plaintiff in the lawsuit that wound up stopping the Na'i Aupuni Hawaiian self-governance election, which he considered racially discriminatory. The institute he leads is devoted to individual liberty and limited government. \n In the other OHA trustee race Tuesday, OHA Chairman Robert Lindsey defeated challenger Mililani Trask, 44.4 percent to 32.6 percent, according to final results. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Grassroot Institute's Akina upsets Apoliona in OHA at-large race"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton greeted supporters after speaking at the New Yorker Hotel in New York, today, where she conceded her defeat to Republican Donald Trump after the hard-fought presidential election. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Despite losing Tuesday's presidential election, Hillary Clinton appears to be on pace to win the popular vote, an ironic twist in an election in which her opponent repeatedly said the system was rigged against him. \n Just two days before Election Day, Republican businessman Donald Trump tweeted: \"The Electoral College is a disaster for a democracy.\" \n As it turns out, without the Electoral College, Trump probably wouldn't be the president-elect. \n A day after Election Day, Clinton held a narrow lead in the popular vote, according to unofficial results tallied by The Associated Press. With nearly 125 million votes counted, Clinton had 47.7 percent of the vote and Trump had 47.5 percent. \n That's a lead of about 236,000 votes. \n Many states count votes after Election Day, so Clinton isn't guaranteed to keep her lead. However, most of the outstanding votes appear to be in Democratic-leaning states, making it very likely she will become the second Democratic candidate for president this century to win the popular vote but lose the presidency. \n The biggest chunk of uncounted votes is in California. Washington State, New York, Oregon and Maryland also have large numbers of uncounted votes. Clinton won all those states, and if the trends continue, she will pad her lead by more than 1 million votes. \n There are also votes to be counted in Arizona and Alaska, two Republican-leaning states. But they are far outnumbered by uncounted votes in Democratic states. \n Under the Electoral College system, each state gets one vote for each member of Congress representing the state. California has the most, with 55. Seven states have only three. The District of Columbia has three, even though the nation's capital has no vote in Congress. \n It takes 270 Electoral College votes to win the presidency. Trump's total stands at 279, with races in Michigan, New Hampshire and Arizona too close to call. \n There have been occasional calls to scrap the Electoral College, with no success. The latest push came after the 2000 presidential election, in which Democrat Al Gore lost to Republican George W. Bush, despite winning the popular vote. \n Any calls to scrap the Electoral College aren't likely to go anywhere this time, either, with Republicans controlling both the House and Senate. \n Sen. Tim Kaine, the Democratic candidate for vice president, praised Clinton on today for winning the popular vote. \n But when Clinton made her concession speech, she didn't mention it. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton on pace to win popular vote, despite losing election"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "Hawaii police closed a section of Highway 11, south of the 107-mile marker in Honaunau in South Kona today to continue their investigation on a recent fatal traffic accident. \n The partial lane closure began at 9:30 a.m. and is scheduled to end at about 11:30 a.m. Motorists are advised to expect delays. \n On Nov. 2, Janexty Kaaloa, 1o, was struck by a vehicle on the highway near Kaaloa's Super J's Authentic Hawaiian restaurant while on her way home from school. \n Her family owns the restaurant and have a home behind the establishment. \n Police said Kaaloa, who family members called \"Ulu,\" was running across the roadway when a Jeep pickup truck driven by a 61-year-old Captain Cook man traveling southbound on the highway struck her. \n Kaaloa transported to Kona Community Hospital where she died. \n Police arrested the pickup truck driver on suspicion of negligent homicide. He was released pending further investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police close section of Kona highway for further investigation into death of girl"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "A 30-year-old man was taken to a trauma center in critical condition after he was struck by a privately-owned garbage truck near Honokai Hale on Leeward Oahu. \n The accident occurred at about 9 a.m. today. Police closed the eastbound lanes at the intersection of Farrington Highway and Waiomea Street, but reopened the roadway around 11 a.m. \n Paramedics treated the pedestrian \u2014 who suffered injuries to his chest, head and legs \u2014 before he was transported to a hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man critically injured after he is hit by garbage truck near Honokai Hale"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Carol Folsom cheered when Proposition 106, which would make assisted death legal among patients with a terminal illness who receive a prognosis of death within six months, was passed at the Westin Denver Downtown hotel on Tuesday, in Denver, Colo. \n Filling a void created by congressional inaction, voters in a scattering of states tightened gun control laws and approved increases in the minimum wage. The campaign to legalize marijuana achieved a major breakthrough, with victories in at least six states. \n In all, more than 150 measures appeared on statewide ballots in Tuesday's election. \n California, Nevada and Massachusetts approved measures legalizing the recreational use of marijuana, while Florida, Arkansas and North Dakota voted to allow pot for medical purposes. A recreational pot proposal lost in Arizona. The outcome of another in Maine was too close to call. \n Gun control was on the ballot in four states, including California, which already has some of the nation's toughest gun-related laws. Voters there approved a measure that will outlaw possession of large-capacity ammunition magazines, require permits to buy ammunition and extend California's unique program that allows authorities to seize firearms from owners who bought guns legally but are no longer allowed to own them. \n Washington state approved a ballot measure that will allow judges to issue orders temporarily seizing guns from individuals who are deemed a threat. \n In Maine and Nevada, a group founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg spent millions promoting ballot measures that would require background checks on nearly all gun sales and transfers. The measure was approved in Nevada but was rejected in Maine. \n With Congress unable to agree on an increase in the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, numerous states and cities have taken action on their own. In this election, Arizona, Colorado and Maine voters approved measures phasing in a $12 minimum hourly wages by 2020. In Washington state, where the minimum wage is $9.47 an hour, voters approved a measure raising that to $13.50 an hour by 2020. \n In Nebraska, voters reinstated the death penalty, reversing the Legislature's decision last year to repeal capital punishment. Nebraska has not executed an inmate since 1997. Ten men currently sit on death row. \n Overall, the results of the marijuana referendums were hailed as historic by legalization activists, given that California is the most populous state. Massachusetts became the first state east of the Rockies to join the movement. \n Florida, where the medical pot measure was backed by 71 percent of the voters, and Arkansas became the first states in the South with full-scale medical marijuana programs, which exist in 25 other states. \n Collectively, it was the closest the U.S. has ever come to a national referendum on marijuana, which remains prohibited under federal law. \n \"These votes send a clear message to federal officials that it's time to stop arresting and incarcerating marijuana users,\" said Rob Kampia, executive director of the pro-legalization Marijuana Policy Project. \n The outcome will more than triple the number of Americans living in states where recreational pot is legal. The jurisdictions where that's already the case \u2014 Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, Washington state and the District of Columbia \u2014 have less than 6 percent of the population. \n Nebraska was one of three states voting on capital punishment. California had two competing measures on its ballot, one to repeal its rarely used death penalty and the other to speed up appeals so convicted murderers are actually executed. The repeal measure was rejected; the reform measure received about 51 percent of the votes counted by this morning. \n Oklahoma residents approved a measure to make it harder to abolish capital punishment. It seeks to ensure the state has a way to execute prisoners even if a given method is blocked. \n Colorado voters approved a measure that will allow physicians to assist a terminally ill person in dying. That's already a practice in five other states. Coloradans defeated a proposal that would have set up the nation's first universal health care system. \n Among the other topics addressed by ballot measures: \n \u2014 BILINGUAL EDUCATION: California voters repealed a nearly two-decade-old law that limited bilingual education in public schools. \n \u2014 TAX HIKES: Oregon voters defeated a measure that would have imposed a 2.5 percent tax on corporate sales that exceed $25 million. Washington voters rejected a plan to promote cleaner energy by imposing a tax of $25 per metric ton on carbon emissions from fossil fuels such as gasoline, coal and natural gas. \n \u2014 TOBACCO TAXES: Voters in Colorado, Missouri and North Dakota rejected proposals to raise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products. Californians approved a measure that raises cigarette prices by $2 a pack and places new taxes on electronic cigarettes. \n \u2014CONDOMS IN PORN: California voters rejected a measure that would have required actors to use condoms in all porn movies made in the state. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Marijuana, gun control, minimum wage hikes win at the polls"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President Bill Clinton listened as his wife, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke in New York today. Clinton conceded the presidency to Donald Trump in a phone call early this morning, a stunning end to a campaign that appeared poised right up until Election Day to make her the first woman elected U.S. president. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President Bill Clinton applauded as his wife, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke in New York today. Clinton conceded the presidency to Donald Trump in a phone call early this morning, a stunning end to a campaign that appeared poised right up until Election Day to make her the first woman elected U.S. president. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton, holding hands with her husband, former President Bill Clinton, waved to a crowd today outside a New York hotel as she arrived to speak to her staff and supporters after losing the race for the White House. \n WASHINGTON >> Emboldened Republicans claimed a mandate Wednesday for President-elect Donald Trump after his astonishing election triumph, and an emotional Hillary Clinton told crestfallen supporters the GOP victor deserved a \"chance to lead.\" President Barack Obama pledged a smooth transition of power. \n \"We are now all rooting for his success in uniting and leading the country,\" the president said of the president-elect, the man who spent years questioning Obama's birthplace and challenging the legitimacy of his presidency. Obama, who had declared Trump unfit for the presidency, invited him to the White House Thursday. \n Trump was uncharacteristically quiet in the aftermath of his triumph and made no public appearances Wednesday. He huddled with jubilant, sleep-deprived advisers at his eponymous skyscraper in Manhattan, beginning the daunting task of setting up an administration that will take power in just over two months. He also met with Vice President-elect Mike Pence and took calls from supporters, family and friends, according to spokeswoman Hope Hicks. \n After struggling for months with Trump's takeover of their party, Republican leaders embraced the businessman in victory. House Speaker Paul Ryan, who was lukewarm in his support throughout the campaign, praised him for pulling off \"the most incredible political feat I have seen in my lifetime.\" \n \"He just earned a mandate,\" Ryan declared. \n Indeed, Trump will take office in January with Congress fully in his party's control, giving him strength to try to pass his agenda and turn the Supreme Court in a conservative direction. Even Republicans were stunned by the scope of their electoral success, including many who had been privately predicting Trump's defeat. \n Clinton's emotions were raw as she addressed a crowd of supporters, eyes wet with tears, who gathered in a New York ballroom. She said the crushing loss was \"painful and it will be for a long time\" and acknowledged that the nation was \"more divided than we thought.\" \n Still, Clinton was gracious in defeat, declaring that \"Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.\" \n With several million votes still to be counted, Clinton held a narrow lead in the nationwide popular vote. Most of the outstanding votes appeared to be in Democratic-leaning states, with the biggest chunk in California, a state Clinton overwhelmingly won. With almost 125 million votes counted, The Associated Press tally had Clinton with 47.7 percent and Trump with 47.5 percent. \n Trump's sweep of the battleground states that decided the election was commanding. He carried Florida, Ohio and North Carolina, three of the election's biggest prizes, and snatched reliably Democratic Pennsylvania and Wisconsin away from Clinton. \n Trump's support skewed older, male and overwhelmingly white. His supporters said they were deeply dissatisfied with the federal government and eager for change, according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research for The Associated Press and television networks. \n Global stock markets and U.S. stock futures plunged early Wednesday on word of Trump's election, but later recovered. The Dow Jones industrial average was up more than 1 percent in late-day trading in New York. \n World leaders congratulated Trump on his victory. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who had a contentious relationship with Obama, called the Republican a \"true friend of Israel.\" British Prime Minister Theresa May said the U.S. and United Kingdom would remain \"strong and close partners on trade, security and defense.\" \n Russian President Vladimir Putin was among the first to reach out to the incoming American leader. Trump praised Putin throughout the campaign and advocated a closer relationship with Russia, despite Moscow's provocations in Ukraine and elsewhere. \n U.S. intelligence agencies have accused Russia of hacking Democratic organizations during the campaign, actions Clinton's team saw as an indication that Putin was trying to meddle in the election. Trump notably did not accept the conclusions of intelligence officials. \n If Trump makes good on his campaign promises, the nation stands on the brink of sweeping change in domestic and foreign policy. He's pledged to repeal Obama's signature health care law and pull out of the landmark nuclear accord with Iran. He's vowed to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and temporarily ban immigration from nations with terror ties. \n It's unclear whether Trump, a highly unusual candidate, will embrace many of the traditions of the presidency. He'll enter the White House owning his own private jet as well as a hotel just blocks away on Pennsylvania Avenue. He never allowed journalists to fly on his plane during the campaign, and his team has not said whether he'll change that practice in the White House. \n In Washington, Trump's scant transition team sprang into action, culling through personnel lists for top jobs and working through handover plans for government agencies. A person familiar with the transition operations said the personnel process was still in its early stages, but Trump's team was putting a premium on quickly filling key national security posts. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A Trump mandate? Clinton says give him 'chance to lead'"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n High surf at Waimea Bay on Tuesday. \n Although an earlier high surf warning has been canceled, large surf is still expected to pound the north and west shores of most isles. \n A high surf advisory is in effect through 6 p.m. this evening, according to the National Weather Service. \n Surf up to 14 to 18 feet is expected today along the north and west shores of Oahu, Maui, Molokai, Hawaii island and Kauai County. \n \"Expect strong breaking waves and strong currents,\" the National Weather Service said in an alert. \n \"Heed all advice given by ocean safety officials and exercise caution.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf advisory in effect for north, west shores of most isles"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man dressed in red-white-and-blue sat on the curb during a protest against President-elect Donald Trump, today, in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters marched past burned garbage in downtown Oakland, Calif., today. President-elect Donald Trump's victory set off multiple protests. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A trash fire burned during protests in Oakland, Calif., late Tuesday. President-elect Donald Trump's victory set off multiple protests. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Madeline Lopes, left, and Cassidy Irwin, both of Oakland, marched with other protesters in downtown Oakland, Calif., early today. President-elect Donald Trump's victory set off multiple protests. \n LOS ANGELES >> A day after Donald Trump's election to the presidency, campaign divisions appeared to widen as many thousands of demonstrators \u2014 some with signs with messages declaring \"NOT MY PRESIDENT\" \u2014 flooded streets across the country to protest his surprise triumph. \n From New England to heartland cities like Kansas City and along the West Coast, demonstrators bore flags and effigies of the president-elect, disrupting traffic and declaring that they refused to accept Trump's victory. \n Flames lit up the night sky in California cities Wednesday as thousands of protesters burned a giant papier-mache Trump head in Los Angeles and started fires in Oakland intersections. \n Los Angeles demonstrators also beat a Trump pi\u00f1ata and sprayed the Los Angeles Times building and news vans with anti-Trump profanity. One protester outside LA City Hall read a sign that simply said \"this is very bad.\" \n Late in the evening several hundred people blocked one of the city's busiest freeways, U.S. 101 between downtown and Hollywood. \n In Oakland, several thousand people gathered in Frank Ogawa Palaza, police said, clogging intersections and freeway on-ramps. \n In Chicago, where thousands had recently poured into the streets to celebrate the Chicago Cubs' first World Series victory in over a century, several thousand people marched through the Loop. They gathered outside Trump Tower, chanting \"Not my president!\" \n Chicago resident Michael Burke said he believes the president-elect will \"divide the country and stir up hatred.\" He added there was a constitutional duty not to accept that outcome. \n A similar protest in Manhattan drew about 1,000 people. Outside Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue in midtown, police installed barricades to keep the demonstrators at bay. \n Hundreds of protesters gathered near Philadelphia's City Hall despite chilly, wet weather. Participants \u2014 who included both supporters of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and independent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who lost to Clinton in the primary \u2014 expressed anger at both Republicans and Democrats over the election's outcome. \n In Boston, thousands of anti-Trump protesters streamed through downtown, chanting \"Trump's a racist\" and carrying signs that said \"Impeach Trump\" and \"Abolish Electoral College.\" Clinton appears to be on pace to win the popular vote, despite losing the electoral count that decides the presidential race. \n The protesters gathered on Boston Common before marching toward the Massachusetts Statehouse, with beefed-up security including extra police officers. \n A protest that began at the Minnesota State Capitol Tuesday night with about 100 people swelled at is moved into downtown St. Paul, the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported. Protesters blocked downtown streets and traveled west on University Avenue where they shouted expletives about Trump in English and Spanish. \n There were other Midwest protest marches in Omaha, Nebraska, and Kansas City, Missouri. \n Marchers protesting Trump's election chanted and carried signs in front of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. \n Media outlets broadcast video Wednesday night showing a peaceful crowd in front of the new downtown hotel. Many chanted \"No racist USA, no Trump, no KKK.\" \n Another group stood outside the White House. They held candles, listened to speeches and sang songs. \n Dallas activists gathered by the dozens outside the city's sports arena, the American Airlines Center. \n In Oregon, dozens of people blocked traffic in downtown Portland, burned American flags and forced a delay for trains on two light-rail lines. \n Hundreds massed in downtown Seattle streets. \n Many held anti-Trump and Black Lives Matter signs and chanted slogans, including \"Misogyny has to go,\" and \"The people united, will never be defeated.\" \n Five people were shot and injured in an area near the protest, but police said the shootings and the demonstration were unrelated. \n Back in New York, several groups of protesters caused massive gridlock as police mobilized to contain them under a light rain. \n They held signs that read \"Trump Makes America Hate\" and chanted \"hey, hey, ho, ho Donald Trump has got to go.\" and \"Impeach Trump.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Not my president:' Trump denounced in protests across U.S."}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "U.S. MARINE CORPS. \n A U.S. Marine F/A-18 Super Hornet assigned to the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, takes off from Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, San Diego, on July 14, 2015. \n SAN DIEGO \u00bb Two Marine fighter jets collided today over the Pacific off San Diego and both pilots were safe after one landed at a nearby base and the other ejected into the water, military officials said. \n The single-seat F/A-18 Hornets collided during a daytime training mission over the ocean. \n One pilot was able to land at nearby Naval Air Station North Island. The other ejected and sent a distress call. Crews rescued him from the chilly waters less than an hour after the crash, according to the Marine Corps. \n Both pilots were taken to medical facilities for observation. \n The cause of the crash was under investigation. \n The jets belong to the Third Marine Aircraft Wing based out of Marine Corps Air Station Miramar in San Diego. \n The collision follows an Oct. 25 crash involving another F/A-18 Hornet in the California desert. The pilot ejected without injuries before the jet crashed near the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, a sprawling base east of Los Angeles. \n In July, another twin-engine Hornet went down during a training mission at the desert base, killing the pilot. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Marine jets collide off San Diego; pilots safe"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama, accompanied today by Vice President Joe Biden, spoke in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Conceding Hillary Clinton's staggering defeat, President Barack Obama urged the nation today to join him in rooting for President-elect Donald Trump's success. He said he was heartened by Trump's election night call for unity and hoped it wouldn't fade. \n Obama, in a post-election ritual meant to signal the peaceful transition of power, vowed to do all he could to ensure Trump would be well-positioned to run the country. He said he'd congratulated Trump by phone and invited him to sit down together at the White House. \n \"We all want what's best for this country,\" Obama said. \n Standing in the Rose Garden, with Vice President Joe Biden at his side, Obama spoke to more than a hundred of his White House staffers, who stood silently, dazed, some crying, before breaking out into a prolonged round of applause that continued long after Obama returned to the Oval Office. \n Obama's conciliatory reaction to the election marked an attempt to buck up Democrats reeling with disappointment, shock and uncertainty about the future. He said he'd told his staff to \"keep their heads up\" and be proud of the \"remarkable work\" they'd done. \n Left unsaid was that Trump has vowed to aggressively undo most of what Obama has accomplished, leaving Obama's supporters fearful that the last eight years may have been in vain. \n But the president, standing in front of the Oval Office, downplayed the notion that Trump's presidency would mean an about-face for the nation. He said the U.S. has a tendency to \"zig and zag\" rather than move in a straight line, and he added, \"That's OK.\" \n \"That's the way politics works sometimes,\" Obama said. \"We try really hard to persuade people that we're right and then people vote. And then if we lose, we learn from our mistakes, we do some reflection, we lick our wounds, we brush ourselves off, we get back in the arena, we go at it. We try even harder the next time.\" \n Obama spoke just moments after Hillary Clinton formally conceded to Trump with a similar, though more emotional, appeal to give Trump a chance to succeed as president. The remarks were striking after a campaign in which the Democrats declared Trump was unfit to serve and told voters the future of democracy was riding on their choice. \n The White House said Obama and Trump are expected to meet Thursday to discuss the handover of power and ongoing planning for the transition. Obama called the Republican in the early hours of the morning today to congratulate him on his stunning victory, which marked a forceful rebuke by voters to Obama's eight years in office. \n For Obama, turning over the White House to Trump is a devastating blow to his legacy and to his hopes for leaving a lasting imprint on the nation's policies. Trump has vowed to rip up much of what Obama accomplished, including his signature health care law, the Iran nuclear deal and a painstakingly negotiated trade deal with Asia. \n With Republican control of both chambers of Congress, Trump will be well positioned to make good on that promises. \n Obama called Clinton after it became clear she'd lost the race. In his Rose Garden remarks, he paid tribute to her historic candidacy and said, \"I could not be prouder of her.\" \n It was unclear how substantive Obama's call was with Trump, or how long it lasted, although the White House noted that Obama placed the call from his residence in the White House, rather than from the West Wing. \n Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, described it as a \"warm conversation\" and a \"gracious exchange.\" She said Trump had missed the president's original call as Trump was speaking to supporters in New York, then called him back after leaving the stage. \n Like Clinton and other Democrats, Obama didn't appear to see Trump's victory coming. As he campaigned vigorously for Clinton in the race's final days, Obama said he was confident that if Americans showed up to vote, they'd choose against electing the billionaire former reality TV star with no formal government experience. \n He had also warned supporters in apocalyptic terms that \"the fate of the republic\" rested on Clinton defeating Trump on Election Day. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama, urging unity, says he's rooting for Trump's success"}

{"date": "November 9, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA/DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Mark Noguchi holds his son Frame, 1, and his wife, Amanda Noguchi holds their daughter, Elee, 3, while casting their votes in Manoa. \n Without a native son on the ballot for president, Hawaii's voter turnout dropped below the last presidential election year in 2012. \n With all but a handful of votes counted, 412,282 ballots were cast statewide, about 55 percent of Hawaii's 749,917 registered voters. \n In 2012, the last presidential election with Hawaii-born Barack Obama on the ballot, 436,663 voters, about 62 percent of registered voters actually voted. \n This year's turnout is still better than 2014, when only 52 percent of voters cast ballots. \n Presidential elections generally draw higher turnout than non-presidential elections. \n Hawaii has one of the nation's lowest voter participation rates and it has been steadily worsening every election. \n In 2008, when Obama first ran for president, 66 percent of Hawaii's registered voters cast ballots. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii voter turnout dropped below 2012 presidential election"}

