{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The main gate at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, Fla. \n TAMPA, Fla. >> On any given day at MacDill Air Force Base, web crawlers scour social media for potential recruits to the Islamic State group. Then, in a high-stakes operation to counter the extremists' propaganda, language specialists employ fictitious identities and try to sway the targets from joining IS ranks. \n At least that's how the multimillion-dollar initiative is being sold to the Defense Department. \n A critical national security program known as \"WebOps\" is part of a vast psychological operation that the Pentagon says is effectively countering an enemy that has used the internet as a devastating tool of propaganda. But an Associated Press investigation found the management behind WebOps is so beset with incompetence, cronyism and flawed data that multiple people with direct knowledge of the program say it's having little impact. \n Several current and former WebOps employees cited multiple examples of civilian Arabic specialists who have little experience in counter-propaganda, cannot speak Arabic fluently and have so little understanding of Islam they are no match for the Islamic State online recruiters. \n It's hard to establish rapport with a potential terror recruit when \u2014 as one former worker told the AP \u2014 translators repeatedly mix up the Arabic words for \"salad\" and \"authority.\" That's led to open ridicule on social media about references to the \"Palestinian salad.\" \n Four current or former workers told the AP that they had personally witnessed WebOps data being manipulated to create the appearance of success and that they had discussed the problem with many other employees who had seen the same. Yet the companies carrying out the program for the military's Central Command in Tampa have dodged attempts to implement independent oversight and assessment of the data. \n Central Command spokesman Andy Stephens declined repeated requests for information about WebOps and other counter-propaganda programs, which were launched under the Obama Administration. And he did not respond to detailed questions the AP sent on Jan. 10. \n The AP investigation is based on Defense Department and contractor documents, emails, photographs and interviews with more than a dozen people closely involved with WebOps as well as interviews with nearly two dozen contractors. The WebOps workers requested anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the work and because they weren't authorized to speak publicly. \n The information operations division that runs WebOps is the command's epicenter for firing back at the Islamic State's online propaganda machine, using the internet to sway public opinion in a swath of the globe that stretches from Central Asia to the Horn of Africa. \n Early last year, the government opened the bidding on a new counter-propaganda contract \u2014 separate from WebOps\u2014 that is worth as much as $500 million. Months after the AP started reporting about the bidding process, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service told the AP that it had launched an investigation. NCIS spokesman Ed Buice said the service is investigating a whistleblower's \"allegations of corruption\" stemming from how the contract was awarded. \n The whistleblower's complaint alleges multiple conflicts of interest that include division officers being treated to lavish dinners paid for by a contractor. The complaint also alleges routine drinking at the office where classified work is conducted. The drinking was confirmed by multiple contractors, who spoke to AP and described a frat house atmosphere where happy hour started at 3 p.m. \n One of the most damning accusations leveled by the whistleblower is against Army Col. Victor Garcia, who led the information operations division until July 2016, when he moved to a new assignment at Special Operations Command, also in Tampa. The whistleblower contended that Garcia successfully steered the contract to a team of vendors that included a close friend's firm. The whistleblower requested anonymity for fear of professional retribution. \n The AP obtained a screen-grab from a Facebook page that shows Garcia and the friend at a tiki bar in Key Largo two weeks before the winning team was officially announced Sept. 30. The photo was also turned over to NCIS investigators by the whistleblower, who said the photo created a \"clear impression and perception of impropriety.\" \n Garcia, a West Point graduate and decorated officer, denied any wrongdoing and described the complaint as \"character assassination.\" Garcia, who moved to his new post two months before the contract was decided, said he scrupulously avoided any discussions about the contract with both his friend and his former deputy. His former deputy served on the five-member panel that reviewed all of the bids. \n \"Because I was aware of these conflicts of interest, I intentionally kept myself out of that process \u2014 with any of these contract processes,\" Garcia said. \n The whistleblower is a senior manager at a company that lost its bid for the work. He told AP that he was investigated for attempting to accept kickbacks on an unrelated government contract. He denied the allegations, which were made four years ago, and no charges have been filed in the case. \n The problems with the WebOps operation and the personal bonds underpinning the new contract illustrate challenges awaiting President Donald Trump. He has promised to boost military spending by tens of billions of dollars while also cutting waste at the Defense Department and ensuring that contractors aren't getting sweetheart deals. \n Charles Tiefer, a professor at the University of Baltimore's law school and a government contracting expert, reviewed AP's findings and called Central Command's lack of rigorous oversight inexcusable. \n \"These people should not be wasting the money consigned to defend us against terrorism,\" said Tiefer, who served on a bipartisan Commission on Wartime Contracting. The commission reported in 2011 that at least $31 billion was lost to waste and fraud in Iraq and Afghanistan. \n \"Do you speak Arabic?\" \n In a large office room filled with cubicles at Central Command, about 120 people, many of them Arabic language specialists, are assigned to fight IS militants on their own turf: the internet. \n The WebOps contract is run by Colsa Corp., based in Huntsville, Ala., A major challenge for Colsa \u2014 and contractors working on other national security programs\u2014 is finding people who can speak Arabic fluently and can also get security clearances to handle classified material. \n The problem, according to six current and former Colsa employees, is that to engage with operatives of the Islamic State, or their potential recruits, you need to be fluent in language, nuance and Islam \u2014 and while Colsa has some Arabic experts, those skills are not widely distributed. \n \"One of the things about jihadis: they are very good in Arabic,\" said one specialist who worked on WebOps. \n Another former employee said common translation mistakes he personally witnessed, including the \"Palestinian salad\" example, were the result of the company hiring young people who were faking language abilities. \n He mockingly described the conversations between managers and potential hires: \"'Do you speak Arabic?'\" he mimicked. \"'Yes. How do you say 'good morning?' Oh, you can do that? You are an expert. You are hired.'\" \n A third specialist said she asked a colleague, who was assigned to analyze material written in Arabic, why he was discarding much of it. While watching a soap opera online, the colleague said the material was irrelevant because it was in Farsi or Urdu. But when she checked, it was indeed Arabic. She has since left WebOps to find more meaningful work, she said. \n The WebOps Arabic program focuses on Syria, Iraq and Yemen, but for most of the time Colsa has been running it, it has had no Syrian or Yemeni staff, the AP was told in separate interviews with two current employees and one who left recently. \n Engaging in theological discussions on social media with people who are well versed in the Quran is not for beginners. Iraq and Syria are riven with sectarian violence between Shiite and Sunni Muslims, who follow different interpretations of Islam. Multiple workers said that WebOps \"experts\" often trip up on language that is specific to one sect or region. \n \"People can tell whether you are local, or whether you are Sunni or Shia,\" said another former worker, so poorly crafted messages are not effective. He said he left WebOps because he was disgusted with the work. \n A number of the workers complained to AP that a large group on staff from Morocco, in North Africa, were often ignorant of Middle Eastern history and culture \u2014 or even the difference between groups the U.S. considers terrorist organizations. The group was so dominant that colleagues jokingly referred to them as \"the Moroccan mafia.\" \n A lot of them \"don't know the difference between Hezbollah and Hamas,\" said the employee who left to find more meaningful work. Hezbollah is an Iran-backed Shiite group based in Lebanon. Hamas, based in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, is the Palestinian branch of the Sunni Muslim Brotherhood. \n Cathy Dickens, a vice president for business management and corporate ethics at Colsa Corp., referred questions to CENTCOM, which declined comment. \n \"You shouldn't grade your own homework\" \n To determine whether WebOps actually dissuades people from becoming radicalized, Colsa's scoring team analyzes the interactions employees have online and tries to measure whether the subjects' comments reflect militant views or a more tolerant outlook. \n Three former members of its scoring team told the AP they were encouraged by a manager to indicate progress against radicalism in their scoring reports even if they were not making any. \n The employee who said she left to find meaningful work recalled approaching a Colsa manager to clarify how the scoring was done shortly after starting her job. She said he told her that the bottom line was \"the bread we put on the table for our children.\" \n The boss told her that the scoring reports should show progress, but not too much, so that the metrics would still indicate a dangerous level of militancy online to justify continued funding for WebOps, she said. \n She was shocked. \"Until my dying day, I will never forget that moment,\" she said. \n She, like other former employees, spoke only on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution from Colsa that could affect future employment. \n The manager she spoke to declined to comment. AP withheld his name because of security concerns. \n Employees and managers routinely inflate counts of interactions with potential terrorist recruits, known as \"engagements,\" according to multiple workers. Engagements are delivered in tweets or comments posted on social media to lists of people and can also be automated. That automation is at times used to inflate the actual number of engagements, said two former workers, including the one who talked about colleagues faking their language abilities. \n The worker who left in disgust explained that a single tweet could be programmed to be sent out to all the followers of a target individually, multiple times. So the targets and their followers get the same tweets tagged to them over and over again. \n \"You send it like a blind copy. You program it to send a tweet every five minutes to the whole list individually from now until tomorrow,\" the former employee said. \"Then you see the reports and it says yesterday we sent 5,000 engagements. Often that means one tweet on Twitter.\" The person said that he saw managers printing out the skewed reports for weekly briefings with CENTCOM officers. But the volume made it look like the WebOps team's work was \"wow, amazing,\" he said. \n Garcia said Colsa has a done a good job under his watch, that the data is sufficiently scrutinized and the program is succeeding. \n In 2014, a group of more than 40 Defense Department data specialists came to Tampa to evaluate the program. Their unclassified report, obtained by AP, identified what one of the authors called \"serious design flaws.\" For instance, the report found that any two analysts were only 69 percent likely to agree on how to score a particular engagement. The author said a rate of 90 percent or higher is required to draw useful conclusions. \n The report found that computers would be as accurate or better than analysts, and could evaluate effectiveness more quickly \u2014 and cheaply. \n What Central Command really needed, the report said, was outside oversight. \n \"You shouldn't grade your own homework,\" said the author, a former U.S. military officer and data specialist once stationed at Central Command. The author, one of many people who signed off on the report, spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of professional retribution. \n He said the report was given to officers, including Garcia, and to Colsa. The author said the suggestions were not implemented and WebOps managers resisted multiple attempts at oversight. The author said that when he directly appealed to Garcia for outside assessment, an officer under Garcia said the effort would cloud the mission. \n \"The argument was that WebOps was the only program at Central Command that was directly engaging the enemy and that it couldn't function if its staff was constantly distracted by assessment,\" he said. The argument worked, he said, and Colsa was not forced or instructed to accept outside oversight. \n Garcia disputed that account but would not elaborate on what steps were taken to address the Defense Department data specialists' concerns. The Government Accountability Office issued a report in 2015 on WebOps oversight, but it is classified. \n Despite the problems behind the scenes at WebOps, Central Command will play a key role in the new $500 million psychological operations campaign against the Islamic State and other groups. The five-year contract was a hefty commitment to \"degrade and ultimately defeat extremist organizations,\" according to a document detailing the scope of the work. It would run parallel to WebOps. \n The request for bids was announced in April. Four separate teams of companies competed for the contract, including one led by defense giant Northrop Grumman. \n From the start, competitors complained among themselves that Simon Bergman, an executive with the British advertising firm M&C Saatchi, had an advantage because he was friends with Garcia. Bergman was working with Northrop to prepare the bid. \n A former British officer, Bergman was deployed to Iraq while Garcia was there working on psychological operations during the Iraq war. It was well known that the two men were close, and in recent years, contractors often saw Bergman at CENTCOM offices. \n In April, defense contractor CACI International held a meeting in Tampa to discuss the bid. Three contractors on the team said a CACI manager warned a roomful of people that Garcia had already told him that he would decide who got the contract. The manager said that Garcia indicated that having Bergman on the team would help. \n So in mid-September, when a photo appeared on Facebook showing Garcia and Bergman together in the Florida Keys, it did not look good in the eyes of many contractors. Garcia's girlfriend captured the old friends inside the Tiki Bar at Gilbert's Resort in Key Largo. They were on her Facebook page, shoulder-to-shoulder, smiling and giving the thumbs up. \n Within days, the photos had been taken down from her page. \n Two weeks later, the government announced Northrop had won the contract. Its team included M&C Saatchi, Bergman's firm. \n A panel led by the U.S. General Services Administration chose the winner of the contract. Chris Hamm, a senior GSA acquisition executive, said a five-member team scrutinized the technical merits of the proposals for the contract. That team was led by two GSA officials and included three military officers \u2014 one of whom was Marine Corps Lt. Col. Matt Coughlin, who reported directly to Garcia before Garcia left his post. Coughlin is the information operations' liaison with contractors. \n In an interview with AP, Hamm said the contract award was handled properly. \n \"The process is designed to avoid bias,\" Hamm said. \n But several other contractors on losing teams said Coughlin would clearly have been the person on the panel with the most sway, because of both his technical expertise and the fact that he represented CENTCOM. And given Coughlin's ties with Garcia, they found that troubling. \n Garcia said that while the bids were being considered, he stayed away from any discussions of it with Coughlin, his deputy. So he didn't even realize the award announcement was imminent when he went with Bergman to the Keys. \n \"I wasn't involved with the contracting process at all,\" Garcia said. \"So I had no idea what the timing of the contract was.\" \n When asked why the photo with Bergman was taken off Facebook, Garcia declined to comment. \n Bergman said that his friendship with Garcia, one of many he has with military officers, is irrelevant. He noted that M&C Saatchi was only a subcontractor. \n \"I don't see why my relationship with somebody in the military would have any influence over anything,\" he said. \n The whistleblower complaint however, filed in December with Central Command's inspector general, contended the photo of Garcia and Bergman created a \"clear impression and perception of impropriety.\" \n The four-page complaint, now under investigation by NCIS, said the atmosphere at the CENTCOM division, with routine drinking at the office and myriad conflicts of interest, led to an \"air of untouchable invincibility.\" \n Several contractors who spoke to AP, among the nearly two dozen either bidding for work or involved in CENTCOM information operations, said they suspected undue influence in the decision for the $500 million contract. In his complaint, the whistleblower alleges that Garcia told him directly at one point that \"any team must include Simon Bergman.\" \n All the contractors asked for anonymity to discuss sensitive work because they feared repercussions for their companies. \n Colsa, the primary WebOps contractor, was not involved in Northrop's bid. However, nothing prevents Northrop from bringing the company in as a subcontractor. \n That's the plan, said several contractors who have been briefed by Northrop. Such a move would provide ample funding to keep WebOps running for up to five more years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. military botches online fight against Islamic State"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "Two men with no local addresses made their initial appearance Monday in Honolulu District Court for allegedly robbing a Charley's Taxi cabbie on Jan. 13. \n Princes Buses Jr., 19, and Celow Woods, 20, were arrested and charged Saturday with first-degree robbery. \n Their bail amounts were confirmed at $50,000 each. \n A police highlight said the two men robbed a man using a \"dangerous instrument.\" A Charley's Taxi video surveillance footage showed what appeared to be a handgun used. \n Charley's Taxi's owner did not respond to a request for further details. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Two men appear in court for allegedly robbing cabbie"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / OCT. 4 \n Farmworkers remove stems and leaves from newly-harvested marijuana plants at Los Suenos Farms, America's largest legal open air marijuana farm in Avondale, Colo. \n DENVER >> The first state to legalize marijuana is just now taking steps to consider the drug medicine for people suffering from post-traumatic stress. \n Colorado has authorized medical marijuana for nearly two decades, and the state approved recreational pot use in 2012. But doctors here still cannot recommend marijuana's use to treat post-traumatic stress, forcing sufferers to pay higher taxes for recreational pot. \n Many Colorado PTSD patients interested in pot say they lie to doctors about having chronic pain, allowing them to qualify for medical pot cards. \n \"Medical obviously comes at a lesser price, and needing it medicinally, we need a lot more than a regular person would,\" said Ashley Weber, 32, a Longmont native who uses marijuana to treat chronic pain and PTSD from a car accident that left her in wheelchair. \n A bill headed to nycthe state Senate would make PTSD the 10th ailment eligible for medical pot in Colorado. Passage would make Colorado the 20th state to allow doctors to recommend pot for PTSD. \n Colorado's Medical Board has rejected post-traumatic stress as an ailment eligible for pot at least four times. Citing a lack of medical research showing pot's effectiveness treating PTSD, the state's major medical societies also oppose pot for PTSD. \n \"There are well-known, proven treatments for PTSD,\" said Dr. Adam Burstein, testifying against the bill on behalf of the Colorado Medical Society and the Colorado Psychiatric Association. \n But other physicians testified that marijuana treatments for PTSD are already common and that the change wouldn't require pot treatment, just allow doctors to consider it. \n \"There is an institutional bias against marijuana in the medical profession,\" said Dr. Irene Aguilar, who is also a state senator from Denver and sponsor of the bill, which awaits a Senate vote in the next few weeks before heading to the House. \n Allowing PTSD pot treatments, Aguilar said, would \"allow physicians to put marijuana in their toolbox if they so choose.\" \n Colorado has about 100,000 people registered for medical marijuana, a number that has stayed steady since the passage of recreational pot in 2012. \n Medical pot users can possess twice as much pot as recreational users and their taxes are significantly lower. Also, some shops provide specialty strains to medical patients that are unavailable to the general public. \n Colorado's Health Department has also set aside some $3.3 million since 2015 for studying marijuana to treat post-traumatic stress, including an observational study of 76 military veterans. The studies have not yet been completed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pot pioneer Colorado looking at PTSD treatment"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Anirvan Chatterjee, left, of the Alliance of South Asians Taking Action, held a sign at a rally outside of City Hall in San Francisco on Wednesday. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> California may prohibit local law enforcement from cooperating with federal immigration authorities, creating a border-to-border sanctuary in the nation's largest state as legislative Democrats ramp up their efforts to battle President Donald Trump's migration policies. \n The legislation is scheduled for its first public hearing Tuesday as the Senate rushes to enact measures that Democratic lawmakers say would protect immigrants from the crackdown that the Republican president has promised. \n While many of California's largest cities \u2014 including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Sacramento \u2014 have so-called sanctuary policies that prohibit police from cooperating with immigration authorities, much of the state does not. \n The Democratic legislation, written by Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon of Los Angeles, comes up for debate less than a week after Trump signed an order threatening to withdraw some federal grants from jurisdictions that bar officials from communicating with federal authorities about someone's immigration status. \n The Senate Public Safety Committee considers SB54 Tuesday morning. The Judiciary Committee will also consider fast-tracked legislation that would spend state money, in an amount that has not been disclosed, to provide lawyers for people facing deportation. \n Some Republicans have criticized the Democratic reaction to Trump's policies, saying bombastic rhetoric and provocative legislation will inflame tensions with the president and harm California. \n The debate over sanctuary cities reached a fevered pitch in 2015 after Kate Steinle, 32, was fatally shot in the back Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, who was in the country illegally after multiple deportations to his native Mexico. Lopez-Sanchez, who told police the gun fired by accident, had been released from a San Francisco jail despite a request from federal immigration authorities that he be held in custody for possible deportation. Trump often cited the Steinle case during the campaign. \n Many other cities and counties in California also refuse to detain immigrants for deportation agents out of legal concerns after a federal court ruled that immigrants can't be held in jail beyond their scheduled release dates. Since then, federal agents have been asking local law enforcement agencies to provide information about immigrants they're seeking for deportation, if not hold them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California to take up sanctuary city legislation"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2010 \n None of the buoys near the Mentawai islands were working last March during an earthquake. The buoys in the area meant to transmit tsunami warnings. \n JAKARTA, Indonesia >> Indonesia's tsunami detection system, made up of seafloor sensors that communicate with transmitting buoys on the surface, has been rendered useless by vandals and lack of funding. Now Indonesian and U.S. scientists say they've developed a way to dispense with the expensive buoys and possibly add crucial extra minutes of warning for vulnerable coastal cities. \n The prototype, nearly four years in the making, is designed for detection of so-called near-field tsunamis and has been tested off Padang on the western coast of Sumatra. It awaits a decision on government funding to connect it to disaster agencies on land. \n A tsunami triggered by a Dec. 26, 2004 earthquake in the Indian Ocean that killed or left missing nearly 230,000 people, a large share in Indonesia, raised the urgency of ensuring communities have the fastest possible warnings. \n But when a sizeable earthquake struck near the Mentawai islands 170 kilometers (106 miles) from Padang in March last year, none of the buoys in the area meant to transmit tsunami warnings were working. A disaster official said all of Indonesia's 22 buoys, which cost several hundred thousand dollars each and are expensive to operate, were inoperable because of vandalism by boat crews or a lack of funds for maintenance. \n That quake didn't cause a tsunami but there was a chaotic evacuation in Padang, population 1 million, and other cities, which have at most 30 minutes before tsunami waves hit. Because of lack of information, officials didn't cancel the tsunami warning for two hours. \n \"Now we have no buoys in Indonesia. They are all damaged,\" said Iyan Turyana, an ocean engineer at BPPT, Indonesia's Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology. \"Where do you live in Indonesia? Jakarta! It's ok. But if you live in Padang, if you live in Bengkulu, your life is very dangerous.\" \n Germany and the U.S. provided 12 of the buoys, but did not maintain them, he said. \n For Indonesians, Aceh province in the north of Sumatra where more than 100,000 people died after 2004 earthquake, is synonymous with tsunami risk. Now, however, Padang and nearby cities face the greatest danger of being wiped out by giant waves. \n The magnitude 9.1 quake in 2004, centered in the north of a subduction zone where one major section of the earth's crust is being forced under another, released enough energy to make a similarly powerful quake in that area unlikely in the foreseeable future. In the section of that \"megathrust\" off Padang, pressure has built relentlessly and an undersea earthquake greater than magnitude 8.5 is possible in the next few decades. \n To boost its detection ability, tsunami-prone Japan has linked dozens of seafloor sensors off its eastern coast with thousands of kilometers of fiber-optic cable. It cost several hundred million dollars and a similar endeavor would be impossibly expensive for Indonesia, a vast but poor archipelago that sits on the one of most seismically active regions in the world. \n But with $3 million of funding from the U.S. National Science Foundation, a prototype network of undersea sensors has been deployed between Padang and the Mentawai islands. \n Buoys are not needed because the undersea seismometers and pressure sensors send data-laden sound waves to the warm surface waters. From there they refract back into the depths, traveling 20-30 kilometers to the next node in the network and so on. \n At its final undersea point, the network needs a few kilometers of fiber optic cable to connect it to a shore station in the Mentawai islands where the cascades of data would be transmitted by satellite to the meteorology and geophysics agency, which issues tsunami warnings, and to disaster officials in Padang. \n \"This entire process likely takes 1-3 minutes instead of the 5-45 minutes typical of the buoy system,\" said Louise Comfort, a University of Pittsburgh expert in disaster management who has led the project, which also involves engineers from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute. \n \"We get a more immediate record of the seismic movement and with that more immediate record we gain a few minutes of very valuable time,\" she said. \"And we get a clearer signal of whether or not there is going to be a tsunami.\" \n Laying the cable will cost the Indonesian government about 1.5 billion rupiah ($112,000), said Turyana, the ocean engineer. The Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education is considering a funding proposal. \n The system has not been deployed elsewhere, but could be an option for other poor countries or regions that are vulnerable to tsunamis. \n Since 2004, the mantra among disaster officials in Indonesia has been that the earthquake is the tsunami warning and signal for immediate evacuation. Not everyone is convinced a tsunami detection system is essential. \n \"Why? Because the tsunami is too quick to arrive to the land. After the earthquake, we evacuate. No need to detect the tsunami. Just evacuate. That is the second opinion. That is why it is hard to have the budget,\" said Turyana. \n Memories of the 2004 tsunami are fresh enough that Indonesians living near the coast typically run for high ground whenever the land shakes, as it frequently does. \n Yet without a reliable system that reduces false alarms, a \"crying wolf\" effect will eventually change people's behavior, say proponents of the detection network. \n Not least, it can give disaster officials give crucial information about a tsunami, such as the heights of its waves and where and when they will hit. \n \"This system is to make sure the tsunami is really coming,\" said Febrin Ismail, a structural engineer involved in earthquake mitigation and tsunami planning for Padang. \n \"Sometimes after the earthquake, people are running and then they see the tsunami doesn't come. In the future maybe they don't run again. We are afraid the quake itself is not effective.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Indonesia tsunami network could add crucial minutes"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "JACKSON, Miss. >> A Mississippi Delta school district has agreed to a settlement in a long-running desegregation lawsuit, a lawyer said today. \n The Cleveland school board voted unanimously to accept a settlement, district lawyer Jamie Jacks said. \n The 3,500-student district had originally sought to maintain historically black and white high schools, but U.S. District Judge Debra Brown ruled in May that such a plan maintained illegal vestiges of segregation, agreeing with the U.S. Justice Department and private plaintiffs who both demanded one high school. \n Under the agreement, the district will maintain one high school on the campus of historically white Cleveland High School and Margaret Green Junior High School and one school for seventh- and eighth-graders at the site of historically black East Side High School. \n Sixth-graders, most of whom now attend Margaret Green or a separate middle school, will now stay at elementary schools. Some sixth-graders who already attend magnet elementary schools will remain at those schools. \n The change in sixth-grade configuration is the only major difference from Brown's order. Jacks said the district feared it wouldn't have enough room for sixth-, seventh- and eighth-graders on the current East Side campus. \n The district had appealed Brown's ruling to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and won a stay earlier this month that had thrown into question whether the high schools would merge after this school year. But Cleveland had gone ahead with planning for a merger, deciding to call both the new high school and the new junior high Cleveland Central and adopting new colors and a new mascot. \n The district had also, in recent days, named new principals for both the high school and the junior high school. It was after meeting with them Friday that the district decided to move ahead with a settlement, Jacks said. \n \"They were very confident in moving the schools forward, and I think the board has a lot of confidence in them,\" she said. Jacks said the decision relieves the uncertainty of how the appeals court might rule, as well as the possibility that it might order a merger to go forward on a short timeline. Some Mississippi school districts, when ordered to desegregate immediately in 1969, merged schools over Christmas break, opening in new configurations in January 1970 for the second half of the school year. \n Cleveland had long been subject to its own desegregation order in the 52-year-old court case. But the issue had been dormant until private plaintiffs and then the Justice Department intervened, seeking to consolidate middle and high schools. Historically, African-American residents were concentrated on Cleveland's east side. The west side, where Cleveland High School and Margaret Green Junior High School are, had white residents. \n Cleveland High now has a plurality of white students and Margaret Green is majority black, according to state figures. All but one student was black at East Side last year, as were all but two at D.M. Smith. Overall, two-thirds of the district's students are black, and 29 percent are white. The rest are Asian or Hispanic. \n The district was willing to consolidate middle schools but argued for preserving two high schools, saying such a plan was less likely to prompt white flight. Brown rejected those arguments, saying the district hadn't proved that it could induce white students to enroll at East Side in any significant numbers. \n Lawyers for the Department of Justice and private plaintiffs didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "School desegregation accord reached in Mississippi district"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Boy Scouts of America announced that it will allow transgender children who identify as boys to enroll in its boys only programs. \n DALLAS >> The Boy Scouts of America announced today that it will allow transgender children who identify as boys to enroll in its boys only programs. \n The organization said it had made the decision to begin basing enrollment in its boys-only programs on the gender a child or parent lists on the application to become a scout. The Boy Scouts had previously held a policy that relied on the gender listed on a child's birth certificate for those programs. \n The organization's leadership had considered a recent case in Secaucus, N.J., where an 8-year-old transgender child had been asked to leave his Scout troop after parents and leaders found out he is transgender. But the statement issued today said the change was made because of the larger conversation about gender identity going on around the country. \n \"For more than 100 years, the Boy Scouts of America, along with schools, youth sports and other youth organizations, have ultimately deferred to the information on an individual's birth certificate to determine eligibility for our single-gender programs,\" the statement said. \"However, that approach is no longer sufficient as communities and state laws are interpreting gender identity differently, and these laws vary widely from state to state.\" \n Kristie Maldonado said she had mixed emotions tonight when a representative of Boy Scouts of America called to tell her the organization would allow her son, Joe, to re-enroll in his troop after he was asked to leave last fall. Maldonado said she would like her son to rejoin the Secaucus troop, but only if the scout leader who made the previous decision leaves. \n She said Joe, who will turn 9 on Wednesday, has spoken publicly about the incident. She called him a \"ham\" and noted he had a big birthday party on Saturday with the mayor of Secaucus in attendance. \n \"I'm so grateful. I really am that they're accepting and that there won't be any issues. They (other transgender youth) won't have to go through what my son went through,\" Maldonado said when reached by phone Monday. \"It's a big change for everybody that all are accepted now \u2026 I'm so delighted that they finally called and they did say this, but I'm still angry.\" \n Maldonado said the earlier decision to remove her son from the troop made him feel different, and she wanted to make sure he knew the troop made a mistake. \n The Boy Scouts said the enrollment decision goes into effect immediately. \n \"Our organization's local councils will help find units that can provide for the best interest of the child,\" the statement said. \n Zach Wahls, co-founder of the groups Scouts for Equality, called the decision historic. \n \"The decision to allow transgender boys to participate in the Cub Scouts and the Boy Scouts is an important step forward for this American institution,\" he wrote in a statement posted to social media. \"We are incredibly proud of Joe Maldonado \u2014 the transgender boy from New Jersey whose expulsion last year ignited this controversy \u2014 and his mother Kristie for their courage in doing what they knew was right. We are also proud of the Boy Scouts for deciding to do the right thing.\" \n Boy Scouts of America leaders lifted a blanket ban on gay troop leaders and employees in July 2015 amid intense pressure. The group had, after heated internal debate, decided in 2013 to allow openly gay youth as scouts. \n The national Girl Scouts organization, which is not affiliated with the Boy Scouts, has accepted transgender members for years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Boy Scouts will allow transgender children into programs"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "JAYNA OMAYE / JOMAYE@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Firefigthers responded to a brush fire in Kalaeloa that closed Malakole Street from Kalaeloa Boulevard to Komohana Street \n Honolulu firefighters have contained a brush fire in Campbell Industrial Park this afternoon. \n The blaze, near the intersection of Opakapaka and Lauwilwili streets, burned about six acres and was contained at 2:31 p.m., said Honolulu Fire Department spokesman Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. \n Fifteen units with 40 firefighters initially responded to the fire at 11:51 a.m. Mokulehua said 14 units with 39 firefighters remain on scene to extinguish hot spots. \n Honolulu police closed Malakole Street from Kalaeloa Boulevard to Komohana Street around 1:45 p.m. \n There were no reports of injuries or structures damaged, Mokulehua said. The cause of the blaze has not been determined at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters contain brush fire in Kalaeloa"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Army Capt. Matthew Ball conducts an interview at the Stanford University law school Monday, Jan. 30, 2017, in Stanford, Calif. Ball said his interpreter Qismat Amin, who has been living in hiding after getting threats from Taliban and Islamic state fighters, got his visa Sunday, after nearly four years of interviews. Ball bought him a $1,000 plane ticket to San Francisco and plans to meet him at the airport with an attorney. \n SAN DIEGO >> U.S. combat veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan say they are outraged at the temporary ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries that has blocked visas for Iraqi interpreters who risked their lives to help American troops on the battlefield. \n Thousands of veterans have signed petitions. One soldier says he has bought a plane ticket for his Afghan translator in case that country is added to the list of banned nations. \n Many veterans say they feel betrayed by the executive order signed by President Donald Trump on Friday that also suspends the admission of all refugees to the U.S. for 120 days and all Syrian refugees indefinitely. \n They say the fight feels personal because they gave their word to people who aided American troops that the United States would protect them and their families. \n \"This administration just made me a liar in a very significant way, and I'm not willing to accept this,\" said Iraq and Afghanistan combat veteran Michael Breen, president and CEO of the Truman National Security Project, a Washington-based nonprofit think tank. \n The Pentagon is compiling the names of Iraqis who have supported U.S. and coalition personnel to help exempt them from the 90-day immigration ban. \n The list will include those who have tangibly demonstrated their commitment to supporting U.S. forces, Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said. It will contain several categories of people, such as translators, drivers and Iraqi forces who may be training in the U.S. \n California Republican Rep. Duncan Hunter, a combat Marine veteran who endorsed Trump's presidential campaign, sent the president a bipartisan letter signed by other lawmakers who served in the military, expressing support for the exemption list. \n \"Doing so would send a strong signal to those who show such immense courage to advance U.S. security interests at a risk to their own safety, as well as the many veterans and warfighters who've relied on the service of these individuals for their own protection and to accomplish their objectives,\" the letter states. \n His spokesman, Joe Kasper, said Hunter supports the intent of the travel ban but questions how it was executed. \n Veterans who have been aiding translators say it would be difficult to get everyone on the list. \n What's more, they say the ban sends a message to Iraqi soldiers and other Muslims fighting insurgents that the United States does not want them. \n \"Not only is this executive order a death sentence for Iraqis and Afghans who have served faithfully alongside U.S. troops, but it feels like a death sentence for our service members who are in the Middle East,\" said former Army Capt. Matt Zeller, who runs the nonprofit No One Left Behind, an organization working to get interpreters from Iraq and Afghanistan to the United States. \n \"I'm only alive because my Afghan Muslim translator saved my life by killing two Taliban fighters who were about to kill me in battle,\" he said. \n Zeller said that's why he grabbed the American flag that flew over his base in Afghanistan and waved it outside the White House this weekend, joining thousands of protesters who demanded an immediate end to the travel ban. \n Afghanistan is not among the seven countries on the ban list, but suspension of the refugee program is affecting Afghan translators who have been given special immigrant visas for helping U.S. troops. \n Zeller said two Afghan translators have had their flights cancelled since Friday's order. The interpreters waited for years to get the visas, going through a lengthy vetting process, he said. \n Army Capt. Matthew Ball said his interpreter, Qismat Amin, who has been living in hiding after getting threats from Taliban and Islamic state fighters, got his visa Sunday, after nearly four years of interviews. Ball bought him a $1,000 plane ticket to San Francisco and plans to meet him at the airport with an attorney. \n \"The ban is terrible. It's terrible for what it says about our country. It's terrible for what it says to our allies who we fight with overseas. It's terrible for what it does to real people, struggling to flee terrorism in their home countries, who now have nowhere to go,\" said Ball, who now serves in the Reserves. \n Amin, who talked to The Associated Press by phone, said he had mixed feelings. \n \"I feel kind of hesitant to be honest,\" he said. \"I'm hopeful it's going to be OK. I've never been out of my country, so I don't know the rules, and I've been watching the news. I'm a Muslim, and there are different stories saying the United States is banning Muslims, banning immigrants. I'm immigrant plus I'm Muslim, so I don't know.\" \n \"I'm very excited at the moment right now and kind of terrified,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Veterans protest travel ban, saying it hurts interpreters"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators chant outside Tom Bradley International Terminal during a protest by airport service workers from United Service Workers West union Monday, Jan. 30, 2017, at Los Angeles International Airport. The vigil in support of travelers affected by the executive order restricting travel from seven primarily Muslim countries. \n WASHINGTON >> Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, a Democratic appointee, on Monday directed Justice Department attorneys not to defend President Donald Trump's controversial executive refugee and immigration ban, joining a growing group of administration officials distancing themselves from the new president's order. \n Her directive was likely to be temporary, given that Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump's pick for attorney general, will likely move to uphold the president's policy. Sessions is awaiting Senate confirmation. \n Still, it set up a dramatic standoff between a president and his own Justice Department just days into his tenure. \n \"I am responsible for ensuring that the positions we take in court remain consistent with this institution's solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right,\" Yates wrote in a letter announcing her position. \"At present, I am not convinced that the defense of the Executive Order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the Executive Order is lawful.\" \n Trump responded Monday by accusing Democrats of delaying approval of his Cabinet nominees for political reasons. \"Now have an Obama A.G.,\" the president wrote on Twitter. \n Yates' abrupt decision deepened the discord and dissent surrounding Trump's order, which temporarily halted the entire U.S. refugee program and banned all entries from seven Muslim-majority nations for 90 days. As protests erupted at airports over the weekend and confusion disrupted travel around the globe, some of Trump's top advisers and fellow Republicans privately noted they were not consulted about the policy. \n At least three top national security officials \u2014 Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Rex Tillerson, who is awaiting confirmation to lead the State Department \u2014 have told associates they were not aware of details of directive until around the time Trump signed it. Leading intelligence officials were also left largely in the dark, according to U.S. officials. \n Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations committee, said that despite White House assurances that congressional leaders were consulted, he learned about the order in the media. \n Other parts of Trump's administration were voicing dissent Monday. A large group of American diplomats circulated a memo voicing their opposition to the order, which temporarily halted the entire U.S. refugee program and banned all entries from seven Muslim-majority nations for 90 days. In a startlingly combative response, White House spokesman Sean Spicer challenged those opposed to the measure to resign. \n \"They should either get with the program or they can go,\" Spicer said. \n The blowback underscored Trump's tenuous relationship with his own national security advisers, many of whom he met for the first time during the transition, as well as with the government bureaucracy he now leads. While Trump outlined his plan for temporarily halting entry to the U.S. from countries with terror ties during the campaign, the confusing way in which it finally was crafted stunned some who have joined his team. \n Mattis, who stood next to Trump during Friday's signing ceremony, is said to be particularly incensed. A senior U.S. official said Mattis, along with Joint Chiefs Chairman Joseph Dunford, was aware of the general concept of Trump's order but not the details. Tillerson has told the president's political advisers that he was baffled over not being consulted on the substance of the order. \n U.S. officials and others with knowledge of the Cabinet's thinking insisted on anonymity in order to disclose the officials' private views. \n Trump's order pauses America's entire refugee program for four months and indefinitely bans all those from war-ravaged Syria. Federal judges in New York and several other states issued orders that temporarily block the government from deporting people with valid visas who arrived after Trump's travel ban took effect. \n The president has privately acknowledged flaws in the rollout, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking. But he's also blamed the media \u2014 his frequent target \u2014 for what he believes are reports exaggerating the dissent and the number of people actually affected. \n Trump has also said he believes the voters who carried him to victory support the plan as a necessary step to safeguard the nation. And he's dismissed objectors as attention-seeking rabble-rousers and grandstanding politicians. \n After a chaotic weekend during which some U.S. legal permanent residents were detained at airports, some agencies were moving swiftly to try to clean up after the White House. \n Homeland Security, the agency tasked with implementing much of the refugee ban, clarified that customs and border agents should allow legal residents to enter the country. The Pentagon was trying to exempt Iraqis who worked alongside the U.S. and coalition forces from the 90-day ban on entry from the predominantly Muslim countries. \n \"There are a number of people in Iraq who have worked for us in a partnership role, whether fighting alongside us or working as translators, often doing so at great peril to themselves,\" said Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman. \n Policies with such broad reach are typically vetted by affected agencies and subject to review by multiple agencies. It's a process that can be frustratingly slow but is aimed at avoiding unintended consequences. \n On Capitol Hill, lawmakers in Trump's party sought to distance themselves from the wide-ranging order. \n While Spicer said \"appropriate committees and leadership offices\" on Capitol Hill were consulted, GOP lawmakers said their offices had no hand in drafting the order and no briefings from the White House on how it would work. \n \"I think they know that it could have been done in a better way,\" Corker said of the White House. \n Some Trump supporters defended the president, saying his actions should not have come as a surprise given his positions during the campaign. \n \"Nothing he did over the weekend was new,\" said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and an informal adviser. He conceded that coordination could have been better, but he said Trump's vow to quickly bring change to Washington will sometimes mean he needs to prioritize fast action over broad consultation. \n \"If you're the reformer, you need the momentum,\" Gingrich said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Justice head tells staff not to defend Trump refugee order"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "A 21-year-old Volcano man has been charged in connection with a stolen car that crashed in Ainaloa last week. \n Big Island police arrested and charged Arnold B. J. Fernandez Friday for unauthorized control of a propelled vehicle involving a stolen Honda sedan that crashed on Jan. 25. He is the second suspect arrested in the case. \n Last week, prosecutors arrested Kahekili John Krause in connection with the stolen Honda involved in the single-car crash. Krause was previously charged with terroristic threatening and reckless driving for a Jan. 19 incident. \n In addition to auto theft, Fernandez also was charged for second-degree burglary after he broke into a Hilo automobile repair shop on Jan. 26 and stole bananas. Prosecutors charged Fernandez for attempted second-degree burglary for attempting to break into a Mountain View store that same day, according to a Hawaii Police Department news release. \n He remains in custody in lieu of $6,000 bail and was to make his initial court appearance today. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle man arrested in connection with stolen car, crash"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "Kauai County ocean safety officials warn beachgoers to avoid swimming at all north shore beaches due to dangerous surf conditions. \n A high surf warning remains in effect until 6 p.m. today for the north and west shores of Kauai, Niihau, Oahu and Molokai and the north shores of Maui. \n The National Weather Service warned the public to steer clear from the shoreline at all affected beaches. \n Kauai lifeguards reported waves of up to 25 feet and strong rip currents at beaches west of Hanalei Pavilion to Kee Beach. \n A high surf advisory also is in effect for the north shores on the Big Island. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai beachgoers warned to avoid north shore beaches due to dangerous surf"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators held banners during a protest against President Donald Trump's controversial travel ban on refugees and people from seven mainly-Muslim countries, outside Downing Street in London today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump sat at his desk in the Oval Office of the White House, on Jan. 23, in Washington. The legal fight over Trump's refugee ban is likely to turn on whether the president has the authority to control access to America's borders and whether targeting people from a particular region in the world violates the Constitution. \n WASHINGTON >> In the face of widespread criticism, President Donald Trump has staunchly defended his order temporarily banning refugees and nearly all citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries. But in a statement Sunday and tweets today, Trump misstated the facts multiple times. \n What Trump said and how it compares with the facts: \n Delta Airlines did report a computer problem that forced the cancellation of more than 150 flights on Sunday. The chaos and protests at airports around the country began before that happened and were related to the travel ban, not delayed or cancelled flights. \n The Obama administration did slow processing for Iraqi nationals seeking refuge in the U.S. under the government's Special Immigrant Visa program for translators and interpreters who worked with American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. That happened after two Iraqi nationals were arrested on terrorism-related charges. But that year, 618 Iraqis were allowed to enter the U.S. with that special visa. \n Government data show that during the 2011 budget year, more than 7,800 Iraqis were allowed into the United States on non-immigrant visas, including tourists. \n As the law was enacted, the Obama administration announced that journalists, aid workers and others who traveled to the listed countries for official work could apply for exemptions. There were no special U.S. travel restrictions on citizens of those seven countries. \n TRUMP, also in Sunday's statement: \"To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion \u2014 this is about terror and keeping our country safe. There are over 40 different countries worldwide that are majority Muslim that are not affected by this order.\" \n Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani recently told Fox News that Trump had asked him to create a plan for a Muslim ban that would meet legal tests. Giuliani said he ultimately made recommendations that focused on security and what countries posed security threats. \n And the U.S. can always stop a foreigner from boarding a U.S.-bound flight or cancel a visa upon someone's arrival. A visa is not a guarantee that a foreigner will be allowed into the U.S. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Trump claims on travel ban misleading, wrong"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The suit seeks a court order declaring the policy discriminatory and forcing Wells Fargo to grant the loans. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> A federal lawsuit accuses banking giant Wells Fargo of illegally denying student loans to young immigrants who are protected from deportation and allowed to work and study in the U.S. under a program created by former President Barack Obama. \n The suit filed Monday in San Francisco says the young immigrants in the country illegally have Social Security numbers and documents that meet banking requirements for identification. But it says Wells Fargo denies them loans based on their citizenship status. \n The suit seeks a court order declaring the policy discriminatory and forcing Wells Fargo to grant the loans. It also seeks unspecified monetary damages. \n Wells Fargo said in a statement that it was disappointed the plaintiffs didn't work with the bank on a solution rather than sue. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Claim accuses Wells Fargo of denying loans to young migrants"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters of President Donald Trump gathered outside Tom Bradley International Terminal as protests against President Trump's executive order banning travel from seven Muslim-majority countries continued at Los Angeles International Airport on Sunday. \n BIRMINGHAM, Ala. >> Don't talk about airport protests in Trump Country. In the states that propelled Donald Trump to the White House, the president's fans couldn't be much happier with his executive order temporarily banning refugees and immigrants from seven mostly Muslim countries. \n Trump promised to put America first during the campaign, they say, and he's doing it. That includes securing the nation's borders and doing everything possible to prevent terrorists from entering the U.S. \n In their view, Democrats and liberal snowflakes and soft-hearted do-gooders just need to calm down. Trump is being Trump. \n \"It shows me that he means what he says,\" Judith Wilkenroh, 72, a retired social-services worker from Frederick, Maryland, said today. \"He's just unafraid. He's just going ahead like a locomotive, and I like him more and more every time he does something.\" \n Two of Barbara Wood's three sons served in the military after Sept. 11, and she's all for Trump and his immigration order. \n The president \"is fulfilling his campaign promises to the best of his ability. I applaud him for that,\" said Wood, who lives in suburban Birmingham. \n Thousands of people have demonstrated at U.S. airports since Trump issued an order Friday blocking people from seven countries in the Middle East and Africa from entering the United States and suspending refugee immigration for four months. The protests included a gathering of several hundred people in Birmingham, the largest airport in a Southern state that Trump carried with ease. \n Washington's state attorney general filed a lawsuit over the order, and a federal judge in New York issued an emergency order temporarily banning deportations of people from the seven nations. Some Republican lawmakers have questioned the order, with Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina saying they fear it will become \"a self-inflicted wound in the fight against terrorism.\" \n Yet none of that criticism matters much in Trump Country, those states and counties where Trump claimed the votes to win the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n There, Trump supporters said, they are happy with the immigration order and the ideas behind it, from improving national security to watching out for Americans first. Some Trump backers said they might do things a little differently than the president, but their overall reaction is positive. \n \"We're not the world's Social Security office. We're not here to take care of people,\" said Jim Buterbaugh, the head of custodial work and maintenance at a public school in the western Montana town of White Hall. \"I understand that people need help, but there are other ways besides bringing them here.\" \n Buterbaugh, who has actively fought the re-settlement of Syrians in Montana, was frustrated that Trump's moratorium did not include countries such as Saudi Arabia, where most of the Sept. 11 hijackers were from. The executive order also did not include the creation of safe zones for refugees, which he favors. \n Mike Honaker has some misgivings, too. A Trump supporter in a struggling West Virginia coal town, he didn't think \"blitzing everybody\" with an order that spread chaos around the world was the right way to go. \n But Honaker worries about terrorism and does not have a problem with Trump's plan to screen refugees more thoroughly. Overall, Honaker likes 85 percent of what the president has done so far. \n \"I think he's shaking it up, the whole of Washington, D.C., and half the country, like he said he would,\" he said. \n Attorney Terri King, 56, said Trump's order has widespread support in her Rust Belt city of Middletown, Ohio. \n The only people who don't support it are \"those who are paid to protest on the left \u2026 and some Democrats,\" said King, an also-ran in a GOP congressional race last year. \n Republican Scott Presley of Virginia Beach, Virginia, likes Trump's order so much he thought about staging an airport protest of his own in support of the president. \n Presler, who is gay, said he wanted to go to Virginia's Dulles International Airport to support the president's immigration ban while carrying a sign that said \"Radical Islam Murders Gays.\" But he said he stopped short of making the trip out of fear for his safety. \n \"I'm a compassionate human being,\" said Presler, 28. \"I'm a humanitarian. But I'm also compassionate toward the health and well-being of the American people. We have 50,000 homeless veterans in this country. We have our own poor and suffering.\" \n Associated Press writers Dave Dishneau in Hagerstown, Maryland; Claire Galofaro in Louisville, Kentucky; Ben Finley in Norfolk, Virginia; Jacob Jordan in Atlanta; and Alanna Durkin Richer in Richmond, Virginia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump supporters say they are happy with immigration order"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama spoke, on Jan. 18, during his final presidential news conference, in the briefing room of the White House in Washington. A spokesman for Obama says the former president \"fundamentally disagrees\" with discrimination that targets people based on their religion. \n WASHINGTON >> Former President Barack Obama praised protesters who amassed across the country in opposition to President Donald Trump's immigration orders, breaking his silence on political issues for the first time since leaving office. \n \"The president fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion,\" Obama's spokesman, Kevin Lewis, said. \n In his first statement on behalf of the former president, Lewis said Obama was \"heartened\" by the amount of engagement taking place in U.S. communities. Lewis, a former White House official, pointed out that Obama used his last official speech as president to talk about Americans' responsibility to be \"guardians of our democracy,\" even in nonelection years. \n \"Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake,\" Lewis said. \n Lewis didn't specifically invoke Trump's immigration order. But he rejected comparisons between Trump's recent actions and Obama's foreign policy decisions. \n Trump said he took cues from Obama by temporarily banning travel to the U.S. from citizens of seven countries that Obama's administration identified as places of terrorism concern. But Obama's designation related strictly to eligibility to enter the U.S. without a visa; he never considered a travel ban. \n Obama's office also circulated excerpts from a speech the former president gave in November 2015, in which he called the idea of a ban on Muslims \"shameful.\" \n \"That's not American. That's not who we are. We don't have religious tests to our compassion,\" Obama said in the aftermath of attacks in Paris that prompted calls for the U.S. to restrict Syrian refugees from entering the United States. \n Trump and the White House have vigorously disputed the notion that Trump's order is a \"Muslim ban.\" Trump's halts all refugee admissions for 120 days, suspends the Syrian refugee program indefinitely and also suspends entry to the U.S. from seven majority-Muslim countries for 90 days. But the White House has stressed that dozens of other Muslim-majority countries aren't included. \n Lewis' comments mark the first time Obama has weighed in on Trump's actions since Obama left office on Jan. 20. In his final weeks as president, Obama said he planned to follow George W. Bush's example by giving his successor room to govern without being second-guessed. \n Yet Obama pointedly reserved the right to speak out if Trump violated what Obama called basic American values. He suggested a ban on Muslims or a move by Trump to deport immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally as children would cross that threshold. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Breaking silence, Obama speaks out on Trump immigrants order"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lavette Mayes talks with Max Suchan who co-founded the Chicago Community Bond Fund in Chicago. Mayes, was arrested for the first time after she got into a fight with her mother-in-law, spent more than a year in Cook County Jail unable to come up with $25,000 needed to post bond. \n CHICAGO >> Activists who say too many poor people are unfairly languishing in U.S. jails because they can't afford to post cash bail are increasingly deploying a new tactic: Bailing out strangers. \n Community groups are collecting donations from individuals, churches, cities and other organizations in more than a dozen cities, including New York, Chicago, Seattle and Nashville, to bail out indigent prisoners. Though many bail funds are still in their infancy, they've freed several thousand people in the last few years, and the number is growing. \n So far, the overwhelming majority of defendants still show up for court even when they have no money on the line, according to the groups. Once free, the defendants are better able to fight their case, often leading to charges being dropped or reduced. \n \"Many, many people are having their lives ruined pre-trial because they can't afford to get out of jail,\" said Max Suchan, who co-founded the Chicago Community Bond Fund, which had bailed out 50 people as of December. \n The bail funds are a step toward a larger goal for some legal reform activists: abolishing the cash bail system. Advocates say it creates two unequal tiers of justice: one for people who can afford bail and one for people who can't. \n Lavette Mayes, 46, who was arrested for the first time after she got into a fight with her mother-in-law, spent more than a year in Cook County Jail unable to come up with $25,000 needed to get out. \n The mother of two, who was in the midst of a divorce, said she \"lost everything \u2014 my home, my car, my business, my credit,\" before the Chicago bond fund offered to get her out. \n \"I called my attorney and said 'Is this real?' I said, 'If they can do it, I promise I won't jump the bail. I will do whatever they need me to do,'\" Mayes recalled. \n Mayes resolved her aggravated battery case a few months later and was sentenced to one day in prison, with credit for the 571 days already served. \n As the broader bail reform issue has received more attention in recent years \u2014 in part due to events such as the death of Sandra Bland, a black woman who died in a Texas jail cell after a traffic stop while waiting help posting bail \u2014 opposition has come from bail bondsmen, who charge fees to post a bail bond on someone's behalf, and some law enforcement officials. \n Beth Chapman, president of the Professional Bail Agents of the United States and the star along with her husband of television's \"Dog the Bounty Hunter,\" said the community groups mean well but don't have the resources or expertise to ensure that freed prisoners don't abscond or reoffend. \n \"They're not licensed or trained to deal with the criminal element,\" Chapman said. \"They're going to get burned.\" \n The bail agents organization also argues that eliminating the cash bail system would put the public at risk. With few exceptions, Chapman said, \"People are not in jail because they are poor. They're in jail because they broke the law.\" \n Some local authorities oppose it because bonds forfeited by people who don't show up to court provide a revenue stream for counties. \n But one of the biggest barriers to change is simply \"history and practice,\" said Peter Goldberg, who leads the Brooklyn Community Bail Fund. \n \"We've been doing this for so long to one degree or another that it's just the way the system works,\" he said. \n Some groups, including the Brooklyn fund and one in the Bronx, will only post for people charged with misdemeanors and who are in jail because they cannot afford a bail of $2,000 or less. \n Each year more than 10,000 cases in New York city fit those criteria, Goldberg said. Since May 2015, the Brooklyn fund has secured release for more than 1,300 of them. The group now serves 100 to 110 people per month with an average bail paid of $910. Goldberg said 95 percent have returned for all court dates. \n In Chicago the anti-cash bail movement has a seemingly unlikely ally in Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart. He argues the cash system should be abolished and replaced with more thorough background checks; if a person is considered dangerous, they stay in jail and if they're not, they go free, with access to services such as drug-addiction counseling if needed. \n As of last week, there were more than 1,100 inmates at Cook County jail \u2014 or about 15 percent of the roughly 7,500 total jail population \u2014 who needed to post bail of $5,000 or less to be released. Of those, almost 300 needed $1,000 or less, county officials said. Housing each of those people costs the county a minimum of $150 per day. \n Jocelyn Simonson, an assistant professor at Brooklyn Law School, wrote an article on bail funds that will appear in the Michigan Law Review in March. \n When she started her research four years ago she said there were three or four funds operating nationwide. There will be 15 to 20 by the end of this year, and \"they have not plateaued,\" Simonson said. \n She says the funds give communities \u2014 particularly minority communities \u2014 a way to push back against a system that disproportionately punishes them, and it goes beyond getting some people out of jail. \n \"They're not just freeing individuals,\" Simonson said. \"They're making a statement about the fairness of the criminal justice system.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Groups begin bailing out strangers to free poor from jail"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A card player studied her hand during a bridge game at a restaurant in St. Paul, Minn., in April 2014. Research published today shows that even in one's 70s and beyond, simple activities including web-surfing, playing bridge and socializing can stave off mental decline. \n Benefits were greatest in computer users and in those without a gene variation linked with Alzheimer's disease. But even among seniors with that trait, mental decline that sometimes precedes dementia was less common among those who engaged in mind-stimulating activities. \n The results don't apply to costly, computer-based games that purport to keep the brain sharp \u2014 those were not studied. The benefits were found from activities that many seniors have access to. \n \"They don't have to spend their life savings\" on fancy gadgets, said Dr. Yonas Geda, the study's senior author and a neurologist at the Mayo Clinic's Scottsdale, Arizona, campus. \n The study was published today in the journal JAMA Neurology. The researchers noted that the statistical link they found with reduced risk does not prove the activities were responsible. \n Still, said Heather Snyder of the Alzheimer's Association, the results support the idea that \"being engaged mentally is good for brain health.\" \n The study looked at five types of activities that are thought to help keep the mind sharp: computer use; making crafts; playing games including chess or bridge; going to movies or other types of socializing; and reading books. The idea was to see if these activities could help prevent mild cognitive impairment. That condition involves problems with memory, thinking and attention that don't interfere much with daily life but which increase risks for developing Alzheimer's disease and other types of dementia. \n Almost 2,000 adults aged 70 to 93 without any memory problems participated. They lived in Minnesota's Olmsted County, where the Mayo Clinic in Rochester is located. They were asked whether they had engaged in any of the five activities during the previous year and if so, how often. They were tested for the condition in mental exams at the beginning and every 15 months for about four years. During that time, 456 study participants developed the mild impairment. \n An analysis found a protective effect from each activity except for reading books. Study participants who engaged in any of the other activities at least once weekly were 20 percent to 30 percent less likely to develop the condition over the four years than those who never did those activities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Games, crafts, other activities may safeguard aging brain"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman carries a sign outside of the White House during a demonstration to denounce President Donald Trump's executive order that bars citizens of seven predominantly Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States. \n SEATTLE >> Washington state's attorney general said Monday he is suing President Donald Trump over an executive order that suspended immigration from seven countries with majority-Muslim populations and sparked nationwide protests. \n Attorney General Bob Ferguson became the first state attorney general to announce a legal action against the Trump administration over one of its policies. \n Trump signed an executive order Friday that suspends all immigration for citizens of the seven countries for 90 days. \n Ferguson was one of 16 state attorneys general who released a statement Sunday calling Trump's immigration action \"un-American and unlawful.\" \n Trump's order sparked large protests around the country over the weekend, including one that drew 3,000 people to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. \n Trump has repeatedly said that the move is aimed at protecting the nation against extremists looking to attack Americans and American interests. \n Ferguson said the lawsuit against Trump and high-ranking Trump administration officials would be filed later Monday in federal court in Seattle. \n He said it would seek to have key provisions of the executive order declared unconstitutional. The lawsuit also seeks a temporary restraining order against enforcement of the executive order. \n \"We've had folks in our office working all weekend on a legal action,\" said Ferguson, who was joined at a news conference by Washington Gov. Jay Inslee. \n \"This is un-American, it is wrong, and it will not stand,\" Inslee said. \"The clear intent of this executive order is to discriminate against one faith amongst all God's children.\" \n Ferguson said he has been in contact with other attorneys general but that at this point Washington state was acting on its own regarding the legal action. \n The Port of Seattle said over the weekend that people who were detained at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport as a result of Trump's order have been released. \n U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal said Sunday that two individuals were released. One is a citizen of Sudan and the other a citizen of Yemen, both countries named in Trump's order. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Washington state suing Trump over immigration order"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former President George H.W. Bush and his wife Barbara pose for a photo at Houston Methodist Hospital in Houston. \n HOUSTON >> Former President George H.W. Bush was released Monday from Houston Methodist Hospital where he received treatment for pneumonia for more than two weeks. \n Bush, 92, was experiencing breathing difficulties when he was admitted Jan. 14. During his treatment, which included a stay in intensive care, doctors inserted a breathing tube and connected him to a ventilator. \n \"He is thankful for the many prayers and kind messages he received during his stay, as well as the world-class care that both his doctors and nurses provided,\" Bush spokesman Jim McGrath said Monday. \n The nation's 41st president was joined at the hospital by his 91-year-old wife, Barbara, who spent five days there for treatment of bronchitis until her release a week ago. \n The couple's 72-year marriage is the longest of any presidential couple in U.S. history and the former first lady was with her husband during much of his stay, including when she was hospitalized for her own treatment. They were \"essentially therapy for each other,\" Dr. Clint Doerr, one of the physicians treating Bush, said last week. \n Bush, who served as president from 1989 to 1993, has a form of Parkinson's disease and uses a motorized scooter or a wheelchair for mobility. \n He was hospitalized in 2015 in Maine after falling at his summer home and breaking a bone in his neck. He was also hospitalized in Houston the previous December for about a week for shortness of breath. He spent Christmas 2012 in intensive care for a bronchitis-related cough and other issues. \n Despite his loss of mobility, Bush celebrated his 90th birthday by making a tandem parachute jump in Kennebunkport, Maine. Last summer, Bush led a group of 40 wounded warriors on a fishing trip at the helm of his speedboat, three days after his 92nd birthday celebration. \n George Herbert Walker Bush, born June 12, 1924, in Milton, Massachusetts, also served as a congressman, CIA director and Ronald Reagan's vice president. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "George HW Bush has been released from Houston hospital"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Masaya Nakamura, known as the \"Father of Pac-Man,\" in Tokyo in June 1997. Nakamura, who founded the Japanese video game company behind the hit creature-gobbling game, and pioneered arcade games and amusement parks, died on Jan. 22, according to the company Bandai Namco. He was 91. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jake Gautney, 12, of Chappaqua, N.Y., tried a Ms. Pac-Man game at the Toy Industry Association holiday preview in New York in Oct. 2004. Masaya Nakamura, the \"Father of Pac-Man\" who founded the Japanese video game company behind the hit creature-gobbling game, died on Jan. 22. He was 91. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman walked past a 9-foot-tall Pac-Man made of Lego bricks, in Aug. 2015, in Tokyo's Shinjuku area. Masaya Nakamura, the \"Father of Pac-Man\" who founded the Japanese video game company behind the hit creature-gobbling game, died on Jan. 22, at age 91. \n TOKYO >> Masaya Nakamura, the \"Father of Pac-Man\" who founded the Japanese video game company behind the hit creature-gobbling game, has died. He was 91. \n Nakamura, who died on Jan. 22, founded Namco, part of Bandai Namco, in 1955. It started out as just two mechanical horse rides on a department store rooftop but went on to pioneer game arcades and amusement parks. \n Bandai Namco, formed in 2005 from a merger of two game companies, confirmed today that Nakamura had died. \n Pac-Man, designed by Namco engineer and video game maker Toru Iwatani, went on sale in 1980, at a time when there were few rival games, such as Space Invaders. The plucky yellow circle with the huge mouth was a huge hit. \n It's estimated to have been played more than 10 billion times: Guinness World Record has named it the world's most successful coin-operated arcade game. \n The game was non-violent but just challenging enough to hook players into steering the Pac-Man for hours through its mazes on the hunt for ghostly tidbits. \n The iconic Pac-Man adorns T-shirts and other merchandise and inspired animation shows, a breakfast cereal and even the nickname for Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao. \n The idea for Pac-Man's design came from the image of a pizza with a slice carved out. Nakamura reportedly chose the word \"Pac,\" or \"pakku\" in Japanese, to represent the sound of the Pac-Man munching its prey. \n \"Pac-Man is a gamer friendly game with tons of cute characters and that's why it was loved for such a long time,\" Iwatani said in 2015 at a New York red carpet premiere of \"Pixels,\" that featured Pac-Man creatures and featured him in a cameo role. \n The game started out as an arcade item and then was at first played on the Nintendo Family Computer home console. It since has been adapted for cellphones, PlayStation and Xbox formats. \n Other hits from Namco include driving simulation games like \"Ridge Racer\" and a drumming game. \n Nakamura was a key player in Bandai Namco's global growth. His pet saying was that his company delivered varied and total entertainment. He took pride in having fun and games for his job. \n The company reported Nakamura's death but would not comment on its cause or other personal details, citing his family's wishes. A private wake and funeral were held for the family, but a separate memorial is being planned, Bandai-Namco said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japanese arcade pioneer and 'Father of Pac-Man' has died"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters rescued an injured hiker who fell about 30 feet from a waterfall while hiking on the Kaau Crater Loop Trail. \n Firefighters arrived at the trail shortly before noon Sunday. Crews located the hiker \u2014 described to be in his 20s \u2014 at approximately 12:33 p.m. Honolulu Fire Department Spokesman Capt. Kevin Mokulehua said the man suffered injuries to his hip and back from the fall. \n The fire department's Air 1 helicopter airlifted him to Palolo District Park where paramedics were waiting to assess the hiker. \n Firefighters had rescued another hiker who suffered injuries to his back after jumping at Maunawili Falls Saturday. \n At about 12:26 p.m., a crew arrived at Maunawili Falls Trail and located the hiker. Mokulehua said the fire department's Air 1 helicopter airlifted the hiker to Maunawili Community District Park where paramedics were waiting. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Firefighters airlift injured hikers from Palolo, Maunawili trails"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters rescued three stand-up paddlers who ran into trouble in waters off the Kahala Hotel over the weekend. \n At approximately 10:25 a.m. Sunday, firefighters responded to male paddlers in distress. Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. Kevin Mokulehua said the three male stand-up paddlers started paddling from Maunalua Bay and experienced difficulty in the water due to the strong winds. \n Paddlers in canoes were in the area at the time and assisted them. Mokulehua said the stand-up paddlers held onto canoes until fire crews and lifeguards on jet skis and a rescue boat arrived. \n The stand-up paddlers were approximately a mile off of Kahala Hotel when they were rescued and brought to shore at Kaimana Beach. \n No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "3 stand-up paddlers rescued off Kahala"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "WARMINSTER, Pa. >> A Pennsylvania boy told state prosecutors that he was forced to dress as \"Tony the Tiger\" at perverse fetish parties in which he was repeatedly sexually abused by men dressed in animal costumes. \n Prosecutors said the 14-year-old's allegations paint a horrifying portrait of members of a child predator ring that took turns raping him at \"furry\" parties held in Bucks County beginning in 2009. \n Police have arrested five people who they say were involved in the ring, a multi-state sweep that began when a federal agent lured the first defendant to what he thought was a meeting with a 13-year-old for sex. \n The fifth person, a Quakertown man, was arrested last week. Kenneth Fenske, 57, was charged Friday with child rape, involuntary deviate sexual intercourse and unlawful contact with a minor. \n \"This child victim was repeatedly abused over a 7- or 8-year period by a group of criminals who cared only about their gratification,\" Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro said after announcing charges against Fenske. \"They cared nothing about this young boy.\" \n Court documents don't list an attorney for Fenske, who posted bail and was released from custody. A message left today at his listed phone number wasn't immediately returned. \n The boy told authorities that Fenske at times would dress up in a furry red fox costume with \"full long sleeves and pants, a zipper in the back, paw gloves, and a fox head with pointy ears\" before raping him. \n Four other men who are accused of participating in the abuse at Fenske's home were arrested in Pennsylvania and Virginia. \n The boy is reportedly related to one of the men and had lived with his grandmother when the abuse started. He now is in foster care and has been receiving therapy. \n Shapiro said his office is worried that there may be other victims in this \"horrendous case.\" Investigators say the boy's tip earlier this month led to Fenske's arrest. \n \"You think you've heard it all on this job, and you never have,\" said Bucks County District Attorney Matthew Weintraub. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prosecutor: Men in animal costumes raped child repeatedly"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "Maui firefighters recovered the body of a California visitor at the Waianapanapa Freshwater Caves in Hana. \n At 12:54 p.m. Sunday, firefighters responded to a report of a 33-year-old man from Novato who was stuck in the caves after he dropped his light while exploring the area. \n The Maui Fire Department said the victim was with three of his friends from Maui that afternoon. The group were swimming outside of the caves when the victim and one his friends decided to enter the enter and explore the caves. \n While inside, they used light from a cell phone sealed in a plastic bag. The fire department said one of the males headed out of the cave and noticed his friend was missing. He returned to the cave to look for him but only found the cell phone. \n The fire department said he left the area and called for help. A crew arrived at 1:04 p.m. They saw the victim submerged deeper within the cave and needed equipment to do an underwater recovery operation. \n Firefighters retrieved additional equipment and more crew members joined in recovery efforts. Shortly after 5 p.m., a dive rescue team and the department's Air 1 helicopter located the body of the victim approximately 75 feet from the cave's entrance. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters recover body from Hana freshwater caves"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People attend a vigil in Montreal on Monday, Jan. 30, 2017, for victims of Sunday's shooting at a Quebec City mosque. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A police officer and police dog looked for evidence near a home in the area of a Quebec City mosque today. A shooting at a Quebec City mosque Sunday night left multiple dead and injured. One suspect was arrested at the scene and another nearby. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police surveyed the scene after deadly shooting at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada on Sunday. Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard termed the act \"barbaric violence\" and expressed solidarity with victims' families. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police surveyed the scene after deadly shooting at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada on Sunday. Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard termed the act \"barbaric violence\" and expressed solidarity with victims' families. \n QUEBEC CITY >> A French Canadian known for far-right, nationalist views was charged today with six counts of first-degree murder and five counts of attempted murder over the shooting rampage at a Quebec City mosque that Canada's prime minister called an act of terrorism against Muslims. \n Suspect Alexandre Bissonnette made a brief court appearance and did not enter a plea in the attack that left six people dead during evening prayers Sunday. Wearing a white prisoner jump suit, his hands and feet shackled, he stared down at the floor and fidgeted, but did not speak. \n The 27-year-old suspect, who has espoused support for the French far-right party of Marine Le Pen and had liked U.S. President Donald Trump on his Facebook page, was known to those who monitor extremist groups in Quebec, said Fran\u00e7ois Deschamps, an official with a refugee advocacy group. \"It's with pain and anger that we learn the identity of terrorist Alexandre Bissonnette, unfortunately known to many activists in Quebec for taking nationalist, pro-Le Pen and anti-feminist positions at Laval University and on social media,\" Deschamps wrote on the Facebook page of the group, Bienvenues aux Refugi\u00e9s, or Welcome to Refugees. \n An anthropology and political science major at Laval University in Quebec City, Bissonnette had also expressed support on his Facebook profile for \"G\u00e9n\u00e9ration Nationale,\" a group whose manifesto includes the rejection of \"multiculturalism.\" \n More than 50 people were at the Quebec Islamic Cultural Centre when the shooting erupted. In addition to the six dead, 19 people were wounded \u2014 all men. Of the five victims who remained hospitalized, two were in critical condition, authorities said. The dead ranged in age from 39 to 60. \n Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard both characterized the attack as a terrorist act, which came amid heightened tensions worldwide over Trump's travel ban on seven Muslim countries. Le Pen, leader of the National Front in France, is known for her anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant positions and has won the endorsement and admiration of white supremacists. \n Canada is generally welcoming toward immigrants and all religions, but the French-speaking province of Quebec has had a long-simmering debate about race and religious accommodation. The previous separatist government of the province called for a ban on ostentatious religious symbols, such as the hijab, in public institutions. \n Trudeau said in Parliament the victims were targeted simply because of their religion and spoke directly to the more than 1 million Muslims who live in Canada, saying, \"We are with you.\" \n \"Thirty-six million hearts are breaking with yours,\" Trudeau said. \"Know that we value you.\" \n The prime minister later attended a vigil outside the mosque. \n The suspect was arrested in his car on a bridge near d'Orleans, where he called 911 to say he wanted to cooperate with police. Authorities, who initially named two suspects, said the other man taken into custody was a witness to the attack and was released earlier today. They said they did not believe there were other suspects but were investigating. \n Police did not give a motive for the attack. \n Trump called Trudeau to express condolences to the Canadian people and to offer any assistance that might be needed. \n The White House pointed to the attack as an example of why Trump's policies were needed. \"We condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms. It's a terrible reminder of why we must remain vigilant and why the president is taking steps to be pro-active, rather than reactive when it comes to our nation's safety and security,\" White House spokesman Sean Spicer said. \n The victims were businessmen, a university professor and others who had gathered for evening prayers, said Mohamed Labidi, the vice president of the mosque. \n \"'It's a very, very big tragedy for us,\" Labidi said tearfully. \"We have a sadness we cannot express.\" \n He said the victims were shot in the back. \"Security at our mosque was our major, major concern,\" he said. \"But we were caught off guard.\" \n The shooting took place just before 8 p.m. Sunday. Witnesses described chaos as worshippers scrambled to find friends and loved ones, as police responding to the scene called for backup. \n Couillard said he would \"not go there\" when asked if he blamed recent rhetoric in in the U.S. for the attack. \n \"Quebec is a good, generally loving society, but we have these devils as other societies have. We have to recognize that and fight them,\" Couillard said at a news conference in Quebec City at which he and Muslim leaders held hands in a display of solidarity. \n \"The Muslim community was the target of this murderous attack,\" Couillard said, adding that solidarity rallies would be held across Quebec later today. \n The mosque has been a target of hate crimes in the past, including last summer when pig's head was left on its doorstep during Ramadan, when Muslims fast from dawn to sunset. Practicing Muslims do not eat pork. \n Quebec City Mayor Regis Labeaume, appearing shaken, said: \"No person should have to pay with their life, for their race, their color, their sexual orientation or their religious beliefs.\" \n Worshipper Ali Hamadi said he left the mosque a few minutes before the shooting and a friend, Abdelkrim Hassen, was killed. He said Hassen, who worked in information technology for the government, had three daughters and a wife, whom he had to notify of the death. \n Majdi Dridi of the Muslim Association of Canada said he knew two of the victims. One was a work colleague who was a father of three little girls, he said. \n \"I don't know what to say, I just hope that his family and his children can have the patience to accept what happened,\" Dridi said \n Trudeau had earlier reacted to Trump's visa ban for people from some Muslim-majority countries by tweeting Saturday: \"To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada.\" \n Trudeau also posted a picture of himself greeting a Syrian child at Toronto's airport in late 2015. Trudeau oversaw the arrival of more than 39,000 Syrian refugees soon after he was elected. \n The mayor of Gatineau, Quebec, near Canada's capital of Ottawa, said there would be an increased police presence at mosques around his city following the attack. The New York Police Department also said it was stepping up patrols at mosques and other houses of worship. \n Associated Press writer Sean Farrell in Montreal contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "6 counts of murder for Quebec mosque attack suspect"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jorge Torres took part in a rally, Sunday, protesting President Donald Trump's executive order banning travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia or Yemen, in Elizabeth, N.J., outside the Homeland Security Detention Center. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Izzy Berdan, of Boston, center, wore an American flag as he chanted slogans with other demonstrators during a rally against President Donald Trump's order that restricts travel to the U.S., Sunday, in Boston. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Syrian family waited to register at the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees headquarters, in Beirut, Lebanon today. By executive order, President Donald Trump imposed a 90-day ban, Friday, that affected travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen and puts an indefinite hold on a program resettling Syrian refugees. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump today denied his immigration order was to blame for the chaos at the nation's airports over the weekend, instead pointing to computer glitches, protesters and even the \"tears of Senator Schumer.\" \n Later he shifted the focus away from the weekend's immigration turmoil, signing an executive action aimed at cutting regulations for small businesses. White House officials called the directive a \"one in, two out\" plan, requiring government agencies requesting a new regulation to identify two others they will cut. \n Trump signed the order in the Oval Office surrounded by small business leaders, saying it would \"massively\" cut regulations and calling it the \"biggest such act that our country has ever seen.\" \n Trump's business announcement came as protests continued around the country over his immigration order. Early today, he took to Twitter to defend the move, saying that only 109 out of 325,000 people \"were detained and held for questioning.\" Trump also said swift action was important, noting that there are a \"lot of bad 'dudes' out there.\" \n Trump's order temporarily suspends all immigration for citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries for 90 days. \n Democratic New York Sen. Schumer choked up over the weekend while talking about the repercussions from the ban, but that brought scorn from Trump. \n \"I noticed Chuck Schumer yesterday with fake tears \u2013 I'm going to ask him who was his acting coach, because I know him very well. I don't see him as a crier,\" Trump said at the White House today. \n Top Trump aides compared the order to a 2011 policy on Iraqi refugees, when President Barack Obama imposed additional checks on Iraqi refugees after two Iraqis were charged with terrorism offenses in Kentucky. Unlike Trump's order, the Obama policy applied only to Iraqi refugees and never specifically prohibited entry. \n Meanwhile, Trump announced he will reveal his pick for the Supreme Court at 8 p.m. Tuesday. The court has had eight justices since the death last year of Justice Antonin Scalia. Obama nominated Merrick Garland for the post, but Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell refused to take up the nomination. \n Trump enters his second week in office amid a global backlash to his policies. European Union officials denounced his immigration order as a dangerous embrace of isolationism and inequality, while the international aid group Doctors Without Borders accused Trump of keeping people \"trapped in war zones, directly endangering their lives.\" \n In Iraq, two lawmakers said the Iraqi parliament has approved a \"reciprocity measure\" restricting the entry of Americans into Iraq. \n Trump's order does not address homegrown extremists already in America, a primary concern of federal law enforcement officials. And the list of countries in Trump's order doesn't include Saudi Arabia, where most of the Sept. 11 hijackers were from. \n Trump's take on the weekend turmoil: \"Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage, protesters and the tears of Senator Schumer.\" \n A Delta systems outage Sunday night led to departure delays and cancellations of at least 150 flights. However, the chaos started Saturday as protesters packed some of the country's major airports to demonstrate against the executive order. \n In the face of criticism, Trump says his order is not a \"Muslim ban.\" \n A number of U.S. diplomats prepared a memo criticizing it. \n In a \"dissent cable,\" being drafted for State Department leadership, the diplomats say the ban runs counter to American values and will fuel anti-American sentiment around the world. They say it won't produce a drop in terror attacks in the U.S., but instead \"a drop in international good will toward Americans.\" \n U.S. officials say several hundred diplomats have signed on. \n The dissent cable originated in the State Department's Consular Affairs bureau, which handles visas and whose employees are most directly affected by Trump's order. \n There appeared to be widespread confusion among authorities tasked with carrying out the order and how it would be applied to certain groups, such as U.S. legal permanent residents. \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly issued a statement Sunday saying that, absent information indicating a serious threat to public safety and welfare, citizens of the seven countries who hold permanent U.S. residency \"green cards\" will not be barred as officials had previously said. It remains unclear what kind of additional screening they will face. \n Republican Ohio Sen. Rob Portman urged the new president to \"slow down\" and work with lawmakers on how best to tighten screening. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer said today, \"I think there are some people who might not like the way it was done, but they were all consulted in the process.\" \n A federal judge in New York has issued an emergency order temporarily barring the U.S. from deporting people from the seven nations. The order bars U.S. border agents from removing anyone who arrives in the U.S. with a valid visa from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. It also covers anyone with an approved refugee application. \n The Department of Homeland Security said Sunday the court ruling would not affect overall implementation of the White House order. \n Several Democrats in Congress said they would be introducing legislation to stop the ban. \n Associated Press writers Josh Lederman, Alicia Caldwell and Steve Peoples in Palm Springs, California, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says his order didn't cause weekend airport chaos"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates after she ordered Justice Department lawyers to stop defending refugee ban. \n President Donald Trump fired the nation's acting attorney general as the repercussions from his executive order banning some immigrant travel continue to shake his administration. \n Trump fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates, an Obama administration holdover, after she said in a message to staff today that the president's order was not consistent with the Justice Department's \"solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right.\" She added that, \"I am not convinced that the defense of the Executive Order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the Executive Order is lawful.\" \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said in a statement tonight announcing her dismissal that Yates had \"betrayed the Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States.\" Trump had shot back at Yates's message earlier, saying on Twitter that frustrated Democrats were obstructing his Cabinet picks and that they \"now have an Obama A.G.,\" a reference to Yates. \n The Trump administration named Dana Boente, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to replace Yates as acting attorney general, according to the statement. Also an Obama appointee, Boente's office handled prosecutions including the corruption case against former Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell, a Republican whose conviction was thrown out last year. \n Waiting for confirmation \n As the deputy attorney general under former President Barack Obama, the 56-year-old Yates had been asked to stay on by the Trump team while his nominee for the top Justice Department post, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, moves through the confirmation process. The Judiciary Committee is scheduled to debate and vote on Sessions's candidacy Tuesday. \n The unusual public defiance by Yates, who would have been expected to leave the Justice Department when Sessions is confirmed, was the latest twist in a controversy that has sparked protests at airports across the country and seen many congressional Republicans break from the White House over Trump's move to ban travel by people from seven Muslim-majority nations. Her statement lent the authority of her office to several legal challenges under way against the order across the country. \n \"For as long as I am the acting Attorney General, the Department of Justice will not present arguments in defense of the executive order, unless and until I become convinced that it is appropriate to do so,\" Yates said in her statement, released hours before she was fired. \n 'Politicized' legal system \n Stephen Miller, a White House senior adviser who helped write the Trump administration order, said on MSNBC today evening that Yates's statement was \"a further demonstration of how politicized our legal system has become.\" He said the president has \"the absolute right\" under immigration law to exclude any class of visitors from entering the country. \n \"The president has that authority,\" Miller said. \"It's been delegated by Congress.\" \n Trump's order temporarily barred entry for people from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen and Libya, tripping up people who were already legal residents of the U.S. or visa holders, and suspended refugee immigration programs. \n Controversy also erupted at the State Department last week, where several veteran career officials stepped down as Trump moves to put his stamp on U.S. foreign policy. Other foreign service officers then began circulating a draft of a so-called dissent memo criticizing Trump's immigration executive order after it was issued on Friday. \n Boente was sworn in about 9 p.m., shortly before the firing was announced, said White House spokesman Michael Short. \n \"I am honored to serve President Trump in this role until Senator Sessions is confirmed,\" Boente said in a statement released by the White House. \"I will defend and enforce the laws of our country to ensure that our people and our nation are protected.\" \n Capitol Hill \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly is planning to head to Capitol Hill Tuesday to meet privately with top House and Senate leaders, including Republicans and Democrats from key committees, according to two congressional aides. The exact timing for the meeting is still uncertain, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Speaker Paul Ryan were among those trying to make time to attend, according to aides. \n Others invited to attend are Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer and the top two Democrats in the House, Nancy Pelosi and Steny Hoyer, as well as House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Some committee chairmen and ranking Democrats, including those on the Homeland Security, Judiciary, Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Appropriations panels, are also invited. \n A Republican congressional aide said the House Homeland Security Committee wasn't consulted on the executive order, and an aide to a Republican House Judiciary Committee member said he wasn't aware of any committee members or staffers being consulted. On Sunday, a senior leadership aide said congressional leaders had no role in drafting the order. \n 'Few Problems' \n The administration said the executive order had been carefully crafted and well implemented. Trump, in a tweet, said Kelly \"said that all is going well with very few problems.\" \n But there were many reports of immigrants denied entry at U.S. airports or stuck at airports overseas, and advocacy groups alleged that customs agents were defying court orders to let people into the country. \n \"They understand that this was not handled in the most productive manner,\" Senator Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who's chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters. Corker said he wasn't briefed before the order landed, and said he hopes there's more communication and an inter-agency process next time for something thus far-reaching. \n \"My guess is they're going to try to clean it up,\" Corker said. \n Representative Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania Republican, called for the order to be pulled back. \n 'Overly Rushed' \n \"This was overly broad, overly rushed and implemented in a haphazard manner,\" he said. \n Florida Senator Marco Rubio, who ran against Trump for the Republican nomination, said he had been trying to get more information about the orders but that State Department officials told his staff that they had been ordered not to talk to Congress. \n \"There is no doubt\" that multiple committees will be asking administration officials to explain the policy, he said. \n House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen, whose control over all legislation spending federal money makes him a key figure in Congress, warned of a potential investigation of the disruption in enacting the order. \n \"This weekend's confusion is an indication that the details of this executive order were not properly scrutinized,\" the New Jersey Republican said in a statement. \"Congress has important oversight responsibilities over all executive orders, which we intend to exercise.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Trump fires acting Attorney General who defied immigration ban"}

{"date": "January 30, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Delta passengers waited in line at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport after Delta Air Lines grounded all domestic flights due to automation issues, Sunday, in Atlanta. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Delta passenger sat on the floor while waiting in line at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport after Delta Air Lines grounded all domestic flights due to automation issues, Sunday, in Atlanta. \n DALLAS >> Delta Air Lines, recovering from a weekend technology outage, canceled more flights today but said that the issue has been resolved. \n By early today, 110 flights had been canceled and the airline said more may follow. Delta canceled about 170 flights Sunday night after the outage prevented some departures. \n President Donald Trump blamed Delta for weekend problems at many airports, where large protests were held to oppose his executive order that temporarily banned travel to the U.S. by refugees and citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries. Federal judges blocked part of the order. \n Trump tweeted early this morning that only 109 people were detained for questioning under the order, out of 325,000 coming to the U.S. \n \"Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage,\" he tweeted. \n Delta officials did not immediately comment on the president's tweet. \n Just two weeks ago, Delta CEO Ed Bastian was celebrating the new Trump administration, saying that he was \"very excited\" about the possibility that the new administration might invest in upgrading airport facilities, reduce taxes and cut regulations. \n Bastian also expressed hope that Trump might give a new airing to complaints by Delta, American Airlines and United Airlines that Middle Eastern competitors receive unfair government subsidies. \n Bastian apologized Sunday evening on the company's website to customers affected by the \"frustrating situation.\" \n Delta offered to let passengers booked on flights today to delay travel plans for a few days without incurring the usual fee \u2014 $200 for domestic flights \u2014 for changing a ticket. The airline also declined to carry unaccompanied minors until midday while it recovered from the outage. \n In August, Delta suffered a computer breakdown after a power outage in its operations center. The airline canceled more than 2,000 flights over three days and said the outage cost it $100 million. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Delta operations recovering; Trump blames airline for delays"}

