{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2005 \n Martin McGuinness, an IRA and Sinn Fein leader who became a minister of peacetime Northern Ireland, has died, according to U.K. media. \n LONDON >> Martin McGuinness, the Irish Republican Army commander who led his underground paramilitary movement toward reconciliation with Britain, died Tuesday, his Sinn Fein party announced. \n Turning from rebel to peacemaker, McGuinness served as Northern Ireland's deputy first minister for a decade in a power-sharing government. \n The party said he died following a short illness. \n McGuinness suffered from amyloidosis, a rare disease with a strain specific to Ireland's northwest. The chemotherapy required to combat the formation of organ-choking protein deposits quickly sapped him of strength and forced him to start missing government appointments. \n \"Throughout his life Martin showed great determination, dignity and humility and it was no different during his short illness,\" Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said. \n \"He was a passionate republican who worked tirelessly for peace and reconciliation and for the re-unification of his country. But above all he loved his family and the people of Derry and he was immensely proud of both.\" \n Irish President Michael D. Higgins said: \"The world of politics and the people across this island will miss the leadership he gave, shown most clearly during the difficult times of the peace process, and his commitment to the values of genuine democracy that he demonstrated in the development of the institutions in Northern Ireland.\" \n McGuinness' transformation as peacemaker was all the more remarkable because, as a senior IRA commander during the years of gravest Catholic-Protestant violence, he insisted that Northern Ireland must be forced out of the United Kingdom against the wishes of Protestants. \n Even after the Sinn Fein party \u2014 the IRA's legal, public face \u2014 started to run for elections in the 1980s, McGuinness insisted as Sinn Fein deputy leader that \"armed struggle\" remained essential. \n \"We don't believe that winning elections and any amount of votes will bring freedom in Ireland,\" he told a BBC documentary team in 1986. \"At the end of the day, it will be the cutting edge of the IRA that will bring freedom.\" \n Yet within a few years of making that stubborn vow, McGuinness was exploring the opposite option in covert contacts with British intelligence that led eventually to a truce, inter-party talks and the installation of the IRA icon in the heart of Northern Ireland's government. \n Irish Times columnist Fintan O'Toole argued in January 2017 that McGuinness had been \"a mass killer \u2014 during his period of membership and leadership the IRA killed 1,781 people, including 644 civilians \u2014 whose personal amiability has been essential to the peace process. If he were not a ruthless and unrepentant exponent of violence, he would never have become such a key figure in bringing violence to an end.\" \n Unlike his close ally Adams, McGuinness never hid the fact that he had been a commander of the IRA \u2014 classed as a terrorist organization by the British, Irish and U.S. governments. Nor could he. \n Born May 23, 1950, he joined the breakaway Provisional IRA faction in his native Londonderry \u2014 simply Derry to Irish nationalists \u2014 after dropping out of high school and working as an apprentice butcher in the late 1960s. At the time, the Catholic civil rights movement faced increasing conflict with the province's Protestant government and police. \n He rose to become Derry's deputy IRA commander by age 21 as \"Provo\" bombs systematically wrecked the city center. Soldiers found it impossible to pass IRA road barricades erected in McGuinness' nearby Bogside power base. \n McGuinness appeared unmasked at early Provisional IRA press conferences. The BBC filmed him walking through the Bogside discussing how the IRA command structure worked and stressing his concern to minimize civilian casualties, an early sign of public relations savvy. \n In 1972, Northern Ireland's bloodiest year, McGuinness joined Adams in a six-man IRA delegation flown by the British government to London for secret face-to-face negotiations during a brief truce. Those talks got nowhere and McGuinness went back on the run until his arrest on New Year's Eve in the Republic of Ireland near a car loaded with 250 pounds (110 kilograms) of explosives and 4,750 rounds of ammunition. \n During one of his two Dublin trials for IRA membership, McGuinness declared from the dock he was \"a member of the Derry Brigade of the IRA and I'm very, very proud of it.\" \n Historians and security analysts agree that McGuinness was promoted to the IRA's ruling army council following his November 1974 parole from prison and would have overseen many of the group's most spectacular and divisive attacks. These included bomb attacks on London tourist spots and the use of \"human bombs\" \u2014 civilian employees like cooks and cleaners at British security installations \u2014 who were forced to drive car bombs to their places of work and were detonated by remote control before they could raise the alarm. \n His central role in the IRA command was underscored when Britain in 1990 opened secret dialogue with the underground group in hopes of securing a cease-fire. An MI6 agent codenamed \"The Mountain Climber\" met McGuinness several times as part of wider diplomatic efforts that delivered a 1994 IRA truce and, ultimately, multi-party negotiations on Northern Ireland's future and the U.S.-brokered Good Friday peace accord of 1998. \n Northern Ireland's first power-sharing government, formed in 1999, was led by moderates and afforded only minor roles for Sinn Fein and the most uncompromising Protestant party, Paisley's Democratic Unionists. When Sinn Fein nominated McGuinness to be education minister, many Protestant lawmakers recoiled and insisted they would never accept what one called \"an IRA godfather\" overseeing their children's education. \n That first coalition collapsed under the twin weight of Paisley-led obstruction and the IRA's refusal to disarm as the Good Friday pact intended. McGuinness served as the lead liaison with disarmament officials. \n After election results vaulted the Democratic Unionists and Sinn Fein to the top of their communities for the first time, pressure mounted on the IRA to surrender its stockpiled arsenal. This happened in 2005, paving the way for Paisley to bury the hatchet with the group he called \"the Sinners.\" \n No observer could have foreseen what happened next: a genuine friendship between First Minister Paisley and Deputy First Minister McGuinness. Belfast wits dubbed them \"The Chuckle Brothers\" because of their public warmth, an image that quickly eroded Protestant support for Paisley and forced him out as Democratic Unionist chief within the year. \n McGuinness maintained more businesslike relations with Paisley's frosty successor, Peter Robinson. Together they met Queen Elizabeth II for a historic 2012 handshake in Belfast and were guests of honor at Windsor Castle two years later. All the while, McGuinness expressed newfound support for the police as they faced attacks from IRA splinter groups \u2014 a U-turn that exposed McGuinness and his relatives to death threats in their Derry home. \n His relations with the newest Democratic Unionist Party leader, Arlene Foster, turned sour with surprising speed. When Foster rebuffed Sinn Fein's demands to step aside, McGuinness resigned in January, toppling power-sharing in the process. \n \"Over the last 10 years I have worked with DUP leaders and reached out to unionists on the basis of equality, respect and reconciliation. Today is the right time to call a halt to the DUP's arrogance,\" a frail, weak-voiced McGuinness said as he resigned as deputy first minister. \n Foster said Tuesday that \"his contribution helped build the relative peace we now enjoy.\" \n \"While our differing backgrounds and life experiences inevitably meant there was much to separate us, we shared a deep desire to see the devolved institutions working to achieve positive results for everyone,\" she said. \n But British lawmaker Nadine Dories spoke for those who cannot forgive. \n \"I hope God forgives this man and grants him a place in heaven \u2014 however, it will be hard for many to shed tears upon hearing this news,\" she said in a Tweet. \n McGuinness is survived by his wife, Bernadette, two daughters and two sons. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Martin McGuinness, Irish rebel turned politician, dies at 66"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "Maui police were seeking the public's help in identifying two suspects in a robbery and kidnapping at gunpoint of two tourists last week. \n Police said the visitors were approached at Nakalele Point at about 6:50 p.m. Wednesday by an unknown man and woman wearing masks. The man brandished firearms and robbed the couple. \n The suspects then took the couple to several locations where they ordered them to purchase items. \n The female suspect entered one location, police said. \n Police released surveillance video today showing the female suspect, who has a tattoo of unknown lettering on her front right thigh and long black hair. \n Police described the woman as in her 20s, about 5 feet 5 inches tall, 120 to 130 pounds, with long hair and brown eyes. The man was described as in his 30s, about 5 feet 10 inches tall, about 180 pounds, with short black hair. \n Police warned the public not to approach or follow the suspects. Anyone with information is asked to call Maui police at 244-6400. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Video shows suspect in kidnapping of Maui tourists"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Penn State president Graham Spanier walked to the Dauphin County Courthouse in Harrisburg, Pa., today. \n HARRISBURG, Pa. >> Two former Penn State officials who struck plea deals with prosecutors are expected to testify against ex-university president Graham Spanier at a child endangerment trial linked to the Jerry Sandusky scandal. \n Prosecutors picking jurors today in Spanier's trial said former vice president Gary Schultz and former athletic director Tim Curley are on their witness list. \n Spanier was forced out shortly after Sandusky, a longtime assistant football coach, was charged with child molestation in 2011. Spanier is charged with putting children at risk by mishandling child sex abuse complaints about Sandusky. He denies any wrongdoing. \n The government witness list also names police investigators and university staff who knew about earlier complaints about Sandusky. That list includes Mike McQueary, a graduate assistant coach who reported seeing Sandusky shower with a boy in 2001. \n Seven women and five men were picked for the jury today after potential jurors were questioned behind closed doors, presumably as they addressed questions about sexual abuse and other sensitive topics. Opening statements are expected late Tuesday morning after four alternates are selected. \n Spanier declined to comment as he entered the Harrisburg courthouse for a trial that could last a week or more. \n Spanier, 68, is accused of two counts of endangering the welfare of children and a single conspiracy charge, all felonies. Schultz and Curley pleaded guilty last week to a single misdemeanor count of child endangerment, and await sentencing. \n The charges stem from their handling of the 2001 report that Sandusky had apparently molested a boy in a team shower. Prosecutors say their failure to report that to authorities allowed Sandusky to continue to abuse boys and also endangered others. \n Sandusky was not arrested until 2011, after prosecutors got an anonymous tip about the shower incident. Sandusky was convicted in 2012 of sexually abusing 10 boys and is serving 30 to 60 years in prison. \n Shortly after Sandusky's arrest, Hall of Fame coach Joe Paterno was fired over his handling of the matter. He had been the first school official to hear McQueary's account of the shower incident. \n One of the winningest coaches in college football history, Paterno died of lung cancer a few months later at the age of 85. He was never charged with a crime. \n Spanier has said that Curley and Schultz characterized the incident in the shower as horseplay and not any form of child abuse. \n A report commissioned by the university and conducted by a team led by former FBI Director Louis Freeh concluded that Paterno and the three others hushed up the allegations against Sandusky for fear of bad publicity. \n McQueary testified on several occasions about how he went to Paterno a day after the shower encounter to discuss what he had seen. Paterno notified Curley and Schultz, and McQueary met with both of them about a week later. In his 2011 grand jury testimony, Paterno said he was told by McQueary the encounter involved \"fondling\" and was of \"a sexual nature\" but wasn't quite sure what the act was. \n The administrators told Sandusky he could not bring children onto campus anymore, but they had no plan to enforce that rule, prosecutors said. \n A key piece of evidence is likely to be an email exchange the Freeh team obtained in which the three high-ranking officials debated how they should handle the 2001 shower incident. Spanier gave his approval to having Curley tell Sandusky to get professional help or face a report to the state's child welfare agency. \n \"The only downside for us is if the message isn't 'heard' and acted upon, and we then become vulnerable for not having reported it,\" Spanier replied. He called the plan \"humane and a reasonable way to proceed.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 ex-officials set to testify against ex-Penn State leader"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n An image of a suspect in a bank robbery today at the Ala Moana branch of American Savings Bank today. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Police released this image of a man who robbed the Ala Moana branch of American Savings Bank today. \n A man robbed the Ala Moana branch of American Savings Bank today. \n Police said the man entered the bank at 1450 Ala Moana Boulevard, approached the teller, demanded money, and warned that he had a weapon. No weapon was seen. \n He fled on foot, police said. \n He is described as 40 to 50, 5 feet 8 inches to 10 inches tall, with black hair, brown eyes and wearing a white dress shirt and black pants. \n Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or dial *CRIME from a cellular phone. The public may also send anonymous tips to www.honolulucrimestoppers.org. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek Ala Moana Center bank robber"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n HPD's Specialized Services Division's bomb unit arrived at Pohaku Street on Sunday after a report of explosive devices found in an apartment building. \n Officers confiscated more than three dozen pipe bombs and several grenades from a Kalihi apartment and have submitted them for analysis, the Honolulu Police Department said Monday. \n The items \"appeared operational,\" the department said by email. \n SWAT's Bomb Squad arrived around 2:30 p.m. and evacuated the building until about 7:30 p.m. \n HPD said it receives two or three calls every month about possible explosive devices, often when people are cleaning out the home or garage of a family member. The department advises anyone who finds a suspicious device to leave the area immediately and call 911. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Dozens of pipe bombs recovered during Kalihi evacuation"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "The Honolulu Medical Examiner's office said today a 6-year-old Kalihi girl who died over the weekend after becoming unresponsive in Makaha had drowned. \n An autopsy today confirmed the cause of death for Rema Esteras and ruled it accidental, the office said. \n Police said Esteras became unresponsive while swimming in Makaha at about 4:15 p.m. Saturday and later died. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi child's death caused by accidental drowning"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May and First Minister of Wales Carwyn Jones, left, attended a bilateral meeting at the Liberty Stadium in Swansea, Wales, today. \n LONDON >> Britain's government will begin the process of leaving the European Union on March 29, starting the clock on the two years in which to complete the most important negotiation for a generation. \n Britain's ambassador to the 28-nation EU, Tim Barrow, informed the European Council President Donald Tusk of the timing today, the Department for Exiting the European Union said. \n The notification of triggering Article 50 of a key EU treaty will come in the form of a letter delivered to Tusk \u2014 though it was unclear whether it would come through an actual letter or an electronic missive. \n \"We are on the threshold of the most important negotiation for this country for a generation,\" Brexit secretary David Davis said. \"The government is clear in its aims: a deal that works for every nation and region of the UK and indeed for all of Europe \u2014 a new, positive partnership between the U.K. and our friends and allies in the European Union.\" \n The 10 Downing Street office of Prime Minister Theresa May said that she will make a statement in the House of Commons on the day Article 50 is triggered. The announcement came after May pushed through legislation to start the negotiations to start withdrawal \u2014 a process set in motion by voters in a June 23 referendum. \n The European Commission said it stood ready to help launch the negotiations. \n \"Everything is ready on this side,\" commission spokesman Margaritis Schinas said. \n The letter May sends next week will plunge Britain into a period of intense uncertainty. The country doesn't know what its future relationship with the bloc will look like \u2014 whether businesses will freely be able to trade, students can study abroad or pensioners will be allowed to retire with ease in other EU states. Those things have become part of life since the U.K. joined what was then called the European Economic Community in 1973. \n It's not even certain the United Kingdom will survive the exit intact. Scotland's nationalist first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, is seeking a referendum on independence within two years. Scottish voters backed remaining in the EU, and Sturgeons said Scotland mustn't be \"taken down a path that we do not want to go down without a choice.\" \n The trigger for all this tumult is the innocuous-sounding Article 50 of the EU's Lisbon Treaty, a never-before-used mechanism for withdrawing from the bloc. It stipulates that the two sides now have until March 2019 to agree on a divorce settlement and \u2014 if possible \u2014 establish a new relationship between Britain, the world's No. 5 economy, and the EU, a vast single market containing 500 million people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Britain to formally trigger process to leave EU on March 29"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Oklahoma Senate has voted to punish Sen. Ralph Shortey, who police say was found with a teenage boy in a motel room. \n OKLAHOMA CITY >> A Republican state senator facing felony child prostitution charges after police say he solicited sex from a 17-year-old boy plans to resign from his seat, his attorney said late today. \n Attorney Ed Blau said he'd recently been retained by Sen. Ralph Shortey and that it was premature to comment on the charges until he had more time to discuss the case with his client. \n \"Other than the probable cause affidavit that was released publicly, I haven't seen a single police report or talked to a single witness,\" Blau said. \n Blau said he expects a not-guilty plea will be entered on Shortey's behalf when he makes his initial appearance in court later this week. The attorney also said Shortey intends to resign by Wednesday evening. \n Meanwhile, the FBI and U.S. Secret Service in Oklahoma City both confirmed today they have joined the investigation into Shortey. \n The FBI conducted a search on Friday of Shortey's Oklahoma City home, FBI spokeswoman Jessica Rice confirmed. \n \"Unfortunately I cannot provide any more details as this is a sensitive ongoing investigation,\" Rice said. \n The U.S. Secret Service also is assisting in the investigation at the request of the Moore Police Department, said Ken Valentine, special agent in charge of the agency's Oklahoma City office. \n \"Where we have expertise, be it in cyber or electronics, that we can assist them with, then we do,\" Valentine said. \n No federal charges have been filed against Shortey. \n State prosecutors charged Shortey last week with engaging in child prostitution, transporting a minor for prostitution and engaging in prostitution within 1,000 feet of a church. He was released on a $100,000 bond. \n The state Senate last week voted on a resolution to strip Shortey of most of his power, including his ability to serve on Senate committees and author bills. The Senate also took away his office, executive assistant and parking space. \n Several Republican leaders have called for Shortey to resign, including Gov. Mary Fallin. \n But senators have not voted to expel Shortey, which would take a two-thirds vote, so he will continue to draw his $38,400 annual salary. Shortey also will likely be eligible to collect his state retirement, even if he is convicted of the charges. \n Joseph Fox, executive director of the Oklahoma Public Employees Retirement System, said Shortey became vested in the state's retirement system last year after serving six years in the Oklahoma Senate. \n Oklahoma law allows for the forfeiture of retirement benefits only if the felony conviction is for bribery, corruption, forgery, perjury or a felony related to campaign finance or the duties of office. \n If Shortey contributed the maximum amount to his retirement, he would be eligible to collect $9,216 annually after he turns 60, according to state retirement calculations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Attorney says senator facing child prostitution charges will resign"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron speaks to announce his resignation outside 10 Downing Street, London. The former British Prime joked on Monday, March 20, 2017, that he doesn't have to listen to President Donald Trump's wiretapped conversations anymore during a speech at Brown University. \n PROVIDENCE, R.I. >> Former British Prime Minister David Cameron jokes he doesn't have to listen to U.S. President Donald Trump's wiretapped conversations anymore. \n Cameron resigned last year after failing to persuade Britons to remain in the European Union in a June referendum. Britain announced Monday it formally begins its exit March 29. \n Cameron said not having to hear Trump's wiretaps is an advantage of leaving office, then dead-panned: \"Just to be clear, that's a joke.\" \n His quip referenced unsubstantiated White House suggestions British intelligence helped Democratic former President Barack Obama spy on the Republican Trump. \n The FBI's director has knocked down Trump's wiretapping claim. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cameron jokes he doesn't have to hear Trump wiretaps anymore"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump pauses while speaking at a rally at the Kentucky Exposition Center in Louisville, Ky. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is deploying an outside and inside strategy to fulfill his campaign promise to repeal and replace \"Obamacare,\" seeking support beyond Washington before making an in-person pitch on Capitol Hill. \n Trump rallied supporters Monday night in Louisville, Kentucky, alongside Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., after meetings and phone calls in Washington aimed at steadying the troubled legislation designed to erase President Barack Obama's signature health care law. He planned to court House Republicans on Tuesday. \n \"We want a very big tax cut, but cannot do that until we keep our promise to repeal and replace the disaster known as 'Obamacare,'\" Trump told the crowd of thousands in Louisville. \"This is our long-awaited chance to finally get rid of 'Obamacare.' It's a long-awaited chance. We're going to do it,\" he said. \n At the White House on Monday, the president met with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel, an architect of Obama's health care law and the brother of Obama's White House chief of staff, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel. \n Trump was resuming his campaign-style events at the start of a consequential week for his young presidency. Confirmation hearings for his nominee for the Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch, opened Monday before the Senate Judiciary Committee. The House was expected to vote Thursday on the GOP-backed health care bill. \n Trump's Louisville rally, his third since his inauguration, followed a daylong congressional hearing in which FBI Director James Comey acknowledged for the first time that the agency was investigating whether Trump's campaign colluded with Russian officials seeking to influence the 2016 campaign. \n Trump's aides and congressional Republicans spent the weekend trying to woo conservatives and moderate House members who have questioned the health care plan. Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the House's No. 3 Republican and the leader responsible for rounding up votes, wrote Sunday night to his whip team that the \"next few days could define us for years to come.\" \n \"There's no such thing as 'perfect.' Each of us has our own ideal plan, but if we want to advance our principles and fulfill our promises, this bold approach achieves our objectives,\" Scalise wrote. \n Many hard-line conservatives have pushed for a more complete repeal of Obama's law, including its requirement that policies cover a long list of services, which they say drives up premiums. They also complain that the GOP bill's tax credits create an overly generous benefit the federal government cannot afford. \n Moderate Republicans, meanwhile, have said the tax credits are too limited and would hurt low earners and older patients. They also worry the plan would leave too many people uninsured, pointing to a nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis that estimated 24 million people would lose coverage over 10 years. \n Republican leaders were working on several revisions to the bill that would be considered ahead of the floor vote. \n The White House and House Republicans have agreed that the bill will be amended to let states impose work requirements on some healthy Medicaid recipients. States will also be allowed to alter the entire federal-state program for poorer people so states would receive a lump sum federal payment to cover some costs \u2014 not an amount that's pegged to the number of beneficiaries in the state, as the current bill provides. \n On Sunday, Ryan said the bill will also be changed to provide more assistance to older people. A CBO report said many older people would receive less aid under the bill than under current law \u2014 a major concern to many wavering lawmakers. \n The White House was trying to win over conservatives who are part of the House Freedom Caucus, including the group's chairman, Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C. Meadows joined two Senate conservatives, Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, for a weekend meeting at Trump's Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago, with top White House aide Steve Bannon and other White House officials. \n But several Republicans continue to criticize the bill. Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich., wrote on Twitter on Monday that he couldn't recall a more \"universally detested piece of legislation\" than the GOP's health care bill. He wrote that fellow Freedom Caucus members had suggested several changes but had been rebuffed. \n The rally Monday night was the Trump administration's second high-profile event in Kentucky in 10 days and took the president to the home state of one of the most outspoken critics of the plan, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. Vice President Mike Pence was in Louisville earlier this month to build support for the Trump-backed bill. \n Paul said Monday to a group of Louisville business leaders that he hoped the Republican bill would fail so that \"true negotiations\" could begin. The senator, who was re-elected last year, has dismissed it as \"Obamacare lite\" and asserted that the bill had no chance of becoming law. \n Paul was not attending the rally, saying he planned to fly back to Washington to continue building a coalition to defeat the plan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump going outside Washington for support on health bill"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Robert Kyncl, YouTube Chief Business Officer, speaks as YouTube unveils \"YouTube Red,\" a new subscription service, at YouTube Space LA offices in Los Angeles. YouTube explained why some gay-themed content was restricted for certain users in a tweet on March 19, 2017. \n NEW YORK >> The YouTube video shows two women, dressed in suits and ties. They smile; they sniffle back tears; they gaze into each other's eyes. They are reading their wedding vows to one another. \n The four-minute video titled \"Her Vows\" contains no nudity, violence or swearing. There's no revealing clothing. No one is engaging in activities that have a \"high risk of injury or death.\" And yet, YouTube had deemed the video unsuitable for people under 18. \n YouTube acknowledged Monday that it might have made a mistake, saying in a tweet, \"Some videos have been incorrectly labeled and that's not right. We're on it! More to come.\" The restriction on the vows video was lifted by Monday afternoon. But others \u2014 including one from YouTube celebrity Tyler Oakley titled \"8 Black LGBTQ+ Trailblazers Who Inspire Me\" \u2014 remained on YouTube's age-restricted list. \n Several YouTube users, many of them have in the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, have been complaining that their videos are categorized as \"restricted\" for no obvious reasons. \n The \"restricted\" designation lets parents, schools and libraries filter out content that isn't appropriate for users under 18. Turning on the restriction makes videos inaccessible. YouTube calls it \"an optional feature used by a very small subset of users.\" \n It's unclear whether the types of videos in question are now being categorized as \"restricted\" for the first time, or whether this is a long-standing policy that is only now getting attention. More likely, it is the latter. \n U.K.-based YouTube creator Rowan Ellis made a video criticizing the restrictions last week. This video itself was restricted, though YouTube has since reclassified that video as OK. In an email, Ellis said YouTube needs to reach out to the LGBTQ community to explain \"how this system works, and how it came to flag like this, if it was indeed an error and not a deliberate targeting.\" \n Companies like Google, Facebook and Twitter rely on humans and computer software to weed out unsuitable content. Mistakes can happen whether it's a person or a machine. \n This is not the first time, and probably not the last, that an internet company is mired in controversy about what types of content it restricts. Facebook has faced similar complaints, for example, with its removal \u2014 and later, reinstatement \u2014 of a Pulitzer Prize-winning photo of a naked, screaming girl running from a napalm attack in Vietnam. \n The latest complaints spawned the hashtag #YouTubeIsOverParty over the weekend. \n YouTube said in a tweet Sunday that LGBTQ videos aren't automatically filtered out, though some discussing \"more sensitive issues\" might be restricted. But the company, which is owned by Google, did not specify what it counts as \"more sensitive issues.\" \n In an emailed statement on Monday, YouTube said \"some videos that cover subjects like health, politics and sexuality may not appear for users and institutions that choose to use this feature.\" In the case of LGBT topics, which are by definition intertwined with health, politics and sexuality, filtering out what is and isn't appropriate can be difficult. \n YouTube followed that statement with another hours later: \"We recognize that some videos are incorrectly labeled by our automated system and we realize it's very important to get this right. We're working hard to make some improvements.\" The statement offered no further explanation. \n YouTube content creators can decide to age-restrict their videos themselves. But that's just one of the ways sensitive content is filtered out. YouTube says it also uses \"community flagging,\" which means users who have a problem with content in a video can flag it to YouTube for possible restrictions or removal. \n But just because something is flagged, it is not automatically removed. Once a video is flagged, YouTube says it reviews it. \n \"If no violations are found by our review team, no amount of flagging will change that and the video will remain on our site,\" YouTube says in its online support page. \n What sorts of content gets filtered out in restricted mode can vary by region, based on countries' varying community standards. In general, though, it includes \"sexually explicit language or excessive profanity,\" or violence or disturbing content, according to YouTube's policies. \n YouTube's rules also state that videos \"containing nudity or dramatized sexual conduct may be age-restricted when the context is appropriately educational, documentary, scientific or artistic. Videos featuring individuals in minimal or revealing clothing may also be age-restricted if they're intended to be sexually provocative, but don't show explicit content.\" \n Videos that show adults engaging in \"activities that have a high risk of injury or death\" may also be age-restricted. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "YouTube reverses some restrictions on gay-themed content"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ivanka Trump is working out of a West Wing office and will get access to classified information, though she is not technically serving as a government employee, according to an attorney for the first daughter. \n WASHINGTON >> Cementing her role as a powerful White House influence, Ivanka Trump is working out of a West Wing office and will get access to classified information, though she is not technically serving as a government employee, according to an attorney for the first daughter. \n Since President Donald Trump took office, his eldest daughter has been a visible presence in the White House, where her husband, Jared Kushner, already serves as a senior adviser. On Friday, she participated in a meeting on vocational training with the president and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. \n Jamie Gorelick, an attorney and ethics adviser for Ivanka Trump, said Monday that the first daughter will not have an official title, but will get a West Wing office, government-issued communications devices and security clearance to access classified information. Gorelick said Ivanka Trump would follow the ethics rules that apply to government employees. \n \"Our view is that the conservative approach is for Ivanka to voluntarily comply with the rules that would apply if she were a government employee, even though she is not,\" said Gorelick, who also helped Kushner with the legal strategy that led to his White House appointment. \"The White House Counsel's Office agrees with that approach.\" \n Ivanka Trump's role has already come under scrutiny because there is little precedent for a member of the first family with this kind of influence. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n A person with knowledge of Ivanka Trump's thinking, who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations, said she believes she can offer more independent perspective to her father by not serving as a White House staffer. \n A popular surrogate for her father on the campaign trail, Ivanka Trump moved her young family to Washington at the start of the administration and signaled plans to work on economic issues, like maternity leave and child care. In a statement, she said: \"I will continue to offer my father my candid advice and counsel, as I have for my entire life.\" \n Federal anti-nepotism laws prevent relatives from being appointed to government positions. But the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel recently said the president's \"special hiring authority\" allowed him to appoint Kushner to the West Wing staff. Gorelick noted the office also made clear that the president could consult family members as private citizens, arguing that this is what Ivanka Trump will be doing. \n The first daughter has sought to distance herself from the Trump Organization and her lifestyle brand, which offers shoes, clothing and jewelry. She has removed herself from executive roles and will have a more hands-off approach to the brand \u2014 though she will still get certain information and will have the power to veto new deals if they raise ethical red flags. \n Richard Painter, a University of Minnesota law professor who served as President George W. Bush's chief White House lawyer on ethics, said that Ivanka Trump is effectively working as a White House employee. He said that \"means that she, like her husband, has to follow the rules. It's not a huge deal if she stays out of things that affect her financial interests.\" \n Painter said that means Trump should avoid anything to do with foreign trade with countries where her products are made, as well as recuse herself from real estate matters, given Kushner's family real estate business. \n Trump says she will follow ethics rules and some of her financial information will be included in Kushner's official disclosures. She would have to disclose additional financial information if she were in a senior White House role, said Painter. That could include more details about her lifestyle brand, including her contracts and income. \n Attorney Andrew Herman, who has advised lawmakers on ethics issues, said he thought the administration should make her role official. He said: \"I think the right way to do that is to make her a special government employee. But that implicates all kind of formal and disclosure issues.\" \n Ivanka Trump continues to own her brand. But she has handed daily management to the company president and has set up a trust to provide further oversight. The business cannot make deals with any foreign state, and the trustees will confer with Gorelick over any new agreements. Ivanka Trump will also be able to veto proposed new transactions. \n Ivanka Trump has also barred the business from using her image to promote the products in advertising or marketing. \n To be sure, the trustees are in the family \u2014 her husband's siblings Joshua Kushner and Nicole Meyer. But Gorelick said the goal of the trust wasn't to shield Trump from everything, but to remove her from the day-to-day operations. She also acknowledged that the arrangement did not eliminate conflicts, but she said Trump is trying to minimize them and will recuse herself from any administration decision-making that affects her business. \n With the Trump Organization, Ivanka Trump has stepped down from a leadership role and will receive fixed payments rather than a share of the profits. \n Ivanka Trump has also written a book, \"Women Who Work,\" that will be released in May. The proceeds and royalties will be donated to charity, Gorelick said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "First daughter Ivanka Trump gets West Wing office"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Royal Jordanian Airlines is advising passengers that laptops, iPads, cameras and other electronics won't be allowed in carry-on luggage for U.S.-bound flights starting Tuesday, March 21, 2017. \n WASHINGTON >> The U.S. government is temporarily barring passengers on certain flights originating in eight other countries from bringing laptops, iPads, cameras and most other electronics in carry-on luggage starting tomorrow. \n The reason for the ban was not immediately clear. U.S. security officials would not comment. The ban was revealed today in statements from Royal Jordanian Airlines and the official news agency of Saudi Arabia. \n A U.S. official told The Associated Press the ban will apply to nonstop flights to the U.S. from 10 international airports serving the cities of Cairo in Egypt; Amman in Jordan; Kuwait City in Kuwait; Casablanca in Morocco; Doha in Qatar; Riyadh and Jeddah in Saudi Arabia; Istanbul in Turkey; and Abu Dhabi and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. The ban was indefinite, said the official. \n A second U.S. official said the ban will affect nine airlines in total, and the Transportation Security Administration will inform the affected airlines at 3 a.m. Eastern time tomorrow. \n The officials were not authorized to disclose the details of the ban ahead of a public announcement and spoke on the condition of anonymity. \n Royal Jordanian said cellphones and medical devices were excluded from the ban. Everything else, the airline said, would need to be packed in checked luggage. Royal Jordanian said the electronics ban affects its flights to New York, Chicago, Detroit and Montreal. \n David Lapan, a spokesman for Homeland Security Department, declined to comment. The Transportation Security Administration, part of Homeland Security, also declined to comment. \n A U.S. government official said such a ban has been considered for several weeks. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to disclose the internal security discussions by the federal government. \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly phoned lawmakers over the weekend to brief them on aviation security issues that have prompted the impending electronics ban, according a congressional aide briefed on the discussion. The aide was not authorized to speak publicly about the issue and spoke on the condition of anonymity. \n The ban would begin just before Wednesday's meeting of the U.S.-led coalition against the Islamic State group in Washington. A number of top Arab officials were expected to attend the State Department gathering. It was unclear whether their travel plans were related to any increased worry about security threats. \n Brian Jenkins, an aviation-security expert at the Rand Corp., said the nature of the security measure suggested that it was driven by intelligence of a possible attack. He added that there could be concern about inadequate passenger screening or even conspiracies involving insiders \u2014 airport or airline employees \u2014 in some countries. \n Another aviation-security expert, professor Jeffrey Price of Metropolitan State University of Denver, said there were disadvantages to having everyone put their electronics in checked baggage. Thefts from baggage would skyrocket, as when Britain tried a similar ban in 2006, he said, and some laptops have batteries that can catch fire \u2014 an event easier to detect in the cabin than in the cargo hold. \n Most major airports in the United States have a computer tomography or CT scanner for checked baggage, which creates a detailed picture of a bag's contents. They can warn an operator of potentially dangerous material, and may provide better security than the X-ray machines used to screen passengers and their carry-on bags. All checked baggage must be screened for explosives. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ban aimed at electronics in cabins of some U.S.-bound flights"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers, right, prepare to testify on Capitol Hill today before the House Intelligence Committee hearing on allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. \n WASHINGTON >> FBI Director James Comey's testimony today that the bureau has been quietly investigating possible links between associates of President Donald Trump and Russian officials since the summer enraged Democrats who already blame him for rattling the 2016 campaign's closing days. \n For the first time, Comey confirmed that the FBI had opened a probe into the Trump campaign in July, the same month he called an unusual news conference to announce the agency had finished its investigation into whether Hillary Clinton mishandled classified information \u2014 and three months before he scrambled the White House race a second time by announcing that the Clinton probe was continuing just days before the election. \n The revelation drew the ire of Clinton supporters who called out an apparent double-standard and a breach of bureau norms that caused their nominee's surprising defeat. \n Clinton's former press secretary, Brian Fallon, bitterly noted that \"Comey at least waited until after the election to confirm there was an investigation related to Trump's campaign.\" \n \"In Hillary Clinton's case, the FBI confirmed the fact of an investigation into her emails during the heart of the campaign, creating a damaging cloud even though the probe never produced charges of any kind,\" Fallon said in an email today. \"It is fair to ask why Jim Comey confirmed one investigation prior to the election, but not the other.\" \n The FBI and Justice Department do not ordinarily discuss open investigations. But Comey said that he has been authorized to do so, given the extreme public interest in the Trump-Russia case. \n \"As you know, our practice is not to confirm the existence of ongoing investigations, especially those investigations that involve classified matters, but in unusual circumstances where it is in the public interest, it may be appropriate to do so as Justice Department policies recognize. This is one of those circumstances,\" Comey told the House intelligence committee. \n Comey's televised news conference in July to discuss the results of the bureau's investigation into Hillary Clinton's email use came only after the FBI was recommending that it be closed without criminal charges. It was a rare display of openness; normally the FBI would privately relay that information to Justice Department prosecutors. Comey said intense public interest in the case warranted the rare candor. \n Later, Comey testified about the case before Congress, promising to come forward if investigators uncovered new information that caused them to reopen their probe into Clinton's emails. Given that testimony under oath, Comey said he felt obligated to tell Congress just weeks before the election that new emails had prompted investigators to take another look at whether classified information had been mishandled. \n Comey sent the October 28 letter to Congress over the warnings of Justice Department officials that doing so would be inconsistent with department policy meant to avoid the appearance of prosecutorial interference or meddling in elections. \n Investigators found emails on the laptop of Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. In a second letter dated November 5, Comey said the new material did not change the FBI's decision to not recommend charges against Clinton \u2014 but Democrats believe that re-airing the scandal days before most voters went to the polling booths hurt their candidate. \n \"Doing some jobs right requires being in the news every day, becoming a household name, enraging everyone,\" tweeted longtime Clinton aide Philippe Reines today. \"FBI Director isn't one of them.\" \n The congressional hearings were the most extensive public accounting of a matter that has dogged the Trump administration for its first two month. The president has repeatedly denied any ties to Russia though several aides have come under scrutiny and his first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned after initially lying about his contacts with a Russian ambassador. \n Comey said today that Russia \"hates\" Clinton and wanted her to lose the election; he added that officials believe both political parties were hacked in 2016, but only Democratic emails were released. \n Stephen Gillers, a professor at New York University School of Law who specializes in legal ethics, said Comey would have been justified in simply announcing that the bureau's Clinton email probe was closed, rather than going further to criticize her sloppy work habits. But he should not have spoken publicly about either case. \n \"He should not have talked about Hillary and he should not have talked about the Russia connection. He has no public persona,\" Gillers said. \"It's just not a cop's job to do that. A prosecutor might in very rare circumstances comment about certain aspects of an ongoing investigation, but he's not a prosecutor.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democrats blast FBI director after probe revelation"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2016 \n Honolulu's under-construction rail project, shown here in 2016, could benefit with the help of the private sector, according to a new study from the nonprofit Ulupono Initiative. \n There's no avoiding that Honolulu's stalled rail project will need public funding for the city to complete it \u2014 but the private sector could still help deliver the transit system more quickly and efficiently, according to a new report. \n The analysis, released today by the Hawaii-based social investment fund Ulupono Initiative, further found that stopping the project while local leaders decide what to do about it could cost the state's taxpayers about $114 million a year. \n \"Kicking the can down the road is a very expensive proposition,\" said Jill Jamieson, a managing director with the Chicago-based investment management firm Jones Lang LaSalle, which did the analysis for Ulupono. \"Delaying a decision is not in anybody's best interest.\" \n JLL's report does not take a position on whether to extend the general excise tax, tap property taxes or use some other revenue stream, but it did recommend that policymakers make a \"timely decision\" on which public dollars to use. The analysis comes as state lawmakers consider how to address rail's roughly $3 billion funding gap. \n Jamieson said taxpayers would benefit if the city used private third parties to pay for the project's final four miles into town plus a major transit hub at Pearl Highlands as that work occurs. Under that model, known as \"design-build-finance,\" the private investors wouldn't be paid back with public funds until the project is finished, according to JLL's report. \n Such deals have been used for other major infrastructure projects in North America, and they provide an added incentive for the third parties financing the work to control costs and deliver the project as soon as possible, Jamieson said Monday. \n She and Ulupono representatives are meeting with Rep. Sylvia Luke (D, Punchbowl-Pauoa-Nuuanu) and other state legislators at the Capitol this week to present their findings. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Private sector could help city manage rail's runaway costs, study finds"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "FBI Director James Comey, left, testified on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, before the House Intelligence Committee hearing on allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. President Donald Trump walked to board Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, today, for the short trip to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., and on to Louisville, Ky. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump produced a running commentary today on FBI Director James Comey's testimony to Congress. Thanks to the length of the hearing and the immediacy of Twitter, Comey was able to comment on the president's commentary without leaving his seat. \n It was a nearly real-time exchange that circled back on itself, like a cat chasing its tail. \n He confirmed, though, that the FBI is investigating whether and how Russia tried to shape the election, a probe he says includes any potential coordination between Trump campaign associates and Russia's government. \n Throughout the hearing, Comey declined to deny any assertion made by his questioners that mentioned Flynn or any other individuals, explaining that the FBI is not in the business of correcting or verifying such reports. \n Flynn helped Trump in the campaign, became national security adviser at the start of Trump's presidency and was fired after he was found to have misled senior members of the administration about his contacts with Russia's top diplomat to the U.S. \n Comey agreed there was no evidence of collusion in a report prepared by the U.S. intelligence community under Clapper, but that's different than saying no such evidence has been discovered. \n The Jan. 6 report does not take up the question of contacts between Trump associates and Russia. Instead it focuses on Russia's actions, via cyber operations and propaganda, to try to help Trump's election chances and hurt Hillary Clinton's. \n Clapper indeed said he had seen no evidence of collusion at the time he left government. But he updated that comment today with a statement from spokesman Shawn Turner, saying Clapper \"could not account for intelligence or evidence that may have been gathered since the inauguration on January 20th.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Trump twists FBI chief's words on Russia"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, left, shook hands with Myanmar's State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi during their meeting at the Presidential Palace in Naypyitaw, Myanmar today. Duterte arrived in Naypyitaw on Sunday at the invitation of Myanmar's President Htin Kyaw for an official visit to the Southeast Asian country. \n NAYPYITAW, Myanmar >> Regional politics makes for strange bedfellows, and at first glance, it is hard to imagine more of an odd couple than tempestuous Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte and his cerebral de facto Myanmar counterpart, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, who met today in Myanmar's capital, Naypyitaw. \n After his arrival in Myanmar on Sunday, Duterte rejected European criticism of his deadly war on drugs with his usual profanity, insisting that \"more people will die.\" \n \"I said I will not stop,\" he declared. \"I will continue until the last drug lord in the Philippines is killed and the pushers out of the streets.\" \n Suu Kyi has just as little time for critics, but her crisp Oxford-accented speech is more like a dagger to her guest's blunderbuss. The Philippines' hard man thrives on press coverage, while Myanmar's leader barely conceals her contempt for the media. She is the ice to Duterte's fire. \n The main purpose of Duterte's visit to Myanmar is to complete visits to nine fellow members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, which the Philippines is helming this year. \n While their meeting is said to have included the usual pro forma talk about trade and investment, it had a tangible result when Duterte promised $300,000 in humanitarian aid for Myanmar's Rakhine state, where communal conflict has displaced more than 100,000 people, mostly Muslims, from their homes. \n Here is a look at two Southeast Asian leaders who have made a name for themselves worldwide. \n AUNG SAN SUU KYI \n As the daughter of Myanmar's martyred founding father, Gen. Aung San, she is the closest thing the country has to aristocracy. Many would say her manner is aristocratic \u2014 imperious and uncompromising. For those around the world who admired her as a democracy icon, her government's lack of transparency and less-than-wholehearted embrace of remedying human rights problems has been a disappointment. \n BACKSTORY: Suu Kyi had spent most of her life abroad as an academic until she found herself in Myanmar \u2014 then called Burma \u2014 during its 1988 pro-democracy uprising against military rule. When she stepped up to support the unsuccessful rebellion, her fresh face, name recognition, and eloquence rocketed her to the leadership of the pro-democracy movement. It cost her 15 years under house arrest, won her a Nobel Peace Prize, and brought her National League for Democracy party to power in 2015. \n CHALLENGES: Suu Kyi's biggest problem is probably meeting the expectations of her supporters in Myanmar and abroad. Myanmar's economy lagged badly behind most of its neighbors after five decades of military rule. Widespread prejudice against the country's Muslim Rohingya minority has led to deadly communal violence, posing a political threat to Suu Kyi while earning international opprobrium. Other minorities are restive, seeking greater political autonomy promised since the nation became independent in 1948. All the while, provisions in the military-drafted constitution restrict Suu Kyi's ability to make any reforms affecting the army's considerable influence. \n RODRIGO DUTERTE \n A foul-mouthed crime-busting mayor credited with turning the southern Philippine city of Davao into an oasis of relative tranquility and economic vibrancy in an insurgency-pestered region, he expanded his brutal anti-drug crackdown when he rose to the presidency last June. Supporters cheer his anti-establishment and populist mindset but critics regard him as a human rights calamity. \n BACKSTORY: A former government prosecutor who dealt with rogue policemen, outlaws and insurgents, he parlayed that background to build a name in politics as a tough and hands-on overseer of a city who dealt harshly with law breakers, especially drug dealers and addicts, hundreds of whom ended up dead in Davao. His expletive-ridden speeches, often spiced with sex jokes, are adored by his followers but have unnerved the predominant Catholic church and the intelligentsia and upended Philippine politics and foreign policy. \n CHALLENGES: While seen as a tough and unorthodox leader who could break through an anemic bureaucracy and tradition to spark radical reforms, he faces the same deep-seated problems that have stymied his predecessors: crushing poverty that afflicts a fourth of more than 100 million Filipinos, decades-old Muslim and Marxist insurgencies, and often-turbulent politics. He is also unwinding his country's traditional ties with the United States, while jousting with China over its rival territorial claims in the South China Sea. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Contrast in style as Duterte meets Myanmar's Suu Kyi"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christine Mackinday, also known as Christy Mack, points toward Jonathan Paul Koppenhaver, also known as War Machine, during a preliminary hearing for Koppenhaver in Las Vegas, Nev. \n LAS VEGAS >> A Las Vegas jury today found a former mixed martial arts fighter known as War Machine guilty of kidnapping and sexually assaulting his porn actress ex-girlfriend. \n Jurors deadlocked Monday on two attempted-murder charges against Jonathan Paul Koppenhaver, but convicted him of a total of 29 counts. He could face up to life in prison. \n Koppenhaver, 35, went by his birth name during the two-week trial but had legally changed it to War Machine during his 19-fight MMA career. \n Defense attorney Jay Leiderman this week conceded Koppenhaver's guilt on eight lesser domestic battery charges, including punching and injuring ex-girlfriend Christy Mack. Koppenhaver also was charged with threatening her male friend Corey Thomas when he found them together in bed in 2014. \n \"He did it. He used fists to punch the face,\" Leiderman said Thursday of the attacks on Mack. \n The Associated Press normally does not identify people who say they are victims of sexual assault but Mack gave permission to use her name. \n In closing arguments, Leiderman suggested that the jury never learned many things about the August 2014 attack at Mack's home, including Koppenhaver's state of mind, and therefore could not know if he intended to commit a crime. \n The defense attorney characterized Koppenhaver as a \"raging bull\" with brain injuries from his fighting career and emotions inflamed by the use of steroids and non-prescription stimulant and antidepressant drugs that combined could have caused mood swings and violence that Leiderman termed \"roid rage.\" \n Mack, 24, spent eight hours on the witness stand, crying as she said she was beaten and raped by Koppenhaver in the months before the attack on her and Thomas. \n \"'Now I have to kill you because people saw you trying to escape,'\" she recalled Koppenhaver saying after an incident sparked by his dislike of a wig and decorative teeth she wore. \"'Now I have to take you out to the desert and kill you.'\" \n Thomas, a digital media company owner, testified that he dated Mack for two months before Koppenhaver arrived at her home unexpectedly, flipped on the bedroom lights and set upon him on the bed with rapid-fire punches and choking. \n Thomas testified that he suffered a broken nose, dislocated shoulder, scrapes, bruises and bite marks. The beating stopped, he said, when he asked Koppenhaver if his \"end game\" was going to be to kill him or let him go. \n Mack testified that Koppenhaver attacked her after Thomas left. The jury saw photos of Mack with a broken nose, missing teeth, fractured eye socket and leg injuries. She also suffered a lacerated liver. \n Prosecutors played a recording of a 911 call Mack placed with muffled sounds of a struggle and screams. They said Koppenhaver was attacking Thomas at the time. \n Mack said she fled her home and ran bleeding to neighbors when Koppenhaver went to the kitchen to fetch a knife. \n Koppenhaver was arrested a week later in the Los Angeles suburb of Simi Valley. Prosecutors Rob Stephens and Jacqueline Bluth said he fled because he knew he was guilty. \n The former fighter has been in custody in Nevada since then. He has been serving a 1\u00bd- to four-year sentence for violating his probation on a 2009 conviction for attempted battery involving a 21-year-old woman. \n Koppenhaver made his Ultimate Fighting Championship debut in 2007. He had a 14-5 record as a welterweight. His final fight was in 2013. \n He was dropped by his fight promoter and his clothing line after Mack's accusations became public \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-MMA fighter convicted of kidnapping former girlfriend"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT \n An image from surveillance video shows the suspect in a Hilo shoplifting case. \n Hawaii island police are asking for the public's help in identifying a male suspect in connection with a theft that occurred at a Hilo store. \n The theft occurred Thursday where a man allegedly shoplifted an item from the store. Video surveillance cameras captured images of the culprit. \n Police said the suspect was wearing a black baseball cap, white T-shirt, black pants and a gray backpack at the time of the theft. He is described as having black medium-length hair and fair to medium complexion. \n Anyone with information on the suspect's identity is asked to call the police department's non-emergency phone number at 935-3311 or officer Joshua Gouveia at 961-2213. \n Individuals also may call CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek Hilo shoplifting suspect"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer speaks during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, March 20, 2017. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House is distancing itself from two former senior members of Donald Trump's team, amid an FBI investigation into possible connections between Trump \"associates\" and Russia. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer on Monday referred to Trump's former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, as a \"volunteer of the campaign.\" And he said Paul Manafort, who ran Trump's campaign for months, \"played a very limited role for a very limited amount of time.\" \n \"And so to start to look at some individual that was there for a short period of time or, separately, individuals who really didn't play any role in the campaign and to suggest that those are the basis for anything is a bit ridiculous,\" he said. \n Spicer wrongly claimed that Manafort was brought onto Trump's campaign \"sometime in June and by the middle of August he was no longer with the campaign.\" In fact, Manafort was hired in late March as Trump's convention manager, and was promoted to campaign chairman in May. He resigned from the campaign's top post in mid-August, amid an onslaught of negative press having to do with his past work for foreign governments, including pro-Russian Ukrainian leaders. \n Manafort issued a statement Monday defending himself against suggestions he played a part in Russia's efforts to interfere with the U.S. presidential campaign. He said he had \"no role or involvement\" in the cyber hack of the Democratic National Committee and disclosure of stolen emails. \n Flynn, meanwhile, was one of the president's closest advisers throughout the campaign and the transition, frequently traveling on his plane. He was named national security adviser, but resigned from the White House last month after he was found to have misled senior members of the administration about his contacts with Russia's top diplomat to the U.S. \n During a congressional hearing Monday examining Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible connections between Moscow and Trump's aides, FBI Director James Comey was asked about various campaign advisers and staffers, including Carter Page, whom Trump once named as one of his foreign policy advisers. Comey generally declined to talk about specific staffers. \n In a letter to the Senate intelligence committee, Page, who has emerged as a key figure in the controversy surrounding Trump associates' connections to Russia, cast himself as a regular presence in Trump Tower, where the campaign was headquartered. \n \"I have frequently dined in Trump Grill, had lunch in Trump Caf\u00e9, had coffee meetings in the Starbucks at Trump Tower, attended events and spent many hours in campaign headquarters on the fifth floor last year,\" Page wrote. It is unclear whether that is true. After the campaign, Trump's lawyers sent Page at least two cease and desist letters. \n Spicer described Carter and other individuals mentioned during the hearing as \"hangers-oner on the campaign.\" \n \"Those people, the greatest amount of interaction that they had with the campaign was the campaign apparently sending them a series of cease and desists,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House tries to distance Trump from campaign aides"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The New York Post reported on March 19, 2017, that a Philadelphia man sued a New York City bar, claiming he was denied service for wearing such a hat. \n NEW YORK >> A Philadelphia man has sued a New York City bar, saying he was denied service because he was wearing a hat supporting President Donald Trump. \n The suit claims a manager later asked Piatek to leave, saying he was told by the bar owner that \"anyone who supports Trump or believes what you believe is not welcome here.\" \n The bar says it welcomes diversity but reserves the right to ask \"disruptive and rude\" people to leave. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man claims NYC bar denied him service over pro-Trump hat"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly is seen in the Cabinet Room at the White House in Washington. The Trump administration is naming some names in its efforts to shame local jails that don't cooperate with immigration authorities. It's putting the spotlight on Travis County, Texas, home of liberal Austin. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is naming some names in its efforts to shame local jails that don't cooperate with immigration authorities. It's putting the spotlight on Travis County, Texas, home of liberal Austin. \n The administration released a list of 206 cases of immigrants released from custody before federal agents could intervene. Roughly two-thirds were from Travis County. \n The 206 figure is somewhat murky. It doesn't represent all the cases in which immigration authorities sought custody of people facing criminal charges, with major cities like New York and Los Angeles underrepresented on the list. It's also unclear what period it covers. The cases were identified by the administration between Jan. 28 and Feb. 3, but most of the detention requests had been made before then, as far back as early 2014. Also unclear is the status of the immigrants \u2014 whether some are in federal or state custody. \n The release of the list by Immigration and Customs Enforcement was prompted by an executive order signed by President Donald Trump in January. That order called on the government to document which local jurisdictions aren't cooperating with federal efforts to find and deport immigrants in the country illegally. \n Trump has made immigration a key issue in his administration and has promised to deport \"bad dudes\" living in the United States illegally. The report highlights a variety of crimes, including the case of a Jamaican national in Philadelphia charged with homicide, along with multiple sex offenses, assaults and driving under the influence cases. The majority of the immigrants whose cases are highlighted are from Mexico or Central America. The Travis County cases also include a mix of convictions and charges ranging from drunken driving to aggravated assault and sexual assault. \n Travis County Sheriff Sally Hernandez, a Democrat, was elected last fall after campaigning on refusing to comply with immigration detainers in cases where people were arrested on minor offenses unrelated to their being in the country illegally. Detainers are government requests that an immigrant who could face deportation be turned over to immigration authorities. \n Hernandez's office has continued to honor detainers for more serious offenses, including murder. All but 26 of the declined detainers were issued by the Obama administration and before Hernandez took office. \n Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott responded to Hernandez's policies by blocking $1.5 million in state grant funding to Travis County. \n Jails and police agencies around the U.S. have opted in recent years not to cooperate with immigration authorities, in some cases citing federal court rulings that immigrants cannot be held in those jails strictly because of their immigration status. Other jurisdictions have passed local ordinances barring cooperation. \n As a result, the Obama administration dramatically reduced the number of detainers filed annually, a trend Trump's immigration authorities have pledged to reverse. \n ICE said that nationwide, from Jan. 28 to Feb. 3, it made 3,083 new requests to jails that immigrants accused of a crime be held long enough for ICE agents to take them into custody. It is unclear how many of those requests were honored. \n The number of requests made and declined is likely to increase as the government issues more detainer requests, immigration officials said. The officials briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity despite Trump's complaints that anonymous sources should not be considered reliable. \n Acting ICE Director Thomas Homan said that when detainer requests aren't honored and serious offenders are released, \"it undermines ICE's ability to protect the public safety and carry out its mission.\" \n Trump has said he plans to crack down on so-called \"sanctuary cities\" and other jurisdictions that do not cooperate with immigration authorities and has threatened to eliminate access to some federal grants. He also plans to restart the Secure Communities program that used fingerprints collected in local jails and shared with the FBI to identify immigrants who could face deportation. The program was scrapped under the Obama administration amid multiple court challenges and widespread complaints that it resulted in the deportations of people accused of only low-level offenses. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. releases names of local jails that won't hold immigrants"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Norwegian fans wait for the beginning of the women's semifinal handball match between Norway and Russia at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A global happiness report has made the Norwegian foreign minister, well, happy. \n OSLO, Norway >> If you want to pursue happiness, grab a winter coat. \n A new report shows Norway is the happiest country on Earth, Americans are getting sadder, and it takes more than just money to be happy. \n What makes Norway and other northern European countries top the happiness list has a lot to do with a sense of community and broad social welfare support, according to experts and cheerful Norwegians, including one whose job it is to make people laugh. \n \"The answer to why Norwegians are happy \u2014 it's a bit boring \u2014 it's well functioning institutions,\" explained Norwegian comedian Harald Eia. \"The schools, health care, police, all the bureaucracy treat people with respect and that trickles down and makes us happy, makes us trust each other, makes us feel a part of the whole community. So it's very boring: bureaucrats are the secret to our happiness.\" \n Norway vaulted to the top slot in the World Happiness Report despite lower prices for oil, a key part of its economy. In the U.S., happiness has been declining for the past decade even as the nation has become richer. \n The United States was 14th in the latest ranking, down from No. 13 last year, and over the years Americans steadily have been rating themselves less happy. \n \"It's the human things that matter. If the riches make it harder to have frequent and trustworthy relationships between people, is it worth it?\" asked John Helliwell, the lead author of the report and an economist at the University of British Columbia in Canada (ranked No. 7). \"The material can stand in the way of the human.\" \n Studying happiness may seem frivolous, but serious academics have long been calling for more testing about people's emotional well-being, especially in the United States. In 2013, the National Academy of Sciences issued a report recommending that federal statistics and surveys, which normally deal with income, spending, health and housing, include a few extra questions on happiness because it would lead to better policy that affects people's lives. \n Norway moved from No. 4 to the top spot in the report's rankings, which combine economic, health and polling data compiled by economists that are averaged over three years from 2014 to 2016. Norway edged past previous champ Denmark, which fell to second. Iceland, Switzerland and Finland round out the top 5. \n \"I think it's the work-life balance. So we have a big safety net, so we get free education, free health care, so it's really good,\" said 29-year-old Marin Maal in Oslo. \"And we're close to nature.\" \n Still, you have to have money to be happy, and it is no coincidence that Norway is one of the richest nations in the world. It's also why most of the bottom countries are in desperate poverty. But at a certain point extra money doesn't buy extra happiness, Helliwell and others said. \n Central African Republic fell to last on the happiness list, and is joined at the bottom by Burundi, Tanzania, Syria and Rwanda. \n The report ranks 155 countries. The economists have been ranking countries since 2012, but the data used goes back further so the economists can judge trends. \n The rankings are based on gross domestic product per person, healthy life expectancy with four factors from global surveys. In those surveys, people give scores from 1 to 10 on how much social support they feel they have if something goes wrong, their freedom to make their own life choices, their sense of how corrupt their society is and how generous they are. \n While most countries were either getting happier or at least treading water, America's happiness score dropped 5 percent over the past decade. Venezuela and the Central African Republic slipped the most over the past decade. Nicaragua and Latvia increased the most. \n Study co-author and economist Jeffrey Sachs of Columbia University said in a phone interview from Oslo that the sense of community, so strong in Norway, is deteriorating in the United States. \n \"We're becoming more and more mean spirited. And our government is becoming more and more corrupt. And inequality is rising,\" Sachs said, citing research and analysis he conducted on America's declining happiness for the report. \"It's a long-term trend and conditions are getting worse.\" \n University of Maryland's Carol Graham, who wasn't a study author but did review some chapters, said the report mimics what she sees in the American rural areas, where her research shows poor whites have a deeper lack of hope, which she connects to rises in addictions to painkillers and suicide among that group. \n \"There is deep misery in the heartland,\" Graham, author of the book \"The Pursuit of Happiness,\" wrote in an email. \n It baffles Norwegian comedian Eia. \n \"Why can't Americans who are the brightest people in the world do the same thing as we do to make the happiest people?\" Eia asked. \"I don't get it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Who's happy, who's not: Norway tops list, U.S. falls"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n St. Stephen Middle School student Lakaysha Governor works on her Chromebook on Monday, March 20, 2017, on a school bus recently outfitted with WiFi by tech giant Google, as College of Charleston professor RoxAnn Stalvey looks on in St. Stephen, S.C. \n ST. STEPHEN, S.C. >> Eighth-grader Lakaysha Governor spends two hours on the bus getting back and forth to school each day. Thanks to a grant from Google, she can now use that time more productively and get her homework done. \n The aspiring forensic anthropologist is one of nearly 2,000 students in South Carolina's rural Berkeley County who will ride to school on one of 28, Google-funded, Wi-Fi-equipped school buses unveiled Monday. The tech giant also has given the school district 1,700 Chromebooks, the stripped-down laptops on which many schoolchildren now do their class and homework. \n As more class assignments and homework migrate online, such long bus rides have generally counted as lost time in preparing for the next school day. But Google said it hopes to help expand the use of Wi-Fi on school buses in other rural areas elsewhere around the country. \n Google has at least a decade-long relationship with Berkeley County, where it's invested more than $1 billion in data center complexes since 2007, bringing more than 100 jobs. Google says it also has awarded nearly $2 billion in grants to local schools and nonprofits. \n Google hopes to see the Wi-Fi program extended into other rural areas of the U.S., including locations where it already has data centers that process search queries and other information, according to Lilyn Hester, a Google spokeswoman based in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The first such effort was launched last year in Caldwell County, North Carolina, where a data center already exists. \n The expansions are also needs-based, Hester said, and Google is focusing on rural places where broadband internet access has been slow to spread. \n \"Why don't we make that instructional time?\" Hester said of officials who have mused about the time many students spend on school buses. \n Google is also looking for ways to make the high-tech buses useful outside of school hours, working with the school district and community on places the buses can go once the school day is done to bring connectivity elsewhere, such as a community center or fellowship hall. \n Lakaysha, the eight-grader who has her eye on Harvard, has internet access at home like most of her friends. But thanks to the WiFi buses, she can get ahead on her work. Teachers are happy, she said, because \"more students are doing their homework.\" \n And she said even rambunctious preschoolers aboard the bus are quieter in the mornings while older students are doing homework. \n \"Now that we have the Chromebooks and the WiFi, they're kind of quiet; so it's good for everybody.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wi-Fi on wheels: Google helps students get online, on the go"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Jhun Ley Irorita, 26, appeared at his arraignment before Judge James McWhinnie at Circuit Court today via closed-circuit video link from the Oahu Community Correctional Center. \n COURTESY CRIMESTOPPERS \n Jhun Ley Irorita, 26, pleaded not guilty today to murder in connection with the death of a 39-year-old Kalihi woman. \n A 26-year-old man has pleaded not guilty to murder in connection with the death of a 39-year-old Kalihi woman. \n Jhun Ley Irorita appeared at his arraignment before Judge James McWhinnie at Circuit Court today via closed-circuit video link from the Oahu Community Correctional Center. \n An Oahu grand jury indicted him Tuesday for second-degree murder in Helen Prestosa's death. Deputy public defender Craig Nagamine pleaded not guilty on behalf of Irorita who was in a wheelchair with his arms bandaged. It's unclear at this time how he sustained his injuries. \n McWhinnie set his trial for the week of May 29 and confirmed his bail at $500,000. \n Prestosa was reported missing in November 2015 after she failed to show up for work as a manager at the Jack in the Box restaurant in Kalihi. Five months later, Prestosa's remains were found at Tantalus by volunteers who were picking up trash in the area. \n Irorita has been in custody since January 2016 following his arrest for violation of a protective order. He pleaded guilty to harassment in June and was sentenced to a year in jail. \n Irorita has a criminal record that includes violation of a protective order, theft, criminal property damage and criminal contempt of court. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man pleads not guilty to killing Kalihi woman"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Suspected Islamic extremist Ziyed Ben Belgacem, center left, held a soldier after grabbing her from behind at Paris' Orly airport on Saturday. \n PARIS >> Video of a suspected Islamic extremist at Paris' Orly Airport shows a soldier caught by surprise when an attacker drops a shopping bag and grabs her from behind. \n The Associated Press has obtained security footage of Saturday's attack, which caused panic and shut down the French capital's second-biggest airport. It shows the attacker grabbing the soldier around the shoulders as her companion patrols slightly ahead. \n He drops his shopping bag, which authorities said contained a flask of gasoline. Holding a revolver loaded with birdshot, he pulls her backward. \n For a few moments, almost no one reacts. One passenger rolls a suitcase past the hostage soldier and the second soldier continues on his way. Then, suddenly, people start backing away en mass as the attacker pulls his hostage toward them. \n Yelling that he wanted to kill and die for Allah, according to the Paris prosecutor, Ziyed Ben Belgacem can be seeing trying to wrestle away the soldier's assault rifle near the small cluster of people. \n The video shows Belgacem using her as a shield after he apparently manages to get control of the weapon, but he exposes himself by standing up, giving her comrades a clear shot to kill him. The hostage soldier crawls away from her attacker on her hands and knees. \n The entire episode took less than three minutes. No one at the airport was injured. The footage was provided to the AP on the condition that the source not be revealed. \n Earlier Saturday, a police officer was shot in the face with birdshot when officers stopped Belgacem for a traffic violation. \n Authorities say Belgacem, a 39-year-old Frenchman, had a long criminal record of drug and robbery offenses. \n Autopsy toxicology tests found traces of cocaine and cannabis in Belgacem's blood, according to the Paris prosecutors' office. He also had 0.93 grams of alcohol per liter of blood when he died Saturday, the prosecutors' office said. That is nearly twice the legal limit for driving in France. Prosecutors said Belgacem was at a bar early Saturday. \n In an interview Sunday with French radio Europe 1, a man identified as the suspect's father said Belgacem wasn't a practicing Muslim and drank alcohol. \n John Leicester contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Paris airport video shows attacker rushing soldier"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n \"Race Through New York Starring Jimmy Fallon\" ride in Orlando, Fla. Universal is leading the theme-park charge into \"virtual lines\" that give visitors options for exploring a park or watching live entertainment instead of the tedium of looking at someone's back as you inch forward step by step to the thrill ride. \n ORLANDO, Fla. >> At Universal Orlando Resort's new \"Race Through New York Starring Jimmy Fallon\" ride, waiting in line has been replaced by lounging on couches and listening to a racy barber shop quartet sing until it's time to enter the ride. \n Universal is leading the theme-park charge into \"virtual lines\" that give visitors options for exploring a park or watching live entertainment instead of the tedium of looking at someone's back as you inch forward step by step to the thrill ride. \n \"It's kind of a bit of a science experiment for all of us,\" said Jason Surrell, a Universal creative director said about the \"queue-less\" waits. \"We've known for years that waiting in line is one of the biggest dis-satisfiers in our guests' day.\" \n Universal is also trying the concept at another attraction. Later this year, when Universal opens its new Volcano Bay water park in Orlando, visitors will be given wristbands that will alert them when it's their turn to get on a ride. \n \"I think it represents the future of what we're going to be doing in themed entertainment,\" Surrell said. \"I kind of joke that this is the first step on a journey that will eventually lead us to a generation that doesn't even know about theme park lines. It will be 'What do you mean, wait in a queue? What's that, Grandpa?'\" \n Virtual lines are the latest evolution in theme parks' efforts to shorten or eliminate waits for rides, or if waits are necessary evils, to improve the experience of biding one's time. \n Almost two decades ago, those efforts were concentrated on elaborately-designed \"pre-ride\" lines such Universal's The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man, which goes past an elaborately-detailed \"Daily Bugle\" newsroom. \n A few years later came the ride reservations systems of the FastPass and Express Pass at Disney and Universal parks, respectively, in which ride-goers are assigned periods of time to show up for rides. But those reservations need to be made ahead of time, for the most part, and visitors can only make them on three rides a day. \n Universal opens that concept to everybody, not just advanced planners, with its two new attractions, while also offering entertainment during the wait. \n \"Everybody is trying to do this, working not only on the rides but how to get you on the rides,\" said Dennis Speigel, who heads the theme park consulting firm, International Theme Park Services. \"Universal is at the forefront right now.\" \n The Jimmy Fallon attraction and the Volcano Bay water park take different approaches to virtual lines. \n At the Jimmy Fallon attraction, which opens next month, visitors enter an area made to look like the lobby of a Rockefeller Center building. Instead of getting in line, they can meander through the lobby looking at photos and memorabilia of past and present \"Tonight Show\" hosts and watch TVs playing clips of hosts Steve Allen, Jack Paar, Johnny Carson, Jay Leno and Jimmy Fallon. Up a flight of stairs are a lounge with couches, half a dozen consoles with touch screens displaying \"Tonight Show\" videos and a theater stage. Visitors can hang out in the lounge area, charging their phones or talking while they wait. They can dance or take photos with an actor in the costume of Hashtag the Panda, a staple character from Jimmy Fallon's show or listen to a performance from \"The Ragtime Gals,\" an incarnation of the barber shop quartet which is also a staple of the TV show. \n When they enter the building, visitors are given a card with one of the colors in the NBC peacock logo. When it's their turn to go on the ride, lights in the waiting area will flash their color and the singers will announce the color. If they don't want to wait in the building, they can return at a designated time. \n Universal hasn't released many details about how virtual lines will work at Volcano Bay, other than to say a watch-like device named \"TapuTapu\" will be given to visitors. It will flash \"Ride Now\" when it's their time to go on a ride. \n Technology and our growing impatience with waiting are driving the move toward virtual lines, Speigel said. \n The proliferation of cell phone apps, along with the development of wristbands that emit radio signals, pioneered by Disney and able to track movement, made the virtual lines technically possible. America's growing impatience with waiting, from speed dating to Amazon Prime's two-hour deliveries makes it culturally imperative. \n \"Nobody wants to stand in line. We want to be first,\" Speigel said. \"It's just the way society is evolving.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Where's the line? Theme parks aiming to eliminate them"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n John Becker, 30, of Silver Spring, Md., waves a rainbow flag in support of gay marriage outside of the Supreme Court in Washington. LGBT advocates are questioning the Trump administration's quiet deletion of questions on sexuality from two federal surveys. \n NEW YORK >> LGBT advocates are questioning the Trump administration's quiet deletion of questions on sexuality from two federal surveys. \n Combined with the withdrawal of another planned survey evaluating the effectiveness of a homelessness project for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth, the moves have alarmed watchdogs who worry they may point to a manipulation of government data collection to serve the ideology of a government they view as hostile to their causes. \n \"In an age when LGBT rights are such a part of the national discussion, the Trump administration is choosing to not only ignore us but erase us from the discussion,\" said Laura Durso, vice president of the LGBT Research and Communications Project at the Center for American Progress, a nonprofit liberal advocacy group. She worried officials might be rolling back such data collection elsewhere. \n Each year, a survey done by the Department of Health and Human Services gathers data from those receiving transportation, homemaker and meal services, visiting senior centers, or taking part in other programs funded by the Older Americans Act. A draft of this year's National Survey of Older Americans Act Participants, released this month, removes a single query asking whether a respondent is gay, lesbian, bisexual or heterosexual from a battery of demographic questions. \n A second HHS-sponsored survey, the Annual Program Performance Report for Centers for Independent Living, gathers feedback on counseling, skills training and other services provided to the disabled. A revised draft posted four days after President Donald Trump's inauguration included a question on sexual orientation, but the survey was subsequently edited, with the deletion of the sexuality question the only apparent notable change. \n Kelly Mack, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Community Living, the HHS division which oversees the two surveys, said Monday the orientation question was included in past surveys as part of a pilot test, but that the sample size was insufficient to be reliable. Advocates reject that explanation, saying the data has already provided some insight into LGBT elders. \n A draft of the Older Americans Act survey included no other question changes. After Mack said Friday that the orientation question was one of several being eliminated, The Associated Press asked her to identify the other questions. She responded Monday, pointing to a question on survey respondents' date of birth. A revised draft of the survey was then posted to remove that question. \n The LGBT question was introduced on the survey in 2014, a move heralded by gay rights groups because of the dearth of federally-collected data of their communities and the potential to validate programs or identify areas where services may be inadequate. \n An administration official said Trump political appointees at the agency reviewed the OAA survey but targeted only LGBT questions. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to comment on behalf of the agency. \n \"I view this as a policy change, not the end of a pilot,\" said Kathy Greenlee, who was HHS' assistant secretary for aging under President Barack Obama and led efforts to increase data collection on LGBT people. Greenlee, now with the Center for Practical Bioethics, said though all survey questions are approved for three years at a time, the addition of the LGBT question was never envisioned as a temporary entry. \n Separately, a survey planned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development on an LGBT homelessness project was withdrawn, according to a notice in the Federal Register. The Obama administration had planned interviews, surveys and focus groups to determine the efficacy of the program, but the information-gathering had not yet begun. \n A HUD spokesman, Brian Sullivan, did not respond to questions Monday about the withdrawal. \n Michael Adams, CEO of Services and Advocacy for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Elders, or SAGE, said halting the data collection had the potential to affect not just federal funding and programming, but those at the state and local level that take their cues from Washington. \n \"It's a big deal to make this change,\" Adams said. \"What this is about is stripping out an entire population.\" \n Accepting the Republican nomination last summer, Trump said he would \"do everything in my power to protect LGBTQ citizens\" and after taking office, he pledged to maintain Obama administration job protections for LGBT federal employees. But his administration stepped back from Obama's position allowing transgender students to use bathrooms and locker rooms corresponding to their gender identity, and LGBT advocates have said they're troubled by cabinet appointees, including HHS Secretary Tom Price, whom they regard as virulently anti-gay. \n David Stacy, head of policy for the Human Rights Campaign, said the survey moves fit a pattern from an administration that has shown an aversion to facts: \"If you deny the problem exists by not having the data, it certainly makes it easier to pursue the policy you prefer without regards to reality.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal surveys trim LGBT questions, alarming advocates"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Evans Memorial Hospital in Claxton, Ga. Like many other rural hospitals in the U.S., Evans Memorial has struggled to keep its doors open while treating patients who tend to be older, poorer and often uninsured. \n CLAXTON, Ga. >> Talmadge Yarbrough had just sat down at his desk and opened a box of pecans when he let out a gasp that could have been his last breath. He'd gone into cardiac arrest in his office, a co-worker called 911, and an ambulance drove him two miles to the small hospital that serves this rural community in southeast Georgia. \n \"I would have never lasted to get to Savannah or Statesboro,\" Yarbrough said of the biggest cities near Claxton \u2014 each 30 to 60 miles away. \"I firmly believe if that hospital wasn't here, I wouldn't be here.\" \n But like Yarbrough, the 10-bed Evans Memorial Hospital has fought to survive. That story is reflected nationwide \u2014 rural hospitals have long struggled, with patients who are older, suffer from chronic illnesses, and face few insurance options, if they're insured at all. Most rural hospitals have a higher-than-normal percentage of Medicaid patients; expected cuts to the federal program for low-income residents will affect facilities everywhere, but experts and administrators are particularly worried about rural areas. Still more rural patients are on Medicare, for those 65 and older, but both programs' reimbursements are lower than the cost of care. \n Now, as Republicans in Washington put forward long-anticipated plans to get rid of President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act, rural hospitals and communities are watching the debate closely. But if they didn't fare too well under the ACA, many question whether they'd be better off under the plan backed by President Donald Trump. \n At Evans Memorial, many blue-collar workers are unable to afford insurance but are too well-off for Medicaid, said chief financial officer John Wiggins. Such uninsured patients are perhaps the No. 1 problem for rural hospitals: Evans Memorial has been saddled with $3 million or more in unpaid medical bills in recent years. \n But the hospital can't and won't turn away the uninsured \u2014 federal law prohibits it in emergencies. Recently, Dr. Kyle Parks performed an urgent gallbladder operation on an uninsured woman. \"It is what we've always done \u2014 we take care of people, payer or no payer,\" Parks said. \"But we're fighting a struggle to keep our little hospital open.\" \n Evans Memorial, which opened in 1968, has managed to keep operating by seeking new revenue \u2014 for example, a new wing for dementia patients scheduled to open soon. But the hospital was in the red for four years before finding itself $50,000 in the black this year. \n \"We do not have fear of the doors closing, but we remember those days and we never get comfortable,\" said Nikki NeSmith, the CEO who doubles as chief nursing officer, in part to cut costs. \"I don't think we'll be in that comfortable position anytime soon.\" \n Meantime, other rural hospitals have shuttered \u2014 80 since 2010, mostly in the South and Midwest, according to the North Carolina Rural Health Research Program. A wave of closures also hit in the 1980s and early '90s with changes in Medicare reimbursement, though Congress eventually increased that. \n At Evans Memorial, about half the patients are covered by Medicare; 10 percent are on Medicaid. An uneven, state-by-state expansion of Medicaid has been a problem there and elsewhere. Georgia's among 19 states that didn't expand the program under the ACA. It's never been a popular proposal in rural Georgia, where Trump saw his strongest support in the state. But Evans CFO Wiggins said many of his uninsured patients would have qualified under an expansion. \n The ACA was intended to slash the number of uninsured patients seeking care they could never afford at hospitals. It succeeded in rural areas, where overall the rate of uninsured people fell by 8 percent since full implementation of the law in 2014, said Brock Slabach, of the National Rural Health Association. But it fell more in urban areas, in part because of the dearth of choices in the exchanges set up under the ACA. Thirty to 40 percent of rural communities have only one company from which to pick. \n Snap Lewis has been selling property and casualty insurance in Claxton for nearly four decades, and he said even he couldn't find affordable coverage after the ACA was implemented. He took a part-time job driving a school bus, with health benefits. He wakes up at 4:45 a.m. for his morning route, then heads to his insurance office at 8. He's back on a bus at 2 p.m. for his after-school route, and then sells insurance for another hour or so. \n \"I thought it was a very good plan,\" Lewis said, \"if you can stand the hours.\" \n But not all rural residents can \u2014 and many can't find jobs with insurance at all. At Evans Memorial, 10 percent of patients are uninsured. \n Beyond the insurance, Medicare and Medicaid problems, rural hospitals face death by a thousand paper cuts: a nationwide trend toward outpatient care, trouble recruiting staff, industry consolidation, low-patient volume, and a preference by private-insurance clients for newer hospitals. \n When rural hospitals are forced to close, the effects reverberate, a 2016 Kaiser Family Foundation study shows. Such hospitals are often the community's largest employer, leading to job losses. Doctors and others leave the area. Closures also make it hard to attract outside employers or investors who want quick access to emergency rooms. \n And for many rural health care workers, the GOP's new plan isn't calming nerves. At Evans Memorial, administrators say they haven't heard much in the proposal that sounds beneficial \u2014 besides perhaps the chance to allow Americans to shop for insurance across state lines. But officials recognize the tough task legislators have. \n \"I wouldn't want to be in a position where I needed to say, 'Here's what we need to do to fix it,'\" said Parks, the hospital's surgeon. \"Because I honestly don't know what that would be.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Already in peril, rural hospitals unsure on health care bill"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Steven Meyers \n A 50-year-old furlough inmate has been charged with escape after police located and arrested him in Kapolei. \n Steven Meyers was charged Sunday with second-degree escape. Police said he failed to return to the Laumaka Furlough Center more than six months ago. \n Meyers was scheduled to return to the furlough center on Sept. 14 after work. Police located him at Walmart Friday afternoon. \n Meyers is serving a sentence for first-degree criminal property damage. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Recaptured furlough inmate charged with escape"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The five Rockefeller Brothers posed for photos in New York, in Nov. 1967, as they gathered to receive gold medals from the National Institute of social sciences. From left are: David Rockefeller, President of the Chase Manhattan Bank; Winthrop Rockefeller, Governor of Arkansas; Frank Pace, President of the NISS; John D. Rockefeller 3rd, Chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation; Nelson Rockefeller, Governor of New York; and Laurence Rockefeller, a conservation adviser to President Johnson. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n David Rockefeller posed for a photograph in April 1981. The billionaire philanthropist who was the last of his generation in the famously philanthropic Rockefeller family died today, according to a family spokesman. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n David Rockefeller, left, met with Chinese Premier Chou En-lai, in June 1973, in Peking. The billionaire philanthropist who was the last of his generation in the famously philanthropic Rockefeller family died today, according to a family spokesman. \n NEW YORK >> David Rockefeller was the last of his generation in a famous American family that taught its children that wealth brings great responsibility. Even as children, he and his siblings had to set aside portions of their allowances for charitable giving. \n That lesson lasted throughout his life; to mark his 100th birthday in 2015, Rockefeller gave 1,000 acres of land next to a national park to the state of Maine. \n Rockefeller died Monday in his sleep at his home in Pocantico Hills at age 101, according to his spokesman, Fraser P. Seitel. \n He was the grandson of Standard Oil co-founder John D. Rockefeller and the youngest of five sons and one daughter born to John D. Rockefeller Jr. He was also the guardian of his family's fortune and head of a sprawling network of family interests, both business and philanthropic, that ranged from environmental conservation to the arts. \n Unlike his brothers Nelson, the governor of New York who hungered for the White House and was briefly vice president, and Winthrop, a governor of Arkansas, David Rockefeller wielded power and influence without ever seeking public office. Among his many accomplishments were spurring the project that led to the World Trade Center. \n \"No individual has contributed more to the commercial and civic life of New York City over a longer period of time than David Rockefeller,\" said Michael Bloomberg, a former mayor and fellow billionaire. \"I have long admired his commitment to the city, which began with a dollar-a-year job working as a secretary to Mayor Fiorello La Guardia. During my time in City Hall, he was always there for the city when we called.\" \n Unlike his other brothers, John D. 3rd and Laurance, who shied from the spotlight and were known for philanthropy, David Rockefeller embraced business and traveled and spoke widely as a champion of enlightened capitalism. \n \"American capitalism has brought more benefits to more people than any other system in any part of the world at any time in history,\" he said. \"The problem is to see that the system is run as efficiently and as honestly as it can be.\" \n Rockefeller graduated from Harvard in 1936 and received a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago in 1940. He served in the Army during World War II, then began climbing the ranks of management at Chase Bank. That bank merged with the Manhattan company in 1955. \n He was named Chase Manhattan's president in 1961 and chairman and CEO eight years later. He retired in 1981 at age 65 after a 35-year career. \n In his role of business statesman, Rockefeller preached capitalism at home and favored assisting economies abroad on grounds that bringing prosperity to the Third World would create customers for American products. \n He parted company with some of his fellow capitalists on income taxes, calling it unseemly to earn a million and then find ways to avoid paying the taxes. He didn't say how much he paid in taxes, and he never spoke publicly about his personal worth. In 2015, Forbes magazine estimated his fortune at $3 billion. \n As one of the Rockefeller grandchildren, David belonged to the last generation in which the inherited family billions were concentrated in a few hands. The next generation, known as \"the cousins,\" are more numerous. \n Rockefeller was estimated to have met more than 200 rulers in more than 100 countries during his lifetime, and often was treated as if he were a visiting head of state. \n In addition to the philanthropy that \"touched and lifted innumerable lives,\" Rockefeller's \"connections and keen aptitude for issues made him a valuable adviser to presidents of both parties \u2014 yours truly certainly included,\" said former President George H.W. Bush. He said Rockefeller was a \"wonderful friend\" to him and his wife, Barbara. \n Under Rockefeller, Chase \u2014 now known as JPMorgan Chase \u2014 was the first U.S. bank to open offices in the Soviet Union and China and, in 1974, the first to open an office in Egypt after the Suez crisis of 1956. \n In his early travels to South Africa, Rockefeller arranged clandestine meetings with several underground black leaders. \"I find it terribly important to get overall impressions beyond those I get from businessmen,\" he said. \n But Rockefeller took a lot of heat for his bank's substantial dealings with South Africa's white separatist regime and for helping the deposed, terminally ill Shah of Iran come to New York for medical treatment in 1979, the move that triggered the 13-month U.S. embassy hostage crisis in Tehran. \n Rockefeller maintained the family's patronage of the arts, including its long-standing relationship with the Museum of Modern Art, which his mother had been a fervent patron of. His private art collection was once valued at $500 million. The Rockefeller estate at Kykuit, overlooking the Hudson River north of New York City, is the repository of four generations of family history, including Nelson's art and sculpture collection. \n One of the major efforts of Rockefeller's later years was directed at restoring family influence in the landmark Rockefeller Center, most of which had been sold in the 1980s to Japanese investors. He eventually organized an investor group to buy back 45 percent of the property. \n His philanthropy and other activities earned him a Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 1998. \n \"Throughout his life he used his fame and fortune to do good here and abroad,\" former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton said in a statement. \"His tremendous support of arts and humanities in America gave millions of people in communities across the country the opportunity to experience our great heritage of painting, dance, music, and so much more.\" \n Rockefeller and his wife, the former Margaret McGrath, were married in 1940 and had six children \u2014 David Jr., Richard, Abby, Neva, Margaret and Eileen. His wife, an active conservationist, died in 1996. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "David Rockefeller, last of generation in family, dies at 101"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supreme Court Justice nominee Neil Gorsuch was surrounded by photographers as he arrived on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, for his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supreme Court Justice nominee Neil Gorsuch met with Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., Feb. 14, on Capitol Hill in Washington. Thirteen months after Antonin Scalia's death created a vacancy on the Supreme Court, hearings got under way today on Gorsuch, President Donald Trump's nominee to replace him. \n WASHINGTON >> Judge Neil Gorsuch emphasized \"the importance of an independent judiciary\" today in opening remarks to a Senate Judiciary Committee bitterly divided over his nomination to the Supreme Court. \n \"Under our Constitution, it is for this body, the people's representatives, to make new laws. For the executive to ensure those laws are faithfully enforced. And for neutral and independent judges to apply the law in the people's disputes,\" said Gorsuch, President Donald Trump's pick to fill the high court vacancy created 13 months ago by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. \n Gorsuch, 49, who serves on the Denver-based 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, is a respected, highly credentialed and conservative judge with a legal philosophy akin to Scalia's, who has spent 10 years on the federal bench. Democrats claimed that he's found in favor of corporations over \"the little guy\" during that time, while Republicans credit him with an intelligent and straightforward approach of interpreting the law as it is, not as anyone would wish it to be. \n Since Scalia's death, the court has split 4 to 4 on a handful of cases. Gorsuch's confirmation would generally restore the court's 5-4 conservative tilt, although Justice Anthony Kennedy, for whom Gorsuch clerked, has joined the liberals on cases involving gay rights, abortion rights and race. \n \"These days we sometimes hear judges cynically described as politicians in robes, seeking to enforce their own politics rather than striving to apply the law impartially. If I thought that were true I'd hang up the robe. But I just don't think that's what a life in the law is about,\" Gorsuch said. \n Gorsuch delivered a very personal opening statement, speaking of his Western upbringing and his parents and grandparents, and choking up as he hugged his wife, Louise, of 20 years, and talked about their two daughters. \n Gorsuch spoke to the Senate Judiciary Committee after hours of opening statements from senators revealed deep partisan divides between Democrats and Republicans on the panel. Democrats angrily condemned Republicans for refusing to act on Barack Obama's nominee last year, while Republicans accused Democrats of trying to turn Gorsuch's confirmation hearing into a referendum on the GOP president. \n \"The nominee before us today is not President Trump,\" said Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C. \"The nominee before us today is not Leader McConnell,\" the Senate GOP leader, Mitch McConnell, who engineered the 10-month blockade of Obama's court pick, Judge Merrick Garland, last year. \n \"So I hope this nomination hearing focuses on the one person before us,\" Tillis said. \n Democrats made clear that it wouldn't. \n Addressing Gorsuch, Sen. Dick Durbin repeated a comment by White House chief of staff Reince Priebus last month that Gorsuch \"represents the type of judge that has the vision of Donald Trump.\" \n \"I want to hear from you why Mr. Priebus would say that,\" Durbin, D-Ill., said to Gorsuch. \"Most Americans question whether we need a Supreme Court justice with the vision of Donald Trump.\" \n Democrats, under intense pressure from liberal base voters horrified by the Trump presidency, entered the hearings divided over how hard to fight Gorsuch's nomination given that the mild-mannered jurist is no right-wing bomb thrower and is widely expected to win confirmation in the end, one way or another. \n Seeming to acknowledge that the outcome was not in question, Durbin remarked to Gorsuch: \"You're going to have your hands full with this president. He's going to keep you busy.\" \n In his opening statement, Committee Chairman Sen. Chuck Grassley alluded caustically to Democrats' complaints about judicial independence in the Trump era. Gorsuch told several lawmakers privately that he was disheartened by Trump's attacks on judges who ruled against him over his immigration ban, but that didn't go far enough for Democrats. \n \"In recent months I've heard that 'now more than ever' we need a justice who is independent, and who respects the separation of powers,\" the Iowa senator said. \"Some of my colleagues seem to have rediscovered an appreciation for the need to confine each branch of government to its proper sphere.\" \n Several Democrats used their opening statements to emphasize the importance of judicial independence given Trump's approach to the presidency. \n \"The president has gravely undermined it and that is why I believe you have a special responsibility here this week, which is to advocate and defend the independence of our judiciary against those kinds of attacks,\" said Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn. \"It isn't enough to do it in the privacy of my office or our colleagues behind our closed doors. I really think our system requires and demands that you do it publicly and explicitly and directly.\" \n Several of the more liberal Senate Democrats have already announced plans to oppose Gorsuch and seek to block his nomination from coming to a final vote. But delay tactics by Democrats could lead McConnell to exercise procedural maneuvers of his own to eliminate the 60-vote filibuster threshold now in place for Supreme Court nominations, and with it any Democratic leverage to influence the next Supreme Court fight. \n Republicans control the Senate 52-48. The filibuster rule when invoked requires 60 of the 100 votes to advance a bill or nomination, contrasted with the simple 51-vote majority that applies in most cases. \n Associated Press writer Mary Clare Jalonick contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Bitter partisanship on display at Supreme Court hearing"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey testified on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, before the House Intelligence Committee hearing on allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump walked to the White House after arriving on Marine One, Sunday, in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers, right, prepared to testify on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, before the House Intelligence Committee hearing on allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. \n WASHINGTON >> FBI Director James Comey confirmed today that the bureau is investigating possible links and coordination between Russia and associates of President Donald Trump as part of a broader probe of Russian interference in last year's presidential campaign. \n The extraordinary revelation, and the first public confirmation of the wider investigation that began last summer, came in a congressional hearing examining Russian meddling and possible connections between Moscow and Trump's campaign. \n In a bruising five-hour session, the FBI director also rejected the new president's claim that his predecessor had wiretapped his New York skyscraper, and he corrected, in real time, the president's tweets about his testimony. \n Comey noted that the FBI does not ordinarily discuss ongoing investigations, but he said he'd been authorized to do so given the extreme public interest in this case. \n \"This work is very complex, and there is no way for me to give you a timetable for when it will be done,\" Comey told the House intelligence committee. \n The hearing, providing the most extensive public accounting of a matter that has dogged the Trump administration for its first two months, quickly broke along partisan lines. Democrats pressed for details on the status of the FBI's investigation, while Republicans focused on news coverage and possible improper disclosures of classified information. \n Under questioning from the committee's top Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, the FBI director publicly contradicted a series of recent tweets from Trump that declared the Republican candidate's phones had been ordered tapped by President Barack Obama during the campaign. \n \"With respect to the president's tweets about alleged wiretapping directed at him by the prior administration, I have no information that supports those tweets, and we have looked carefully inside the FBI,\" Comey said. The same was true, he added, of the Justice Department. \n He also took issue with Trump tweets sent out during the hearing, including one that said, \"The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.\" \n Comey was testifying along with National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers, who also disputed allegations that surfaced last year that British intelligence services were involved in the wiretapping. \n The FBI director was the latest government official to reject Trump's claims, made without any evidence, that Obama had wiretapped Trump Tower during the campaign. Rep. Devin Nunes, a California Republican and chairman of the House intelligence committee, also rejected it earlier in the hearing. \n Trump took to Twitter before the hearing began, accusing Democrats of making up allegations about his campaign associates' contact with Russia during the election. He said Congress and the FBI should be going after media leaks and maybe even Hillary Clinton instead. \n \"The real story that Congress, the FBI and others should be looking into is the leaking of Classified information. Must find leaker now!\" Trump tweeted early today as news coverage on the Russia allegations dominated the morning's cable news. \n Trump also suggested, without evidence, that Clinton's campaign was in contact with Russia and had possibly thwarted a federal investigation. U.S. intelligence officials have not publicly raised the possibility of contacts between the Clintons and Moscow. Officials investigating the matter have said they believe Moscow had hacked into Democrats' computers in a bid to help Trump's election bid. \n Today's hearing, one of several by congressional panels probing allegations of Russian meddling, could allow for the greatest public accounting to date of investigations that have shadowed the Trump administration in its first two months. \n The top two lawmakers on the committee said Sunday that documents the Justice Department and FBI delivered late last week offered no evidence that the Obama administration had wiretapped Trump Tower, the president's New York City headquarters. \n But the panel's ranking Democrat said the material offered circumstantial evidence that American citizens colluded with Russians in Moscow's efforts to interfere in the presidential election. \n \"There was circumstantial evidence of collusion; there is direct evidence, I think, of deception,\" Schiff said on NBC's \"Meet the Press.\" \"There's certainly enough for us to conduct an investigation.\" \n Nunes said: \"For the first time the American people, and all the political parties now, are paying attention to the threat that Russia poses.\" \n \"We know that the Russians were trying to get involved in our campaign, like they have for many decades. They're also trying to get involved in campaigns around the globe and over in Europe,\" he said on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \n The Senate Intelligence Committee has scheduled a similar hearing for later in the month. \n Though Comey would not discuss specific evidence, he went far beyond his testimony from a hearing in January, when he refused to confirm or deny the existence of any investigation exploring possible connections between Trump associates and Russia, consistent with the FBI's longstanding policy of not publicly discussing its work. \n His appearances on Capitol Hill since then have occurred in classified settings, often with small groups of lawmakers, and he has made no public statements connected to the Trump campaign or Russia. \n Any lack of detail from Comey would likely be contrasted with public comments he made last year when closing out an investigation into Clinton's email practices and then, shortly before Election Day, announcing that the probe would be revived following the discovery of additional emails. \n Comey acknowledged that \"some folks may want to make comparisons to past instances\" where he and other officials were more open, but he said those were about concluded investigations. \n \"Our ability to share details with the Congress and the American people is limited when those investigations are still open, which I hope makes sense,\" he added. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI probing possible links between Russia, Trump associates"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "A man in Waianae was seriously injured after the motorcycle he was riding crashed into a parked vehicle Sunday night. \n The crash occurred on Leihoku Street just before 10 p.m., according to Emergency Medical Services. \n The 38-year-old motorcyclist was taken to a trauma center in serious condition. He was not wearing a helmet. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Motorcyclist seriously injured in Waianae crash"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ousted South Korean President Park Geun-hye, left, gets into a car to leave from her private home to prosecutors office in Seoul, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korea's just-ousted president said she was \"sorry\" to the people as she arrived Tuesday at a prosecutors' office for questioning over a corruption scandal that led to her removal from office.  \n Earlier this month, the Constitutional Court ruled unanimously to dismiss her as president, about three months after parliament impeached her over allegations she colluded with a confidante to extort money from businesses and committed other wrongdoings \n It was a dramatic fall for Park, a daughter of slain dictator Park Chung-hee, who was elected as the country's first female president in late 2012 amid a wave of support from conservatives who remembered her father as a hero who pulled the country up from poverty despite his suppression of civil rights. \n \"I am sorry to the people. I will sincerely undergo an investigation,\" Park said when arrived at a Seoul prosecutors' office \n She did not elaborate and went inside the building amid a barrage of camera flashes. \n It was not clear if her remarks meant she acknowledged the corruption allegations, as she has repeatedly denied any legal wrongdoing. South Korean politicians embroiled in scandals often offer public apologies for causing trouble though they deny their involvement. \n The questioning of Park was expected to last until late in the evening, and South Korean media reported prosecutors won't likely summon her again after Tuesday's questioning. \n Dozens of high-profile figures including some top Park government officials and Samsung heir Lee Jae-yong have already been arrested or indicted in connection with the scandal. \n Park could face extortion, bribery and other criminal charges, but it is not known if prosecutors will seek to arrest her anytime soon, especially ahead of an election in May to choose her successor. \n Some experts say there would be a strong backlash from conservatives if Park were to appear on TV dressed in prison garb and handcuffed. Currently, Moon Jae-in, a liberal opposition leader who lost the 2012 election to Park, now has a commanding lead in opinion surveys. \n The scandal has roiled and divided South Korea for months, with millions of people taking to the streets and calling for park's ouster in the largest public demonstrations in decades. In recent weeks, pro-Park supporters, mostly elderly conservatives, have staged their own rallies. Three people died in clashes between Park's supporters and the police after the court ruled against her. \n Earlier Tuesday, hundreds of Park supporters waited for hours near her Seoul home, holding national flags and chanting her name as thick lines of police officers separated them from a group of reporters. Stepping out of her home's black metal gate, Park did not address to her supporters before getting into a black sedan, which followed a motorcade of police motorcycles to the prosecution office. \n Park had immunity while in office and had refused to meet with prosecutors or allow officials to search her presidential compound. She has since expressed defiance toward the allegations, saying \"I believe the truth will certainly come out.\" \n The March 10 ruling has made Park South Korea's first democratically elected leader to be forced out of office since democracy replaced dictatorship in the late 1980s. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea's Park says 'sorry' as she's to undergo questioning"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2015 \n Kardashian discussed her experience being held at gunpoint during a Paris jewelry heist last year during an episode of E!'s \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\" that aired on Sunday. \n LOS ANGELES >> Kim Kardashian West says she \"mentally prepped\" herself to be raped while being held at gunpoint during a Paris jewelry heist last year. \n Kardashian West discussed the incident on Sunday night's episode of the E! network's \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians.\" \n She says two robbers wearing police uniforms entered her hotel room last October. One of the robbers duct-taped her mouth while she was in bed, grabbed her legs and pulled her toward him. She says she wasn't raped, but had a gun held to her head. \n Kardashian West says the men picked her up and put her in a bathtub before making off with jewelry. \n She said on Twitter Sunday that she \"learned some valuable lessons\" through the experience. \n Ten people have been charged in connection with the case. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kim Kardashian West 'mentally prepped' for rape during heist"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "COURTESY THE SUN HERALD \n In this July 2016 photo, Josh Vallum is sworn in before pleading guilty in George County Circuit Court in Lucedale, Miss., to a charge of first-degree murder by deliberate design for killing Mercedes Williamson, 17, a transgender woman of Theodore, Ala. Vallum, an ex-convict and top-ranking gang member, faces life in prison without parole for killing Williamson. \n LUCEDALE, Miss. >> In the waning days of President Barack Obama's administration, supporters of LGBT rights hailed the first federal hate crime conviction for the killing of a transgender woman in Mississippi. With President Donald Trump now in office, they worry about the future of such prosecutions. \n Trump's new attorney general, Jeff Sessions, opposed the 2009 hate crime law when he was a U.S. senator, saying it was overly broad and he thought it was unnecessary to include further protections for gay and transgender people. During his January confirmation hearing, Sessions told fellow senators they \"can be sure I will enforce\" the law, but some observers wonder about his commitment. \n \"We really might be looking at a new day under Sessions, and that has huge implications for how the federal government is going to treat violence that is absolutely rampant in the transgender community,\" said Jordan Woods, a University of Arkansas law professor who studies LGBT legal issues. \n Sentencing in the Mississippi case is May 15. With a plea agreement in place, it's unlikely Sessions could change the strategy in this prosecution. \n Joshua Vallum, an ex-convict and top-ranking gang member, faces life in prison without parole for killing 17-year-old Mercedes Williamson, who was born male but transitioned to a female. Prosecutors say Vallum, 29, and Williamson dated and that he killed his transgender girlfriend because he worried fellow gang members would discover their relationship and kill both of them because gay sex was strictly forbidden by the Latin Kings gang. \n Attorney Dru Levasseur of the LGBT rights group Lambda Legal said supporters had a frustratingly long wait for the first federal hate crime prosecution involving a transgender person. \n \"We waited for many years for the government to finally deploy that law,\" Levasseur said. \n Hate crimes have historically been a priority for the FBI and Justice Department. Investigations are typically initiated by the FBI and the attorney general doesn't need to sign off on each prosecution. \n Six Democrats in Congress wrote to Sessions on March 10 to ask the Justice Department to investigate as hate crimes the deaths of seven transgender women this year, including another one in Mississippi. \n The Justice Department declined comment. \n Crimes motivated by a loathing of sexual orientation or race will often be prosecuted under state hate crime charges, but those vary. Mississippi, for example, doesn't include crimes against transgender people. \n Usually defendants will also face charges such as assault or murder, but people are more likely to be convicted in federal court and can sometimes face longer sentences. \n In Vallum's case, he pleaded guilty to murder in state court and was sentenced to life in prison, but with a chance of parole. He could get life in prison without parole for his federal guilty plea. \n \"There's a lot of variability in the willingness of state and local jurisdictions to prosecute,\" said Rebecca Stotzer, a University of Hawaii professor who has studied violence on LGBT people. \n Vallum previously served time for a fake bomb threat at a church. While imprisoned, he joined the Latin Kings gang, going by the name King Chaos. After his release, Vallum met Williamson online and they dated for months in 2014. \n In his defense, Vallum initially told sheriff's deputies and later The Sun Herald newspaper that he found out that Williamson had a penis on May 30, 2015 \u2014 moments before he killed her. He said he \"blacked out\" and doesn't remember the crime, a variation of what's known as a \"gay panic\" or \"trans panic\" defense. \n Prosecutors doubted the claim, in part because the FBI found a cache of gay porn on Vallum's cellphone and because he was charged with indecent exposure in Alabama. Most significantly, Vallum didn't contest evidence in court that he long knew Williamson was transgender. \n Federal prosecutor Julia Gegenheimer said during Vallum's plea hearing in December that he began planning to kill Williamson after a friend called him May 28 to say he'd discovered her identity. \n Vallum lured Williamson into a car in Alabama and drove her 50 miles (80 kilometers) to his family home near Lucedale, Mississippi, prosecutors said. He shocked her with a stun gun and stabbed her in the body and head with a pocketknife. When she tried to run into the woods, he chased her down and bashed her head with a hammer. \n Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights advocates say heinous attacks like this one should be prosecuted as hate crimes because they spread fear among their community. \n Hayley Seymour is a transgender woman who led a vigil for Williamson in Mobile, Alabama, after her death. Seymour didn't know Williamson, but she acted because she grew up nearby. \n Williamson had left home, had a tenuous relationship with her parents, and was struggling with a drug habit. She deserved better, Seymour said. \n \"I know how easily violence can happen and how easily it can be swept under the rug,\" she said. \n She moved to the Atlanta area because being transgender in Alabama was \"a nightmare.\" \n Despite fears that the hate crime law would be overused, prosecutions under Obama's administration were relatively few. An Associated Press analysis using data gathered by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University show that 47 people nationwide have been prosecuted using the law, with 37 convictions. \n Another 300 people were referred for prosecution, but hate crimes charges were never filed. In at least half those cases, there wasn't enough evidence or prosecutors couldn't prove intent, a key threshold. \n Levasseur said that whatever the difficulties, the law protecting LGBT people makes an important statement. \n \"This law is meant to send the message back that these lives matter,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "LGBT community worries about hate crime prosecutions"}

{"date": "March 20, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n It's the first day of a difficult week for transport in Italy, with another taxi strike planned for Thursday and traffic chaos expected Saturday in Rome when the city hosts EU leaders for a summit. \n ROME (AP) >> Tourists and travelers at airports across Italy are facing delays and canceled flights thanks to strikes by air traffic controllers and air transport workers. \n Italy's flagship carrier, Alitalia, said it was cancelling some 40 percent of its domestic and international flights Monday. Air France, British Airways, Lufthansa and other carriers also were canceling flights due to the four-hour work action from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. (1200GMT-1600GMT) by air traffic controllers and the 24-hour strike by transport workers. \n It's the first day of a difficult week for transport in Italy, with another taxi strike planned for Thursday and traffic chaos expected Saturday in Rome when the city hosts EU leaders for a summit. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strikes strand travelers at Italy's airports"}

