{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NICK BRZEZINSKI VIA AP \n Players and staff watch as Toronto Blue Jays reliever T.J. House is tended to by emergency personnel after he was struck in the head by a line drive during a spring training baseball game against the Detroit Tigers today in Lakeland, Fla. House was talking before the ambulance left the field, Toronto manager John Gibbons said. \n LAKELAND, Fla. >> Toronto Blue Jays reliever T.J. House was taken off the field in an ambulance Friday after being hit on the head by a line drive in the ninth inning of a spring training game against the Detroit Tigers. \n The Blue Jays said Friday night that test results at Lakeland Regional Medical Center were normal, and that House would remain hospitalized overnight for observation. \n Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said House's injury was among the scariest things he has witnessed in a baseball game. \n \"When I went out there, his face was in his glove,\" Ausmus said. \"There was blood on his face, blood in the glove \u2014 everything.\" \n The pitcher was hit on the back of the head by a ball off the bat of John Hicks. The ball ricocheted about 30 feet into the air before being caught by catcher Mike Ohlman. \n \"Before he even caught it, people were signaling for the trainers to come out. You could tell the infielders were shaken by what they saw,\" said Nick Brzezinski, who works for the Blue Jays' Class A Lansing Lugnuts and was watching from along the first-base line. \n House fell to his stomach and was face down on the mound for nearly 20 minutes while being tended to by trainers. House was put onto a stretcher and gave a thumbs-up to the crowd as he was placed into an ambulance and taken to the hospital. \n Toronto manager John Gibbons said the 27-year-old House was talking and had feeling in all of his extremities. \n \"I couldn't get near him,\" Gibbons said. \"They were working on him. It's scary, you know. He was talking, he could feel everything, so, hopefully, that's a good sign.\" \n The game was called with Toronto ahead 6-2, with a runner on first and one out in the ninth. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jays reliever TJ House hit on head by line drive"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man prays to mourn for victims of the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami prior to a special memorial event in Tokyo today. Japan on Saturday marked the sixth anniversary of the 2011 disaster that left more than 18,000 people dead or missing and led to a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. \n TOKYO >> Six years ago, more than 18,000 people died or went missing as a tsunami triggered by a massive quake engulfed coastal areas of northeastern Japan. Tens of thousands more people's lives were unraveled when they lost family members, friends, homes and livelihoods. The displacement widened as entire communities fled after meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. \n Japan is marking the anniversary of the disaster Saturday with somber ceremonies in Tokyo and in cities and towns in the northeast. Most of the towns devastated in the March 11, 2011, disasters have only partially rebuilt, and local authorities are struggling to finance construction. Meanwhile, despite an abundance of jobs thanks to the rebuilding, the population in most of the region is falling. \n Here are some measures of progress in Japan's recovery: \n \u2014 \n \u2014 \n \u2014 \n \u2014 \n \u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trauma to lives, economy from tsunami persists 6 years on"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n The league and network said Friday that Chicago's match at expansion Atlanta on March 18 will be the first of the telecasts available on Univision Deportes' Facebook page. \n NEW YORK >> At least 22 Major League Soccer games this season will be streamed live on Facebook with English-language commentary under an agreement with Univision Deportes. \n The league and network said Friday that Chicago's match at expansion Atlanta on March 18 will be the first of the telecasts available on Univision Deportes' Facebook page. \n Univision holds MLS's Spanish-language broadcast rights, and ESPN and Fox share English-language rights. \n Univision says the Facebook streams will have their own commentators, interactive graphics and fan question-and-answer features. The streamed games are matches Univision already holds rights to, and the streams will be viewable only in the U.S. \n Major League Baseball has been investigating whether it can gain the clearances from rights holders necessary to start Facebook streams. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "At least 22 MLS games to be streamed live on Facebook"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cars with no steering wheel, no pedals and nobody at all inside could be driving themselves on California roads by the end of 2017, under proposed new rules that would give a powerful boost to the technology from the nation's most populous state. \n LOS ANGELES >> Cars with no steering wheel, no pedals and nobody at all inside could be driving themselves on California roads by the end of the year, under proposed state rules that would give a powerful boost to the fast-developing technology. \n For the past several years, tech companies and automakers have been testing self-driving car prototypes in neighborhoods and on freeways. But regulators insisted those vehicles have steering wheels, pedals and human backup drivers who could take over in an emergency. \n On Friday, the state's Department of Motor Vehicles proposed regulations that would open the way for truly driverless cars. \n Under the rules, road-testing of such vehicles could begin by the end of 2017, and a limited number could become available to customers as early as 2018 \u2014 provided the federal government gives permission. \n Current federal automobile standards require steering wheels, though the U.S. Transportation Department has encouraged self-driving technology and could look favorably on real-world pilot projects. \n While a few other states have welcomed testing, the proposal released Friday is a major step forward, given California's size as the most populous state, its clout as the nation's biggest car market and its longtime role as a cultural trendsetter. \n \"California has taken a big step. This is exciting,\" said Bryant Walker Smith, a law professor at the University of South Carolina who tracks government policy on self-driving cars. \n The proposed regulations amount to the most detailed regulatory framework of any state. They are subject to a comment period and a public hearing and could change. Regulators hope to put them into effect by December. \n The proposal is more than two years overdue, reflecting complex questions of safety and technology. Self-driving systems rely on highly advanced sensors and software. \n \"We don't want to race to meet a deadline,\" said Bernard Soriano, a leader of the motor vehicle agency's self-driving program. \"We want to get this right.\" \n In one important change from prior drafts, once a manufacturer declares its technology is road-ready, it can put its cars on the market as long as federal officials agree. That self-certification approach mirrors how federal officials regulate standard cars, and represents a big victory for such major players as Waymo, Google's self-driving car project. \n A Waymo spokesman had no immediate comment. \n The chief skeptic of the technology, California-based Consumer Watchdog, said the proposal does not protect the public. \n The DMV \"is being seduced by the hype from the self-driving car developers,\" the nonprofit group's John Simpson said. \"There's been a rolling back of sensible safety provisions.\" \n Meanwhile, some companies want more. \n The Association of Global Automakers, which represents a dozen manufacturers, said the proposal would establish \"significant barriers that do not exist in other states and are inconsistent with federal guidance.\" \n The technology is developing quickly. More than a year ago, a Waymo prototype with no steering wheel or pedals drove a blind man on city streets in Texas. \n Supporters say the cars may one day be far safer than those with humans at the wheel, since the machinery won't drive distracted, drunk or drowsy. \n During road-testing in California, self-driving cars are believed to have caused just a few collisions. \n A year ago, Waymo reported that during the 424,331 miles its cars had driven themselves, a human driver intervened 11 times to avoid a collision. In an update earlier this year, Waymo said its fleet had driven 636,868 miles in autonomous mode. It did not say how many crashes were avoided through driver intervention. \n How a lack of human backup will affect crash frequency remains to be seen. Under the proposed regulations, driverless cars still must be remotely monitored and able to pull itself over safely in an emergency. \n In all, 27 companies have Department of Motor Vehicles permits to test on California roads. \n Waymo was able to put its prototype on the road in Texas because state law there does not prohibit a fully driverless car. Other states have explicitly invited the technology onto its roads, including Michigan, whose governor signed a bill in December that allows the public testing of cars with no driver. \n In the meantime, the industry has been lobbying the U.S. Transportation Department and Congress for rule changes that could speed the introduction of truly driverless cars. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Driver-optional cars: Once-reluctant California opens a road"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A supporter of South Korean President Park Geun-hye holds up her portrait during a rally opposing her impeachment in Seoul, South Korea today. In a historic ruling, South Korea's Constitutional Court formally removed the impeached president from office over a corruption scandal that has plunged the country into political turmoil, worsened an already-serious national divide and led to calls for sweeping reforms. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> A South Korean court ruling that formally ended Park Geun-hye's presidency Friday has also stripped her of all the privileges she could have enjoyed as a former head of state, including the right to be buried alongside her late dictator father at a national cemetery. \n Her father, Park Chung-hee, continues to divide South Korea because he ruthlessly suppressed civic rights, though supporters say he spearheaded South Korea's dramatic economic rise during his 18-year rule. The senior Park, who was gunned down by his spy chief in 1979, is buried at Seoul's national cemetery with his wife, former first lady Yuk Young-soo, who was killed in an assassination attempt on Park in 1974. \n The daughter returned as leader to her childhood home, the presidential Blue House, in early 2013 largely thanks to public nostalgia for her father. But the 65-year-old now must vacate her presidential residence because the Constitutional Court upheld her December parliamentary impeachment over a corruption scandal that has already sent many of her associates to jail. \n As a former president, Park can no longer exercise presidential immunity from prosecution and will likely face investigation. \n Because she was ousted before her term ended, Park also loses a monthly pension, estimated by local media at 12 million won (about $10,000); a state-provided office; and free medical, telecommunication and other services, according to South Korean law. \n Park will still get bodyguards, according to the law. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Park stripped of right to be buried next to dictator father"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n The proposed bill would prohibit for a year any funding to Planned Parenthood, a major provider of women's health services, restrict abortion access in covered plans on the health exchange and scale back Medicaid services used by many low-income women, among other changes. \n WASHINGTON >> Women seeking abortions and some basic health services, including prenatal care, contraception and cancer screenings, would face restrictions and struggle to pay for some of that medical care under the House Republicans' proposed bill. \n The legislation, which would replace much of former President Barack Obama's health law, was approved by two House committees on Thursday. Republicans are hoping to move quickly to pass it, despite unified opposition from Democrats, criticism from some conservatives who don't think it goes far enough and several health groups who fear millions of Americans would lose coverage and benefits. \n The bill would prohibit for a year any funding to Planned Parenthood, a major provider of women's health services, restrict abortion access in covered plans on the health exchange and scale back Medicaid services used by many low-income women, among other changes. \n Washington Sen. Patty Murray, the top Democrat on the Health, Labor, Education and Pensions Committee, said the legislation is a \"slap in the face\" to women. She said it would shift more decisions to insurance companies. \n \"You buy it thinking you will be covered, but there is no guarantee,\" Murray said. \n House Republican leaders said the bill, which is backed by President Donald Trump, will prevent higher premiums some have seen under the current law and give patients more control over their care. \n \"Lower costs, more choices not less, patients in control, universal access to care,\" House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said Thursday. \n The abortion restrictions and cuts to women's health care could draw opposition from some Republican women. \n Sens. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine have both said that a prohibition on Planned Parenthood funding shouldn't be part of the bill. Last month, before the legislation was released, Murkowski told the Alaska state legislature that she doesn't believe that taxpayer money should go toward abortions but added, \"I will not vote to deny Alaskans access to the health services that Planned Parenthood provides.\" \n Support from Collins and Murkowski will be crucial once the bill moves to the Senate, since there are 52 Republicans and the GOP will need 50 votes to pass it. \n A look at how the bill would affect women's health care: \n \u2014 \n PLANNED PARENTHOOD \n Republicans have tried for years to block federal payments to the group, but weren't able to do so with Democrat Barack Obama in the White House. Now that Republican Donald Trump is president, they are adding the one-year freeze in funding to their bill. \n Most GOP lawmakers have long opposed Planned Parenthood because many of its clinics provide abortions. Their antagonism intensified after anti-abortion activists released secretly recorded videos in 2015 showing Planned Parenthood officials discussing how they sometimes provide fetal tissue to researchers, which is legal if no profit is made. \n Federal dollars comprise nearly half of the group's annual billion-dollar budget. Government dollars don't pay for abortions, but the organization is reimbursed by Medicaid for other services, including birth control, cancer screenings and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. The group has said the vast majority of women seek out those non-abortion services. \n Ryan boasted this week that the bill is a \"conservative wish list,\" as it \"ends funding to Planned Parenthood and sends money to community centers.\" Democrats argue that many of the other clinics are already overloaded and would not be able to meet the increased demand for screenings and other services. \n \u2014 \n ABORTION COVERAGE \n Under Obama's health law, health plans on the exchange can cover elective abortions, but they must collect a separate premium to pay for them so it's clear that no federal funds are used. The GOP bill would go further, prohibiting the use of new federal tax credits to purchase any plan that covers abortions. \n That could make it more difficult for women covered under the federal exchange to find a plan that covers abortions at all, because many companies may just drop the abortion coverage if it disqualifies the entire plan from the tax credits. \n Massachusetts Rep. Joe Kennedy, a Democrat, said during the Energy and Commerce Committee's debate on the bill Thursday that he is concerned those prohibitions will extend to hospitals that do abortions, as well. \n \u2014 \n MEDICAID AND 'ESSENTIAL HEALTH BENEFITS' \n The bill would phase out the current law's expanded Medicaid coverage for more low-income people that 31 states accepted, which is almost completely financed by federal funds. That could affect women's health care services, including mammograms and prenatal care, for those who would lose that coverage. The legislation also repeals the requirement that state Medicaid plans must provide \"essential health benefits\" that are currently required, including pregnancy, maternity and newborn care for women. \n The legislation will still require that private health plans fund the essential health benefits, but those insurers will have more leeway as to how much is covered. \n Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill., complained during the committee debate about the current law's requirements that certain services be covered. \n \"What about men having to purchase pre-natal care?\" Shimkus said in response to a question from a Democrat who asked him what mandates he was concerned about. \"Is that not correct? And should they?\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "House GOP health bill would cut women's services"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson spoke at a news conference about the state's response to President Trump's revised travel ban on Thurday in Seattle. \n SEATTLE >> A federal judge in Seattle who issued the order temporarily halting nationwide implementation of President Donald Trump's initial travel ban said today that because of procedural reasons he won't immediately rule on whether his restraining order applies to the new travel ban. \n U.S. District Judge James Robart said in an order that motions or a complaint over the revised ban need to be filed before he can make a decision. The states of Washington and Minnesota, as well as the Justice Department, have only so far filed notices. \n The U.S. Justice Department said in a filing this week that the original order had been revoked and that the court's restraining order does not limit the government's ability to immediately begin enforcing the new order. \n The states of Washington and Minnesota in a response notice argue that sections of the new order have the same effect as the original one and that the federal government can't unilaterally decide to change a court's previous ruling. \n Trump's revised ban blocks new visas for people from six predominantly Muslim countries including Somalia, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya and Yemen. It also temporarily shuts down the U.S. refugee program. Unlike the original order, the new one says current visa holders won't be affected, and it removes language that would give priority to religious minorities. \n Washington was the first state to sue over the original ban, which resulted in Robart stopping its implementation around the country. The lawsuit says the initial travel ban was unconstitutional and hurt the state's businesses and universities. \n Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson said earlier this week that the revised travel ban has \"the same illegal motivations as the original.\" \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Thursday the administration believed the revised travel ban will stand up to legal scrutiny. \n On Twitter Friday, the Washington state Attorney General's Office said Ferguson is reviewing Robart's Friday's order with his legal team to determine next steps. \n The revised travel ban is scheduled to go into effect Thursday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Federal judge not ready to rule on blocking new travel ban"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n The senators say the Senior Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act would better coordinate existing federal home modification programs. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> Senators from Maine and Hawaii say a proposal they are submitting would help make it easier for seniors to grow older in their own homes. \n Sen. Susan Collins, a Republican, and Sen. Angus King, an independent, of Maine, are joined by Sen. Brian Schatz, a Hawaii Democrat, in proposing the changes. The senators say the Senior Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act would better coordinate existing federal home modification programs. \n The senators say their proposal would also provide more consumer-friendly information on how the programs can benefit seniors. \n King and Collins say their proposal would help the federal budget because making low-cost investments in home improvements might help to reduce costs in mandatory health care programs. They say better health outcomes for seniors would help reduce those costs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Schatz among senators who want to make it easier for people to age at home"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Framed by Islamic-style arches, Muslim Association of Hawaii President Hakim Ouansafi stands inside the library room of the group's building on Thursday. The mosque has been serving Hawaii for nearly 50 years, according to the association. \n Hawaii has 5,000 or so Muslims\u2014 less than 1 percent of the state's population\u2014 who are finding themselves thrust into an international spotlight after the state's top lawyer launched a challenge to President Donald Trump's revised travel ban, saying it contradicts the islands' welcoming culture that values diversity. \n Named as a plaintiff in the federal lawsuit fighting the ban is Ismail Elshikh, the imam of the island of Oahu's only mosque \u2014 a converted plantation-style house in a hilly Honolulu neighborhood a few miles from Waikiki beach where Muslims who gather in the prayer room know they're facing Mecca when the view of iconic Diamond Head is at their backs. \n Elshikh's mother-in-law is a Syrian living in Syria who won't be able to visit her relatives in Hawaii because of the ban, and that will deprive the rights of Elshikh, his wife and their children as U.S. citizens, said Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin. \n It was difficult for the shy and reserved Elshikh to make the decision to join the lawsuit and he is not speaking publicly because of legal reasons and fears for his security in a state that has seen a rise in threats to Muslims that started just before Trump was elected, said Hakim Ouansafi, who is the president of the Muslim Association of Hawaii. \n \"It took some thinking. It took some convincing,\" Ouansafi said. \n Chin said the small size of Hawaii's Muslim community had no bearing on his decision to challenge the travel ban because \"they are part of our community. They should not be labeled presumptively as terrorists.\" \n Also, the lawsuit is a way to protect a minority community in state familiar with the wrongs committed when Japanese Americans were sent to internment camps during World War II, Chin said. \"And we should speak for them in ways that people did not speak for the Japanese back in the 1940s when everything was happening,\" he said. \n The first Muslims in Hawaii can be traced back to the 1800s, Ouansafi said. Today, Hawaii's Muslims have ties to 46 countries, including Asian and Arab countries. About 30 percent are American-born who converted to Islam, he said. And about 80 of Hawaii's Muslim families are originally from the six countries named in the revised travel ban. \n \"It's beautiful mix,\" Ouansafi said. \n Youssef Dakroub, born and raised in Lebanon, met his wife who is from Hawaii in Dubai. They moved to Oahu in 2006, where he now owns a Moroccan and Lebanese food restaurant in downtown Honolulu. \n Dakroub, who describes himself as Muslim but not religious, said the lawsuit challenging the travel ban reinforced his belief that Hawaii is the right place for him to live. \n \"Hawaii is home,\" he said. \n Pennsylvania-born Esma Arslan remembers being nervous about wearing her headscarf on her first day of seventh grade at Iolani, a prestigious Honolulu private school. \"I got over those fears very quickly,\" said Arslan, now 21, whose parents are from Turkey. \"Personally for me, it's always been a positive experience here.\" \n Hawaii's temperate climate brought Amro Nassar to Maui, where he used to be imam of the island's only mosque. \n Born in California to parents from Egypt, Nassar said he hasn't encountered any problems because of his religion. \"Hawaii is a melting pot of different beliefs and cultures,\" he said. \"One can blend in, not stand out.\" \n Ouansafi, who is from Morocco and is the executive director of the Hawaii Public Housing Authority, said he considers Hawaii the most inclusive and safest place for minorities to live in the U.S. But he is troubled by the recent spate of hate threats directed at Muslims. \n The threats started before the election and increased when Trump became president, prompting the association to install security cameras, he said. \n On Jan. 27, a man followed two Muslim children getting off a city bus and harassed them, Ouansafi said. A spokeswoman for the Honolulu Police Department said a harassment case was opened and an investigation is ongoing. \n About two weeks ago, the mosque recorded an anonymous caller yelling: \"Killing Muslims is God's will.\" \n Hawaii's lawsuit also argues that the travel ban will hurt the economy of a state that depends on a constant stream of visitors from all corners of the world. \n The Honolulu mosque is already seeing the impact, Ouansafi said. \n Before Trump's election, the popular Friday afternoon prayer service used to see many Muslim tourists show to join local residents in prayer. \n The numbers of praying tourists have since declined and some Muslims who are not from countries covered by the ban don't want to travel to Hawaii anymore, Ouansafi said. \n \"They can take their money and take it elsewhere,\" he said. \"We have princes and we have rulers from Muslim countries that do come. They don't want to be stuck at the airport. They don't want to be insulted in the street.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Travel ban challenge puts Hawaii's few Muslims in spotlight"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From left, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., participated in a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> Conservative Republicans demanded tougher changes today in insurance requirements and Medicaid than the House GOP health care bill proposes and warned they'd oppose the legislation if it isn't reshaped. The White House signaled an openness to negotiate, but there was resistance from House leaders. \n Less than two weeks before the GOP's showpiece legislation is slated to hit the House floor, the discord underscored the challenge facing top Republicans trying to garner votes for legislation scrapping former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul. \n It also raised questions about whether congressional leaders reluctant to make changes were lagging behind a White House more willing to cut deals. And it illustrated anew the strained relationship between GOP leaders and some conservatives, even as the party tries to deliver one of its highest profile goals. \n \"If that's the best that they can do, then perhaps they have a different whip count than I have,\" said Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., head of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, suggesting the legislation lacked enough votes to pass. \n One conservative priority is quickly halting the extra money Obama's law gives states to expand the federal-state Medicaid program for 70 million low-income people. The GOP bill would end that additional funding in 2020 except for recipients already in the program, but conservatives want to accelerate that to 2018 to save money. \n At the White House, spokesman Sean Spicer suggested President Donald Trump was showing flexibility. \n \"If someone's got an idea that can make this legislation more accessible, give more choice to the American people, drive down costs, make it more patient-centered, he wants to listen,\" Spicer said. He said Trump is \"willing to listen to different individuals\" about the Medicaid date but added, \"Right now the date that's in the bill is what the president supports.\" \n House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., told reporters earlier that advancing that date would be \"very difficult to do.\" Many moderates from the 31 states that expanded Medicaid \u2014 adding an extra 11 million people\u2014 don't want the extra money to end sooner. \n \"Sometimes when you have pushback on one side and the other side from the political spectrum, you might have found the sweet spot,\" McCarthy said. \n \"Our best effort is what you see before us,\" said Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., a leading author of the legislation. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., has said the bill will pass. GOP leaders are more concerned about unhappy moderates and are coordinating with the White House, said one top Republican who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss tactics. \n The GOP bill, approved this week by two House committees, would end Obama's fines on people who don't buy insurance and the federal subsidies many who purchase coverage receive. It would instead provide tax credits likely to be less generous for many Americans, curb Medicaid and let insurers charge higher premiums for people whose coverage lapses. \n Leading conservatives said they want the bill to erase coverage mandates Obama's statute imposed, saying their top goal was to reduce consumers' insurance costs including premiums. That law's requirements include guaranteed coverage for people, even the seriously ill, and policies that cover 10 specified benefits like maternity and mental health services. \n \"We're not going to vote for it until we have a product that we like,\" said Rep. Raul Labrador, R-Idaho, a Freedom Caucus member. \"The issue is, are we going to drive down the cost of health care.\" \n The caucus, which claims around 40 members, has been invited to the White House on Tuesday to bowl with budget chief Mick Mulvaney and, lawmakers say, Trump. \n McCarthy criticized cries by many conservatives for Congress to vote on a bill Obama vetoed last year that went further in repealing his statute. McCarthy said repealing Obama's overhaul without approving the GOP legislation \"would be just as damaging\" as leaving Obama's law intact and would lead to a collapsed insurance market and higher premiums. \n GOP leaders have said their bill omits repealing parts of Obama's overhaul for procedural reasons. \n Their legislation is protected from a Democratic filibuster in the Senate that would take 60 votes to thwart, and there are only 52 GOP senators. To keep that protection, it can't contain items that don't directly affect the federal budget, such as insurance policy requirements. \n Top Republicans say they are writing a second bill that will make additional changes in Obama's law. That will need 60 Senate votes, a margin solid Democratic opposition would make unachievable. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Conservatives want health bill changes, House leaders resist"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester wearing electric lights attached to his clothing attended a rally calling for impeached President Park Geun-hye's arrest in Seoul, South Korea, today. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean police are bracing for more violence between opponents and supporters of ousted President Park Geun-hye, who was stripped of her powers by the Constitutional Court over a corruption scandal that has plunged the country into a political turmoil. \n Three people died and dozens were injured in clashes between police and Park's supporters after the ruling Friday, according to police, which detained seven protesters for questioning. \n The Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency is planning on Saturday to deploy nearly 20,000 officers and hundreds of buses to separate the two crowds, whose passionate rallies have divided the streets near the presidential palace in the past several weekends. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Third protester dies as South Korea braces for more rallies"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marta Lidia Garcia, center, cried during the wake of her 17-year-old daughter Siona Hernandez, who died in a youth shelter fire, in Ciudad Peronia, Guatemala. \n GUATEMALA CITY >> Families buried some of the 37 girls killed in a fire at an overcrowded government-run youth shelter as Guatemalan authorities worked Friday to determine exactly what happened. \n The death toll mounted as girls succumbed to gruesome burns from Wednesday's disaster, which officials said began when mattresses were set afire during a protest by the shelter's residents. Questions remained over why someone among the girls set the blaze and whether doors remained locked as the girls pleaded for their lives. \n Parents and relatives said many of the young people at the shelter, which had both female and male residents, had been sent there because of abuse, poverty or family problems. Others were ordered there by judges after run-ins with police, officials said. \n A casket holding 16-year-old Siona Hernandez Garcia was gently slipped into a niche at a Guatemala City cemetery on Friday and street musicians played hymns as workers bricked up the space. \n Maria Garcia, Siona's mother wailed and demanded justice. \n \"Guatemala is full of violence,\" Garcia said. \"They are raping and killing the poor's girls.\" \n At the entrance to Roosevelt Hospital, Claudia Tecun broke down in tears talking about her daughter Noemi Tecun Munoz, 17, who was being treated inside for burns over 70 percent of her body. \n \"The doctors say there isn't much hope she will live,\" Tecun said, weeping. \n \"I heard on the news that my daughter was one of the girls who set the fire at the shelter; that's not true,\" she said. \"My daughter wouldn't try to take her own life.\" \n That was a reference to widespread reports, including from other victims' relatives, that some of the girls set mattresses on fire to protest their apprehension and return to the facility after fleeing the previous night because of mistreatment, bad food and fears of rape. \n San Juan de Dios Hospital officials said late Friday that another girl had succumbed to her wounds, bringing the death toll to 37, with 19 dying at the scene and 18 others later while being treated as hospitals. \n Hospital director Carlos Soto said that visiting doctors evaluating the burn victims had offered to take eight of them to Galveston, Texas, for specialized burn treatment. Soto said the government had obtained humanitarian visas for the children from U.S. officials, but authorities were awaiting permission from the parents. \n Geovany Castillo said his 15-year-old daughter, Kimberly, suffered burns on her face, arms and hands but survived. She was in a locked area where girls who took part in the escape attempt had been placed, he said. \n \"My daughter said the area was locked and that several girls broke down a door, and she survived because she put a wet sheet over herself,\" Castillo said. \n \"She said the girls told her that they had been raped and in protest they escaped, and that later, to protest, to get attention, they set fire to the mattresses,\" he said. \n As grieving families began receiving the bodies of girls whose remains had been identified, others were still searching for their children. \n Vianney Clareth Hernandez was waiting outside a morgue with a photo of her daughter, Ashley. The 14-year-old was at the shelter but her mother said she hadn't found the girl at any of the local hospitals. \n \"It was a crime they didn't open the doors, they didn't do anything to get the girls out, even though they were screaming,\" Hernandez said. \n While many people believed reports that the doors at the overcrowded shelter were kept locked even as the fires spread, authorities said the circumstances were still under investigation. \n But the exact sequence of events may never be known. Castillo said his daughter Kimberly had testified to police that the girls who started the fire were among those who died in the blaze. \n The few surviving girls at the hospital were put under police guard Friday for their own protection as witnesses. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Guatemala fire death toll rises to 37 amid calls for change"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n James Tran, who faces charges for the alleged stabbing of Paris train hero Spencer Stone, is seen during his appearance in Sacramento Superior Court. Tran is pleading guilty to stabbing a U.S. airman who weeks earlier was hailed as a hero for helping thwart a terror attack aboard a French train. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> A California man pleaded guilty Friday to stabbing a U.S. airman who weeks earlier was hailed as a hero for helping thwart a terror attack aboard a French train. \n James Tran, 29, faces a nine-year prison sentence after pleading guilty to attempted murder under a plea agreement, said Shelly Orio, a spokeswoman for the Sacramento County district attorney's office. \n He admitted knifing former Air Force Staff Sgt. Spencer Stone in October 2015 during a fight near a Sacramento bar. \n Stone is one of three Sacramento men who tackled a gunman with ties to radical Islam on a Paris-bound passenger train in August 2015. Stone left the military last November as a staff sergeant assigned to Travis Air Force Base, said Staff Sgt. Scott Taylor, a spokesman at the base near Sacramento. \n Tran pleaded guilty less than a week before he was to go on trial. He also pleaded guilty to enhancements including causing great bodily injury and using a deadly weapon, Orio said. \n \"I thought he got off kind of easy, but at the end of the day I've kind of moved on with my life,\" Stone said by telephone. \"We all make dumb decisions and we've got to pay for those decisions. I forgive the guy and hope he can grow from it\u2026and kind of make it a positive thing in his life when he gets out.\" \n Tran's attorney, Donald Masuda, did not return telephone and emailed messages from The Associated Press. \n Tran is set for sentencing May 12. \n Sacramento police have said Tran was the instigator in a confrontation that led to the stabbing. \n Stone was with three women and another man when an argument with Tran's group escalated into a fight that spread down a Sacramento street. Police said Tran and his group did not know who Stone was until they saw news reports later. \n Stone's mother, Joyce Eskel, has said that her son was stabbed four times. Doctors had to repair lacerations to his heart and liver and a collapsed lung. \n She also said her son was \"very, very fortunate to be alive.\" \n It was the second time that Stone was knifed within a matter of weeks. He was cut on the neck and thumb when he and two childhood friends from Sacramento stopped the attempted terror attack. \n Stone, Anthony Sadler and Oregon National Guardsman Alex Skarlatos were later awarded France's Legion of Honor. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man pleads guilty in stabbing of French train hero"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "COURTESY NOAA \n The North Shore flood advisory has been canceled. \n Update 4:35 p.m. \n The flood advisory for Oahu's North Shore was canceled at 4:30 p.m. \n Previous coverage \n The North Shore of Oahu is under a flood advisory until 6:15 p.m. today, according to the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \n Heavy rain was falling at a rate of up to 2 inches an hour near Kahuku after 3 p.m., forecasters said. \n The advisory covers Hauula, Kahuku, Laie, Punaluu, Kaaawa, Waikane, Waiahole, Kahana Valley State Park, Waimea Valley, Pupukea, Malaekahana State Park and Turtle Bay. \n The weather service is also predicting possible thunder and lightning for Puna and Hilo through this evening. Hawaii County Civil Defense warned residents in the area to be aware of possible flooding and power outages. \n The weekend forecast calls for continued hazy with light southerly winds and occasional showers. Forecasters expect light trade winds and drier weather to return by Tuesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flood advisory canceled for Oahu's North Shore"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Muhammad Ali Jr., son of the late boxing legend Muhammad Ali, and his mother, Khalilah Camacho-Ali, who was Ali's second wife, attend a forum on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, March 9, 2017, sponsored by House Judiciary Committee members Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., and Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., a leading advocate in the House for comprehensive immigration reform. \n Muhammad Ali Jr. was detained and questioned at a Washington airport before being allowed to board a flight to Fort Lauderdale after meeting with lawmakers to discuss a separate airport detention incident last month, a lawyer for the late heavyweight champion's son said today. \n Ali and his mother, Khalilah Camacho Ali, were stopped at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport after returning from Jamaica on Feb. 7. They traveled to Washington on Wednesday without incident to speak to members of a congressional subcommittee on border security about that experience. \n But attorney Chris Mancini said that when Ali attempted to board a JetBlue Airways flight home to Florida on Friday he was detained for 20 minutes. Mancini said Ali spoke to Department of Homeland Security officials by telephone and showed his driver's license and passport before he was allowed to board. \n \"None of this was happening Wednesday,\" Mancini said in a telephone interview Friday afternoon as he was traveling with the Alis. \"Going to Washington obviously opened up a can of worms at DHS.\" \n A spokeswoman for the Transportation Security Administration acknowledged the agency confirmed Ali's identity before he boarded his plane. \n Spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein said Ali also was patted down because his jewelry set off a checkpoint scanner alarm. \n Florida Democratic Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was on the same flight, tweeted a photo with Ali after he was allowed to board and wrote: \"On way home on DOMESTIC FLIGHT Muhammad Ali Jr. detained AGAIN \u2026 Religiously profiling son of 'The Greatest' will not make us safe.\" \n The mother and son, both born in the United States, have said in interviews that they believe they have been stopped because they are Muslim with Arabic names. Earlier this week, they announced a campaign for religious freedom in the spirit of the boxing icon, supported by ex-boxing greats Evander Holyfield, Larry Holmes, Roberto Duran and others. They say they are opposed to President Donald Trump's travel ban, which they feel unfairly targets Muslims. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Muhammad Ali's son says he was detained again at airport"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.N's Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O'Brien said that the world faces the largest humanitarian crisis since the United Nations was founded in 1945, with more than 20 million people in four countries facing starvation and famine. \n UNITED NATIONS >> The world faces the largest humanitarian crisis since the United Nations was founded in 1945 with more than 20 million people in four countries facing starvation and famine, the U.N. humanitarian chief said Friday. \n Stephen O'Brien told the U.N. Security Council that \"without collective and coordinated global efforts, people will simply starve to death\" and \"many more will suffer and die from disease.\" \n He urged an immediate injection of funds for Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and northeast Nigeria plus safe and unimpeded access for humanitarian aid \"to avert a catastrophe.\" \n \"To be precise,\" O'Brien said, \"we need $4.4 billion by July.\" \n Without a major infusion of money, he said, children will be stunted by severe malnutrition and won't be able to go to school, gains in economic development will be reversed and \"livelihoods, futures and hope will be lost.\" \n U.N. and food organizations define famine as when more than 30 percent of children under age 5 suffer from acute malnutrition and mortality rates are two or more deaths per 10,000 people every day, among other criteria. \n \"Already at the beginning of the year we are facing the largest humanitarian crisis since the creation of the United Nations,\" O'Brien said. \"Now, more than 20 million people across four countries face starvation and famine.\" \n O'Brien said the largest humanitarian crisis is in Yemen where two-thirds of the population \u2014 18.8 million people \u2014 need aid and more than seven million people are hungry and don't know where their next meal will come from. \"That is three million people more than in January,\" he said. \n The Arab world's poorest nation is engulfed in conflict and O'Brien said more than 48,000 people fled fighting just in the past two months. \n During his recent visit to Yemen, O'Brien said he met senior leaders of the government and the Shiite Houthi rebels who control the capital Sanaa, and all promised access for aid. \n \"Yet all parties to the conflict are arbitrarily denying sustained humanitarian access and politicize aid,\" he said, warning if that behavior doesn't change now \"they must be held accountable for the inevitable famine, unnecessary deaths and associated amplification in suffering that will follow.\" \n For 2017, O'Brien said $2.1 billion is needed to reach 12 million Yemenis \"with life-saving assistance and protection\" but only 6 percent has been received so far. He announced that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will chair a pledging conference for Yemen on April 25 in Geneva. \n The U.N. humanitarian chief also visited South Sudan, the world's newest nation which has been ravaged by a three-year civil war, and said \"the situation is worse than it has ever been.\" \n \"The famine in South Sudan is man-made,\" he said. \"Parties to the conflict are parties to the famine \u2014 as are those not intervening to make the violence stop.\" \n O'Brien said more than 7.5 million people need aid, up by 1.4 million from last year, and about 3.4 million South Sudanese are displaced by fighting including almost 200,000 who have fled the country since January. \n \"More than one million children are estimated to be acutely malnourished across the country, including 270,000 children who face the imminent risk of death should they not be reached in time with assistance,\" he said. \"Meanwhile, the cholera outbreak that began in June 2016 has spread to more locations.\" \n In Somalia, which O'Brien also visited, more than half the population \u2014 6.2 million people \u2014 need humanitarian assistance and protection, including 2.9 million who are at risk of famine and require immediate help \"to save or sustain their lives.\" \n He warned that close to one million children under the age of five will be \"acutely malnourished\" this year. \n \"What I saw and heard during my visit to Somalia was distressing \u2014 women and children walk for weeks in search of food and water. They have lost their livestock, water sources have dried up and they have nothing left to survive on,\" O'Brien said. \"With everything lost, women, boys, girls and men now move to urban centers.\" \n The humanitarian chief said current indicators mirror \"the tragic picture of 2011 when Somalia last suffered a famine.\" But he said the U.N.'s humanitarian partners have a larger footprint, better controls on resources, and a stronger partnership with the new government which recently declared the drought a national disaster. \n \"To be clear, we can avert a famine,\" O'Brien said. \"We're ready despite incredible risk and danger \u2026 but we need those huge funds now.\" \n In northeast Nigeria, a seven-year uprising by the Islamic extremist group Boko Haram has killed more than 20,000 people and driven 2.6 million from their homes. A U.N. humanitarian coordinator said last month that malnutrition in the northeast is so pronounced that some adults are too weak to walk and some communities have lost all their toddlers. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.N. says world faces largest humanitarian crisis since 1945"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Florida Keys-based Turtle Hospital and U.S. Coast Guard staff release \"Jolly,\" a 330-pound-female green sea turtle, off the Florida Keys near Marathon, Fla., Friday, March 10, 2017. The large turtle was discovered Feb. 8, 2017, entangled in several crab trap marker lines and was rescued. Hospital veterinary officials amputated a portion of the right rear flipper and the reptile quickly recovered. \n MARATHON, Fla. >> A 330-pound green sea turtle nicknamed Jolly has been released off the Florida Keys after convalescing from a partial flipper amputation. \n Named after wildlife officers who helped rescue her last month, the adult female turtle was returned to the wild Friday. She had been rescued from being tangled in multiple crab trap lines. \n Turtle Hospital 's veterinary team partially amputated her right rear flipper, and Jolly quickly recovered. \n Hospital manager Bette Zirkelbach says it was important to get the mature female back into the wild because turtle nesting season in the Florida Keys begins in April. \n Zirkelbach says sea turtles aren't reproductive until they're 20 or 25 years old. She says Jolly is likely at least 50 years old. \n The green sea turtle is listed as a threatened species in the Atlantic Ocean. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jolly green giant: 330-pound sea turtle released off Keys"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Catalino Guerrero, center left, stands with U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez, left, and Newark Archbishop Cardinal Joseph Tobin, center right, during a rally outside of the Peter Rodino Federal Building before attending an immigration hearing. \n NEWARK, N.J. >> The leader of the state's largest Roman Catholic archdiocese bowed his head and prayed with a man who entered the U.S. illegally decades ago before the man walked into a federal building to face possible deportation, a high-profile example of how religious leaders are responding to recent immigration enforcement actions under Republican President Donald Trump. \n Cardinal Joseph Tobin, the head of the Newark archdiocese, led a rally Friday to support Catalino Guerrero, portraying him as embodying the human cost of a broken immigration policy. Guerrero, whose immigration issues began before Trump took office this year, was given a 60-day extension to seek a stay of deportation. \n Guerrero, who's from Union City and has four children and four grandchildren, \"puts a face\" to what is often treated as \"statistics or demons,\" Tobin said before the hearing. \n \"You can see what Catalino looks like, and you've heard how he has lived,\" Tobin said. \"We're now going to ask the officials determining his fate to not only see his face but ours as well.\" \n The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has issued a steady stream of criticisms of Trump's restrictions on refugees and immigrants. Other faith groups, including a network of 37 Protestant and Orthodox denominations that work with the aid group Church World Service, are mobilizing their congregations to fight Trump's policies. \n Hundreds of houses of worship around the country have joined the sanctuary movement, which provides support or housing to people facing deportation. \n Guerrero, who's 59, came to the U.S. illegally from Mexico in 1991 and has worked consistently and paid taxes, owns his house and has no criminal record, Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez said. He applied for a work permit several years ago but filled out a form incorrectly and mistakenly applied for asylum, Menendez said. \n A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman said Guerrero was ordered removed from the U.S. in 2009 and must periodically report to ICE as a condition of his release. \n Attorney Cesar Estela, representing Guerrero, said Guerrero has diabetes and suffered a stroke several years ago. Estela said he will use the extension to file paperwork to seek to put Guerrero on a path to get a green card. \n Guerrero has had his deportation delayed primarily due to his medical condition, Estela said. At a meeting with ICE officials last month, though, Guerrero was told to plan to surrender his passport Friday. Estela said he sought a year's stay of removal for Guerrero on Friday but was denied. The next hearing is May 22. \n After leaving Friday's hearing, Guerrero enveloped one of his granddaughters in a hug. \n \"He is a very good man. He has no reason to go back,\" said another granddaughter, 10-year-old Lizbeth Perez, fighting back tears. \"He is not a criminal or anything. I feel really sad that they're doing this to him because he didn't do anything.\" \n Menendez said he hopes Guerrero's case and others like it around the country will spur renewed efforts at immigration reform. Menendez and Democratic U.S. Sen. Cory Booker wrote to the acting head of ICE to ask him to consider Guerrero's case and use the agency's resources on people who pose a safety risk. \n \"I hope President Trump is watching because Catalino Guerrero is not a bad hombre,\" Menendez said, referring to a characterization made by Trump of people who would be targeted for deportation. \n Trump has said his immigration and refugee policies are necessary to protect the nation. \n Tobin has been critical of Trump's policies and squared off against Vice President Mike Pence when, as governor of Indiana, Pence wanted to prevent Syrian refugees from settling in the state. Tobin was the archbishop of Indianapolis at the time. \n Last month, Tobin called Trump's executive order temporarily banning immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries \"misbegotten\" and said it was \"playing on irrational fears of people.\" He said lawmakers should focus on fixing immigration laws rather than on large-scale deportation. \n Through Catholic Charities and other programs, American bishops consistently resettle the largest number of refugees annually in the U.S. and provide support nationwide for immigrants. Among others leading protests are U.S. Muslim and Jewish groups, including the Union for Reform Judaism, the largest American synagogue movement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Religious leader heads effort to help man facing deportation"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of OutVets, a group of gay military veterans, march in the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade in Boston's South Boston neighborhood. \n BOSTON >> Organizers of the city's St. Patrick's Day parade reversed course on Friday and said they would allow a group of gay veterans to march in this year's parade. \n The South Boston Allied War Veterans Council announced on the parade's Twitter account that it had signed an \"acceptance letter\" that would clear the way for OutVets to participate. \n OutVets did not immediately say whether it would accept the invitation to march. \n \"We are in receipt of a letter from the allied war council, and we are actively reviewing it,\" said Dee Dee Edmondson, a lawyer for the group. \n An earlier vote by the council to bar OutVets from marching drew immediate condemnation from high-profile politicians, some of whom said they would not march if the gay veterans were excluded. It caused some sponsors to back out and stirred up a furor on social media. \n It was unclear if the reversal of the decision was a result of a second vote by the council. \n \"I decided this is a wrong that has to be corrected,\" the parade's lead organizer, Tim Duross, told WHDH-TV. \n Earlier Friday, OutVets executive director Bryan Bishop said the vets had been told the original decision to bar them was because of their rainbow symbols. \n Bishop said the council offered to allow the group to march if its members did not display the rainbow flag, a symbol of gay pride, which is on their banner and their jackets. \n The group said no. \n \"I almost fell out of the chair at that point, said, 'You gotta be kidding me,'\" Bishop said. \n He said OutVets has displayed the rainbow at the parade the last two years. \n \"It infuriates me to look at the veterans that I know, gay and straight, who have served this country with valor and honor and distinction, and just because you're a veteran who happens to be gay your service is somehow less than someone who is not of the LGBT community or someone who's not gay,\" he said. \n Edmondson, the OutVets lawyer, described the letter as \"generic\" and said it did not make fully clear whether the gay group would be allowed to display its banner. \n Another veterans group, Veterans for Peace, said it also had been denied permission to participate. That group has been trying unsuccessfully for several years to march. \n OutVets was first allowed to participate in the parade in 2015, in what was seen as a groundbreaking decision after parade organizers had, for decades, resisted the inclusion of gay groups. The case went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which in 1995 upheld the council's right to bar gay groups on free speech grounds. \n The council said in a statement Thursday its decision had been misinterpreted. \n \"The council is accepting of all people and organizations, but it will not permit messages that conflict with the overall theme of the parade,\" the statement said. \n That decision resulted in backlash from other veterans' organizations. \n The council is made up of representatives from several South Boston American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars posts. \n The Michael J. Perkins American Legion Post said it had withdrawn from the council. \n The Perkins post in a statement on its Facebook page didn't mention the OutVets decision but said it decided to withdraw because \"recent efforts by several non-veteran parade volunteers to guide decision making has resulted in the subversion of the council as an organization being led by veterans.\" \n Another former member of the council, the Thomas J. Fitzgerald VFW Post, assailed the council's decision to bar OutVets. \n The Fitzgerald post withdrew from the council last year over the decision to bar Veterans for Peace. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "St. Patrick's parade organizers will allow gay vets to march"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A female Malayan tiger cub peeks out from between an Australian shepherd named Blakely and a large stuffed animal resembling a tiger on Thursday, March 9, 2017, in the zoo's nursery in Cincinnati. The mother's maternal instincts didn't kick in after three Malayan tiger cubs were born Feb. 3, 2017, and the 6-year-old male dog provides snuggling, warmth and a climbable body. \n CINCINNATI >> The Cincinnati Zoo has called again on a canine to play the role of nanny for other animals' babies. \n The latest assignment for Blakely the Australian shepherd is to be a companion for three Malayan tiger cubs. Their mother's maternal instincts didn't kick in after their Feb. 3 birth, and zoo staffers have been caring for them. \n The 6-year-old male dog provides snuggling, warmth and a climbable body. \n Dawn Strasser, head of the Cincinnati Zoo's nursery staff, says Blakely serves as \"the adult in the room,\" teaching them behaviors such as checking them when they get too rough or aggressive. \n The cubs are expected to move into the zoo's Cat Canyon this summer. \n Blakely has helped raise baby cheetahs, wallabies, bat-eared foxes, and an ocelot, among other young animals. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dog takes over as tiger cubs' 'nanny' at Cincinnati Zoo"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Randolph Wojcik Jr., MD lifts gallons of water Thursday, March 9, 2017, that represent the 140- lb tumor that was removed. Mary Clancey, 71, of St. Clair, Schuylkill County, center, and her surgeon, Richard Boulay, MD, gynecologic oncologist, Lehigh Valley Health Network (LVHN) together discuss how Boulay and his surgical team removed of a 140-pound malignant ovarian mass from Clancey last November. \n ALLENTOWN, Pa. >> Mary Clancey said she was resigned to being a plump old lady. Over 15 years she kept getting bigger despite dieting. But with her health deteriorating, her son persuaded her to go to the hospital. \n What doctors found astounded them: A cyst in one of her ovaries had grown into a 140-pound tumor. \n Doctors at Lehigh Valley Health Network in Allentown removed the cancerous, Stage 1 mass in a five-hour operation Nov. 10. \n Going in, Clancey weighed 365 pounds. After five hours in surgery, she lost 180 pounds of tumor and tissue, about half her weight, the doctors said. \n \"You can't imagine in your wildest dreams something that huge,\" she told Philadelphia TV station NBC10. \n As she was gaining weight, Clancey, 71, of St. Clair, Pennsylvania, said doctors told her just to watch what she ate. At just over 5 feet tall, she said she felt destined to become \"a short round, fat little old lady.\" \n The tumor didn't really cause her pain. \"It just made itself comfortable in there,\" she said. \n But by the time she went to the hospital, it had become difficult for her to walk and even stand. \n Dr. Richard Boulay, who performed the operation, said the mass was so big it didn't even fit in the picture taken by a CT scan. \n \"It was slowly killing her,\" Bouley said Thursday during a news conference at the hospital. \n To help in the removal of the tumor, a second table had to be moved next to the one on which Clancey was lying so the mass could be rolled out without it rupturing, The Morning Call reported. \n Made up predominantly of water, the tumor was \"slippery and nasty,\" Boulay said. \n After nearly a month in recovery, Clancey is back home, working to regain her balance as a lighter woman. \n She weighs less than 150 pounds and said she feels great. \n Doctors said tests show she is cancer-free and does not need further treatment, The Call reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Woman resigned to being plump learns she had 140-pound tumor"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2011 \n U.S. Attorney Florence T. Nakakuni is among 46 U.S. attorneys appointed by former President Barack Obama who have been asked to leave their posts as part of the transition to the new Trump administration. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions is seeking the resignations of 46 United States attorneys who were appointed during the prior presidential administration, the Justice Department said. \n Florence T. Nakakuni, Hawaii's U.S. district attorney, is among 46 U.S. attorneys appointed by former President Barack Obama who have been asked to leave their posts as part of the transition to the new Trump administration, the Justice Department said today. \n Nakakuni was appointed to head the District of Hawaii office in September 2009. She previously worked as an assistant U.S. attorney in Hawaii since 1985, serving most recently as chief of the Organized Crime and Narcotics Section in the Criminal Division for four years. \n Nakakuni could not be reached immediately for comment. \n Many of the federal prosecutors who were nominated by Obama have already left their positions, but the nearly four dozen who stayed on in the first weeks of the Trump administration have been asked to leave \"in order to ensure a uniform transition,\" Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores said today. \n \"Until the new U.S. attorneys are confirmed, the dedicated career prosecutors in our U.S. attorney's offices will continue the great work of the department in investigating, prosecuting and deterring the most violent offenders,\" she said in a statement. \n It is customary for the country's 93 U.S. attorneys to leave their positions once a new president is in office, but the departures are not automatic. One U.S. attorney appointed by President George W. Bush, Rod Rosenstein of Maryland, remained on the job for the entire Obama administration and is the current nominee for deputy attorney general. \n A Justice Department spokesman, Peter Carr, said that President Donald Trump has asked Rosenstein and Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente to stay on. \n \"The president called Dana Boente and Rod Rosenstein tonight to inform them that he has declined to accept their resignation, and they will remain in their current positions,\" Carr said in an email today. \n During the Clinton administration, former Attorney General Janet Reno sought the resignations of the U.S. attorneys appointed by former President George H. W. Bush in 1993, when Sessions was the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Alabama. \n Tim Purdon, a former U.S. attorney for North Dakota in the Obama administration, recalled that Obama permitted Bush appointees to remain on until their successors had been appointed and confirmed. \n \"The way the Obama administration handled it was appropriate and respectful and classy,\" he said. \"This saddens me because many of these people are great public servants and now they are being asked to leave.\" \n U.S. attorneys are federal prosecutors who are nominated by the president, generally upon the recommendation of a home-state senator, and are responsible for prosecuting federal crimes in the territories they oversee. They report to Justice Department leadership in Washington, and their priorities are expected to be in line with those of the attorney general. \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions took an apparent swipe at their work in a memo earlier this week, saying that prosecutions for violent crime have been on the decline even as the number of murders has gone up. The demand for resignations seems a way to ensure he will have a team of new federal prosecutors more likely to share his agenda. \n It was not immediately clear when each of the prosecutors would resign, or if they all actually will. And the request for resignations doesn't necessarily mean Sessions plans to accept all of them. \n In November, Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney for Manhattan, said that he'd been asked by Trump to stay on and that he intended to. Bharara's office declined to comment Friday. \n Montana's U.S. Attorney Mike Cotter said he received a phone call from Boente telling him \"the president has directed this.\" \n \"I think it's very unprofessional and I'm very disappointed,\" he said. \"What happened today on Friday, March 10, that was so important that all Obama appointees who are US attorneys need to be gone?\" \n \"I gotta write that (resignation) letter. It's going to be a one-liner,\" he added. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff & Associated Press", "title": "Trump seeks resignations of 46 U.S. attorneys, including Hawaii's Nakakuni"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin speaks during a news conference at United Nations headquarters, to discuss the crisis in Ukraine. \n NEW YORK >> Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, who collapsed in his office last month, died from a heart attack, and no foul play was suspected, according to a senior city official briefed by the medical examiner's office. \n The official was not authorized to reveal the cause of death for Ambassador Vitaly Churkin and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity Friday after the medical examiner's office, citing diplomatic protocol, said it was instructed not to publicly release the cause of death. \n An autopsy was performed on Churkin last month, but the death required further study. The additional tests had been completed, but Julie Bolcer, spokeswoman for the city's medical examiner, said that the city's law department told the office not to release any further information, \"in order to comply with international law and protocol.\" \n The State Department asked the city in writing on Feb. 24 to not reveal the autopsy results, because Churkin's diplomatic immunity survives his death. \n \"The United States insists on the dignified handling of the remains of our diplomatic personnel who pass away abroad (including in Russia) and works to prevent unnecessary disclosures regarding the circumstances of their deaths,\" wrote James Donovan, minister counselor for host country affairs for the U.S. mission to the United Nations. \n In a follow-up letter on March 1, the State Department noted that the Russian Federation raised concerns after the autopsy had been conducted, and \"voluntary statements reported in the media about Ambassador Churkin's medical history\" prompted complaints from Russian diplomats. \n \"The information reported was very private in nature and included information about which even they had no knowledge,\" Donovan wrote in the follow-up letter to Mayor Bill de Blasio's international affairs office. \n A spokesman for Russia's U.N. Mission said: \"We regard the decision of the New York City Law Department as the one that fully complies with the principles of inviolability of private life and diplomatic immunity.\" \n The medical examiner is responsible for investigating deaths that occur by criminal violence, accident, suicide, suddenly or when the person seemed healthy, or if someone died in any unusual or suspicious manner. City policy is to publicly release the cause of death. \n Donovan argued that state policies could be overruled by federal authority where \"it creates an obstacle to the achievement of the President's foreign policy as reflected in an international agreement.\" \n Churkin, who died Feb. 20 at a hospital at age 64, had been Russia's envoy at the U.N. since 2006. He was the longest-serving ambassador on the Security Council, the U.N.'s most powerful body. \n He was buried in Moscow, where he was praised by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov praised as an \"exceptional professional and people's diplomat.\" The Order of Courage, a medal awarded posthumously to Churkin by President Vladimir Putin, was displayed at his coffin. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian U.N. ambassador died from heart attack, source says"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bruno, left, and Gracie two rhinoceroses rest at the Thoiry Zoo, near Paris, France, Wednesday, March 8, 2017, the zoo where a rhinoceros named Vince was killed and one of it's horns removed using a chain saw. A zoo director says a 5-year-old rhinoceros at the wildlife park he runs near Paris, had been shot three times in the head by assailants who stole the animal's horn, it's carcass being found Tuesday. \n NEW YORK >> The brazen killing of a rhinoceros at a wildlife park near Paris by assailants who removed a horn valued at nearly triple the price of gold has put zookeepers on notice that poaching could be spreading beyond the killing fields of Africa and Asia. \n Demand for the horns is skyrocketing in Asia, where they are ground into a powder and used for medicinal purposes by some who believe it cures everything from cancer to hangovers. \n More than 90 zoos in the United States housing rhinoceros adhere to rigorous security requirements and comply with regular inspections for accreditation, said Dan Ashe, president and chief executive of the Maryland-based Association of Zoos and Aquariums. \n But he conceded Friday: \"Nobody is insulated from this potential; we have made sure our members are aware of what occurred in Paris and they are quite vigilant. Everybody is sobered.\" \n Jacques-Olivier Barthes, a spokesman for the World Wildlife Fund in France, said zoos in Europe may have to change their security procedures in light of the attack. He said there are 300 rhinoceros in Europe, including 111 in Great Britain. \n \"If there is a change of criminal strategy and a swing from robbery in museums to crude crime of animals, it will also imply a change of means of protection for the zoos and African reserves which are in Europe,\" he said. \n Officials in France said Tuesday that a 5-year-old white rhinoceros named Vince was shot three times in the head by poachers who broke into the Thoiry Zoo. They used a chain saw to remove the rhino's horn. \n \"Imagine an animal running around with a big gold horn,\" said Ashe, who said some estimate the horns could sell for as much as $3,000 an ounce, or between $500,000 and $1 million. \"The value is extraordinary, and unfortunately there are criminals out there that will take a risk.\" \n \"This is a new potential threat,\" said Michael Hutchins, former director of conservation and science for AZA and a former executive director of the Wildlife Society. \"In order to stop this kind of thing, you have to lower the value of these animal parts and increase the punishment so people think twice about taking the chance. But it's quite complicated.\" \n Tom Stalf, president and CEO of the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium and The Wilds in Ohio, said safety of the animals is his top priority, but he declined to share details. \"Doing so would make them less effective,\" he said in a statement. \n The head of Britain's National Wildlife Crime Unit said officials would look to assess and improve security at every location in the United Kingdom that housed rhinos in the wake of the rhino killing in Paris, The Telegraph reported. \n Industry standards include 24-hour security guards, and Hutchins says most zoos lock up their animals inside secure buildings overnight. \n According to the World Wildlife Fund, the international trade in rhino horn has been banned since 1977. It says the primary market is in Vietnam, where some believe it cures cancer. It is also used in Asian medicine to treat fevers, various blood disorders and, in some cultures, hangovers. \n Bas Huijbregts, a WWF African species expert, said this is the first instance he knows of a rhino being killed in a zoo. \n \"A lot of horns have been stolen from museums in Europe,\" he said. \"A new era is born for zoos across the world. They have to secure them as they would secure grandpa's old watch. It also shows that poaching of African rhinos is not just an African problem. Even in well-protected zoos people are able to kill rhinos.\" \n Huijbregts said that despite the killing in France, his organization's emphasis remains on the poaching of rhinos in the wild. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Attack on rhinoceros in Paris puts zoo security in spotlight"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, left, spoke with Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. during a Tuesday news conference on health care, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans hate \"Obamacare,\" so House GOP leaders freak out whenever their health care bill is compared to President Barack Obama's law. But one reason some conservatives are branding the bill \"Obamacare Lite\" comes down to the tax credits to help consumers buy insurance. \n Both tax credits target people who don't get health insurance from their employer or from the government. They are both available to people even if they don't make enough money to owe any federal income tax. And they are both entitlement programs \u2014 if you meet the criteria, you are entitled to the benefit. \n But there are significant differences in the size and reach of the tax credits. \n The Obamacare tax credits are designed to limit the share of income that people have to spend on health insurance. \n The GOP tax credits are simpler, but consumers might still have to pay a large share of their income to obtain health insurance. \n \"These credits have long been part of the conservative health care reform ideal, supported by arch-conservatives in Congress as well as right-leaning think tanks going back for decades,\" according to a release from House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. \n Some Republicans aren't buying it. \n \"I think its Obamacare in a different form,\" said Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio. \"Let's do what we told the voters we were going to do. \u2026Clean repeal.\" \n A look at how the tax credits work in each plan: \n CURRENT LAW \n The tax credits in the Affordable Care Act are based on income and the cost of insurance premiums in a state marketplace. In general, the lower an individual's income the larger the tax credit. Also, the more expensive the premium, the larger the credit. \n Here is how it works: \n \u2014 You're 30 years old and single, making $23,000 a year. The average benchmark premium for a 30-year-old is $3,844 a year, according to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. \n Your Obamacare tax credit would be $2,426. You would pay $118 a month in premiums, or $1,418 for the year. \n \u2014 You're 60 years old and single, making $23,000. The average benchmark premium for a 60-year-old is $9,191 a year. \n Your Obamacare tax credit would be $7,773. You, too, would pay $118 a month in premiums. \n There's more. \n Obamacare also provides subsidies that can reduce out-of-pocket expenses such as annual deductibles and copayments. \n Obamacare tax credits are available to people making as much as 400 percent of the poverty level. For an individual, that's $46,680. For a family of two, that's $62,920, and for a family of four, it's $95,400. \n HOUSE GOP PLAN \n The credits range from $2,000 to $4,000 depending on age. Older consumers get larger credits. The tax credits are capped at $14,000 for a family. \n Income is not a factor in the size of the tax credit, though they are phased out for individuals making more than $75,000 and for married couples making more than $150,000. \n Using the previous examples: the 30-year-old making $23,000 would be eligible for a $2,500 tax credit \u2014 slightly more than under Obamacare. That would lower the cost of the annual premium to $1,344. \n Also, lower premiums could be available for younger people under the Republican plan because it makes changes in current insurance rules that favor older customers. \n The 60-year-old making $23,000 would get a $4,000 credit \u2014 less than under Obamacare. That would increase the annual premium to $5,191. \n Also, premiums could go up for older adults because the GOP bill allows insurers to charge more as people age and become more susceptible to health problems. \n There's more. \n Under the GOP plan, a 60-year-old making $70,000 would still get a $4,000 credit. Under Obamacare, this person is not eligible for a tax credit because they make too much money. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP plan less generous than Obamacare for older Americans"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Marine Erika Butner, left, and active duty Marine Marisa Woytek. \n WASHINGTON >> The Pentagon chief will meet his military and civilian leaders in coming days about reports that nude photos of female service members are being secretly posted online without their permission. \n Navy Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said today that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is troubled by the allegations and wants the services to take appropriate action. \n Former and current female Marines have said their photographs were shared on social media without their consent. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service launched an investigation into the matter and is urging victims of the photo-sharing to come forward. \n NCIS says it has received numerous tips. The other services are looking into the matter, but say they aren't aware of other victims. \n Active-duty Marine Marisa Woytek and former Marine Erika Butner appeared at a news conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday to applaud the investigation. \n Butner, 23, who served for four years before leaving the Marines in 2016, said she contacted investigators in January and told them there was an online storage drive that contained \"indecent photos of women from all military services, organized by name, rank and even where they were stationed.\" \n The women's lawyer, Gloria Allred, said there may be hundreds of such postings and that they prompted pornographic and violent replies, including some recommending that female Marines be raped or shot. \n In a video message released Tuesday, Marine Commandant Gen. Robert Neller said Marines should be focused on preparing to fight, \"not hiding on social media participating in or being aware of actions that are disrespectful and harmful to other Marines. It's embarrassing to our Corps, to our families and to the nation.\" \n The nearly four-minute video, distributed on various Marine websites and social media pages, were the first expansive comments Neller made about the reports. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mattis to meet with military leaders on nude photo sharing"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n German Chancellor Angela Merkel speaks in Brussels. President Trump will have his first face-to-face meeting with the German leader at the White House. \n WASHINGTON >> After accusing German Chancellor Angela Merkel on the campaign trail of \"ruining Germany\" by welcoming refugees, President Trump will have his first face-to-face meeting with the German leader at the White House on Tuesday. \n The two were expected to discuss strengthening the NATO alliance, collaborating to fight terrorism and taking steps to resolve the conflict in Ukraine, White House officials said Friday. \n Trump's first encounter will be aimed at building a personal rapport with a European partner who was among former President Barack Obama's strongest allies and international confidantes, according to the officials, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity despite the president's recent criticism of anonymous sources. \n Merkel, however, will need to look past Trump's past comments, when he accused her of \"ruining Germany\" because of her acceptance of refugees. Trump often claimed that his Democratic presidential rival, Hillary Clinton, was running to be \"America's Angela Merkel\" and argued that Germany was in the midst of crisis. \n White House officials said Trump would press Germany to set an example on the need for NATO members to spend more on defense, which Germany has resisted. NATO's 28-member countries committed in 2014 to spending 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense within a decade but only the U.S. and four other members of the post-World War II military coalition are in compliance. \n Trump referred to NATO as \"obsolete\" prior to his inauguration. But, he has since told European leaders he agrees on the \"fundamental importance\" of the military alliance, a message that was reinforced by Vice President Mike Pence during his recent trip to Europe. \n The meeting with Merkel will also allow Trump to discuss peace efforts in Ukraine. Pence and other U.S. officials have said Russia must adhere to a 2015 deal to end fighting between Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. \n White House officials said Trump was eager to hear Merkel's views on her interactions with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Many European allies have been rattled by Trump's positive statements about Putin and the meeting will come amid questions about Trump associates' connections to Russia. \n The White House said the two leaders may also discuss the Paris accord on climate change. Trump vowed during his campaign to withdraw from the climate agreement, suggesting that global warming is a hoax created by the Chinese to hurt U.S. competitiveness. But the administration said it is still formulating its policy on the issue ahead of the G7 meeting in Italy in May and the G20 gathering in Germany in July. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump, Merkel to discuss NATO, terrorism in upcoming meeting"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mike Flynn arrived for a Feb. 13 news conference in the East Room of the White House in Washington. Flynn, President Donald Trump's former national security adviser, who was fired from the White House last month, has registered as a foreign agent with the Justice Department for work that may have aided the Turkish government in exchange for $530,000. \n WASHINGTON >> Lawyers for retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn told President Donald Trump's transition team before the inauguration that Flynn might need to register with the government as a foreign agent, but Trump was not aware of the possible move, the White House said today. \n The disclosure by White House officials confirms the Trump transition team was aware of the situation involving the president's pick for a top national security post either before he joined the government or soon afterward. \n But the White House's acknowledgment raised new questions about whether Trump's transition team, and later, his White House lawyers, fully vetted Flynn after being informed about his possible filing as a foreign agent for his lobbying during the presidential campaign that may have benefited the government of Turkey. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer dismissed questions about whether the information should have given the transition team pause, saying Flynn had \"impeccable credentials.\" \n Trump fired Flynn last month after less than a month on the job saying he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other administration officials about his contacts with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. \n Spicer confirmed that Flynn's personal lawyer contacted Trump transition attorneys before the inauguration about the possible filing. But he added that Flynn's representative only asked for guidance and did not provide more details about the lobbying work or Flynn's business dealings. \n Spicer said Flynn's decision whether to file as a foreign agent was a personal matter that his own attorney would need to handle. \n Among those told of Flynn's lobbying work was Don McGahn, Trump's campaign lawyer who served in the transition and later became White House counsel, said a person with direct knowledge of the conversations between Flynn's representatives and the transition team. \n That person, who was not authorized to describe confidential conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity, said that during discussions after the inauguration White House lawyers were told Flynn was moving ahead with plans to file as a foreign agent. \n On Thursday, Spicer had said he did not believe Trump had been told of Flynn's work as a foreign agent. Later that day, Vice President Mike Pence said he was unaware of Flynn's foreign agent work until this week. \n Flynn and his firm, Flynn Intel Group Inc., filed paperwork this week with the Justice Department formally identifying him as a foreign agent and acknowledging that his work for a company owned by a Turkish businessman \"could be construed to have principally benefited the Republic of Turkey.\" \n In the filings with the Justice Department's Foreign Agent Registration Unit, Flynn and his company described $530,000 worth of lobbying before Election Day on behalf of Inovo BV, a Dutch-based company owned by Turkish businessman Ekim Alptekin. The lobbying occurred from August through November while Flynn was a top Trump campaign adviser. \n In an interview with the AP, Alptekin said Flynn and his firm filed the registration after pressure from Justice Department officials. Alptekin said he disagreed with the decision to register. He also said he had asked for some of his money back. \n Flynn's registration comes as he has drawn scrutiny from the FBI for his contacts with Russian officials. Through a spokesman, Flynn declined to discuss the registration. In the filing, his attorney said the lobbying contract quickly ended after Trump's election in November. \n On Thursday, Spicer defended Flynn's work, saying he did it as a \"private citizen,\" but he declined to say whether Trump would have hired Flynn if he had known about the lobbying. \n \"There's nothing nefarious about doing anything that's legal as long as the proper paperwork is filed,\" Spicer said. \n After Flynn joined the administration, he agreed not to lobby for five years after leaving government service and never to represent foreign governments. It appears that Flynn's work wouldn't violate the pledge because it occurred before he joined the administration in January. The pledge bars Flynn from ever doing the same type of work again in his lifetime. \n Under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, U.S. citizens who lobby on behalf of foreign governments or political entities must disclose their work to the Justice Department. Willfully failing to register is a felony, though the department rarely files criminal charges in such cases. It routinely works with lobbying firms to get back in compliance with the law by registering and disclosing their work. \n According to Flynn's filings, his firm's work involved research, informational materials and a video on the cleric Fethullah Gulen. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has accused Gulen, who lives in Pennsylvania, of orchestrating a botched coup last summer. Erdogan has called for Gulen's extradition, a request the Obama administration rebuffed. \n Alptekin, the Turkish businessman, has denied having any ties to Erdogan's government. But he is a member of a Turkish economic relations board run by an Erdogan appointee. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump transition knew Flynn might register as foreign agent"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A United Parcel Service driver delivered packages from Amazon.com, in June 2011, in Palo Alto, Calif. A joke book \"written\" by a conservative author and filled with blank pages in a dig at Democrats topped Amazon's list of best-sellers today. \n SEATTLE >> A joke book \"written\" by a conservative author and filled with blank pages in a dig at Democrats is the top-selling book on Amazon. \n \"Reasons to Vote for Democrats: A Comprehensive Guide\" consists of 266 pages. It has a table of contents, chapters and a bibliography, but no words on the pages other than the book and chapter titles. It's billed in the description as \"a political treatise sure to stand the test of time.\" \n As of this morning, it was Amazon's best-selling book. The paperback is available for about $8. \n Author Michael J. Knowles tells Fox News that when he took a look at the Democrats' \"record and reasons to vote for them,\" he thought \"it was probably best to just leave all the pages blank.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Book filled with blank pages tops Amazon's best seller list"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n 2888 Ala Ilima Street \n Emergency Medical Services transported a toddler to a trauma center in critical condition today after he fell from the third floor of a high-rise in Salt Lake. \n The fall occurred at approximately 6:44 a.m. at the 29-floor Five Regents Condominium at 2888 Ala Ilima Street. EMS Spokeswoman Shayne Enright said the 21-month-old boy suffered multiple injuries. \n The boy was conscious and crying when paramedics arrived and transported him to the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Toddler critically injured in 3-story fall in Salt Lake"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cambridge Hospital first-year residents Samantha Harrington, center, and Vikas Gampa, right, talked during \"sign-out,\" on Feb. 27, at the hospital in Cambridge, Mass. Sign-out is when the rookie doctors exchange information about their patients during shift change. \n CHICAGO >> Rookie doctors can work up to 24 hours straight under new work limits taking effect this summer \u2014 a move supporters say will enhance training and foes maintain will do just the opposite. \n A Chicago-based group that establishes work standards for U.S. medical school graduates has voted to eliminate a 16-hour cap for first-year residents. The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education announced the move today as part of revisions that include reinstating the longer limit for rookies \u2014 the same maximum allowed for advanced residents. \n An 80-hour per week limit for residents at all levels remains in place under the new rules. \n Dr. Anai Kothari, a third-year resident on a council panel that recommended the changes, says he only occasionally works 24-hour shifts. The extra hours give him time to finish up with patients instead of being sent home in the middle of a case, said Kothari, who works at Loyola University Medical Center near Chicago. \n But first-year resident Dr. Samantha Harrington thinks it will endanger the safety of residents and patients. \n Harrington says her 14-hour shifts this winter at Cambridge Hospital near Boston are already plenty long. To stay awake while driving home after work, she sometimes rolls down the window to let the freezing air blast her in the face. \n Harrington says the grueling hours are \"based on a patriarchal hazing system,\" where longtime physicians think \"'I went through it, so therefore you have to go through it too.'\" She is a member of the Committee of Interns and Residents, a union group that opposes the work-shift changes. So does the American Medical Student Association. \n Dr. Kelly Thibert, the group's president, says putting a 16-hour cap on all residents' work shifts would be a safer way to even the playing field. \n There are more than 120,000 U.S. doctors-in-training including rookies. \n The accreditation council has for years wrestled with ensuring that doctors are adequately trained but not over-worked. \n The 1984 death of an 18-year-old college student in a New York hospital while under the care of medical residents working long hours put a national spotlight on the issue. Medication error and inadequate supervision were cited in that case, which prompted a lengthy investigation and state limits for residents' work hours. \n In 2003, the council implemented national standards that established the 24-hour shift cap and 80-hour work week for all residents. After an Institute of Medicine report raised additional safety concerns about sleep-deprived residents, the council in 2010 shortened work shift caps for first-year residents to 16 hours and strongly recommended \"strategic napping.\" \n Critics of the shorter limit said it short-changed rookie doctors. Dr. Karl Bilimoria, a Northwestern University surgery professor, said some residents have complained that they've had to leave work in the middle of surgeries. \n Bilimoria led a study published last year suggesting that first-year residents could work longer without endangering patient safety or their own well-being. The research was among published findings that helped persuade panel to recommend lifting the 16-hour cap. The council's board approved the recommendation in a vote last month. The group delayed announcing the vote until its annual education conference, which ends Sunday in Orlando, Florida. \n \"We all agree that nobody wants tired physicians\" said Dr. Rowen Zetterman, board chairman. \n He said the new rules give training programs more flexibility, help eliminate abrupt handoffs of patients and will enhance teamwork among new doctors and their supervisors. The rules say rookie doctors must have supervisors nearby, and those more experienced doctors can step in if a new resident is exhausted, Zetterman said. \n U.S. doctor training generally includes an undergraduate science-related degree followed by four years of medical school. After that, newly minted doctors pursue several years of on-the-job training as medical residents, usually in hospitals. Fellowships or extra training in medical specialties may follow after that. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rookie docs can work 24-hour shifts under new rules"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / APRIL 2010 \n Walmart in the Town Center of Mililani. Dozens of employees and customers evacuated the store this morning due to smoke from a fire that started in the pillow section. \n Honolulu firefighters responded to a two-alarm fire at the Mililani Walmart, the second fire believed to be intentionally set at the store this year. \n A small fire occurred in pillow section of the store located at 95-550 Lanikuhana Avenue just after 6:30 a.m. today. \n Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said light smoke was observed emerging from the structure. The fire had already been extinguished by an employee who used a fire extinguisher before firefighters arrived. \n Dozens of employees and customers evacuated the store at the time of the fire due to smoke. No injuries were reported. \n Although Jenkins said they are investigating the cause of the blaze, a manager told employees this morning that someone started a fire in the store again. \n On the night of Jan. 22, a small fire occurred in the paper goods section. Firefighters extinguished the blaze by 9:14 p.m. No injuries were reported and damage was estimated at $2,000. The fire department determined the fire was intentionally set. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire prompts evacuation at Mililani Walmart"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police are investigating a second-degree assault case involving a two-month-old baby boy who suffered multiple skull fractures. \n The assault occurred in Aiea on Feb. 27. Police are investigating two people, a 28-year-old woman and 47-year-old man. The infant's condition is unknown at this time. \n Police declined to say exactly where the assault occurred in Aiea due to the pending investigation. \n No arrests have been made at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Infant sustains skull fractures in Aiea"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters battled two separate fires in Waimanalo and Waikiki. \n Eight units and 30 firefighters responded to the first two-alarm fire shortly before 9:15 p.m. Thursday at a vacant multi-use structure at 41-761 Mahailua St. \n The fire was brought under control just after 9:30 p.m. and extinguished by 10:30 p.m. \n Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said the structure was unoccupied at the time of the fire. \n The second two-alarm fire occurred at Scandia Towers at 155 Paoakalani Avenue in Waikiki just before 12:20 a.m. today. Nine units and 35 firefighters responded and observed smoke and flames emerging from the fourth floor of the 11-story residential building. \n Jenkins said a man was in the unit at the time of the fire. He was alerted to the fire by a smoke alarm and escaped uninjured. Other residents evacuated after the building's alarm system was activated. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control and extinguished it by 12:34 a.m. \n The causes of both fires are under investigation. Damage estimates have yet to be determined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters put out Waikiki, Waimanalo fires"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "NEWARK, N.J. >> A former Immigration and Customs Enforcement officer has been convicted of accepting cash bribes and sex from immigrants in the U.S. without legal permission in exchange for employment authorization documents. \n Arnaldo Echevarria, of Somerset, New Jersey, was found guilty Thursday of bribery, making false statements and harboring a person living in the U.S. illegally. Attorney Michael Koribanics said an appeal is likely. \n Echevarria received $75,000 in bribes from immigrants not in the U.S. legally in exchange for employment authorization documents from 2012 to 2014, prosecutors said, and in one instance he demanded and received sex. \n He also was convicted of concealing his girlfriend's immigration status and employing her in his hair salon while lying to ICE officials. Echevarria paid his girlfriend and other employees in cash to avoid paperwork, prosecutors said. \n He was given permission by ICE in December 2012 to open a hair salon in West Orange after he certified that the salon wouldn't conflict with his job and that he wouldn't employ people who were in the country without legal permission. But prosecutors say he had his girlfriend, who he knew was in the country illegally, manage the shop. \n Echevarria faces up to 15 years in prison and fines when he's sentenced June 19. \n Prosecutors say he falsely stated that the people who paid him had been granted temporary protected status, which is meant to allow people from countries experiencing environmental disaster, armed conflict or other extraordinary conditions to stay in the United States. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former immigration agent convicted of accepting bribes, sex"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the Clark County, Indiana., Sheriff's Office shows Joseph Oberhansley. Oberhansley is charged with murder, rape and abuse of a corpse in the September 2014 slaying of 46-year-old Tammy Jo Blanton. \n JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. >> A southern Indiana man accused of killing his former girlfriend and eating parts of her body in 2014 will undergo psychiatric evaluations, despite his insistence that he's competent for trial. \n Defense lawyers say Joseph Oberhansley can't consult with them or understand court proceedings. Clark County Circuit Court Judge Vicki Carmichael this week granted their request for evaluations. \n Oberhansley is charged with murder, rape and abuse of a corpse in the September 2014 slaying of 46-year-old Tammy Jo Blanton. If convicted, he could be sentenced to death. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indiana man accused of eating girlfriend to get mental evaluations"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Undated photo provided by police in Bochum shows 19-year-old Marcel Hesse. Police have launched a manhunt for the man who allegedly killed a 9-year-old boy in the western town of Herne and boasted about the murder on a video posted online. \n BERLIN >> A 19-year-old man suspected of killing a 9-year-old boy in the German city of Herne and posting pictures of the victim's body on the internet was arrested Thursday, police said. \n Officers made the arrest after the man called from a fast food stall and reported a fire in a nearby apartment, where police later found another male body, police spokesman Gunnar Wortmann told The Associated Press. \n Earlier information about two more bodies being found in the apartment was incorrect, Wortmann said. Preliminary information indicated the second body appeared to be that of an adult, he said. \n The suspect, named by police as Marcel Hesse, had been sought since the killing of a neighbor's child on Monday. \n The killing shocked the gritty industrial city of Herne, not least because police said the suspect had boasted about his actions online. \n Authorities said Hesse had posted a photo and video of the slain child online to boast about the killing. \n North Rhine-Westphalia's top security official, Interior Minister Ralf Jaeger, said at the time that the images \"left even the investigators stunned.\" \n Hesse was clearly identifiable, standing with bloody hands next to his victim, police said. \n A large-scale manhunt was launched, with police using helicopters and sniffer dogs to search the area. \n They warned the public not to approach the suspect, saying Hesse knew martial arts and could be armed and dangerous. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "German police arrest suspect in boy's killing, find 2nd body"}

{"date": "March 10, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson finishes a news conference about the state's response to President Trump's revised travel ban Thursday, March 9, 2017, in Seattle. Legal challenges against Trump's revised travel ban mounted Thursday as Washington state said it would renew its request to block the executive order. It came a day after Hawaii launched its own lawsuit, and Ferguson said both Oregon and New York had asked to join his state's legal action. \n SEATTLE >> Some of the states that helped derail President Trump's first travel ban are mounting efforts to block his second one, saying that while the new order applies to fewer people, it's infected with the same legal problems. \n Hawaii on Wednesday launched the first lawsuit over the revised order after amending an earlier complaint filed against the old ban. Washington, Massachusetts, New York, Oregon and Minnesota plan do the same Monday in federal court in Seattle, where a judge issued an order last month halting the first travel ban. \n In the meantime, Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson asked the judge to find that his order applies to the second ban as well. If the judge agrees, the government would not be able to put the new ban into effect next Thursday as scheduled, without further action from the court. \n With more legal challenges still to come, here's a look at the hurdles Trump's new travel ban faces. \n ___ \n SAME AS THE OLD BAN? \n Washington and Hawaii have made similar claims, arguing that Trump's travel ban is an effort to carry out the Muslim ban he promised during his campaign and a violation of the First Amendment, which bars the government from officially favoring or disfavoring any religion. In this regard, they say, the new ban is no better than the old. \n They point to statements by Trump's advisers, including former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who said Trump asked him how to implement a Muslim ban legally, and more recently Stephen Miller, who said the revised order was designed to have \"the same basic policy outcome\" as the first. \n The new ban applies to refugees who are not already on their way to the United States and to people seeking new visas. Under the original ban, even people with valid visas and legal U.S. residents from the listed countries were barred from entering the country. \n \"The revised executive order does narrow the scope of who's impacted,\" Ferguson told a news conference Thursday. \"That does not change the underlying constitutional problems: If you're acting in an unconstitutional way \u2014 this is effectively a Muslim ban \u2014 the fact that it's a smaller group of individuals who are harmed does not change the analysis.\" \n When the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld U.S. District Judge James Robart's order blocking the first travel ban, it did not resolve the states' First Amendment claim. But the judges referred to the states' argument as serious and significant. \n Some legal scholars have questioned the strength of the government's case on this point, noting that the order does not apply to all Muslims or even all predominantly Muslim nations \u2014 a point 9th Circuit Judge Richard Clifton made during oral arguments in Washington's case. \n ___ \n ISN'T IT THE PRESIDENT'S JOB TO PROTECT THE COUNTRY? \n It is, and the administration has argued that the travel ban is not about discrimination but national security. The revised order specifies that people coming from the listed countries \u2014 Somalia, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya and Yemen \u2014 \"warrant additional scrutiny in connection with our immigration policies because the conditions in these countries present heightened threats.\" \n But as Hawaii pointed out in its lawsuit, intelligence analysts at the Department of Homeland Security have questioned that rationale, concluding that citizenship is an \"unlikely indicator\" of terrorist ties. Their report noted that since 2011, 82 people were inspired by a foreign terrorist group to try to carry out attacks in the United States. Half were native-born U.S. citizens. The rest came from 26 countries, with the most coming from Pakistan, which is not on the travel ban list. \n That would seem to undermine the rationale for the travel ban, critics say. \n In addition, the states and civil liberties groups have alleged another flaw: U.S. immigration law generally prohibits the government from discriminating based on nationality when issuing immigrant visas. The president cannot rewrite that law by executive order, the states argue. \n Matt Adams, legal director of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, said his organization plans to file an amended class-action complaint in Seattle federal court on Friday to challenge the new ban. He said the administration must consider who people are \u2014 not where they come from \u2014 in deciding whether to issue visas. \n ___ \n ALOHA, TOURISM \n Some legal scholars have questioned whether states have standing to bring their cases, citing limits the Supreme Court has placed on when states can sue the federal government. \n Michael McConnell, a constitutional law professor at Stanford Law School, said in an email Thursday that he remains \"highly skeptical\" that states can file lawsuits over this issue. \n The 9th Circuit panel, however, found that Washington and Minnesota did have standing, at least at that early stage of the litigation. The judges noted that some people would not enter state universities or join the faculty at those universities, causing real harm for the states. \n Hawaii focuses on an additional aspect of harm: the loss of tourism, and thus tax dollars, in the heavily travel-dependent state. \n \"I don't think standing's a serious problem,\" said Rory Little, a former Supreme Court clerk who teaches at the University of California Hastings College of the Law. \"There's clearly harm to state budgets, harm to state universities.\" \n ___ \n This story has been corrected to show the effective date of the revised travel ban is next Thursday, not Wednesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at legal issues with Trump's revised travel ban"}

