{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton listens to Dr. Christopher Beckett, CEO of Williamson Health and Wellness Center during a tour an exam room of the facility in Williamson, W.Va. \n WASHINGTON >> With the hourglass running out for his administration, President Barack Obama's health care law is struggling in many parts of the country. Double-digit premium increases and exits by big-name insurers have caused some to wonder whether \"Obamacare\" will go down as a failed experiment. \n If Democrat Hillary Clinton wins the White House, expect her to mount a rescue effort. But how much Clinton could do depends on finding willing partners in Congress and among Republican governors, a real political challenge. \n \"There are turbulent waters,\" said Kathleen Sebelius, Obama's first secretary of Health and Human Services. \"But do I see this as a death knell? No.\" \n Next year's health insurance sign-up season starts a week before the Nov. 8 election, and the previews have been brutal. Premiums are expected to go up sharply in many insurance marketplaces, which offer subsidized private coverage to people lacking access to job-based plans. \n At the same time, retrenchment by insurers that have lost hundreds of millions of dollars means that more areas will become one-insurer markets, losing the benefits of competition. The consulting firm Avalere Health projects that seven states will have only a single insurer in each of their marketplace regions next year. \n Administration officials say insurers set prices too low in a bid to gain market share, and the correction is leading to sticker shock. Insurers blame the problems on sicker-than-expected customers, disappointing enrollment and a premium stabilization system that failed to work as advertised. They also say some people are gaming the system, taking advantage of guaranteed coverage to get medical care only when they are sick. \n Not all state markets are in trouble. What is more important, most of the 11 million people covered through HealthCare.gov and its state-run counterparts will be cushioned from premium increases by government subsidies that rise with the cost. \n But many customers may have to switch to less comprehensive plans to keep their monthly premiums down. And millions of people who buy individual policies outside the government marketplaces get no financial help. They will have to pay the full increases or go without coverage and risk fines. (People with employer coverage and Medicare are largely unaffected.) \n Tennessee's insurance commissioner said recently that the individual health insurance market in her state is \"very near collapse.\" Premiums for the biggest insurer are expected to increase by an average of 62 percent. Two competitors will post average increases of 46 percent and 44 percent. \n But because the spigot of federal subsidies remains wide open, an implosion of health insurance markets around the country seems unlikely. More than 8 out of 10 HealthCare.gov customers get subsidies covering about 70 percent of their total premiums. Instead, the damage is likely to be gradual. Rising premiums deter healthy people from signing up, leaving an insurance pool that's more expensive to cover each succeeding year. \n \"My real concern is 2018,\" said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president with Avalere. \"If there is no improvement in enrollment, we could see big sections of the country without any plans participating.\" \n If Republican Donald Trump wins the White House, he'd start dismantling the Affordable Care Act. But Clinton would come with a long list of proposed fixes, from rearranging benefits to introducing a government-sponsored \"public option\" as an alternative to private insurers. Not all her ideas would require congressional action. \n \"She is going to find it important to continue to expand health care,\" said Joel Ario, a former Obama administration official who's now with the consulting firm Mannatt Health. \n People in the Clinton camp say she recognizes that as president she'd have to get Obama's law working better, and is taking nothing off the table. \n A look at some major ideas and their prospects: \n PUBLIC OPTION  \n Clinton's primary rival, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, advocated \"Medicare for all\" and that pushed Clinton to a fuller embrace of government-run insurance. But Democrats could not get a public option through Congress even when they had undisputed control. Whichever party wins the Senate in November, the balance is expected to be close and Republicans are favored to retain control of the House. \n While a new national insurance program seems a long shot, Obama's law allows states to experiment. \"I think the public option is more likely to be tested at a state level,\" Sebelius said. \n SWEETENING SUBSIDIES  \n Clinton has proposed more generous subsidies and tax credits for health care, which might also entice more people to sign up. But she'd have a tough time selling Republicans. It may be doable in the bargaining around budget and tax bills, but Democrats would be pressed to give up some of the health law's requirements, including a premiums formula that tends to favor older people over young adults. \n INCREMENTAL CHANGES  \n Whether it's fixing a \"family glitch\" that can prevent dependents from getting subsidized coverage, requiring insurers to cover more routine services outside the annual deductible, or reworking the premium stabilization program for insurers, incremental changes seem to offer a president Clinton her easiest path. \n MEDICAID EXPANSION  \n Expect a Clinton White House to tirelessly court the 19 states that have yet to expand Medicaid for low-income people. She'd ask Congress to provide the same three full years of federal financing that early-adopting states got under the health law. GOP governors would demand more flexibility with program rules. \n \"I'm just hoping that reality begins to sink in when she is inaugurated,\" Sebelius said. \"If the law is not going to go away, then let's make it work.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton could face mounting problem with health overhaul"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Damage can be seen at the building of the National Criminology Lab in Brussels. Belgian media reported an explosion rocked the building in the early hours of Monday, the cause was not immediately known. \n BRUSSELS >> Reports of a bomb outside Belgium's criminal institute early Monday are probably false, the Brussels prosecutor's office said, adding that the incident is much more likely an arson attack on a crime lab. \n \"It's probably not terrorism. It's a criminal act,\" said spokeswoman Ine Van Wymersch. \"I cannot confirm that there was any bomb.\" \n State broadcaster RTBF and other outlets reported that a car drove through a security barrier at the site about 2 a.m. (0000 GMT), followed by an explosion that caused significant damage to the facility on Brussels' north side. Nobody was injured. \n The institute assists and advises Belgium's justice authorities in carrying out their investigations. \n Belgium has been on high alert since coordinated March 22 suicide bomb attacks on the Brussels airport and subway killed 32 people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brussels prosecutors say no bomb outside crime institute"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Beyonce accepts the award for Video of the Year for Lemonade at the MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden. \n NEW YORK >> Beyonce proved once again she is the contemporary rock star, and she used the MTV Video Music Awards stage to showcase her skills and outshine her peers, from Rihanna to Britney Spears. \n Beyonce won eight awards, including video of the year, and performed five songs from her visual album \"Lemonade\" in an epic 16-minute concert Sunday that had the audience at Madison Square Garden in awe. \n She sang live, danced heavily and worked the crowd as she ran through \"Pray You Catch Me,\" \"Hold Up,\" \"Sorry,\" \"Don't Hurt Yourself\" and \"Formation,\" which won the top prize over Adele, Drake, Justin Bieber and Kanye West. \n \"First of all, I'd like to thank my beautiful daughter and my incredible husband for all of their support,\" said Beyonce, who walked the carpet with daughter Blue Ivy and the mothers of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown and Eric Garner \u2014 who all appeared in \"Lemonade\" movie. \n It was reminiscent of the 2014 VMAs, when Beyonce also performed for 16 minutes and accepted the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard award. This year it was awarded to Rihanna, who split up her performances throughout the night, singing hits such as \"Work,\" \"We Found Love\" and \"Love on the Brain.\" \n But the biggest moment for Rihanna came when Drake \u2014 in a tuxedo \u2014 presented the award to his former girlfriend. He said he met Rihanna in 2005 on the set of her first music video for \"Pon de Replay.\" \n \"She's someone I've been in love with her since I was 22 years old,\" Drake said as Rihanna blushed and the audience cheered loudly. \"She's one of my best friends in the world. All of my adult life I've looked up to her even though she's younger than me.\" \n Rihanna, 28, thanked her family, friends and hometown of Saint Michael, Barbados, for helping her succeed in her 11-year-career. \n \"My success started as my dream, but now my success is not my own. It's my family, my fans, my country \u2026it's women, it's black women,\" she said. \n Beyonce's top-notch performance starkly contrasted with that of Spears, who returned to the VMA stage after 10 years. Not only did she lip sync, in typical fashion, but she did so badly. Spears performed her hit \"Make Me\u2026\" and danced slickly, but she didn't actually sing a word of the song live. She was joined by rapper G-Eazy \u2014 and she lip synched the hook to his hit song, \"Me, Myself and I.\" \n In true Kanye fashion, the rapper ranted onstage, touching on subjects from music to his beef with Taylor Swift to violence in his hometown Chicago before he debuted his music video for \"Fade,\" which starred Teyana Taylor. He talked about his \"Famous\" video, which features what appear to be naked images of himself, his wife Kim Kardashian, Swift, Donald Trump and others. He even pointed to former girlfriend Amber Rose, who was in the audience and is also in the video. \n Drake won best hip hop video for \"Hotline Bling\" and Calvin Harris won best male video for \"This is What You Came For.\" David Bowie \u2014 who died from cancer earlier this year \u2014 received four nominations for \"Lazarus\" and won best art direction. The music video, which shows him looking frail in bed with bandaged eyes, was released just days before the icon's Jan. 10 death. \n Performers included Nick Jonas, The Chainsmokers, Ty Dollar $ign and Ariana Grande, who brought spin class to the VMA stage when she sang the reggae-tinged \"Side to Side\" with Nicki Minaj. \n In one of several odes to the recent Olympic Games, Michael Phelps said he's been inspired by hip-hop music before introducing Future, who Phelps said he listened to before swimming and making the grimace that went viral. The rapper-singer-producer performed his hit \"(Expletive) Up Some Commas.\" \n Jimmy Fallon, who presented video of the year, dressed as Ryan Lochte and even sported the platinum blonde hair. As Lochte \u2014 who is dealing with trouble after filing a false robbery report over an incident during the Rio Olympics \u2014 Fallon lied onstage about writing Justin Bieber's \"Sorry\" and directing the clips nominated for video of the year. \n Other presenters include Alicia Keys, Puff Daddy and four of the Final Five gymnasts (Gabby Douglas was hospitalized for a mouth infection). \n Adele was behind Beyonce with eight nominations, but the British singer did not attend the show and did not win any Moon Men. Beyonce's wins included best female video, pop video, breakthrough long-form video, choreography, direction, cinematography and editing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Beyonce proves she's in a lane of her own at MTV VMAs"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kanye West appears at the MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden. \n Kanye West compared himself to Walt Disney, Steve Jobs, Howard Hughes, Harry Truman and Henry Ford before unveiling his new video at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards. \n West described himself as a \"thought leader\" in a rambling speech that included a defense of his \"Famous\" video and shout-out to former flame Amber Rose. \n West said people stay impoverished when their esteem, resources and role models are taken away. He said that he and other guests at Sunday's show, such as Puff Daddy, Jaden Smith and wife Kim Kardashian, are \"undeniably the influencers, the thought leaders.\" \n The rapper also addressed his \"Famous\" video, a nominee at Sunday's show, which shows the nude likenesses of various celebrities including Taylor Swift and Donald Trump. \n \"This is fame, bro,\" the rapper said, name-dropping Trump, Rose and \"Vogue\" editor Anna Wintour. \n He debuted the video for \"Fade,\" which focused on Teyana Taylor dancing in a thong and sports bra alone in a weightlifting gym, showering nude and transforming into an animal. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kanye West compares himself to Jobs, Disney, Hughes, Ford"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte poses is greeted by supporters following a wreath-laying ceremony in observance of National Heroes Day at the Heroes Cemetery in suburban Taguig city east of Manila, Philippines. \n MANILA, Philippines >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Monday that his bloody anti-drug campaign that has left nearly 1,800 people dead does not amount to genocide, but that he's ready to go to jail to defend his men from lawsuits. \n Duterte drew a line between the widespread killings sparked by his anti-drug war and the brutality under Syrian President Bashar Assad and the atrocities committed by Islamic State group extremists. \n \"Genocide? Who did I kill? I did not kill any child. I did not drop barrel (bombs) just like Assad,\" Duterte said in a speech to mark the Philippines' national heroes' day before war veterans, ambassadors and top officials. \"I'm fighting \u2026 criminals.\" \n Referring to Islamic State group militants, whom he called \"idiots,\" Duterte said, \"I do not burn women because they refuse to have sex.\" \n At least 1,779 drug suspects have been killed in Duterte's campaign, including 712 who were gunned down in clashes with police, with the rest being slain in still-unclear circumstances, the national police chief told a Senate inquiry last week. \n At least 3.7 million Filipinos have become addicted to methamphetamine, a prohibited stimulant known locally as shabu, with about 600,000 drug users and dealers surrendering to authorities, Duterte said. \n Human rights groups have expressed alarm over the spate of killings, and U.N.-appointed human rights experts warned steps should be taken to halt the violence, adding that the government and law enforcers could be held responsible. \n \"Claims to fight the illicit drug trade do not absolve the government from its international legal obligations and do not shield state actors or others from responsibility for illegal killings,\" U.N. Special Rapporteur on summary executions Agnes Callamard said in a statement this month. \n The 71-year-old Duterte built a name with his deadly crime-busting style as a longtime mayor of southern Davao city. He described his campaign against drugs as a harsh war that would involve the military because the problem has worsened into a crisis and claimed the lives of law enforcers. \n \"We might still end up like the South American countries and their fractured governments. I am declaring war,\" he told an audience at a national heroes' cemetery Monday that included ambassadors, war veterans and security officials. The drug menace, he said, \"has infected every nook and corner of this country involving generals, mayors, governors, barangay (village) captains\" and policemen. \n Pressing his campaign, Duterte announced bounties of 2 million pesos ($42,000) for information that would help the government identify any police officer protecting drugs syndicates. \n He repeated his pledge to defend the police and military, but warned law enforcers against conniving with criminals. \n \"In the pursuit of law and order, pursuant to my directions, you do not have to worry about criminal liability,\" he said. \"I will go to the prison for you. I take full legal responsibility, you just do it according to the books.\" \n \"But for those in government, the police, the corrupt police and the corrupt judges and the corrupt prosecutors, there will be a day of comeuppance, there will always be a day of reckoning,\" Duterte said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine president says no genocide in his bloody drug war"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A crowd of people wait in Terminal 1 where passengers were being rescreened by security at Los Angeles International Airport after reports that a gunman opened fire. The active shooter reports turned out to be false but caused panicked evacuations at Los Angeles International Airport. \n LOS ANGELES >> Reports of a gunman opening fire that turned out to be false caused panicked evacuations at Los Angeles International Airport on Sunday night, while flights to and from the airport were delayed. \n A search through terminals brought no evidence of a gunman or shots fired, Los Angeles police spokesman Andy Neiman said. The reports were spurred by loud noises only, and police were still investigating to find the source of them, Neiman said. \n Airport officials said that a person wearing a Zorro costume was detained during the incident, but it wasn't yet clear whether the person had any connection to the evacuation. \n The incident still left a mess in its wake. \n Terminals were slowly starting to reopen but the passengers who fled will have to be rescreened through security, airport police said. \n Roads into the airport were only slowly starting to be reopened, and flights were only slowly resuming again, with massive backup expected for both, officials said. \n When the incident began, scores of people could be seen on social media and on TV news running from the terminal out on to the sidewalks and streets as police with rifles out stormed terminals. Many other evacuees were standing on the airport tarmac, and abandoned bags littered some sidewalks. \n \"We were on the jetway and someone starts pushing behind us,\" Jon Landis, a sales representative from Boston who was boarding a flight home, told The Associated Press. \"One man was frantic saying there was a shooter.\" \n Police officers, including one with a shotgun, eventually led passengers out of the terminal, through a security gate, and into a parking lot \u2014 where several hundred passengers waited for the terminal to reopen. Ninety minutes after the scare, Landis said he was still waiting for word on his flight. \n Passenger Scott McDonald said he was getting off a plane in the middle of the incident and was told by the crew to get back on. He said looking out the window he could see many evacuees gathered out on the tarmac, a strange sight even for someone who travels almost constantly. \n \"I've never seen passengers, just normal people, on the tarmac anywhere in the United States,\" McDonald told KCAL-TV. \n Leyna Nguyen, an anchor for KCAL whose flight happened to arrive just before the panic began, said even false reports \"create such a chaotic scene, it's really scary.\" \n \"I saw people running faster than I've ever seen people run just to get out of the way,\" Nguyen said. \n It came just days after another false alarm led to a panicked evacuation of Kennedy Airport in New York. \n In that incident, police were investigating whether an overly boisterous celebration of the Olympics on Aug. 14 led to noises that were misinterpreted as gunfire, with the ensuing chain reaction turning into a panic as crowds ran to evacuate. \n The Los Angeles airport had an actual shooting in November 2013, when a man opened fire in the terminal, killing a security agent and wounding three other people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "False report of gunman at Los Angeles airport causes panic"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republicans and Democrats sparred Sunday over whether Hillary Clinton crossed ethical lines during her tenure as secretary of state by talking with people outside the government who had contributed to her family's philanthropy foundation. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans and Democrats sparred Sunday over whether Hillary Clinton crossed ethical lines during her tenure as secretary of state by talking with people outside the government who had contributed to her family's philanthropy foundation. \n Donna Brazile, the interim head of the Democratic National Committee, said it's not unusual for supporters and activists to seek out private meetings and that there's no evidence Clinton did any favors on behalf of foundation donors. \n \"When Republicans meet with their donors, with their supporters, they call it a meeting,\" she told CBS' \"Face the Nation.\" \"When Democrats do that, they call it a conflict. It's not pay-to-play, unless somebody actually gave someone 50 cents to say, 'I need a meeting.'\" \n GOP vice presidential nominee Mike Pence countered that because foreign donors can't contribute to a presidential campaign, it's possible they were seeking political leverage within the U.S. government by donating to the Clinton Foundation. He reiterated calls by Donald Trump's campaign for the federal government to appoint a special prosecutor to examine possible corruption. \n \"This (foundation) becomes a conduit for people to gain access, and gaining access is a favor,\" Pence told CNN's \"State of the Union.\" \n The State Department has released all Clinton's calendars and about half her detailed daily schedules as secretary of state, after The Associated Press sued for access in federal court. \n Based on the records released so far, the AP found that more than half the people outside the government who met or spoke by telephone with Clinton during her tenure as a Cabinet secretary had given money \u2014 either personally or through companies or groups \u2014 to the Clinton Foundation. The AP's analysis focused on people with private interests and excluded her meetings or calls with U.S. federal employees or foreign government representatives. \n The government said Friday it probably won't release the remainder of the detailed schedules until Dec. 30, weeks after the national election. \n Clinton has said the AP's analysis was flawed because it did not account fully for all meetings and phone calls during her entire term as secretary. She also said the analysis should have included meetings with federal employees and foreign diplomats. The AP said it focused on her meetings with outsiders because those were more discretionary, as Clinton would normally meet with federal officials and foreign officials as part of her job. \n Her campaign also objected to an AP tweet that stated \"more than half those who met Clinton as Cabinet secretary gave money to Clinton Foundation\" and linked to the analysis. The tweet didn't note what was in the story: that the records only covered part of her tenure and excluded meetings or calls with federal employees or foreign government representatives. \n AP Senior Vice President and Executive Editor Kathleen Carroll told CNN's \"Reliable Sources\" on Sunday that the tweet was \"sloppy\" and \"could have used some more precision.\" But she said the story linked to the tweet was \"completely rock solid.\" \n \"I think the issue about conflict with interest is not whether there's an actual quid pro quo, it's the proximity,\" she said. \"It's the impression that people have of maybe they got the meeting because they donated, maybe they didn't.\" \n She added: \"All of us can't be held responsible for the way that everybody thinks about and responds to and talks about the coverage. Our responsibility is just to give them fair and balanced, rock-solid reporting and let them agree with it, disagree with it, talk about it, think what they might about it.\" \n Clinton said Friday she would take \"additional steps\" to ensure there wasn't a conflict of interest with the foundation if she is elected president. Her husband, former President Bill Clinton, had already said the foundation would no longer accept foreign or corporate donations and that he would no longer raise money for the organization if she became president. The Clintons' daughter, Chelsea, would remain on the foundation's board. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Politicos spar over ethics surrounding Clinton Foundation"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The president and first family are planning on hiking at the national park during their visit to the area. \n TRIANGLE, Va. >> President Barack Obama and the first family are hiking at Prince William Forest Park in Virginia. Their visit Sunday comes as the National Park Service's celebrates its centennial. \n The president has marked the week by creating a national monument in Maine and expanding a monument off Hawaii. \n Admission to national parks and historic sites was free during the weekend. \n The National Park Services describes Prince William Forest Park as a \"respite of quiet and calm\" amid the hustle and bustle and frequent traffic jams of northern Virginia. \n The agency says the park has 37 miles of hiking trails that meander through some 15,000 acres. It is the largest protected natural area in the Washington region. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "First family goes hiking in national park in Virginia"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "CAGAYAN DE ORO, Philippines >> Muslim extremists supporting the Islamic State group freed eight fellow militants in a daring attack that also allowed 15 other inmates to escape from a provincial jail in the southern Philippines, police said Sunday. \n About 20 heavily armed fighters of the Maute militant group stormed the Lanao del Sur provincial jail in Marawi city before nightfall Saturday, disarmed the guards and rescued their eight comrades. The attackers also seized two rifles from guards, police said. \n The eight who escaped were arrested a week ago when they were caught with a homemade bomb in van at a security checkpoint. \n The others who escaped, apparently to divert the attention of authorities, were facing murder and illegal drugs charges. \n The Maute group is a new band of armed Muslim radicals who have pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group and use black flags with logos of the Middle East-based extremists. \n Based in Lanao del Sur's Butig town, the militants have attacked army troops and beheaded a soldier and two kidnapped workers earlier this year. Before being killed, the two workers were made to wear orange shirts similar to beheading victims of the Islamic State group. \n A number of Muslim armed groups in the southern Philippines, including some commanders of the violent Abu Sayyaf, have pledged loyalty to the Islamic State group. The military has tried to play down their actions, saying there has been no evidence of an active collaboration between the foreign extremists and Filipino militants who are aiming to prop up their image and secure badly needed funds amid years of battle setbacks. \n President Rodrigo Duterte, who took office in June, has pursued peace talks with two large Muslim rebel groups, but has ordered troops to destroy the Abu Sayyaf and other hard-line militants. \n Troops have continued on-and-off offensives against the Maute militants in Butig in Lanao del Sur, a predominantly Muslim province, about 830 kilometers (520 miles) south of Manila. \n A major offensive against the Abu Sayyaf in Sulu province's mountainous Patikul town, also in the south, has killed at least 19 militants, including an influential commander, Mohammad Said, who used the nom de guerre Amah Maas, his two sons, and another ranking fighter, Latip Sapie, military officials said. \n Said, who had severed arms and was among the most senior Abu Sayyaf commanders, had been implicated in the kidnappings of several Filipinos and foreigners. He had good ties with the Moro National Liberation Front, a larger rebel group that has engaged in peace talk with the government, but has been suspected of providing sanctuary and combat support to the more brutal Abu Sayyaf in the past. \n \"Let us vigorously pursue this terrorist-bandit Abu Sayyaf group with no let-up and destroy them,\" military chief of staff Gen. Ricardo Visaya said, promising to pour more troops into Sulu. \"We have this one chance to annihilate this menace to society that claims links with the ISIS.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Filipino militants free 8 comrades, 15 others in jail attack"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "A 23-year-old man was treated for a gunshot wound late Friday night, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n The incident happened at Sheridan Street and Rycroft Street at 11:52 p.m. \n The man had an apparent gunshot wound to his left upper leg. \n He was transported to the hospital in serious condition, paramedics said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man, 23, taken to hospital with gunshot wound"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "Three people were injured after a van crashed into the Ala Wai and struck a pedestrian Sunday morning in Waikiki, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n The incident happened at Ala Wai Boulevard and Niu Street at 5:20 a.m. \n A 37-year-old man was driving a van, which crashed into the Ala Wai Canal. He was transported to the hospital in serious condition. \n A 42-year-old woman, a passenger in the van, was treated for minor injuries. \n The pedestrian, a 43-year-old man, was taken to the hospital in serious condition with injuries to his legs. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "3 injured after van crashes into Ala Wai canal"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Lester. \n NOAA \n Tropical Storm Madeline, left, packing winds of 65 mph, was about 800 miles east of Hilo at 5 p.m. Sunday, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center. \n Update 5 a.m. \n Madeline strengthened overnight to a category 2 hurricane as it continued heading toward Hawaii island. \n Packing maximum sustained winds of 100 mph, Madeline was centered 695 miles east of Hilo and 890 miles east-southeast of Honolulu this morning while moving west-southwest at 10 mph. \n Forecasters at the National Weather Service expect Madeline to continue strengthening today and Tuesday until slightly weakening Wednesday. \n Meanwhile, in the East Pacific, Hurricane Lester also strengthened slightly, clocking in with maximum sustained winds of 125 mph and moving west at 15 mph. \n Lester was centered 1,290 miles west of Baja California. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Madeline strengthened to a hurricane tonight and could remain a hurricane as it passes over or near Hawaii island on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Lester strengthened into a major hurricane as it moves toward Hawaii and threatens to bring more rain and strong winds during the Labor Day weekend. \n Forecasters cautioned that both storms could still change course and the exact timing and effect on Hawaii is still not certain. \n However, tropical storm warnings could be posted for Hawaii island as soon as Monday. \n At 11 p.m., Madeline was about 755 miles east of Hilo and about 955 miles east-southeast of Honolulu with maximum sustained winds of 85 mph. \n Madeline is moving west-northwest at 10 mph and could strengthen slightly Monday, before weakening on Tuesday. \n Hurricane-force winds extend 15 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend 90 miles from the center. \n Tropical moisture ahead of the Madeline's center should bring an increase in humidity and tradewind showers starting Tuesday. Madeline should pass over or near the Big Island on Wednesday, bringing strong winds and rain. \n The weather on other islands will depend on Madeline's exact path. \n East of Madeline, Lester intensified into a category 3 hurricane with sustained winds of 115 mph in the East Pacific. Forecasters said it could get stronger Monday before it moves into cooler waters and begins to weaken. \n Lester may also be a hurricane as it gets close to Hawaii. \n At 11 p.m., Lester was 1,205 miles west-southwest of Baja California, Mexico, moving west at 15 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend 25 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds go out 105 miles from the center. \n Previous coverage \n Tropical Storm Madeline and Hurricane Lester continued to move toward Hawaii on Sunday, raising the risk for a rain-soaked Labor Day weekend. \n As of 5 p.m. Sunday, Madeline was 800 miles east-southeast of Hilo and about 1,005 miles east-southeast of Honolulu, moving west-northwest at about 10 mph and packing 65-mph winds. \n Forecasters said Madeline could strengthen into a hurricane by Monday before gradually weakening as it continues to approach the islands. \n If the storm continues on its current track, humidity and showers ahead of Madeline's center will begin arriving Tuesday over Hawaii island and Maui and spread to the other islands. The center of the storm could move near the Big Island Wednesday into Wednesday night, bringing tropical storm conditions. \n That would potentially coincide with President Barack Obama's scheduled visit to Hawaii for the World Conservation Congress. The convention, scheduled for Sept. 1 to 10, is expected to bring in several other dignitaries as well as heightened security and road closures around the Hawaii Convention Center and the Neal S. Blaisdell Center. \n Meanwhile, Lester was located 1,875 miles east of Hilo and 2,060 miles east-southeast of Honolulu as of 5 p.m. on Sunday. The storm has 85 mph winds and was moving west at 14 mph. Forecasters said Lester could reach Hawaii by Labor Day weekend if it continues its current path. \n Forecasters cautioned, however, that the forecast tracks for both storms could change significantly in the next few days and it is still not possible to predict exactly how and when the storms will affect the islands. \n The National Weather Service said tropical storm watches may be posted in the next couple of days. \n Forecasters noted that the margin of error for Central Pacific tropical cyclones can vary between 185 and 250 miles on the fourth and fifth days of the forecast track. \n \"There is a large degree of uncertainty with the speed, track, and intensity of tropical systems like this, which can result in significant changes to the types of impacts we could see,\" forecasters said. \n Moderate trade winds are expected to continue for the next few days as a high-pressure system persists to the north of the state. Wet weather could arrive as early as Tuesday as a surge of deep moisture moves across the state from the east, heralding the arrival of Madeline's northernmost edge. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Madeline, Lester gain in strength overnight"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan speaks during the inauguration of the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, the third bridge over the Bosporus, in Istanbul. \n ISTANBUL >> Turkey's president vowed on Sunday to \"destroy terrorists\" after months of deadly attacks throughout the country and reiterated his claim that a child suicide bomber was responsible for last weekend's explosion that claimed at least 54 lives in the southeast. \n Speaking at a rally in Gaziantep where the suicide bombing took place at a Kurdish wedding, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the \"terrorists\" are being \"picked up one by one\" by Turkey's security forces. \n \"They will all be cleansed out like a cancer cell,\" he told a roaring crowd of his supporters. \"We will find them and punish them.\" \n Last week, Erdogan said a 12- to 14-year-old child was the suicide bomber, but Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said later that the bomber was still unidentified and investigations continued. On Sunday, Erdogan reiterated the claim without saying whether it's a result of the investigation. \n \"Terror has used a 14-year-old child as a suicide bomber and shed blood, killed people,\" he said. \"In this attack, our 54 citizens, including 34 children, died.\" \n Authorities have blamed the Islamic State group for the Gaziantep attack, but neither IS nor any other militant groups have claimed responsibility. \n Erdogan repeated that the country's parliament will decide whether to reintroduce a death penalty in the wake of a failed coup on July 15 that claimed at least 270 lives. That has triggered an outcry by rights groups in Turkey and the West. \n \"My nation wants the death penalty,\" he said. \"That is the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.\" \n Turkey has sent tanks across the Syrian border following weeks of deadly attacks by the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or the PKK, and IS. The move aims to both fight IS and halt the advance of Syrian Kurdish groups. \n On Sunday, two separate blasts in the Turkey's Kurdish-dominated southeast killed one Turkish soldier and wounded eight others, and Kurdish militants launched a rocket-propelled grenade at a civilian airport, officials and the state-run news agency said. \n One soldier was killed and three were wounded after a roadside bomb was triggered remotely by rebels linked to the PKK in the Hakkari province, the state-run Anadolu Agency said. In the ensuing firefight that included army helicopters, 10 militants were killed, the private Dogan news agency said. The report couldn't be independently verified. \n In another attack, five civilian village guards were wounded in Siirt province after their van hit an improvised explosive device on a road, Anadolu said, blaming PKK for the blast. \n Earlier, Kurdish rebels, apparently targeting a police checkpoint at Diyarbakir Airport, fired a grenade that exploded near the airport's VIP passenger entrance, shattering windows, the local governor's office said. No injuries were reported. Passengers were taken to safety after the attack and flights resumed after a brief pause during the police investigation. \n Violence between the PKK and security forces resumed last year, after the collapse of a two-year peace process in July. Since then, more than 600 Turkish security personnel and thousands of PKK militants have been killed, according to Anadolu. Rights groups say hundreds of civilians have also been killed in the clashes. \n On Friday, a Kurdish suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden truck into a checkpoint near a police station in the southeast, killing at least 11 Turkish police officers and wounding 78 other people. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Turkish president vows to 'destroy terrorists'"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "At 11 a.m. Sunday, Madeline was 885 miles east of Hilo and 1,085 miles east-southeast of Honolulu. \n Tropical Storm Madeline is continuing to move northwest toward the state with little change in intensity, the Central Pacific Hurricane Center said. \n At 11 a.m. Sunday, Madeline was 885 miles east of Hilo and 1,085 miles east-southeast of Honolulu. \n Madeline had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph and was moving northwest at 9 mph, according to forecasters. \n Weather officials expect the motion to continue through Monday with a gradual turn to the west Monday night and Tuesday. \n Tropical storm force winds extend outward up to 70 miles from Madeline's center. \n Forecasters say Madeline is expected to strengthen through Monday before weakening Monday night or Tuesday. \n Just behind Madeline is Lester, a Category 1 hurricane from the Eastern North Pacific. \n At 11 a.m., Lester was 1,020 miles west-southwest of the southern tip of Baja California, Mexico, with maximum sustained winds of 85 mph. \n Lester was moving west at 13 mph with hurricane-force winds extending outward up to 25 miles from the center. \n The westward motion is expected to continue during the next 48 hours, forecasters said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Madeline, Lester continue west"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police and airline officials say two United Airlines pilots have been arrested for suspected intoxication before they were to fly 141 passengers fromScotland to the United States. \n LONDON >> Police and airline officials say two United Airlines pilots have been arrested for suspected intoxication before they were to fly 141 passengers from Scotland to the United States. \n United Airlines officials have confirmed Saturday's arrest of the pilots, aged 45 and 35, at Glasgow Airport. The Police Service of Scotland says both men are expected to be arraigned Monday at a court in Paisley, a Glasgow suburb, to face charges connected to Britain's transport safety laws. \n United said Saturday's flight from Glasgow to the U.S. city of Newark, New Jersey, was delayed for 10 hours while the airline sought replacement pilots. \n Saturday's arrests come barely a month after two Canadian pilots of an Air Transat plane were arrested at Glasgow Airport and charged with trying to fly while intoxicated. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 United pilots suspected of being drunk arrested in Glasgow"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Firefighters recover paintings from a collapsed house in Amatrice, central Italy, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2016 where a 6.1 earthquake struck just after 3:30 a.m., Wednesday. Italians bid farewell Saturday to victims of the devastating earthquake that struck a mountainous region of central Italy this week. \n AMATRICE, Italy >> Bulldozers with huge claws pulled down dangerously overhanging ledges Sunday in Italy's quake-devastated town of Amatrice as investigators worked to figure out if negligence or fraud in building codes had added to the quake's high death toll. \n The quake that struck before dawn Wednesday killed 290 people and injured hundreds as it flattened three medieval towns in central Italy. Giuseppe Saieva, the prosecutor in the regional capital of Rieti, said the high human death toll \"cannot only be considered the work of fate.\" \n Investigations are focusing on a number of structures, including an elementary school in Amatrice that crumbled despite being renovated in 2012 to resist earthquakes at a cost of $785,000. No one was in the school at the time, but many were shocked that it did not withstand the 6.2 magnitude quake. \n After an entire first grade class and teacher were killed a 2002 quake in San Giuliano di Puglia, Italian officials had vowed to ensure the safety of schools, hospitals and other critical institutions. \n Questions also surround a bell tower in Accumoli that collapsed, killing a family of four sleeping in a neighboring house, including a baby of 8 months and a 7-year-old boy. That bell tower also had been recently restored with special funds allocated after Italy's last major earthquake, which struck nearby L'Aquila in 2009. \n Italy's national anti-terrorism prosecutor, Franco Roberti, also vowed to work to prevent the mafia from infiltrating in public works projects to rebuild the earthquake zone. \n \"This risk of infiltration is always high,\" he said in comments Sunday in the La Repubblica newspaper. \"Post-earthquake reconstruction is historically a tempting morsel for criminal groups and colluding business interests.\" \n Roberti said, although he does not wish to prejudge the outcome of the investigation into the area's damaged buildings, the high number of public buildings to collapse in the quake raises suspicions. \n He said if buildings are well-constructed according to regulations for earthquake zones, \"parts of buildings can be damaged and cracked but they don't pulverize and implode.\" \n Italy's state museums, meanwhile, embarked on a fundraising campaign, donating their proceeds Sunday to relief and reconstruction efforts in the earthquake zone. \n Wednesday's quake destroyed not only private homes but also churches and other centuries-old cultural treasures. The idea is to use art for art \u2014 harnessing the nation's rich artistic heritage to help recover and restore other objects of beauty in the hard-hit towns. \n It's one of several efforts that have sprung up to help the towns rebuild: restaurants in Italy and elsewhere are also serving up pasta all'Amatriciana, the region's most famous dish, in another fundraising effort. \n Also Sunday, Pope Francis vowed in his weekly address from a window over St. Peter's Square to visit people of the earthquake region soon and bring them \"the comfort of faith.\" \n Amatrice bore the brunt of earthquake's destruction, with 229 fatalities and a town turned into rubble and dust. Eleven others died in nearby Accumoli and 50 more in Arquata del Tronto, 10 miles (16 kilometers) north of Amatrice. \n Overnight was relatively calm, the first since the quake struck without strong aftershocks. In all, the region has seen 1,820 aftershocks, according to the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology. \n On Saturday, a state funeral took place for 35 of the victims in the town of Ascoli Piceno, where mourners prayed, hugged, wept and even applauded as coffins carrying earthquake victims passed by ahead of being buried. \n \"It is a great tragedy. There are no words to describe it,\" said Gina Razzetti, a resident at the funeral. \n Saturday's funeral involved most of the dead from Arquata del Tronto. Many of the dead from Amatrice, however, are still awaiting identification in a refrigerated morgue in an airport hangar in Rieti, 65 kilometers (40 miles) away. On Tuesday, a memorial service \u2014 without the bodies \u2014 will be held for the dead of Amatrice. \n Nobody has been found alive in the ruins since Wednesday and hopes have vanished of finding any more survivors. The number still missing is uncertain, due to the many visitors seeking a last taste of summer in the Apennine mountains. \n Hundreds of people have also been left homeless by the quake, with many spending their nights in tent cities and a gym in Amatrice. Longer-term housing needs for earthquake survivors will be another key challenge for Italian authorities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Italy investigates quake buildings, checking for code fraud"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton has landed on very personal argument against Donald Trump's checkered business past: her dad. As the Democratic presidential nominee seeks to undercut Trump's economic record and promote her plans for small businesses, she is invoking memories of her late father's Chicago drapery business. \n WARREN, Mich. >> Hillary Clinton has landed on a very personal counterpunch to what she says is Donald Trump's checkered business past: her dad. \n As the Democratic presidential nominee works to undercut Trump's economic record and promote her plans for small businesses, she is invoking memories of her late father's Chicago drapery business. Recalling Hugh Rodham hard at work making and printing curtains for hotels and office buildings, Clinton argues that he would have been \"stiffed\" in a deal with the celebrity businessman. \n \"He expected to be paid when he showed up,\" Clinton said recently during an event in Warren, Michigan. \"He did the work. He paid for the supplies and the labor he often hired to help him on big jobs. I can't imagine what would have happened to my father and his business if he had gotten a contract from Trump.\" \n Clinton hopes to remind voters that despite her years in public life that have left her a multimillionaire, she comes from a middle-class background and understands the life of a small-business owner. She also wants to contrast her biography with that of Trump, who was raised by a successful real estate developer and has drawn criticism for his treatment of small businesses during his career. \n Trump has promoted his business record as a key qualification for the White House. But Trump casinos failed on several occasions. When the Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey went bankrupt in the early 1990s, some contractors who worked on the property went under because Trump's company didn't pay what they were owed, according to interviews with The Associated Press. \n In a statement to the AP, Clinton said her father's business gave her \"a sense of responsibility,\" adding that she was \"living proof that a successful small business is at the core of the basic bargain in America, that if you work hard and do your part, you can make your own dreams and those of your children a reality.\" \n Clinton has been pitching her plans to support small businesses and to make it easier to start a company. On a conference call with small-business owners last week, she proposed a new tax deduction for small businesses and offered federal incentives to encourage state and local governments to streamline regulations. \n While Clinton has spoken of her father throughout the campaign, the recent recollections have been more detailed and intimate. Clinton tends to speak sparingly about her family while campaigning and when she does, it is typically to make a broader point. She has referenced her grandfather's work in a factory in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and her mother's troubled childhood. Clinton has also spoken of her granddaughter as an example of the future generation she is fighting for. \n Mo Elleithee, who worked for Clinton's 2008 presidential bid, said that reminiscing about her family's business could put Clinton \"in a different light\" with voters. Elleithee, now executive director of the Institute of Politics and Public Service at Georgetown University, noted that \"she's never done a very good job of talking about herself.\" \n A Scranton native, Clinton's father moved to Chicago after graduating from college. There he worked as a traveling salesman before enlisting in the Navy during World War II, Clinton writes in \"Living History.\" When he returned from the war, he set up a drapery fabric business in Chicago, called Rodrik Fabrics, and later started a print plant on the city's north side. \n Rodham largely worked alone, but Clinton writes that she and her brothers helped when they were old enough. The business did well enough for Rodham to buy a house in the leafy suburb of Park Ridge, where he and wife, Dorothy, raised Clinton and her two brothers. \n By all accounts, Rodham was a stern man, but he is also credited with instilling his daughter's powerful work ethic and encouraging her ambition. Clinton's childhood friend Betsy Ebeling said Rodham \"could be gruff but he could be very loving.\" \n \"Her dad was one that, as Hillary likes to say, he was a chief petty officer, both in the Navy and at home,\" Ebeling said. \"He'd sit at the dinner table and he'd throw out these conversation things and wait for us to go: 'No way.' We really did learn to debate at his feet.\" \n Of course, parental anecdotes may not win over all of those on the fence about Clinton, who has struggled with historically high unfavorability ratings. Still, Republican Rick Tyler, who served as an adviser to Texas Sen. Ted Cruz's presidential bid, said Clinton's family-focused hit on Trump was effective. \n \"She's got a message that's relatable,\" Tyler said. \"There's literally no one on our side who has been able to articulate a counter message. And Donald Trump embodies Hillary Clinton's message that the rich get rich off the backs of the poor.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton invokes father's memory to hit Trump on business"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The United States and Russia said Friday they had resolved a number of issues standing in the way of restoring a nationwide truce to Syria and opening up aid deliveries, but were unable once again to forge a comprehensive agreement on stepping up cooperation to end the brutal war that has killed hundreds of thousands. \n GENEVA >> U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's stops in Bangladesh and India come amid increasing concerns about terrorism in both South Asian nations. \n After talks on Syria with Russian and U.N. officials, Kerry planned to depart Geneva later Sunday for meetings with Bangladeshi officials, opposition and civic leaders who are coping with a series of extremist attacks. The most recent killed 20 people, including 17 foreigners, at a popular restaurant last month in Dhaka, the capital. \n The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for the attack, but authorities maintain that a local banned group, Jumatul Mujahedeen Bangladesh, or JMB, was behind it. \n Kerry, on his first visit to Bangladesh as secretary of state, planned to discuss counterterrorism cooperation, along with human rights and economic development. On Saturday, police said they had killed three suspected militants, including an alleged mastermind of the cafe attack. Attacks over the past two years have killed atheist bloggers, foreign aid workers and religious minorities. \n In India, Kerry is set to attend the seventh meeting of the U.S.-India strategic dialogue. Those discussions are taking place as tensions rise in the disputed region of Kashmir, scene of some of the largest protests against Indian rule in recent years. Since early July, at least 67 civilians have been killed and thousands injured, mostly by government forces firing bullets and shotguns at rock-throwing protesters. Two policemen have been killed and hundreds of government forces have been injured in the clashes. \n India and Pakistan control parts of the Himalayan territory and claim it in its entirety. U.S. officials say Kerry will continue to urge dialogue between India and Pakistan over the dispute, the cause of two of three wars between the nations. \n Many Kashmiris want an end to Indian rule and favor independence or a merger with Pakistan. More than 68,000 people have been killed since rebel groups began fighting Indian forces in 1989 and in the subsequent Indian military crackdown. \n Kerry, who aims to try to further boost U.S. economic ties with India on his two-day visit, will be accompanied by U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker and senior officials from 12 U.S. government agencies and institutions. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kerry heads to Bangladesh, India amid South Asian tensions"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n NASA is entering the next phase of a plan to draw up rules of the road for small drones that fly under 500 feet. The NASA project is meant to develop performance standards for drones that would be used for commercial purposes. \n GRAND FORKS, N.D. >> As the unmanned aircraft industry continues to evolve, the United States is depending on its space agency to help manage small drone traffic close to the Earth. \n NASA is currently entering the second phase of a four-step plan to draw up rules of the skies for drones that weigh 55 pounds or less and fly no higher than 500 feet. The project is meant to develop performance standards for drones that would be used for commercial purposes by companies such as Amazon and Google. \n The agency is hoping to present its research to the Federal Aviation Administration before 2020, John Cavolowsky, director of NASA's Airspace Operations and Safety Program, told attendees at a drone summit in North Dakota last week. \n By that time, he said, it is estimated there will be seven million small drones in operation, including 2.6 million aircraft for commercial use. \n \"Those are big numbers,\" Covolowsky said. \"Frankly I think they are underestimating the size of the opportunity that we are going to be facing.\" \n The air traffic management plan, known as UTM, is a virtual system designed to help drone operators deal with weather conditions, restricted air space, airport congestion and other obstacles. The study is looking to develop a standard way of sending and receiving flight data among drone operators and regulators. \n \"The biggest challenge is safety, but along with that is bringing the rest of the world with us,\" said Terri Zimmerman, CEO of North Dakota-based Botlink, a cloud-based drone operations platform. \"We are going to have to overcome some perceptions and assure the rest of the world there are protocols and procedures in place.\" \n Private companies are pushing the UTM plan more than even NASA expected, according to Nicholas Flom, director of safety for the Northern Plains UAS Test Site in Grand Forks. \n The first phase of the UTM project included a simultaneous effort in April among drone operators in North Dakota, Alaska, Nevada, New York, Virginia, Maryland and Texas. A total of 24 drones flew several times throughout the three-hour test, and the live flights were interspersed with more than 100 simulated flights. \n \"It was highly successful,\" Covolowsky said. \"I think it provided us with a very substantial view for the future and opportunities going forward.\" \n The second phase of the project will include testing flights beyond visual line-of-sight of the operator. \n Stuart Rudolph is president and CEO of SmartC2, which makes software to help drone operators schedule and manage their fleet. He said it makes sense that an agency that can land a small instrument on Mars should be the group managing the integration of manned and unmanned aircraft. \n \"This going to be quite different from the traffic management system we look at today, when we get on a commercial plane. It is totally controlled,\" Rudolph said, noting that NASA understands \"the space from top to bottom and all the different pieces.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Feds turn to space experts NASA for small-drone traffic plan"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "Child care is a major expense for many American families and can be difficult to manage. \n The cost varies widely across the country, but the Child Care Aware of America organization found that it can run as high as $17,062 annually for an infant and $12,781 for a four-year old. That often exceeds the cost of housing, transportation or food. It even rivals what the average family pays for one year of college tuition. \n Here are some tips to help: \n Katie Bugbee of Care.com, an online service for finding babysitters and other services, says that ideally these cuts come from discretionary spending like dinners out or vacations, rather than savings or other necessities. She suggests laying out the cost for your ideal scenario and other options, then figuring out what needs to be done to make each choice feasible. \n You may find that leaving the workforce could hurt your employability and long-term income, Bugbee said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Big costs for little ones"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A family spokesman says a cousin of Dwyane Wade's was fatally shot Friday, Aug. 25, while pushing a baby in a stroller on the city's South Side. Wade posted on Twitter: \"My cousin was killed today in Chicago. Another act of senseless gun violence. 4 kids lost their mom for NO REASON. Unreal.\" \n CHICAGO >> Two brothers who were on parole for prior criminal activity have been charged with first-degree murder in the shooting death of the cousin of NBA star Dwyane Wade, Chicago police announced Sunday. \n Darwin Sorrells Jr., 26, and Derren Sorrells, 22, also were charged with attempted murder in Friday's shooting. \n Nykea Aldridge, a 32-year-old mother of four, was pushing her baby in a stroller near a school where she'd planned to register her children when she was shot in the head and arm. She wasn't the intended target, Cmdr. Brendan Deenihan said at a news conference Sunday, but rather a driver who had just dropped off passengers in the neighborhood. \n There is video of the incident, Dennihan said, but no weapon was recovered and police don't know where the weapon is. \n Chicago has been in the throes of a major uptick in gun violence this year, largely centered in a few South and West Side neighborhoods, after years of seeing declines. This July alone, there were 65 homicides \u2014 the most that month since 2006. \n Superintendent Eddie Johnson said the suspects are an example of the city's problem with repeat offenders, which he has spoken about frequently in recent months. Darwin Sorrells was sentenced to six years in prison in January 2013 on a gun charge and was released early on parole. Derren Sorrells is a known gang member who is also on parole for motor vehicle theft and escape, police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said, adding he has six felony arrests on his record. \n \"They don't care who they shoot and they don't fear the consequences,\" he said, noting as he has in the past that about 1,400 people are driving 85 percent of the city's gun violence. He added that the city has gotten very good at predicting who will be the perpetrators and the victims of gun violence. \n Wade, whose charitable organization, Wade's World Foundation, does community outreach in the Chicago area, signed with the Chicago Bulls in July after 13 years with the Miami Heat. He and his mother, pastor Jolinda Wade, participated Thursday via satellite in a town hall meeting in Chicago on gun violence hosted by ESPN. \n Wade has reacted to his cousin's shooting only online, tweeting Friday: \"My cousin was killed today in Chicago. Another act of senseless gun violence. 4 kids lost their mom for NO REASON. Unreal. #EnoughIsEnough.\" \n Wade also tweeted Saturday morning: \"The city of Chicago is hurting. We need more help& more hands on deck. Not for me and my family but for the future of our world. The YOUTH!\" adding in a following tweet, \"These young kids are screaming for help!!! #EnoughIsEnough.\" \n It is not the first time Dwyane Wade's family in Chicago has been affected by gun violence. His nephew, Darin Johnson, was shot twice in the leg in 2012 but recovered. \n Indiana Gov. Mike Pence sidestepped questions Sunday morning on CNN's \"State of the Union\" about the flow of guns into Illinois from his state. Chicago police have said a fifth of the guns used in Chicago crimes are from Indiana. When asked about it, the Republican vice presidential candidate instead brought up failing schools in Chicago and his running mate Donald Trump's pledge to create jobs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 Chicago men charged in shooting of NBA star Wade's cousin"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Record visitor numbers at the nation's first national park have transformed its annual summer rush into a sometimes dangerous frenzy, with selfie-taking tourists routinely breaking park rules and getting too close to Yellowstone's storied elk herds, grizzly bears, wolves and bison. \n YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo. >> Tourist John Gleason crept through the grass, four small children close behind, inching toward a bull elk with antlers like small trees at the edge of a meadow in Yellowstone National Park. \n \"They're going to give me a heart attack,\" said Gleason's mother-in-law, Barbara Henry, as the group came within about a dozen yards of the massive animal. \n The elk's ears then pricked up, and it eyed the children and Washington state man before leaping up a hillside. Other tourists \u2014 likewise ignoring rules to keep 25 yards from wildlife \u2014 picked up the pursuit, snapping pictures as they pressed forward and forced the animal into headlong retreat. \n Record visitor numbers at the nation's first national park have transformed its annual summer rush into a sometimes dangerous frenzy, with selfie-taking tourists routinely breaking park rules and getting too close to Yellowstone's storied elk herds, grizzly bears, wolves and bison. \n Law enforcement records obtained by The Associated Press suggest such problems are on the rise at the park, offering a stark illustration of the pressures facing some of America's most treasured lands as the National Park Service marks its 100th anniversary. \n From Tennessee's Great Smoky Mountains to the Grand Canyon of Arizona, major parks are grappling with illegal camping, vandalism, theft of resources, wildlife harassment and other visitor misbehavior, according to the records obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request. \n In July alone, law enforcement rangers handled more than 11,000 incidents at the 10 most visited national parks. \n In Yellowstone, rangers are recording more wildlife violations, more people treading on sensitive thermal areas and more camping in off-limit areas. The rule-breaking puts visitors in harm's way and can damage resources and displace wildlife, officials said. \n Often the incidents go unaddressed, such as when Gleason and the children approached the bull elk with no park personnel around. Gleason said he was \"maybe\" too close but felt comfortable in the situation as an experienced hunter who's spent lots of time outdoors. \n These transgressions add to rangers' growing workload that includes traffic violations, searches for missing hikers and pets running off-leash in parks intended to be refuges of untrammeled nature \n \"It's more like going to a carnival . If you look at the cumulative impacts, the trends are not good,\" said Susan Clark, a Yale University professor of wildlife ecology who has been conducting research in the Yellowstone area for 48 years. \"The basic question is, 'What is the appropriate relationship with humans and nature?' We as a society have not been clear about what that ought to be, and so it's really, really messy and nasty.\" \n Recent events at Yellowstone grabbed national headlines: \n \u2014 A Canadian tourist who put a bison calf in his SUV hoping to save it, ending with wildlife workers euthanizing the animal when they could not reunite it with its herd. \n \u2014 Three visitors from Asia cited on separate occasions for illegally collecting water from the park's thermal features. \n \u2014 A Washington state man killed after leaving a designated boardwalk and falling into a near-boiling hot spring. \n The flouting of park rules stems from disbelief among visitors that they will get hurt, said Yellowstone Superintendent Dan Wenk. \"I can't tell you how many times I have to talk to people and say, 'Step back. There's a dangerous animal,' and they look at me like I have three heads,\" he said. \n Inconsistent record keeping, including a recent switch to a new criminal offenses reporting system, makes it difficult to identify trends that apply uniformly across the major parks. \n But the records reviewed by the AP reveal the scope of visitor misbehavior is huge. In Yellowstone, administrators and outside observers including Clark say the park's problems have become more acute. That threatens its mission to manage its lands and wildlife \"unimpaired\" for future generations. \n Beyond incidents that lead to citations are many more that result in warnings. More than 52,000 warnings were issued in 2015, up almost 20 percent from the year before. \n Washington state resident Lisa Morrow's son was among the children Gleason led toward the elk. Despite safety advisories \u2014 and numerous examples of visitors getting gored by bison, mauled by bears and chased by elk \u2014 Morrow declared herself unafraid of the park's wildlife. She said she was eager to see a grizzly up close. \n \"I want to see one right there,\" Morrow said, pointing to a spot just feet away. \"I'd throw it a cookie.\" \n The top 10 parks by visitation collectively hosted almost 44 million people last year, according to National Park Service figures. That's a 26 percent increase from a decade earlier, or more than 9.1 million new visitors combined at Great Smoky Mountains, Yellowstone, Grand Canyon, Yosemite and the other national parks on the list. \n Yellowstone boasts the most large, dangerous carnivores among those parks, but each has its risks. In Rocky Mountain National Park, it's elk that become more aggressive during mating season. In Yosemite, it's towering waterfalls where visitors insist on swimming near the edge. In the Grand Canyon, it's squirrels habituated to humans and sometimes quick to bite an outstretched hand. \n Wenk said the rise in popularity of social media complicates keeping visitors safe. \n \"You take a picture of yourself standing 10 feet in front of a bison, and all of a sudden a few hundred people see it, and it's reposted \u2014 at the same time we're telling everybody wildlife is dangerous,\" Wenk said. \"They get incongruous messages and then it happens. They get too close, and the bison charges.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Visitor misbehavior abounds as U.S. parks agency turns 100"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Charles Osgood is about to say \"goodbye\" as host of \"CBS News Sunday Morning\" in September. \n NEW YORK >> Charles Osgood, who has said \"good morning\" to his audience every Sunday for 22 years, is about to say \"goodbye\" as host of \"CBS News Sunday Morning\" in September. \n He announced his scheduled Sept. 25 farewell on Sunday's edition. That broadcast will be a tribute to Osgood's legacy on and off \"Sunday Morning.\" \n But after that, he won't be absent from the program, he assured viewers, explaining he will be on hand for occasional appearances. \n \"For years now, people \u2014 even friends and family \u2014 have been asking me why I continue doing this, considering my age,\" the 83-year-old Osgood said in brief concluding remarks. \"It's just that it's been such a joy doing it! It's been a great run, but after nearly 50 years at CBS \u2026 the time has come.\" \n And then he sang a few wistful bars from a favorite folk song: \"So long, it's been good to know you. I've got to be driftin' along.\" \n No successor has been named. Among those under consideration are reportedly \"Sunday Morning\" colleagues Jane Pauley, Anthony Mason and Lee Cowan. \n Meanwhile, the program continues to be a ratings leader. With a year-to-date audience of nearly 6 million viewers, it consistently tops rival Sunday morning news programs. \n \"(Osgood) has one of the most distinctive voices in broadcasting, guiding each broadcast, making sure the words were just right, and being a calming, reassuring presence to our viewers,\" said CBS News president David Rhodes. \n He is exiting a job only one other person has held since \"Sunday Morning\" premiered in 1979. Charles Kuralt retired in 1994 after crafting the job in his own folksy, easygoing image and hosting for 15 years. \n Osgood seemingly had an impossible act to follow. But with his folksy erudition and his slightly bookish, bow-tied style, he immediately clicked with viewers who continued to embrace the program as an unhurried TV magazine that, as before, seemed defined only by its host's, and staff's, curiosity. \n Even then, Osgood was already a CBS veteran. \n In 1967, he took a job as reporter on the CBS-owned New York news radio station. Then, one fateful weekend, he was summoned to fill in at the anchor desk for the TV network's Saturday newscast. \n In 1971, he joined the CBS network. \n Since then, he has proved to be a broadcaster who can write essays and light verse as well as report hard news, a man who has continued to work in both radio and television with equal facility. (He once described himself as \"a radio guy who finally stopped being terrified of the camera.\") \n He has been an anchor and reporter for many CBS News broadcasts on both TV and radio. He has long delivered \"The Osgood File\" on radio, and will continue to do so, where, if the mood strikes, he might sing another song. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "CBS' Charles Osgood to end 22 years as 'Sunday Morning' host"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "BERLIN >> Germany's economy minister says free trade talks between the European Union and the United States have failed. \n Negotiations on the so-called Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, or TTIP, have made little progress in recent years. \n Sigmar Gabriel, who is also Germany's Vice Chancellor, said Sunday that \"in my opinion the negotiations with the United States have de facto failed, even though nobody is really admitting it.\" \n He noted that in 14 rounds of talks the two sides haven't agreed on a single common chapter out of 27 chapters being discussed. \n Gabriel compared the TTIP negotiations unfavorably with a free trade deal forged between the EU and Canada, which he said was fairer for all sides. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "German economy minister says EU-U.S. trade talks have failed"}

{"date": "August 28, 2016", "text": "ANNA PACHECO / SPECIAL TO THE STAR-ADVERTISER \n A dome shaped habitat housed 6 crew members in isolation on the slopes of Mauna Loa for one year as they participated in a year long experiment simulating long-duration space travel. \n MAUNA LOA >> A year ago, six volunteers of different nationalities and personalities \u2014 some chattier than others, some neater and cleaner\u2014 entered a modest dome two-thirds of the way up this desolate volcanic slope, where they had agreed to spend the next 365 days confined together to study potential effects on crews for future missions to Mars. \n On Sunday, all six crew members emerged from their dome habitat and felt the chill Mauna Loa mist for the first time in a year. They looked a bit pasty and in need of some sun but otherwise appeared in good spirits. \n \"I'm looking forward to pineapple,\" Andrzej Stewart, the chief engineering officer of the latest NASA-funded Hawaii Space Exploration Analogand Simulation (HI-SEAS) mission, said moments before he and his crew mates feasted on fresh fruits and vegetables outside the dome. \n Stewart and his colleagues had just made history, having completed the longest-running space simulation on U.S. soil, as scientists and researchers continue to plan and prepare for an eventual manned expedition to Mars. The previous record-holder was the eight-month mission in the HI-SEAS dome that wrapped last year. \n Since 2013, some 24 specialists chosen from some 800 applicants have now put their lives on hold and simulate extended missions to Mars atop Mauna Loa. \n They've missed births, weddings, funerals and other significant moments to live with hardly any privacy in the dome's close confines,documenting their days and their moods as researchers away from the dome take down additional data. \n Meanwhile, the HI-SEAS project has steadily compiled massive amounts of what could be invaluable data on crew cohesion and other subjects to help plan manned trips to Mars. \n \"We now have 24 months of 24-7 data,\" HI-SEAS Principal Investigator Kim Binsted said Sunday, moments before the crew exited. \"This is really a whole portfolio of studies. We're going to be digging through data for years.\" \n The project, affiliated with the University of Hawaii at Manoa, has also steadily gained more attention since 2013. The crowd of friends, family and media on hand to greet the crew as they reenter the world has successively ground with each mission. About 50 people welcomed them Sunday, including international reporters and film crews. Now that HI-SEAS has completed four missions, including three on crew-cohesion,\"we're actually respected now,\" Binsted said. \n For this mission there were too many people on the rocky slope to allow access to the small interior dome. Media were briefed to give crewmembers space in case they were overwhelmed by the crowd and the attention after a year in isolation. The crew members stayed to speak with visitors Sunday. \n Eventually, NASA could use the Hawaii missions' findings on crew cohesion, as well the crews' use of water and other resources, to help the space agency plan expeditions to the red planet. NASA officials say the nation's space agency has at least a $3 billion annual budget dedicated to future Mars missions alone. \n The agency has invested more than $2 million to fund the missions on Mauna Loa, including two future eight-month simulations, according to Binsted, who's a UH researcher. \n On Sunday, crew members said they were happy to step outside the dome without having to wear a space suit to simulate the red planet. Stewart, a self-described \"military brat\" who moved frequently growing up, said he felt mixed emotions about leaving the habitat. \"If you live somewhere long enough\u2026kind of where you live becomes home after a while. I'm going to miss the place.\" \n Much of the crew agreed that the hardest time they spent in isolation was during winter, when it was really \"cold and dark,\" as Chief Medical and Safety Officer Sheyna Gifford put it. The habitat, which includes composting toilets and showers, relies on solar power. \n During the yearlong mission crew members conducted their own research and projects. They also used virtual-reality equipment to view family and friends and study if that helped boost their morale better than conventional video messages. The missions have an approximately40-minute communications delay to simulate the distance to Mars. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honore mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Researchers emerge from yearlong stay in Mars simulation habitat atop Mauna Loa"}

