{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "YONHAP VIA AP \n Relatives of the missing victims and clergymen attended religious services on a boat off Jindo, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean salvage crews on Tuesday found what was presumed to be the remains of one or more of the missing victims of a 2014 ferry disaster that killed 304 people, an official said. \n Salvage crews found six bones near a beam beneath the front side of the ferry, which was raised from the sea last week and loaded onto a heavy lift transport vessel that will carry it to port, said Lee Cheoljo, an official from the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries. \n It wasn't immediately clear whether the bones, measuring from 4 to 18 centimeters (1.5 to 7 inches), belonged to one person or multiple people, said Lee, adding that DNA tests to identify the victims would take at least two to three weeks. Crews have also found shoes and other items that were presumed to have belonged to victims. \n \"It's presumed that the bones came out with the mud that spilled out from the ship's front,\" Lee said. \n He said crews suspended operations to empty the ferry of fuel and water after the bones were discovered at around 11:25 a.m. \n Crews on the transport vessel have drilled dozens of holes in the ferry in an effort to empty it of water and fuel before it's ready to be transported to a port in the city of Mokpo. Relatives had earlier expressed concerns that remains of the missing victims could slip out through the holes and get lost. \n Rescue workers had recovered the bodies of 295 people \u2014 most of them students on a high school trip \u2014 before the government ended underwater searches in November 2014, seven months after the ship sank. Nine of the ferry's passengers had remained missing. \n Earlier Tuesday, the relatives of the missing passengers participated in an emotional memorial service on a boat near the transport vessel holding the ferry, where representatives of Catholic and Protestant churches and Buddhists delivered prayers wishing for the remains of the nine to be recovered. \n Relatives threw into the sea yellow roses, a color that has become the symbol of their suffering, and watched from afar as crews on the transport vessel continued to empty the ferry of water and fuel. \n \"The ship has come up, but not the nine people inside it,\" Lee Geum-hee, the mother of a missing schoolgirl, told a television crew. \"Please don't forget there are people inside the dirty, rusty and smelly wreckage. \u2026 Please do the best and let us bring them back home.\" \n Once the ferry reaches a port in the city of Mokpo, investigators will spend about a month cleaning it and evaluating it for safety. They will then begin to search the vessel for the remains of the victims and look for clues that could further illuminate the cause of the sinking, which has been blamed on overloaded cargo, improper storage and other negligence. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea finds presumed remains of ferry disaster victims"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump sits with House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. on Capitol Hill in Washington on March 16. \n WASHINGTON >> Still reeling from last week's House health care debacle, Republicans are pivoting to tax cuts and other issues but remain riven into factions and all over the map about how and when to return to their marquee pledge to eviscerate former President Barack Obama's 2010 overhaul. \n House Republicans are gathering Tuesday to discuss their agenda, their first meeting since House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., suddenly abandoned plans last Friday for a vote on the GOP legislation. The retreat on the party's top legislative priority so far this year was a jarring defeat for President Donald Trump and Republican leaders and raised questions about whether the GOP could muster the unity it will need on other issues. \n The doomed GOP bill would have eliminated Obama's mandate for people to carry insurance or face fines and would have shrunk a Medicaid expansion. It relied on tax credits to help consumers purchase insurance that for many people would be less generous than under Obama's statute. \n Republicans have issued mixed messages on what comes next. \n Trump tweeted this evening that Democrats will cut a health care deal with him \"as soon as Obamacare folds \u2013 not long. Do not worry.\" \n He also attacked anew the House Freedom Caucus, about three dozen hardcore conservatives who largely opposed the GOP bill. He wrote that they snatched \"defeat from the jaws of victory.\" \n House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, an author of the failed legislation, told reporters that Republicans \"are turning the page and moving on toward tax reform.\" He said he's encouraging the Senate to produce its own health care package, and he and others suggested that lawmakers may produce several smaller bills addressing pieces of the issue. \n But the Senate GOP's No. 2 leader, John Cornyn of Texas, showed little appetite to plunge ahead. \n \"My hope is that Democrats will quit gloating at our inability to get it done on a party-line basis and join us in fixing\" Obama's law, Cornyn said. He said he didn't expect that to happen until \"our Democratic friends have to start answering to the people who are being hurt by the failures of Obamacare.\" \n Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said Democrats will address Obama's overhaul only when Republicans drop their repeal effort. He accused Trump of using executive actions to destabilize the health care system. \"That's not presidential,\" he said, \"that's petulance.\" \n Obama's overhaul has provided insurance to 20 million additional people and forced insurers to provide better coverage to many more, but it's also left some markets with soaring premiums and fewer insurers. \n Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich, who's opposed the Republican bill for proposing deep cuts in Medicaid, visited House GOP moderates today. He predicted afterward that the measure would not \"rise out of the ashes\" because Congress is \"dysfunctional,\" and said the two parties needed to produce bipartisan legislation. \n The episode has left Republicans divided into camps that are happy to blame each other for the legislation's failure. \n \"We're going to have to look at where a governing majority comes from. That's going to require some answers from the Freedom Caucus,\" said centrist Rep. Ryan Costello, R-Pa. \n But Rep. Dave Brat, R-Va., a Freedom Caucus member, said on CNN that Trump got bad advice \"from some in leadership who said that some of us should not even exist up here. We need to be on a team and get a good product.\" \n The health care strategizing comes as the GOP has one clear bright spot: Trump's nomination of conservative appeals court Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. The Senate plans to consider Gorsuch next week. \n Brady wants his panel to produce a bill overhauling much of the nation's tax code this spring. But Republicans must overcome internal differences on that issue too, including whether to impose taxes on imports to encourage manufacturers to produce products domestically and whether the measure should drive up deficits. \n Congress is fast approaching a deadline to pass government-wide spending legislation or face a shutdown. In the past such deadlines have prompted brinkmanship that sometimes led to shuttering agencies. \n Leaders tentatively plan to produce a bipartisan measure providing more than $1 trillion to fund the government through Sept. 30. That could prove difficult, with conservatives possibly insisting on more money to build Trump's border wall or to halt federal payments to Planned Parenthood, and Democrats abandoning the effort if it tilts against their liking. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP divided over new course after House health care debacle"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hawaii Attorney General Douglas Chin spoke at a press conference outside the federal courthouse in Honolulu. A federal judge granted Chin's request to temporarily halt President Trump's travel ban earlier this month. \n RICHMOND, Va. >> A group of 12 state attorneys general and one governor is backing President Donald Trump's revised travel ban targeting six predominantly Muslim countries, telling a federal appeals court today that the Republican acted lawfully in the interest of national security. \n The states are urging the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to overturn a lower court judge's ruling that blocked part of the president's revised executive order. The states say the administration's action is not a \"pretext for religious discrimination\" and does not violate the constitution. \n \"The Executive Order's temporary pause in entry by nationals from six countries and in the refugee program neither mentions any religion nor depends on whether affected aliens are Muslim,\" the states write in the brief with the Richmond, Virginia-based court. \"Thus, the Executive Order is emphatically not a 'Muslim Ban.'\" \n The states are Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, Montana, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and West Virginia. Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi also joined. \n The appeal stems from a ruling from a federal judge in Maryland earlier this month. That ruling and a separate one in Hawaii were victories for civil liberties groups and advocates for immigrants and refugees, who argued that Trump's temporary ban on travel from six predominantly Muslim countries violated the Constitution. \n The Trump administration argued that the revised executive order, which includes a temporary ban on refugees and a cap on the number of refugees who can enter the country, was intended to protect the United States from terrorism. Citizens from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen are temporarily barred from entering the country under the order, though there are exceptions. \n The 4th Circuit has set oral arguments in the Maryland case for May 8. \n The administration urged the court in a brief also filed today to put the lower court ruling on hold and let the executive order take effect while its appeal is pending. Lawyers for Trump said the people named in the case haven't shown they will suffer \"substantial harm\" and that the nationwide injunction blocking the ban is \"fatally overbroad.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "13 states urge appeals court to OK Trump travel ban"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "BEIJING >> A report from a U.S. think tank says China has nearly completed construction work on three man-made islands in the South China Sea, giving it the ability to deploy combat aircraft and other military assets to the disputed region whenever it wishes. \n The Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies analyzed recent satellite photos and concluded that runways, aircraft hangers, radar sites and hardened surface-to-air missile shelters have either been finished or are nearing completion. \n The report, released Monday, appears to be the most conclusive indication yet that China is using its island-building project to give teeth to its claim over almost the entire South China Sea and its islands and reefs. \n The islands in the study \u2014 Subi, Mischief and Fiery Cross reefs \u2014 are part of the Spratly chain, which is claimed in whole or in part by China, the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei. \n On each of the islands, China has constructed enough concrete hangers for 24 fighter jets and four or five larger planes such as bombers or early warning aircraft, CSIS reported. \n China already uses an existing airfield on Woody Island in the similarly disputed Paracel chain, located to the north, where it has maintained mobile HQ-9 surface-to-air missiles for more than a year and deployed anti-ship cruise missiles on at least one occasion, CSIS said. \n The airfields and advanced surveillance and early warning radars will allow China's military to operate over virtually the entire South China Sea. \n \"Beijing can now deploy military assets, including combat aircraft and mobile missile launchers, to the Spratly Islands at any time,\" the report said. \n China's creation of seven man-made islands in the South China Sea has drawn strong criticism from the U.S. and others, who accuse Beijing of further militarizing the region and altering geography to bolster its claims. \n China says its island construction is mainly for civilian purposes, particularly to increase safety for ships that carry an estimated $5 trillion worth of goods through the waterway each year. It has also provided reassurances that it will not interfere with freedom of navigation or overflight, although questions remain as to whether that includes military ships and aircraft. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: China's man-made S.China Sea islands nearly complete"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vorayuth \"Boss\" Yoovidhya, center, whose grandfather co-founded energy drink company Red Bull, is escorted by police in Bangkok, Thailand in Sept. 2013. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Vorayuth \"Boss\" Yoovidhya walks at the British Formula 1 Grand Prix in Silverstone, England in June 2013. \n BANGKOK >> The Ferrari driver who allegedly slammed into a motorcycle cop, dragged him along the road and then sped away from the mangled body took just hours to find, as investigators followed a trail of brake fluid into the gated estate of one of Thailand's richest families. \n But the prosecution of Red Bull heir Vorayuth \"Boss\" Yoovidhya has been delayed almost five years. When Vorayuth, 31, has been called in to face authorities, he hasn't shown up, claiming through his attorney that he's sick or out of the country on business. And while statutes of limitations run out on key charges this year, it's widely assumed he's hiding, possibly abroad, or quietly living locally, only going out in disguise. \n He isn't. \n Within weeks of the accident, The Associated Press has found, Vorayuth was back to enjoying his family's jet-set life, largely associated with the Red Bull brand, an energy drink company co-founded by his grandfather. He flies around the world on Red Bull jets, cheers their Formula One racing team from Red Bull's VIP seats and keeps a black Porsche Carrera in London with a custom plate: B055 RBR. Boss Red Bull Racing. \n And he's not hard to find. \n Last month, social media clues led AP reporters to Vorayuth in the sacred city of Luang Prabang, Laos, where he and his family enjoyed a $1,000-a-night resort, visited temples and lounged by the pool. \n Critics say inaction in this case epitomizes longstanding privilege for the wealthy class in Thailand, a politically tumultuous country that has struggled with rule of law for decades. \n The Yoovidhya family attorney did not respond to AP's request to interview Vorayuth. Police say Vorayuth is once again on notice to show up and hear the charges. \n He's due at the prosecutors' office this Thursday. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Vorayuth and his siblings grew up in a private, extended family whose fortune expanded from millions to billions. His brother is nicknamed Porsche, his sister Champagne. Vorayuth received a British education at a $40,000-a-year boarding school. \n In rural Thailand, police Sgt. Maj. Wichean Glanprasert didn't have such opportunities, but he was ambitious. The youngest of five, he was the first to leave their coconut and palm farm for the city, the first to get a government job, to graduate from college. He paid for his parents' medical care and supported a sister through cancer. He had no children, but planned to put his brother's kids through college. \n Their lives collided pre-dawn on Sept. 3, 2012, when Vorayuth's Ferrari roared down Sukhumvit Road, one of Bangkok's main drags. The bloody accident scene made national headlines for days. \n The policeman's family grieved, but they figured at least there would be justice. Wichean was a police officer. Certainly the system would hold his killer responsible. \n \"At first I thought they'd follow a legal process,\" said his brother Pornanan. \n Now he's not so sure. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \"We will not let this police officer die without justice. Believe me,\" said Bangkok Police Commissioner Comronwit Toopgrajank in the days after the accident. \n As the case unfolded, the Yoovidhya family attorney said Vorayuth left the scene not to flee, but to tell his father. Vorayuth's blood alcohol levels were high because he drank once he got home to settle his nerves, said the attorney. \n Sgt. Maj. Wichean's family accepted a settlement, about $100,000. In turn, they promised not to press criminal charges. \n \"Blood money,\" says Pornanan, whose share sits in the bank. \n Meanwhile, Vorayuth failed to show up when ordered to face criminal charges of speeding, hit-and-run, and deadly, reckless driving. Police say Vorayuth disputes the reckless-driving charge, claiming the officer swerved in front of him. The speeding charge expired after a year. The more serious charge of hit-and-run, which police say carries a penalty of up to six months in jail, expires in September. \n Complicating matters, Yoovidhya's attorney has repeatedly filed petitions claiming unfair treatment in the investigation. \n Police say it's up to prosecutors to charge him. Prosecutors say extra investigation is needed, but wouldn't specify. \n Thammasat University law professor Pokpong Srisanit said the situation is \"not normal\" but does appear legal. \n Meanwhile, the Thai media figures he's laying low. \n Last year the Bangkok Post said that after paying the settlement in 2012, Vorayuth \"has been out of the country or otherwise unable to answer the criminal case against him in the years since.\" \n A few weeks after the article appeared, a photo of Vorayuth was posted online. He was on the beach at a seaside resort south of Bangkok. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n While Vorayuth's case has been on hold since 2012, his carefree lifestyle has not. \n More than 120 social media posts show Vorayuth visiting at least nine countries since Sgt. Maj. Wichean's death. He's cruised Monaco's harbor, snowboarded Japan's powder, and celebrated his birthday at Restaurant Gordon Ramsay in London. At the Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Osaka, he posed wearing robes from Hogwarts School's darkest dorm, Slytherin House. Friends and cousins posting about him have hundreds of thousands of online followers. \n His lifestyle \u2014 soaking in an Abu Dhabi pool, dining in Nice, France, holding a $10,000 bicycle in Bangkok \u2014 is supported by his family's billions. \n Vorayuth's grandfather, Chaleo Yoovidhya, was known as a modest, private man who grew up in poverty, the son of a duck seller. \n Before Vorayuth was born, Chaleo partnered his company T.C. Pharma with Austrian entrepreneur, Dietrich Mateschitz, investing $500,000 each to carbonate and market a caffeine-powered syrupy energy drink popular in Thailand. In 1987, Red Bull Energy Drink went international. \n Red Bull is now sold in 170 countries. It has its own media company, race cars and jets, and sponsors concerts and extreme athletes. Forbes estimates Vorayuth's father Chalerm Yoovidhya's net worth at $9.7 billion. \n Vorayuth's legal situation is far from unique. \n In 2010, a 16-year-old unlicensed daughter of a former military officer crashed her sedan into a van, killing nine people. The teen, from an affluent family, was given a two-year suspended sentence and had misunderstandings that postponed her community service until last year. \n Her case, and others involving what the local press calls \"Bangkok's deadly rich kids,\" are handled markedly different than most deadly car crashes, in which Thais are typically arrested, prosecuted and sentenced to jail. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Today in his small apartment, Sgt. Maj. Wichean's brother keeps a few photo albums of him. Pornanan says Thailand runs on a \"double standard.\" \n Last month on Instagram, a friend posted a group shot, guys taking a snowboarding break at Japan's majestic Annapuri ski resort. \n \"ran into little bull bossrbr lets catch up tonite dude\" says a friend. \n \"Snow snow snow,\" chimes in another. \n \"Wof wof,\" says bossrbr. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The AP News Information Research Center in New York contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Red Bull heir enjoys jet-set life 4 years after hit-and-run"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "MEXICO CITY >> Dozens of fishermen have burned a boat as part of a threat to force out a ship operated by the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society in Mexico's Gulf of California. \n Sea Shepherd has been removing illegal and abandoned nets that endanger the vaquita, the world's smallest porpoise. Illegal fishing for the totoaba, another species, has reduced the number of vaquitas to fewer than 30. \n Fishermen in the town of San Felipe painted the name of the Sea Shepherd on an empty, open fishing boat they burned Sunday. They threatened to remove the conservationists' ship themselves if the government doesn't. \n \"Just as they are judging us fishermen, we will judge all the environmentalists,\" said Sunshine Rodriguez, a leader of the local fishing cooperative in San Felipe, Baja California. \"We aren't going to just sit around.\" \n A speaker at Sunday's protest \u2014 which drew hundreds of onlookers and supporters at San Felipe's main waterfront boulevard\u2014 said over a loudspeaker, \"I'm giving them (the government) five days to get this boat out of our territorial waters, or we will do it ourselves. \n The fishermen were angered by conservationists' calls for a boycott of Mexican shrimp, and possible plans to permanently ban all gillnet fishing in the area. Vaquitas get caught in nets set for the totoaba, a fish prized in China for its swim bladder. The dried bladders can fetch thousands of dollars per kilogram (2.2 pounds). \n Oona Layole, the captain of the Sea Shepherd ship, said Monday her vessel is planning to stay despite the threats, but noted \"the atmosphere is tense.\" \n \"I was expecting to get some reaction from the fishing communities, but it is shocking that these people feel that they can publicly express violent threats to us, such as burning our ships,\" Layole said. \n The situation has already turned violent. In early March, a gang of dozens of fishermen overturned inspectors' trucks and burned or destroyed 15 vehicles and patrol boats, as well as beating three inspectors from the office for environmental protection in another town on the Gulf of California, which is also known as the Sea of Cortez. \n Then, on March 16, a coalition of U.S. environmental groups launched a call to boycott Mexican shrimp \u2014 one of the country's most lucrative seafood exports \u2014 to pressure the government to do more to save the vaquita. \n Conservationists are pressing Mexico's government to permanently ban all gillnet fishing in the upper Gulf, the only place in the world the vaquita is found. Partial and temporary bans are already in place. \n The Sunday demonstration also featured fishermen holding up banners with the names of prominent conservationists, researchers and scientists, on a list of enemies. \n In other parts of the world, Sea Shepherd vessels have rammed whaling ships. But in the Gulf, the group's ship has peacefully patrolled the waters, looking for vaquitas \u2014 finding some dead and some alive \u2014 and illegal nets, which it removes. \n A government official who was not authorized to be quoted by name said Sea Shepherd was working jointly with the government to withdraw nets and report illegal fishing, and said the group had been a valuable ally in the effort. The official said authorities would step up protection for the campaign. \n Totoaba fishermen have mainly cut and run when confronted by Mexican Navy patrols in the past, but activists and environmentalists have warned that criminal gangs appear to be involved in the lucrative illegal trade and that threats have been mounting. \n Last week the government said poachers are using go-fast boats, and in one case led authorities on 50-mile chase, and parked a pickup truck on a beach to load the boat and try to escape. \n Experts and the Mexican government previously announced a plan to catch the few remaining vaquitas and enclose them in pens for protection and possible breeding. \n Experts acknowledge the catch-and-enclose plan is risky, because the few remaining females could die during capture, dooming the species. \n Still, some experts say the capture program may be the vaquitas' only hope. But others worry that fishermen may engage in a free-for-all once the endangered vaquita is removed and thus wipe out other species in the gulf. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mexican fishermen burn boat, demand environmentalists out"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Civil protection rescue team work on the debris of a destroyed house to recover the body of people killed during fights between Iraq security forces and Islamic State on the western side of Mosul, Iraq, Friday. \n BAGHDAD >> A recent spike in civilian casualties in Mosul suggests the U.S.-led coalition is not taking adequate precautions to prevent civilian deaths as it battles the Islamic State militant group alongside Iraqi ground forces, Amnesty International said Tuesday. \n The human rights group's report follows acknowledgement from the coalition that the U.S. military was behind a March 17 strike in a western Mosul neighborhood that residents have said killed more than a hundred civilians. U.S. officials did not confirm there were civilian casualties but opened an investigation. \n The report also cites a second strike on Saturday that it said killed \"up to 150 people.\" The U.S.-led coalition said in a statement that it was investigating multiple strikes in western Mosul that allegedly resulted in civilian deaths. \n Evidence gathered on the ground in Mosul \"points to an alarming pattern of U.S.-led coalition airstrikes which have destroyed whole houses with entire families inside,\" the report stated. \n It said any failure to take precautions to prevent civilian casualties would be \"in flagrant violation of international humanitarian law.\" \n Iraqi forces began the assault on IS-held Mosul in October after months of preparation and buildup. In January, Iraq declared east Mosul \"fully liberated\" and government forces are now battling to retake the city's western half. \n Civilians, humanitarian groups and monitoring officials have repeatedly warned of the possibility of increased civilian casualties in western Mosul due to the higher density of the population and the increased reliance on airstrikes and artillery. Faced with their toughest fight against IS yet, Iraqi and coalition forces have increasingly turned to airstrikes and artillery to clear and hold territory in Mosul's west. \n Unlike its previous past fights against IS, Iraq's government made the decision to instruct Mosul civilians to remain in their homes. In the battles for Fallujah and Ramadi, those cities were entirely emptied of their civilian population as Iraqi forces battled IS. In Mosul, the Iraqi government said it asked civilians to remain in place to prevent large-scale displacement. \n When the operation to retake Mosul was launched, more than a million people were estimated to still be living in Mosul. Today, the United Nations estimates about 400,000 people remain trapped in IS-held neighborhoods in the city. \n Amnesty International's report quoted survivors and eyewitnesses of airstrikes that have killed civilians as saying \"they did not try to flee as the battle got underway because they received repeated instructions from the Iraqi authorities to remain in their homes.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rights group: Coalition isn't protecting Mosul civilians"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte speaks during a press conference in Bangkok, Thailand on March 21. \n MANILA, Philippines >> The European Union on Monday summoned a Philippine envoy to explain an expletive-laden tirade by President Rodrigo Duterte, who threatened to hang EU officials for opposing his efforts to re-impose the death penalty. \n The EU's external action service, the equivalent of a foreign office, said it hauled Charge d'Affaires Alan Deniega in to its Brussels headquarters to provide \"an explanation for the recent, unacceptable comments of President Duterte.\" \n The move highlights growing European exasperation with the president. Earlier, the EU denied his allegations that it proposed solving the Philippines' drug problem by creating treatment clinics where illegal drugs such as methamphetamine or cocaine would be dispensed. \n The EU Delegation to the Philippines issued a statement saying it has not \"suggested, discussed, proposed or considered the use of any substitution drugs when treating addiction to methamphetamine \u2026 or any other drug addiction in the Philippines.\" It did not mention Duterte by name. \n Duterte, who has lashed out at the EU repeatedly for raising human rights concerns over his deadly crackdown on illegal drugs, said in a speech Friday the EU had proposed a \"health-based solution\" to the drug problem that involved dispensing methampetamine, locally known as shabu, cocaine or heroin. \n He branded the supposed EU proposal a \"government-sponsored idiotic exercise.\" \n \"The sons of bitches, they want us to build clinics, then we should, instead of arresting or putting them in prison like in other countries, you go there and if you want shabu they will inject you or give you shabu,\" he said in a speech before Filipino-Chinese businessmen. \"Then if you want cocaine, they will give you cocaine and if they want heroin, they will give you heroin.\" \n The EU said that in cooperation with the World Health Organization and experts, it was working with Manila's Department of Health and the government's main anti-drug agency and selected villages to implement a program that \"aims to support recovery from addiction, while keeping families together and facilitating development of social and job skills.\" \n The voluntary program plans to develop \"recovery clinics and recovery homes,\" where patients can receive better care, education and counseling without prescribing medication and ensuring confidentiality. Livelihood skills will be taught, the EU said. \n Thousands have died under Duterte's crackdown, which was launched after he took office in June, alarming the EU, Western governments and U.N. rights officials. \n Duterte has said he will not be intimidated by threats by critics to impeach him or file a case against him before the International Criminal Court for the killings, mostly of poor drug dealers and users. He has denied condoning extrajudicial killings but has repeatedly threatened drug suspects with death and said he is ready to rot in jail to protect Filipinos from atrocious crimes linked to drugs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "E.U. summons Filipino envoy to explain Duterte tirade"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Henri Van Breda, center, accompanied by attorney Lorinda van Niekerk, front, arrives at the supreme court in Cape Town, South Africa, Monday. \n JOHANNESBURG >> A 22-year-old South African man appeared in court Monday on charges of murdering three members of his family with an axe in their luxury home in Cape Town in January 2015. \n Henri Van Breda, who handed himself over the police in September last year, is accused of murdering his father Martin, 54, a wealthy businessman, his mother Teresa, 55, and older brother Rudi, 22, in a frenzied early morning axe attack in the heart of South Africa's western Cape vineyard area. \n His younger sister Marli, who was 16 at the time of the attack, was left for dead on a balcony. She survived, despite a cut to her jugular vein and severe head injuries. \n Van Breda appeared calm and smiled briefly as he appeared in the packed court room wearing a blue suit. \n The case was postponed to April 24 because the defense said it had not received crucial DNA reports about the murder weapon from the state. \n Van Breda, who is out on bail, has agreed not to contact witnesses, including his sister. He is also forbidden from being within 500 yards of an airport or a harbor. \n According to police, when officers arrived at the crime scene they found Van Breda sitting outside the house, wearing sleeping shorts and white socks stained with the blood of the victims. He was taken in for questioning and later brought back to the house, where investigators found a bloodstained axe and kitchen knife. He was later released into the care of an uncle. \n Marli van Breda, who has been living with other members of the extended family, is suffering amnesia and unable to recall the incident. \n On the morning of the attack van Breda had phoned his girlfriend at 4 a.m. but only called paramedics three hours later. \n A recording of van Breda phoning the emergency services has emerged. In it, he can be heard telling the operator: \"My family and me were attacked by a guy with an axe.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South African man, 22, in court for axe murder of his family"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2014 \n Jari Kaneshiro tends to her garden of three legal cannabis plants at her Mililani home in Dec. 2014. \n TORONTO >> Canadians should be able to smoke marijuana legally by July 1, 2018, a senior government official said Monday. \n Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberal government will introduce legislation to legalize recreational marijuana the week of April 10th and it should become law by July next year, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to lack of authorization to discuss the upcoming legislation. \n Trudeau has long promised to legalize recreational pot use and sales. Canada would be the largest developed country to end a nationwide prohibition of recreational marijuana. In the U.S, voters in California, Massachusetts, Maine and Nevada voted last year to approve the use of recreational marijuana, joining Colorado, Washington, Oregon and Alaska. Uruguay in South America is the only nation to legalize recreational pot. \n Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould declined to confirm the dates provided by the official, but said in a statement the government is committed to introducing legislation this spring that would \"legalize, strictly regulate, and restrict access to cannabis.\" \n \"This will be done in a careful way to keep it out of the hands of children and youth, and to stop criminals from profiting,\" the statement said. \"In order to meet our commitment to legalize, the legislation will need to pass through the parliamentary process in a timely fashion.\" \n The news was noticed online by Snoop Dogg , who tweeted \"Oh Canada!\" \n The Canadian government is expected to follow the advice of a marijuana task force headed by former Liberal Health Minister Anne McLellan as well as the advice of former Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair, who is the parliamentary secretary to the justice minister. Blair has been visiting police departments across the country. \n The task force recommended adults be allowed to carry up to 30 grams of pot for recreational purpose and grow up to four plants. It also recommended that higher-potency pot be taxed at a higher rate than weaker strains. It also said recreational marijuana should not be sold in the same location as alcohol or tobacco. Under the task force proposals, alcohol-free cannabis lounges would be allowed. \n The panel's report noted public health experts tend to favor a minimum age of 21 as the brain continues to develop to about 25, but said setting the minimum age too high would preserve the illicit market. \n Canadian youth have higher rates of cannabis use than their peers worldwide. \n While the government moves to legalize marijuana retail outlets selling pot for recreational use have already been set up. Trudeau has emphasized current laws should be respected. Police in Toronto, Vancouver and other cities raided stores earlier this month and made arrests. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Canada expected to legalize marijuana by July 2018"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE \n Ahmed Kathrada spoke during Nelson Mandela's funeral service in Qunu, South Africa, on Dec. 15, 2013. \n JOHANNESBURG >> Anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Kathrada, who spent 26 years in jail \u2014 many of them alongside Nelson Mandela \u2014 for acts of sabotage against South Africa's previous white minority government, died in Johannesburg on Tuesday morning. He was 87 years old. \n Kathrada died after being admitted to a hospital with blood clotting in his brain earlier in March. \n \"Kathy was an inspiration to millions in different parts of the world,\" Neeshan Balton, the chief executive of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, said in a statement. \"This is great loss to the ANC (the African National Congress, South Africa's ruling party), the broader liberation movement and South Africa as a whole.\" \n Tributes poured in for Kathrada, who was released from prison in October 1989 at the age of 60. \n \"Comrade Kathy was a gentle, humane and humble soul. He was a determined revolutionary who gave his entire life to the liberation struggle in our country,\" said Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom. \n Kathrada was born on August 21, 1929, to Indian immigrant parents in a small town in northwestern South Africa. \n He was arrested on the outskirts of Johannesburg in July, 1963 when the police swooped on Liliesleaf Farm in the suburb or Rivonia, where he was meeting with and others \"banned\" by the apartheid government. \n Their arrest led to the Rivonia trial in which eight accused, including Mandela, were sentenced to life imprisonment with hard labor. \n After his release from prison, Kathrada was a member of parliament and he married anti-apartheid activist Barbara Hogan, who herself had been sentenced to 10 years in jail for high treason against the apartheid government in 1982. \n Recently Kathrada was a vocal critic of scandal-plagued President Jacob Zuma and the African National Congress government. \n In April last year Kathrada called on Zuma to resign after South Africa's highest court found that Zuma had violated his oath of office by refusing to pay back public money spent on upgrading his rural home. \n \"I know that if I were in the president's shoes, I would step down with immediate effect,\" he said. \"I believe that is what would help the country to find its way out of a path that it never imagined it would be on, but one that it must move out of soon.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South African anti-apartheid leader Ahmed Kathrada dies at 87"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The gold coin 'Big Maple Leaf' in the Bode Museum in Berlin in Dec. 2010. The 221-pound gold coin disappeared from the museum. \n BERLIN >> Thieves broke into the German capital's Bode Museum before dawn Monday and made off with a massive 221-pound gold coin worth millions of dollars, police said. \n Police spokesman Stefen Petersen said thieves apparently entered through a window about 3:30 a.m. Monday (3:30 p.m. Sunday HST), broke into a cabinet where the \"Big Maple Leaf\" coin was kept, and escaped with it before police arrived. \n A ladder was found by nearby railway tracks. \n The 1.18-inch thick coin, with a diameter of 20.9 inches, has a face value of 1 million Canadian dollars ($750,000). By weight alone, however, it would be worth almost $4.5 million at market prices. \n Petersen would not comment on whether authorities had surveillance video of the crime, but said police assume more than one person was involved because of the weight of the coin. \n The museum says the coin is in the Guinness Book of Records for its purity of 999.99/1000 gold. It has a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II on one side and maple leaves on the other. \n It was produced in limited quantities by the Royal Canadian Mint to promote a new line of its Gold Maple Leaf bullion coins in 2007. It has been on display at the Bode Museum, on Berlin's Museum Island, since December 2010. \n Berlin museums spokesman Markus Farr said the coin is on loan from a private collection, but would not elaborated. \n Detectives specialized in crimes involving art are investigating. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Massive gold coin worth millions stolen from German museum"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Proposals for the Environmental Protection Agency in President Donald Trump's first budget are displayed at the Government Printing Office in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> Moving forward with a campaign pledge to unravel former President Barack Obama's sweeping plan to curb global warming, President Donald Trump will sign an executive order Tuesday that will suspend, rescind or flag for review more than a half-dozen measures in an effort to boost domestic energy production in the form of fossil fuels. \n As part of the roll-back, Trump will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan, which restricts greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants. The regulation, which was the former president's signature effort to curb carbon emissions, has been the subject of long-running legal challenges by Republican-led states and those who profit from burning oil, coal and gas. \n Trump, who has called global warming a \"hoax\" invented by the Chinese, has repeatedly criticized the power-plant rule and others as an attack on American workers and the struggling U.S. coal industry. The contents of the order were outlined to reporters in a sometimes tense briefing with a senior White House official, whom aides insisted speak without attribution, despite President Trump's criticism of the use of unnamed sources. \n The official at one point appeared to break with mainstream climate science, denying familiarity with widely publicized concerns about the potential adverse economic impacts of climate change, such as rising sea levels and more extreme weather. \n In addition to pulling back from the Clean Power Plan, the administration will also lift a 14-month-old moratorium on new coal leases on federal lands. \n The Obama administration had imposed a three-year moratorium on new federal coal leases in January 2016, arguing that the $1 billion-a-year program must be modernized to ensure a fair financial return to taxpayers and address climate change. \n Trump accused his predecessor of waging a \"war on coal\" and boasted in a speech to Congress that he has made \"a historic effort to massively reduce job-crushing regulations,\" including some that threaten \"the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners.\" \n The order will also chip away at other regulations, including scrapping language on the \"social cost\" of greenhouse gases. It will initiate a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule, to determine whether those reflect the president's policy priorities. \n It will also rescind Obama-era executive orders and memoranda, including one that addressed climate change and national security and one that sought to prepare the country for the impacts of climate change. \n The administration is still in discussion about whether it intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change. But the moves to be announced Tuesday will undoubtedly make it more difficult for the U.S. to achieve its goals. \n Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, alarmed environmental groups and scientists earlier this month when he said he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to global warming. The statement is at odds with mainstream scientific consensus and Pruitt's own agency. \n The overwhelming majority of peer-reviewed studies and climate scientists agree the planet is warming, mostly due to man-made sources, including carbon dioxide, methane, halocarbons and nitrogen oxide. \n The official who briefed reporters said the president does believe in man-made climate change. \n The power-plant rule Trump is set to address in his order has been on hold since last year as a federal appeals court considers a challenge by coal-friendly states and more than 100 companies who call the plan an unconstitutional power grab. \n Opponents say the plan will kill coal-mining jobs and drive up electricity costs. The Obama administration, some Democratic-led states and environmental groups countered that it will spur thousands of clean-energy jobs and help the U.S. meet ambitious goals to reduce carbon pollution set by the international agreement signed in Paris. \n Trump's order on coal-fired power plants follows an executive order he signed last month mandating a review of an Obama-era rule aimed at protecting small streams and wetlands from development and pollution. The order instructs the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to review a rule that redefined \"waters of the United States\" protected under the Clean Water Act to include smaller creeks and wetlands. \n While Republicans have blamed Obama-era environmental regulations for the loss of coal jobs, federal data shows that U.S. mines have been shedding jobs for decades under presidents from both parties as a result of increasing automation and competition from cheaper natural gas. Another factor is the plummeting cost of solar panels and wind turbines, which now can produce emissions-free electricity cheaper than burning coal. \n According to an Energy Department analysis released in January, coal mining now accounts for fewer than 70,000 U.S. jobs. By contrast, renewable energy \u2014 including wind, solar and biofuels \u2014 now accounts for more than 650,000 U.S. jobs. \n The Trump administration's plans drew praise from business groups and condemnation from environmental groups. \n U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas J. Donohue praised the president for taking \"bold steps to make regulatory relief and energy security a top priority.\" \n \"These executive actions are a welcome departure from the previous administration's strategy of making energy more expensive through costly, job-killing regulations that choked our economy,\" he said. \n Former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy accused the Trump administration of wanting \"us to travel back to when smokestacks damaged our health and polluted our air, instead of taking every opportunity to support clean jobs of the future.\" \n \"This is not just dangerous; it's embarrassing to us and our businesses on a global scale to be dismissing opportunities for new technologies, economic growth, and US leadership,\" she said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump takes aim at Obama's efforts to curb global warming"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN VIA AP \n North Carolina Lt. Gov. Dan Forest discussed his state's \"bathroom bill\" at the Capitol in Austin, Texas. Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, right, looked on. \n RALEIGH, N.C. >> Despite Republican assurances that North Carolina's \"bathroom bill\" isn't hurting the economy, the law limiting LGBT protections will cost the state more than $3.76 billion in lost business over a dozen years, according to an Associated Press analysis. \n Over the past year, North Carolina has suffered financial hits ranging from scuttled plans for a PayPal facility that would have added an estimated $2.66 billion to the state's economy to a canceled Ringo Starr concert that deprived a town's amphitheater of about $33,000 in revenue. The blows have landed in the state's biggest cities as well as towns surrounding its flagship university, and from the mountains to the coast. \n The AP analysis \u2014 compiled through interviews and public records requests \u2014 represents the largest reckoning yet of how much the law, passed one year ago, could cost the state. The law excludes gender identity and sexual orientation from statewide antidiscrimination protections, and requires transgender people to use restrooms corresponding to the sex on their birth certificates in many public buildings. \n Still, AP's tally is likely an underestimation of the law's true costs. The count includes only data obtained from businesses and government officials regarding projects that canceled or relocated because of HB2. A business project was counted only if AP determined through public records or interviews that HB2 was why it pulled out. \n The AP also tallied the losses of dozens of conventions, sporting events and concerts through figures from local officials. The AP didn't attempt to quantify anecdotal reports that lacked hard numbers, or forecast the loss of future conventions. \n Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan \u2014 who leads the largest company based in North Carolina \u2014 said he's spoken privately to business leaders who took projects elsewhere because of the controversy, and he fears more decisions like that are being made quietly. \n \"Companies are moving to other places, because they don't face an issue that they face here,\" he told a World Affairs Council of Charlotte luncheon last month. \n Other measures show North Carolina has a healthy economy. By quarterly gross domestic product, the federal government said, North Carolina had the nation's 10th fastest-growing economy six months after the law passed. The vast majority of large companies with existing North Carolina operations have made no public moves to financially penalize the state. \n HB2 supporters say its costs are tiny compared with an economy estimated at more than $500 billion per year, roughly the size of Sweden's. They say they're willing to absorb those costs if the law prevents predators from posing as transgender people to commit assaults in restrooms \u2014 acts the law's detractors say are entirely imagined. \n Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Forest issued a statement Monday accusing the AP of \"another attempt to mislead and confuse the public through a bogus headline.\" Forest questioned the tally and said that even if true, it would represent only a sliver of the state's economy. \n Forest, who declined an interview request to discuss AP's analysis before its publication, recently told Texas legislators considering a similar law: \"Our economy is doing well. Don't be fooled by the media.\" \n But the state governor \u2014 Democrat Roy Cooper, who's long opposed HB2 \u2014 responded to AP's story by saying: \"We now know that, based on conservative estimates, North Carolina's economy stands to lose nearly $4 billion because of House Bill 2. That means fewer jobs and less money in the pockets of middle class families. We need to fix this now.\" \n And AP's analysis shows the economy could be growing faster if not for projects that have canceled. \n Those include PayPal canceling a 400-job project in Charlotte, CoStar backing out of negotiations to bring 700-plus jobs to the same area, and Deutsche Bank scuttling a plan for 250 jobs in the Raleigh area. Other companies that backed out include Adidas, which is building its first U.S. sports shoe factory employing 160 near Atlanta rather than a High Point site, and Voxpro, which opted to hire hundreds of customer support workers in Georgia, rather than North Carolina. \n \"We couldn't set up operations in a state that was discriminating against LGBT\" people, Dan Kiely, Voxpro founder and CEO, said in an interview. \n All told, the state has missed out on more than 2,900 direct jobs that went elsewhere. \n An analysis by the state Commerce Department shows that state officials expected the PayPal expansion to contribute more than $200 million annually to North Carolina's economy. By the end of 2028, the state expected PayPal to have added $2.66 billion. \n The same analysis of the Deutsche Bank project estimated a total impact of about $543 million by the end of 2027. The economic model has been used for more than a decade when the state offers major tax breaks. \n State officials said they didn't run the same analysis for CoStar, Voxpro and Adidas, so losses attributed to them were calculated using wages and other figures from the companies or state documents. \n Meanwhile, canceled conventions, concerts and sporting events have deprived the state of more than $196 million, according to tourism officials around the state. \n All told, the state will have missed out on more than $3.76 billion by the end of 2028. The losses are based on projects that already went elsewhere \u2014 so the money won't be recouped even if the law is struck down in court or repealed. \n By the end of 2017 alone, the lost business will total more than $525 million. \n Tourism officials in several cities say the numbers they report represent only a fraction of the damage the law has done. They typically track large conventions but don't have firm numbers when smaller groups cancel \u2014 or rule out North Carolina before booking. \n \"The biggest impact is how many times our phones are not ringing now,\" said Shelly Green, CEO of the Durham Convention & Visitors Bureau. She said several sporting events and conventions that canceled have deprived the city of about $11 million. \n \"When you think about it,\" Green said, \"this whole thing is just such a Dumpster fire, and nobody wants to go near it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Bathroom bill' to cost North Carolina $3.76B"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "COURTESY SANDRA MEYER \n A vehicle hit a fire hydrant near Tamashiro Market today, leading to this gush of water. \n A car struck a fire hydrant near Tamashiro Market this afternoon, causing water to shoot up, police dispatch said. \n The accident occurred shortly before 2 p.m. at the corner of North King and Palama streets. \n The Board of Water Supply sent out a troubleshooter who turned the water off. \n No repairs were to be made today, a Board of Water Supply spokeswoman said. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Broken hydrant creates Kalihi geyser"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump sits with House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. on Capitol Hill in Washington. Congressional Republicans. \n WASHINGTON >> Congressional Republicans on Monday pointed fingers and assigned blame after their epic failure on health care and a weekend digesting the outcome. \n The divisions, coming on top of House Republicans' inability to deliver on a priority they all share \u2014 repealing and replacing \"Obamacare\" \u2014 raised serious questions about whether they will be able to achieve their other legislative goals for the year or even pass must-do spending legislation in time to avert a government shutdown at midnight April 28. \n The hard-right House Freedom Caucus, which withheld a bloc of votes from the White House-backed health care legislation, came in for most of the criticism from fellow lawmakers. \n \"Clearly moving forward, we're going to have to look at where a governing majority comes from. That's going to require some answers from the Freedom Caucus,\" said GOP Rep. Ryan Costello of Pennsylvania. \n Like a number of other more moderate-leaning Republicans, Costello said he would have voted \"no\" on the bill in the end, partly because it kept moving to the right as House leaders and the White House made concessions to the Freedom Caucus without ever succeeding in locking in their support. President Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan decided to pull the bill from the House floor on Friday after it became clear it was bound to fail. \n \"They're going to have to know when it's time to get to the 'yes,'\" Costello said. \n Freedom Caucus members bridled at the criticism, insisting they had done Trump and fellow Republicans a favor by blocking a piece of legislation that polled poorly and embraced the basic structures of Obamacare without significantly reducing premiums. \n The Freedom Caucus spokeswoman, Alyssa Farah, said over Twitter that blaming the group ignored the opposition coming from moderate-leaning Republicans. And Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio, a Freedom Caucus leader, accused GOP leaders of a rushed and secretive process in promoting their legislation, which would have eliminated the Obamacare mandate for people to carry insurance or face fines, and shrunk a Medicaid expansion, but relied on tax credits similar to those in President Barack Obama's law to help consumers purchase insurance. \n \"They rolled it out after it was hidden away. When they rolled it out, they said it's a binary choice, take it or leave it,\" Jordan said on MSNBC. \"Normally when you have hearings on a piece of legislation that impacts this much of our overall economy, you would bring in some witnesses and hear from some witnesses about what's going to happen if this legislation actually becomes law. We had none of that.\" \n Trump took on the caucus late Monday on Twitter, writing: \"The Republican House Freedom Caucus was able to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. After so many bad years they were ready for a win!\" \n The divisions extended to whether Republicans should immediately try again to make good on seven years of promises to repeal and replace the health care law or cut their losses for now and move on to overhauling the tax code, a priority Trump seems more excited about. Senate Republicans, who had hoped to act next on the health legislation despite divisions of their own, voiced displeasure with the failure by their House counterparts. \n \"It's disappointing. We've got to fulfill our promises,\" said Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C. \"Hopefully the temperatures have gone down just a little bit and we can get to an outcome. We don't have the option of inaction. We own it and we've got to fix it.\" \n House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady said he's encouraging the Senate to advance its \"repeal and replacement plans\" on health care. But the No. 2 Senate Republican, John Cornyn of Texas, said there would not be another attempt to advance Republican-only health care legislation. \"I don't think we can give up,\" he said, \"but it's clear it needs to be done on a bipartisan basis.\" \n For Republicans who want to show voters they can govern after gaining control of the White House and both chambers of Congress, the outcome on health care suggests the opposite. The one bright spot for the GOP is Trump's nomination of conservative appeals court Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, which will be considered on the Senate floor the week of April 3. \n The disunity comes as Congress is fast approaching a deadline to pass government-wide spending legislation or face a shutdown. Given that lawmakers have a two-week recess in the middle of April, there is little time to negotiate an agreement. In the past such spending deadlines have been occasions for brinkmanship, including in 2013 when conservatives forced a 16-day partial government shutdown in a failed attempt to defund Obamacare. \n The tentative game plan this time around to wrap up more than $1 trillion in unfinished spending bills is to draft a bipartisan omnibus measure that would fund the government through Sept. 30. Its outlines remain fuzzy and subject to change according to the whims of GOP leaders, but the working thesis is to craft legislation that could pass by a bipartisan vote without a filibuster by Senate Democrats. \n Conservatives, however, may be disappointed that they wouldn't score many wins in such legislation, even though Republicans control the entire government. They may insist on more money to build Trump's border wall or even press to \"defund\" Planned Parenthood. And Democrats could abandon the effort if Republicans press too hard for the border wall or lard in too much extra money for the Pentagon, raising the specter of a shutdown showdown not far away. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Finger-pointing on Hill as GOP assesses health bill loss"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Seattle Police officer, center left, talks to a man on March 7, during a sweep to clear out people living at a homeless encampment known as \"The Field,\" in Seattle's Stadium district south of downtown. \n SEATTLE >> Sixteen months after he declared a state of emergency on homelessness, Seattle's mayor is asking voters in this liberal, affluent city for $55 million a year in new taxes to fight the problem. \n Some are pushing back, saying the city already spends millions to combat homelessness, and things appear to have gotten worse, not better. \n In making his case, Mayor Ed Murray says the problem has grown exponentially and federal and state help is unlikely. He wants voters to support a proposed ballot initiative that would increase property taxes to raise $275 million over five years for homeless services \u2014 almost doubling what Seattle spends each year. \n Supporters say current resources haven't been enough to stem the rising tide of people on the streets, and the proposed levy will provide more housing for those who need it most. \n \"This is a city that's not going to wait for a dysfunctional federal government to show up and do something \u2014 because lives are being lost,\" Murray said at a recent news conference. \n The mayor, who is up for re-election, would be on the same ballot as the tax initiative if backers gather enough signatures to qualify it for the August election. \n City voters have approved three property tax increases in as many years to pay for affordable housing, preschools and buses, on top of other taxes, and some say the higher bills are pricing out working- and middle-class families. Others are demanding accountability. \n The mayor \"needs to make these reforms first and then come to the taxpayers,\" said Harley Lever, founder of a group called Safe Seattle, which helped form one of two campaigns opposing Initiative 126. \n The city should spend money more efficiently and adopt the data-driven, performance-based approach that places like Houston and Boston have used to successfully reduce homelessness, Lever said. \n \"Seattle citizens are very generous. They've done their part,\" he added. \n While homelessness has decreased nationwide and in many cities, the problem has grown in others, such as Seattle. In 2016, a one-night homeless count found nearly 3,000 people living outside in this city of about 650,000, marking the fourth straight year of increases. \n Daniel Malone, executive director of the nonprofit Downtown Emergency Services, blames rising rents and low vacancy rates for the spike. \n \"As rents have skyrocketed, more and more people have fallen into homelessness, and it's harder for people to scratch their way out,\" he said. \n Since declaring a civil emergency on homelessness in November 2015, Murray expanded shelter beds, authorized new encampments and hired a homelessness czar, a $135,000 cabinet-level position. \n Last fall, following two consultant reports that said the city needed to revamp its approach, the mayor announced a shift to focusing on moving people into long-term housing, among other changes. \n Communities such as Houston, Las Vegas and New Orleans have made the greatest reductions in homelessness by acting urgently, focusing relentlessly on housing placement, using data to drive funding and creating a person-centered response, one report noted. \n City officials say they're making improvements in line with recommendations in those reports. \n Under the new strategy called Pathways Home, Seattle is focusing on getting people into long-term housing. This summer, for the first time in a decade, city homeless contracts will be up for competitive rebidding, and programs that get money will have to show they move people into housing. \n While Seattle has numerous homeless programs, the mayor and others conceded it has not supported a coordinated system. In 2015, city money was spread across 183 contracts and 60 agencies. \n City officials also have started working through a list of names to figure out how to get individuals into housing. Last month, Murray launched trained teams of outreach workers and police officers that go out and connect people to services. The city also plans a 24-hour shelter and service center open to all, even those struggling with addiction. \n \"It probably feels very slow to our community and the public, but I remind folks that we're making a pretty significant system shift,\" said Catherine Lester, who directs the city's Human Services Department. \n She said 1,300 people were helped out of homelessness last year. \n But Lever said the city needs to demonstrate its reforms work before asking taxpayers for more. \n Others were irked that a millionaire who doesn't live in the city, venture capitalist Nick Hanauer, brought the initiative proposal to the mayor. Hanauer lives in Shoreline, just north of Seattle, and has been prominent in backing liberal causes in the state. \n Murray's proposal would raise property taxes by 27 cents for every $1,000 in assessed value. That means about $163 a year for a $604,000 home, the median price in Seattle, according to the real estate data firm Zillow. Commercial property taxes would account for about 40 percent. \n About 70 percent of the money would go to a range of rental subsidies, while other money would expand addiction and mental health treatment and add more trained outreach teams. An independent panel would monitor the work. \n Barbara Poppe, a national housing expert hired by the city as a consultant, said programs to be funded by the initiative align with recommendations in her August report and that the city generally appears to be on track. \n Asked whether the city needed more resources, she said the number of homeless people has increased since data in her report. \n \"You're going to need more resources if you're having people experience more homelessness,\" she added. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Some balk as Seattle seeks to spend more money on growing homeless population"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny appears in court in Moscow today, a day after being detained at a major opposition rally against government corruption that he led. \n MOSCOW >> The wave of nationwide demonstrations that shook Russia's long dormant political scene over the weekend showed a new face of protest: mostly teenage demonstrators driven by accusations of high-level official corruption, glaring amid the nation's painful two-year recession. \n A year before facing re-election, President Vladimir Putin has a dilemma: to further tighten the screws or to devise more artful means for keeping a lid on dissent. Today, a Moscow court handed a 15-day jail term to the protest organizer, Alexei Navalny, whose charisma and social media savvy helped rally the young. \n Navalny was arrested as he walked to a protest in Moscow on Sunday and spent the night in jail before showing up in court. Police have arrested more than 1,000 people for taking part in the unauthorized protest in the capital, and many of them face jail sentences or fines. Navalny's anti-corruption foundation has promised to offer legal assistance to all those who were arrested. \n \"Even the slightest illusion of fair justice is absent here,\" Navalny told reporters today from the defendant's bench, complaining about the judge striking down one motion after another. \"Yesterday's events have shown that quite a large number of voters in Russia support the program of a candidate who stands for fighting corruption. These people demand political representation \u2014 and I strive to be their political representative.\" \n Journalists and well-wishers packed the courtroom in central Moscow, where Navalny, in a selfie posted on Twitter, declared: \"A time will come when we'll put them (the authorities) on trial too \u2014 and that time it will be fair.\" \n The 40-year-old Navalny, Russia's most popular opposition leader, has had three convictions on fraud and embezzlement charges that he dismisses as politically motivated. Even though the convictions technically disqualify him, he has announced a presidential bid for 2018. \n With his colorful and sarcastic expose of Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev's alleged collection of mansions, villas and vineyards \u2014 which garnered over 13 million views on YouTube \u2014 Navalny managed to draw tens of thousands to the streets across Russia in the biggest show of defiance since a 2011-2012 wave of protests rattled the Kremlin and led to harsh new laws aimed at suppressing dissent. \n Today, Putin met with senior officers of the National Guard, which took part in arresting participants in the demonstrations along with police, but he didn't mention the protest. Russian state television completely ignored the demonstrations in their broadcasts on Sunday, and Medvedev refrained from comment. \n \"The question now is what kind of balance between propaganda and repression the government will choose,\" said Andrei Kolesnikov, a political analyst with the Carnegie Moscow Center. \"The government needs to preserve itself for another presidential term \u2014 if not forever \u2014 and now there is an important moment when the government is choosing its strategy and tactics.\" \n Medvedev's job had reportedly been in jeopardy amid infighting among various factions in the Kremlin, but now his tenure seems secure as his dismissal would look like caving in to protesters' demands \u2014 something Putin never does. \n \"He's protected by the very fact that he has become a target,\" Kolesnikov said. \"Firing him would amount to the recognition that people who took to the streets were right.\" \n The Kremlin has long sought to cast the opposition as a phenomenon of a privileged Westernized urban elite out of sync with broader layers of the population in Russia's far-flung regions. However, Sunday's protests engulfed many areas outside big cosmopolitan cities, a sign of spreading public discontent. \n Teenage students made up a large share of protesters in Moscow and other cities \u2014 an unpleasant surprise for the Kremlin, which has hoped to boost support for Putin in the 2018 vote by attracting more young voters. \n \"It's a serious challenge for those who control the election campaign,\" Kolesnikov said. \"It's a signal that the most advanced part of the population wants changes.\" \n Political analyst Yekaterina Shulman said on Dozhd television that the strong participation by the young reflected their anger about the lack of career prospects in a society tainted by corruption and their abhorrence of state propaganda. In Russia's barren political landscape, Navalny is the only politician who appeals to the young, she said. \n Artyom Chigadayev, an 18-year-old student, said he joined the protest in Yekaterinburg because of the allegations of Medvedev's amassed wealth, which he called \"absolutely infernal.\" \n Yevgeny Roizman, the pro-reform mayor of Yekaterinburg, said the rally reflected public anger over corruption. \"It's difficult to find sane people in any country who would be for corruption, so I think Yekaterinburg residents had all the reasons to come to the rally,\" he said. \n Asked about the fact that participants from across the vast country took part in Sunday's demonstrations, Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said, \"the Kremlin is quite sober about the scale of yesterday's protests, and is not inclined to diminish them or push them out of proportion.\" \n Peskov assailed the organizers for putting people's lives at risk by encouraging them to take part in the unauthorized gatherings and defended the actions of Russia's riot police, which critics called heavy-handed. \n Today, the European Union and the United States criticized the police crackdown and called on Russian authorities to release all those detained. White House press secretary Sean Spicer read a State Department statement calling the detentions \"an affront to essential democratic values.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian protest leader Alexei Navalny gets 15 days in jail"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. speaks on Capitol Hill in Washington. Warren, and other senators have written a letter to USA Hockey executive director Dave Ogrean to express their concerns about the organization's treatment of the women's national team. \n WASHINGTON >> Pressure is mounting on USA Hockey in its wage dispute with the women's national team. \n On Monday, 16 U.S. senators wrote a letter to executive director Dave Ogrean, urging him to resolve the matter. The message came four days before the start of the women's world championship, which players threatened to boycott if significant progress was not made toward an agreement. \n USA Hockey's board of directors held a meeting Monday afternoon, but had not emerged with a resolution as of late Monday night. Players said Sunday in a statement that they were hopeful USA Hockey would agree to what was hammered out after 10-plus hours of in-person talks a week ago. \n The senators, all Democrats, cited the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act and told Ogrean he should ensure the team receives \"equitable resources.\" \n They joined a chorus of support that includes unions representing players from the NHL, NBA, NFL and Major League Baseball. Those organizations said over the weekend they stood with the women's team and criticized USA Hockey for attempting to find replacement players. \n Prominent NHL agent Allan Walsh tweeted Sunday, \"Word circulating among NHL players that American players will refuse to play in men's World Championships in solidarity with the women.\" \n Zach Bogosian, an American-born Buffalo Sabres defenseman, went to high school with U.S. captain Meghan Duggan. He tweeted his support and said he hopes the dispute is resolved. \n The U.S. is the defending champion at the International Ice Hockey Women's World Championship, which begins Friday in Plymouth, Michigan. \n In negotiations over the past 15 months, players have asked for a four-year contract that pays them outside the six-month Olympic period. The senators' letter notes the $6,000 that players earn around the Olympics and USA Hockey's $3.5 million annual spending on the men's national team development program and other discrepancies. \n \"These elite athletes indeed deserve fairness and respect, and we hope you will be a leader on this issue as women continue to push for equality in athletics,\" the senators wrote. \n The letter was signed by: Elizabeth Warren and Edward Markey of Massachusetts, Patty Murray of Washington, Dianne Feinstein of California, Patrick Leahy of Vermont, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Thomas Carper of Delaware, Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, Robert Menendez and Cory Booker of New Jersey, Mazie Hirono of Hawaii, Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Senators urge USA Hockey to end dispute with women's team"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif, speaks with reporters outside the White House in Washington on March 22, following a meeting with President Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> The chairman of the House committee investigating Russian meddling in last year's presidential election admitted today that secret documents that he said forced him last week to rush to brief President Donald Trump came from inside the White House. \n The admission prompted three Democrats on the committee to call for Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., to recuse himself from the investigation, including Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the committee. \n \"After much consideration, and in light of the chairman's admission that he met with his source of information at the White House, I believe that the chairman should recuse himself from any further involvement in the Russia investigation, as well as any involvement in oversight of matters pertaining to any incidental collection of the Trump transition, as he was also a key member of the transition team,\" Schiff said in a statement. \"This is not a recommendation I make lightly, as the chairman and I have worked together well for several years.\" \n Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., said in a statement: \"Chairman Nunes should no longer be anywhere near this investigation, let alone leading it.\" \n A third Democrat on the committee, Rep. Jackie Speier of California, also called for Nunes to step down. \"My fears have been validated,\" she said in a statement. \"Through his bizarre and partisan actions over the last week, Chairman Nunes has demonstrated to the entire nation why he is unfit to lead our critical investigation into ties between President Trump's administration and Moscow.\" \n Democrats on the committee have been hesitant previously to demand that Nunes withdraw from the investigation. But two developments in recent days, including Nunes' cancellation of the committee's second public hearing that was scheduled for Tuesday, have raised tensions on the committee. \n Last week, Nunes angered Schiff and other Democrats on the committee by revealing that he had seen secret documents that he said showed that some members of the Trump transition team had turned up in legally authorized intercepts of foreign officials. The documents, Nunes said, had nothing to do with the Russia investigation. But he revealed them to reporters and then discussed them with Trump without sharing them with the committee. \n It was only Monday that Nunes acknowledged that he had gone to the White House compound to view the documents. \n \"The information comprised executive branch documents that have not been provided to Congress,\" his committee staff said in a prepared statement. \"Because of classification rules, the source could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence Committee space. The White House grounds was the best location to safeguard the proper chain of custody and classification of these documents, so the chairman could view them in a legal way.\" \n Another Democrat, Rep. Henry Cuellar of Texas, said the developments proved the need for an indepedndent commission to investigate Russian meddling and whether Trump campaign officials colluded with Russia in the effort. \n \"We already know Russia hacked President Trump's opponents to help him with the election,\" Ceullar said. \"We know senior officials close to the president had personal and financial dealings with Russian government officials, including intelligence agents. New revelations emerge almost weekly. What do we still not know?\" \n There were signals that some Republicans also were becoming concerned about the congressional investigations of Russian meddling. Former Vice President Dick Cheney said in an interview with \"Business Insider\" that it was important to take the Russian meddling allegations very seriously. \n \"There's no question that there was a very serious effort made by (Russian President Vladimir) Putin and his government, his organization, to interfere in major ways with our basic fundamental democratic processes,\" he said. \"In some quarters, that could be considered an act of war.\" \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer declined today to provide a White House version of events, saying \"all of what I know has been available through public comments.\" \n \"He is the one who has discussed what he is reviewing,\" Spicer said, referring to Nunes. \"And so I will leave it up to him and not try to get in the middle of that.\" \n ", "author": "By McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "House intelligence chairman asked to withdraw from Trump-Russia investigation"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bridget Kelly, left, who was New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's former deputy chief of staff, and Bill Baroni, right, who was Christie's former top appointee at The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, entering court in Newark, N.J. \n NEWARK, N.J. >> Two ex-allies of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie convicted in the George Washington Bridge lane-closing trial last fall are seeking probation when they're sentenced this week, while government prosecutors are urging the judge not to show them any leniency. \n Bridget Kelly and Bill Baroni are to be sentenced Wednesday. Prosecutors called for a sentence of 37 to 46 months in prison because, they wrote in a brief made public Monday, both committed perjury on the witness stand. \n In a filing later Monday, attorneys for the defendants argued for probation and community service, saying their clients deserve mercy for a host of reasons. They said Kelly is a single mother of four, and Baroni has led an exemplary life and once assisted the FBI in a separate political corruption probe in New Jersey more than a decade ago. \n One of several dozen people who wrote letters of support on behalf of the defendants was former Democratic Gov. Jim McGreevey, who said of Baroni, \"imprisonment will not appreciably add to the punishment of this man, while denying him the potential of serving those needy persons within our midsts.\" \n Kelly's 17-year-old son, who was born with a rare heart condition, wrote a letter calling his mother \"my greatest role model.\" \n Baroni and Kelly were convicted last fall of using their positions to cause traffic jams near the George Washington Bridge in 2013 in an alleged plot against a Democratic mayor who didn't endorse the Republican Christie. \n Baroni and Kelly testified that they thought the lane realignment was part of a legitimate traffic study. At the time of the gridlock, Kelly was deputy chief of staff to Christie, and Baroni was a top Christie appointee to the Port Authority. Christie wasn't charged. \n In Monday's sentencing memorandum, prosecutors scoffed at their claims and said their testimony was contradicted by several other witnesses. \n \"They lied about what they knew, what they said, and what they did,\" prosecutors wrote. \"They evaded, obstructed, and gave alternative explanations that bore no relation whatsoever to the truth. Their flagrantly false testimony was rejected by the jury, which convicted them of all counts of the Indictment.\" \n Kelly and Baroni were each convicted on seven charges including conspiracy, wire fraud, civil rights offenses and misapplying the property of the Port Authority. The maximum combined sentences would run into the decades, but former U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman had indicated they would receive far less than that. \n This month, the federal judge who oversaw the trial denied Baroni's and Kelly's motions to overturn their guilty verdicts. They had argued that U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton should have instructed jurors they could have acquitted the defendants if the government didn't prove the alleged conspiracy was aimed at punishing Mayor Mark Sokolich. \n The government argued jurors only had to believe Baroni and Kelly conspired to misapply the property of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey \u2014 the bridge \u2014 and not the reason they did it. \n Baroni's attorneys argued in their brief Monday that other defendants who committed, in some cases, violent crimes have received lighter sentences than what Baroni faces. They added that Baroni is remorseful for his actions. \n \"Bill deeply regrets his role in the lane realignment and particularly his decision to follow the directives given to him to not return Mayor Sokolich's call because they run counter to his moral ethos,\" they wrote. \n Both defendants contended they were misled by Baroni's former Port Authority colleague David Wildstein, a former political blogger and high school classmate of Christie's who pleaded guilty and testified against Baroni and Kelly. \n Wildstein faced a maximum combined sentence of 15 years but under a plea agreement is facing between 21 and 27 months. The government could ask for even less time for him considering his cooperation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Court filing: Convicted former Christie allies lied at trial"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Roger W. Wilkins speaks, in Washington. Wilkins, the historian, journalist and activist who held a key civil rights post in the Johnson administration, died Sunday,, March 27, 2017, at an assisted-living facility in Kensington, Md., said his wife, Patricia King. He was 85. \n WASHINGTON >> Roger Wilkins, a historian, journalist and activist who held a key civil rights post in President Lyndon Johnson's administration and helped The Washington Post win a Pulitzer for its Watergate coverage, died Sunday, relatives said. He was 85. \n Wilkins, most recently a history professor at George Mason University, died at an assisted-living facility in Kensington, Maryland, said his wife, Patricia King, and his daughter, Elizabeth Wilkins. The cause of death was complications from dementia, they said. \n His uncle Roy Wilkins was the longtime executive director of the NAACP. A lifetime later, his daughter Elizabeth worked in the presidential campaign of then-Sen. Barack Obama. \n Wilkins said in spring 2008 that the presidential candidacies of a woman and a black man \"would have been fodder for a fantasy movie\" when he graduated from college 55 years earlier. \n \"Today, whatever our problems are, we have a vastly different and better country than the one we lived in in 1953,\" Wilkins told University of Southern Maine graduates. \n From the mid-1960s to the early 1980s, he worked in the Johnson administration, the Ford Foundation, The Washington Post and The New York Times. In his 1982 autobiography, \"A Man's Life,\" he described the frustrations of being \"the lead black in white institutions for 16 years.\" \n In a Washington Post review, famed author James Baldwin wrote that Wilkins \"has written a most beautiful book, has delivered an impeccable testimony out of that implacable private place where a man either lives or dies.\" \n In 1965 Johnson tapped Wilkins to head the federal Community Relations Service, which was created by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to mediate racial disputes and foster progress in black communities. \n The New York Times said Johnson told him it would be \"the toughest job ever given any Negro in the Federal Government. \u2026 You have one mandate \u2014 to do what is right.\" \n As many cities were racked by rioting in the mid-1960s, Wilkins advocated efforts to improve conditions there. \"We have to change the way people live,\" he said in the Times in 1967. \"All the rest is Band-Aids and lollipops.\" \n He joined the Ford Foundation when Johnson left office in early 1969. In 1970, he wrote a Washington Post essay about being almost the only black at the Gridiron Dinner, the annual Washington frolic of the male power elite. He wrote that its convivial insider jokes about such things as President Richard Nixon's \"Southern strategy\" amounted to \"a depressing display of gross insensitivity and both conscious and unconscious racism.\" \n He wound up leaving the Ford Foundation for journalism. His Washington Post editorials in the early months of the Watergate scandal in 1972 contributed to the paper's 1973 Pulitzer Prize for public service, a staff award. \n Wilkins left the Post in 1974 to join The New York Times, doing commentary on the final stages of the Watergate scandal from his new post. \n Among his other books were \"Jefferson's Pillow: The Founding Fathers and the Dilemma of Black Patriotism,\" 2001; and \"Quiet Riots: Race and Poverty in the United States\" a 1988 look back at the Kerner Commission's 1968 report of urban unrest that Wilkins co-edited with former Sen. Fred R. Harris, who had been a commission member. \n In a 1992 Associated Press story on black and white relations, he criticized the notion among some blacks that blacks should stay away from the mainstream white culture lest they be guilty of \"selling out\" or \"acting white.\" \n \"If we tried to enforce a black orthodoxy, then we would fall into the white folks' trap. They would love for us to all think alike,\" Wilkins said. \n In a 2009 essay in \"AARP the Magazine,\" he recalled his feelings about Obama's win. \n He wrote that in the early stages of the race, he believed Obama had \"no chance. This man's been in the Senate for 15 minutes, and white people just aren't going to vote for a new black guy. \u2026 I thought back to the scores of highly intelligent black men and women I'd known over my lifetime who never even passed Go because whites did not believe they could do serious work.\" \n He said despite his doubts, he still advised his daughter to join the campaign, telling her, \"this is your generation's Selma, and you dare not miss it.\" And as Obama began winning primaries, \"I caught that fire.\" \n In his 1982 memoir, Wilkins discussed his own lapses with alcohol and extramarital affairs. He said \"nobody would have believed my messages if I had presented myself as a pristine and innocent victim of all those bad white folks.\" \n Wilkins was born in 1932 in Kansas City, Missouri, where he was forced to attend segregated schools. His father was a journalist and his mother was national leader in the Young Women's Christian Association. \n After his father's death when he was 8, his family moved to New York City and, later, Grand Rapids, Michigan. He earned bachelor and law degrees from the University of Michigan. \n In a 1969 New York Times profile of his famous uncle, Wilkins said that once when he was fresh out of law school, a member of a prominent law firm asked his uncle if he should be hired. \n The elder Wilkins responded, \"Well, how do you usually judge people you are going to hire? Judge Roger the same way, hire him or not, as you would anyone else.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Historian, journalist and activist Roger Wilkins dies at 85"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A white horse and a brown mule run across Interstate 680 east of San Francisco. Steve Burdo with Contra Costa County Animal Services says the animals broke through a fence about a mile away. \n WALNUT CREEK, Calif. >> That mustang in the rearview mirror turned out to be a real horse running on a Northern California highway \u2014 followed by a mule. \n Commuters east of San Francisco on Monday were stunned to see a white horse and a brown mule running across Interstate 680. \n Steve Burdo with Contra Costa County Animal Services says the animals broke through a fence about a mile away. \n The pair adhered to the vehicle code and used an on-ramp to get on the highway. \n Authorities shut down lanes shortly before 7:30 a.m. as motorists shot cellphone video and officers rounded up the four-legged fugitives. \n Burdo says the horse, a gelding named Striker, appears to have led the breakout. He says Hank the mule is more of a follower. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Four-legged fugitives take free rein on a California highway"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval tours the new Nevada supreme court, Monday, March 27, 2017, in Las Vegas. \n LAS VEGAS >> Officials are marking the opening of a new Nevada Supreme Court building in downtown Las Vegas that has offices and chambers for state high court justices and appellate judges, and a larger courtroom for arguments. \n Elected and court officials took part in the Monday event at the two-story white marble-faced structure, which has elements modeled after buildings including the U.S. Supreme Court. \n Court employees moved in several weeks ago, and justices are expected to hear arguments April 3 in the new 72-seat courtroom. \n The 26,000-square-foot building was built by EHB Companies. It increases space for the courts, which moved from the 17th floor of the nearby Clark County Regional Justice Center. \n Justice James Hardesty projects that the new lease will save about $500,000 in rent over 10 years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Officials mark opening of new Nevada Supreme Court building"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n British Ambassador to the United Nations Matthew Rycroft speaks to reporters outside the General Assembly at U.N. headquarters. \n UNITED NATIONS >> U.N. talks aimed at banning nuclear weapons began Monday, but the United States, Russia, China and other nuclear-armed nations are sitting out a discussion they see as impractical. \n Supporters of the potential pact say it's time to push harder toward eliminating atomic weapons than nations have been doing through the nearly 50-year-old Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. \n With international tensions rising while public awareness of the nuclear threat has waned, \"the need for progress on nuclear disarmament has rarely been as urgent as it is today,\" U.N. Under Secretary-General for disarmament Kim Won-soo said as the talks opened. \n More than 100 countries voted for a U.N. General Assembly resolution last year to start discussions, with nations including Austria, Brazil and Ireland leading the effort. \n But the U.S. and several other nuclear powers say a ban won't work and the world should instead stick with a more gradual approach. \n \"As a mom, as a daughter, there is nothing I want more for my family than a world with no nuclear weapons. But we have to be realistic,\" U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said as she and colleagues from Britain, France and about 20 other nations gathered Monday outside the General Assembly chamber to show opposition to the talks starting inside. \n Haley argued that a treaty would end up disarming nations \"trying to keep peace and safety,\" while \"bad actors\" wouldn't sign on or comply. \n \"North Korea would be the one cheering, and all of us and the people we represent would be the ones at risk,\" she said. \n North Korea carried out two nuclear tests last year and has continued to test ballistic missiles as recently as this month, in violation of U.N. resolutions. The North has said its nuclear efforts are meant as a deterrent against what it sees as U.S. hostility. North Korea's U.N. Mission didn't immediately respond to an inquiry Monday about the disarmament talks. \n Opponents of the ban plan say gradual disarmament has made a difference. The U.S. has reduced its nuclear arsenal by 85 percent under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Haley said; Britain has cut its nuclear forces by over 50 percent since the height of the Cold War, according to Ambassador Matthew Rycroft. \n Still, \"our countries continue to rely on nuclear deterrence for security and stability,\" French Deputy Ambassador Alexis Lamek said. \n Chinese and Russian representatives didn't join the boycotters' news conference, but the two countries had said previously that they wouldn't participate in the talks. \n Japan, which during World War II experienced the only atomic bomb strikes in history, did take part in opening remarks Monday. Saying that North Korea's actions challenge the non-proliferation approach, Japanese representative Nobushige Takamizawa said it was \"crucial to have a realistic perspective as to how nuclear disarmament measures can contribute effectively to addressing actual security concerns.\" \n The negotiations aim to create \"a legally binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons, leading towards their total elimination.\" Backers hope a document will be inked by July. \n Any treaty would bind only nations that ratified it. But despite the opposition from key nuclear players, supporters of the proposed ban feel it could help create a new international norm of rejecting atomic arms. \n \"It's very difficult to eliminate a weapon that you haven't prohibited first,\" said Beatrice Fihn, the executive director of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, an advocacy group. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nuclear ban talks begin at U.N., but U.S. and others boycott"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Royal Palms Beach in the San Pedro area of Los Angeles is protected by boulders placed there to forestall erosion. \n LOS ANGELES >> More than half of Southern California's beaches could completely erode back to coastal infrastructure or sea cliffs by the year 2100 as the sea level rises, according to a study released today. \n Using a new computer model to predict shoreline effects caused by the rise of sea levels and changes in storm patterns from climate change, the research found that with limited human intervention, 31 percent to 67 percent of the beaches could vanish over the next eight decades with sea-level rises of 3.3 feet (1 meter) to 6.5 feet (2 meters). \n Human efforts will likely need to increase to preserve the beaches, study lead author Sean Vitousek said in a statement. \n \"Beaches are perhaps the most iconic feature of California, and the potential for losing this identity is real,\" he said. \"The effect of California losing its beaches is not just a matter of affecting the tourism economy. Losing the protecting swath of beach sand between us and the pounding surf exposes critical infrastructure, businesses and homes to damage.\" \n Vitousek was a post-doctoral fellow at the U.S. Geological Survey at the time of the study and is now a professor in the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago. \n The study was published in the American Geophysical Union's Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth Surface. \n The computer model looks at how sand is transported parallel and perpendicular to beaches as well as historical positions of shorelines and changes caused by waves and cycles such as the ocean warming phenomenon El Nino. \n According to the researchers, its reliability was shown by accurately reproducing shoreline changes seen between 1995 and 2010. \n Patrick Barnard, a USGS geologist and study co-author, said it shows that \"massive and costly interventions\" will be needed to save the beaches, which he described as both crucial to the Southern California economy and the first line of defense against coastal storm impacts. \n Losing so many beaches would be unacceptable, said John Ainsworth, executive director of the California Coastal Commission. \n \"The beaches are our public parks and economic heart and soul of our coastal communities,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Study predicts significant Southern California beach erosion"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump listens during a meeting with women small business owners in the Roosevelt Room of the White House. \n WASHINGTON >> Regrouping after a rocky few weeks, the White House declared Monday that President Donald Trump doesn't consider the health care battle to be over, suggesting he may turn to Democrats to help him overhaul the system after his own party rejected his proposal. \n The sudden interest in bipartisanship is a shift for a president who has spent months mocking Democratic leaders as inept. And Democrats indicated they have no interest if his intent is still to dismantle \"Obamacare.\" \n But Trump's interest reflects the strained state of his relations with conservatives in his party and his search for a way to regain his footing after the painful withdrawal of his health care legislation last Friday. \n \"I don't think we've seen the end of health care,\" White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Monday, pointing to \"a series of fits and starts\" that marked the process that led to passage of President Barack Obama's health care law, too, in 2010. \n Trump's failure to win the votes to pass his bill has prompted the new president to rethink how he intends to promote his agenda in Congress. \n White House officials are signaling a renewed focus on job creation, taxes and the administration's push to win confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, a bright spot for the president. House Speaker Paul Ryan huddled at the White House with Vice President Mike Pence, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and White House chief of staff Reince Priebus to discuss the legislative agenda, a Ryan spokesman said. \n Yet the rosy notion of Democratic cooperation glosses over recent history. \n Trump is viewed with broad contempt among the party's base. Before his inauguration, the incoming president called Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer the \"head clown\" in tweets about the health care law. \n Schumer said in light of the withdrawal of the House bill the president should no longer attempt to undermine the Obama law. \"He's in charge, people want him to make their lives better, not make them worse because of some political anger or vendetta,\" he said. \n In the meantime, lawmakers face the possibility of a partial government shutdown on April 29 unless Republicans and Democrats can manage to pass a federal spending bill or provide an extension of current funding levels. \n Trump had initially blamed Democrats for the health care measure's failure, predicting an eventual collapse of the law. But he later acknowledged a more widely held view: That the bill was undone by hard-line conservatives of the House Freedom Caucus, who refused to back a measure they said did not go far enough in repealing the current law. \n Trump on Sunday complained on Twitter that Democrats were gleeful that \"the Freedom Caucus, with the help of Club For Growth and Heritage, have saved Planned Parenthood & Ocare!\" \n Spicer on Monday reiterated that Trump had learned \"a lot in this process about loyalty\" but brushed off questions of whether the president had written off working with conservatives. He also dismissed suggestions that Trump encouraged his 27 million Twitter followers to watch Judge Jeanine Pirro's program on Fox News on Saturday as a slap against Ryan. Pirro opened her show with a call for Ryan to resign. \n Republicans warned that a blame game would be counterproductive. \n \"It would be a huge mistake for the message on this failure on health care to be to assume that conservatives won't be good allies,\" said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union. \"Most conservatives stood with the president.\" \n Publicly, Trump on Monday greeted female business owners to a round-table discussion on jobs and later joined with Republican lawmakers and members of his Cabinet as he signed into law bills focused on overturning Obama era regulations. \n \"I will keep working with Congress, with every agency, and most importantly with the American people until we eliminate every unnecessary harmful and job-killing regulation that we can find,\" Trump said. \n The White House also has sought to deflect attention from Trump's troubles. \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions opened Monday's daily briefing at the White House with a vigorous new call for \"sanctuary cities\" to comply with federal laws or risk federal funding. The administration has targeted cities which shelter people living in the country illegally by refusing to help the federal government enforce immigration laws. \n Post-health care, many issues remain for the White House. \n Gorsuch, Trump's nominee for the Supreme Court, remains on track for confirmation with solid support among Republicans. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on the judge on April 3. \n While the House is moving forward on plans to overhaul the tax system, the White House has not yet made its views explicitly clear on what approach it would support and there is a broad expectation that the work could stretch beyond Capitol Hill's self-imposed August goal for completion. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House looks to bounce back after health care loss"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A United Airlines passenger plane landed, Sept. 2015, at Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, N.J. United said, today, that regular-paying fliers are welcome to wear leggings aboard its flights, even though two teenage girls were barred by a gate agent from boarding a flight from Denver to Minneapolis Sunday because of their attire. \n NEW YORK >> Don't mess with our stretch, United Airlines, or risk the wrath of leggings lovers. \n The social media matter of The Kids in Leggings vs. United snapped to the surface Sunday. That's when one Shannon Watts said on Twitter she had witnessed a gate agent refusing to let two girls board a flight from Denver to Minneapolis because of their leggings. The girls' dad was in shorts. \n The incident, with United's Twitter account chiming in, rolled right on through to Monday, prompting debate on whether leggings are \"pants.\" That especially goes for women and girls and whether the United dress code for people on standby who are availing themselves of free family passes, as this family was, has perhaps not kept pace with the elevation of stretchy pants from gym and yoga garb to more broadly acceptable. \n Or are leggings more like women's stockings and therefore not appropriate for plane travel, as one Facebook user argued \u2014 or is this a better comparison, as suggested by another: \"It's like going to a baseball game on a player's tickets and doing something against the rules, right?\" \n Besides, some on social media said, many airlines adhere to the same standards for flying on this type of freebie. \n \"Casual attire is allowed as long as it looks neat and is in good taste for the local environment,\" tweeted the United account in response to one angry leggings defender Watts whipped up Sunday. \n \"United shall have the right to refuse passengers who are not properly clothed via our Contract of Carriage,\" another tweet from United explained. \n The policy for family and friends on passes is different from that for the rest of us paying folk. For United, it seems in this case to be about the stretchy fabric. \n American Airlines, for paying passengers, reserves the right to bar you if you are clothed in a manner that would \"cause discomfort or offense to other passengers or are barefoot.\" An American spokesman had no comment about the United flap Monday. \n But American has a separate policy for employees and their guests: They're prohibited from wearing clothes that are \"torn, dirty, frayed or overly revealing.\" If an employee or guest is traveling in first or business class, he or she can't wear shorts, flip-flops or baseball caps, under that American dress code. \n The point for some airline insiders, however, is different. Some of them contend anybody eligible for the types of free passage afforded the girls on Sunday is well aware of dress code restrictions, however silly they may seem from the outside. \n Kristin Taylor, in tony Greenwich, Connecticut, is a leggings lover and sees them everywhere in her world. She's also a psychologist and stay-at-home mom to two of three sons, \"so no leggings for them.\" She just flew in leggings to San Diego and wore a nice pair, from J.Crew, out to lunch recently with a cashmere tunic. \n \"Leggings are pants,\" she said. \"Seriously.\" \n Fleece-lined or paired with a fancy top for evening, leggings can be just about anything the wearer wants them to be these days, Taylor said. Besides, as the debate over leggings has gone on for years, what about jeggings? What about tights? Should Monday's standard on \"pants\" rely on whether one can also comfortably perform a Downward Dog? \n \"And for kids? I find that ridiculous,\" Taylor added. \"If the father can wear shorts the girls should be able to wear leggings. If the policy was that the father had to be wearing a suit and tie and you wanted a woman to be wearing something commensurate, I would hope she would still be allowed to wear pants.\" \n United spokesman Jonathan Guerin weighed in Monday: \"The girls (teenagers) were completely understanding. No one was upset at the gate.\" \n Chicago-based United regularly reminds employees about the dress rules and tells them to make sure that anyone flying with one of their passes knows the guidelines, Guerin said. \n Just the day before, United had sent a memo to airport workers reminding them of the dress policy, he said. The reminder \"specifically mentioned leggings, along with other no-nos for travelers using United passes, such as flip-flops and torn jeans,\" he said. \n He said United isn't contemplating any changes to the standards. \n \"They were not designed to single out women or men,\" Guerin said. \"It has to do with the way we present ourselves and that represents the company and represents the brand.\" \n Tamara Rodriguez Trevino, of Dallas, Texas, is an elementary school teacher and wearer of LuLaRoe leggings. The airlines, she said, should be left to their policies for friends and family free travel. \n \"After reading a few articles and comments about the situation, I feel that, although it may be discriminatory toward women and girls, the airlines have guidelines that have been in place for many years,\" she said. \"Because they foot the bill for the travel, I feel that they can enforce their policies when applicable. Now removing those said friends of family from the plane seemed excessive to me. Verbal warning should have been given maybe?\" \n Kim Bongiorno, in central New Jersey, has a 9-year-old daughter who is a leggings enthusiast and caught wind of the controversy on television news. The family travels on United often on frequent-flyer points. \n \"Ever have to deal with the folds and bunches of jeans on a 5-hour flight, losing circulation and feeling the pinch in your waist when you become bloated?\" she asked. \"How about people with bad circulation who need to wear compression socks and legging-style pants or sweatpants? Should those who need them for health and comfort reasons be denied a seat on United? Only healthy, very slim, short people who wear jeans/trousers comfortably in cramped spaces are welcome?\" \n Bongiorno has more questions: What of the decorum of men in clingy trousers that can be revealing? How about men in tight shirts? Men in shirts with sexual sayings or images on them? \n Giovanna Bovenzi Cruz, a secretary and consumer services representative from Vineland, New Jersey, wears leggings. \n \"I feel like the dress code is a little outdated,\" she said. \"I don't know any woman or young girl that doesn't wear leggings.\" \n Associated Press writers Tamara Lush in St. Petersburg, Florida, and David Koenig and Paul Harloff in New York contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Airline faces wrath of leggings wearers in boarding flap"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump holds up one of four bills during a signing ceremony in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump signed a handful of measures today rolling back Obama-era regulations under the Congressional Review Act. \n It's part of a larger GOP effort to eliminate an array of regulations issued during President Barack Obama's final months in office and comes days after Trump's effort to repeal and replace \"Obamacare\" failed. Trump has made overturning what he deems government over-reach a centerpiece of his first months in office. \n \"I will keep working with Congress, with every agency, and most importantly, the American people, until we eliminate every unnecessary, harmful and job-killing regulation that we can find,\" Trump said at a White House signing ceremony. \"We have a lot more coming.\" \n Two of the regulations nullified had to do with school performance and teacher preparation programs. \n One, issued by the Education Department in October, required that federally funded teacher preparation programs be evaluated based on the academic outcomes of those teachers' students. Republican senators opposed the rules, arguing such matters should be left to the states. \n The other aimed to help states identify failing schools and come up with plans to improve them. \n Another rule nullified by Trump required federal land managers to consider climate change and other long-term effects of proposed development on public lands. The regulation had been imposed by the Bureau of Land Management, which oversees more than 245 million acres of public lands. \n Republicans argued the rule, finalized in December, shifted decision-making authority away from state and local officials to the federal government. The signing came the day before Trump was expected to reverse Obama's signature effort to address climate change, the Clean Power Plan, which restricts greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants. \n The final rule targeted by Republicans had been aimed at forcing government contractors to disclose violations of federal labor laws as they sought more work. The \"blacklisting rule\" required contractors to disclose violations of 14 federal labor laws, including those pertaining to workplace safety, wages and discrimination. \n The White House argued the rule would \"bog down\" the federal procurement process, while business groups said that it would increase compliance costs. \n Republican lawmakers and the Trump administration have made curbing government regulation a top priority this year. Dozens of resolutions pulling back various Obama-era rules have been introduced under an expedited process established through the Congressional Review Act. Under that process, a regulation is invalidated when a simple majority of both chambers pass a joint resolution of disapproval and the president signs it. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump signs legislation rolling back Obama-era regulations"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney General Jeff Sessions, right, accompanied by White House press secretary Sean Spicer, talked to the media during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> Attorney General Jeff Sessions today warned so-called sanctuary cities they could lose federal money for refusing to cooperate with immigration authorities and suggested the government would come after grants that have already been awarded if they don't comply. \n Sessions said the Justice Department would require cities seeking some of $4.1 billion available in grant money to verify that they are in compliance with a section of federal law that allows information sharing with immigration officials. \n His statements in the White House briefing room brought to mind tough talk from President Donald Trump's campaign and came just three days after the administration's crushing health care defeat. But Sessions also acknowledged he was reiterating a similar policy adopted by the Obama administration last year. \n \"I urge the nation's states and cities to carefully consider the harm they are doing to their citizens by refusing to enforce our immigration laws,\" Sessions said. \n The message is a furtherance of Trump's campaign promise to \"defund\" sanctuary cities by taking away their federal funding. But legal precedent suggests that would be difficult. \n The Obama administration issued the same warning last year, telling cities they risked losing grant money in 2017 if they didn't comply with the law. \n Sessions did not detail what specific factors would trigger the government to deny or strip a city of money, only that it would take \"all lawful steps to claw-back\" funds already awarded to cities deemed to be out of compliance. \n At stake are grants that go toward an array of programs, including victim services, body cameras for police, tools to cut rape kit testing backlogs and police involvement in community events. \n In fiscal year 2016, the Office of Justice Programs made nearly 3,000 grants totaling $3.9 billion to cities, counties, states and other local governments. \n Philadelphia, which has designated itself as a \"sanctuary city,\" received $57.5 million in Justice Department grants in fiscal year 2016 \u2014 mostly to cover police expenses for the Democratic National Convention, which was held in the city. \n Although there is no official definition of what makes a locality a \"sanctuary,\" the Trump administration has begun to publish weekly reports of local jurisdictions that aren't cooperating with federal efforts to find and deport immigrants in the country illegally, as part of executive order Trump signed in January. \n The White House last week listed more than 200 cases of immigrants released from custody before federal agents could intervene. Sessions today pointed to two cases in which immigrants who had been released by local law enforcement went on to commit violent crimes. \n Refusing to honor such immigration detainer requests would not put a city in violation of the statute Sessions cited, which deals instead with law enforcement sharing of information about someone's immigration status. \n Meanwhile, municipal leaders nationwide vowed to defy any crackdown. \n \"We are going to become this administration's worst nightmare,\" said New York City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, who was among officials gathered in New York for a small conference that attracted officials from cities including San Francisco, Seattle, Denver, Chicago, Philadelphia and New York. \n Mark-Viverito and others promised to block federal immigration agents from accessing certain private areas on city property, to restrict their access to schools and school records and to offer legal services to immigrants in the country illegally. \n California Senate leader Kevin de Le\u00f3n called Sessions' message, \"nothing short of blackmail. \u2026 Their gun-to-the-head method to force resistant cities and counties to participate in Trump's inhumane and counterproductive mass-deportation is unconstitutional and will fail.\" \n Associated Press writer Steve Peoples in New York contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sessions: Sanctuary cities are risking federal money"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner, right, listens to President Donald Trump speak during a breakfast with business leaders in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. Trump is set to announce a new White House office run by his son-in-law, Kushner, that will seek to overhaul government functions using ideas from the business sector. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is establishing a new White House office run by his son-in-law that will seek to overhaul government functions using ideas from the business sector. \n Trump announced the White House Office of American Innovation in a memo Monday. \"The office will focus on implementing policies and scaling proven private-sector models to spur job creation and innovation,\" he wrote. \n The innovation office will be led by Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to Trump and daughter Ivanka Trump's husband, and will report directly to the president. White House spokesman Sean Spicer said early priorities for the office will be modernizing technology in the federal government and overhauling the Department of Veterans Affairs. \n In the memo, Trump said the office will make recommendations to the president \"on policies and plans that improve government operations and services, improve the quality of life for Americans now and in the future, and spur job creation.\" \n Among those working on the effort are National Economic Council director Gary Cohn; Dina Powell, senior counselor to the president for economic initiatives and deputy national security adviser; Chris Liddell, assistant to the president for strategic initiatives; and Reed Cordish, assistant to the president for intragovernmental and technology initiatives. All have extensive business experience. \n Trump is announcing the new office at a low point in his young administration, days after the Republican bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, also known as \"Obamacare,\" imploded in the House, revealing deep divides within the GOP and fraying tensions at the White House. \n This effort has been developing since shortly after the inauguration, said a senior administration official, who requested anonymity to discuss details about the office. The group has been meeting since then and started talking to CEOs from various sectors about ways to make changes to federal programs. Areas its personnel hope to tackle include overhauling the Department of Veterans Affairs, improving workforce development and targeting opioid addiction. \n Ivanka Trump, who has a West Wing office but no official job, will be involved with issues of interest to her, such as workforce development. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump creates office to bring business ideas to government"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Flint Water Plant water tower is seen in Flint, Mich. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said that a $100 million grant to address drinking water issues in the city was approved after a formal application from Michigan state officials. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump and former President Barack Obama had a hand in last week's grant of $100 million to address the lead in the drinking water crisis in Flint, Michigan, despite a report that seeks to give Trump credit for the funding. The report also says Obama refused to give money to Flint, which is false. \n The federal Environmental Protection Agency, which is part of the executive branch of government led by the president, announced last week that it had granted $100 million to the state of Michigan to fund drinking water infrastructure upgrades in Flint. The EPA said in its announcement that the funding was provided by the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act of 2016, a measure passed by Congress and signed into law by Obama in December. \n The law provides a total $170 million to address drinking water safety issues. Part of the money is set to go to new pipes for Flint, where residents have struggled with lead-tainted water for nearly three years. \n The $100 million grant was awarded earlier this month after the EPA reviewed and approved a formal request from state officials, the EPA said. \n A story by the right-wing partisan website The Red Elephants is headlined, \"Trump's EPA sending $100 million to Flint to fix water \u2013 something Obama refused to do.\" Another from the Conservative Tribune reads: \"First Real Hope for Flint Water as Trump Bestows $100 Million.\" Obama pledged $80 million in funding to Michigan to address drinking water issues during a visit to the state in January 2016. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fact check: Obama, Trump had role in Flint water relief"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Firefighters battle an early morning apartment fire in Oakland, Calif. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> Awakened by screams of \"fire,\" Michael Jones bolted out of bed in the pre-dawn darkness today at the dilapidated Oakland apartment building he calls home, instinctively pounded on the doors of his elderly neighbors and ushered them to safety \u2014 walkers and all. \n Jones, 43, then found Princess, the \"house\" pit bull, cowering in the backyard, and the two ran out the front door as glass shattered from the heat. \n A few hours later, he and the dog stood across the street, staring at the smoldering wooden structure that housed some 80 low-income residents, many of whom complained that they had not heard alarms, felt sprinklers or found fire extinguishers as they fled the substandard living conditions. \n Jones said a prayer of gratitude for surviving the fire that killed three people and hurt four others, including two children. One remained missing. \n The Alameda County coroner identified one of the victims as 64-year-old Edwarn Anderson, of Oakland. \n Oakland Fire Battalion Chief Erik Logan said some people were hanging from windows and others were in fire escapes when firefighters arrived at the building. \n The fire broke out in the rundown neighborhood nearly three months after a warehouse called the Ghost Ship caught fire and killed 36 people attending an unlicensed concert about five miles (eight kilometers) away. \n The fires have raised questions about the use of some buildings in the city for residences amid a shortage of affordable housing in the San Francisco Bay Area. \n \"At least the rats are gone,\" said Angela Taylor, 62, clutching her purse, the only possession she managed to get out of a room she paid $550 a month to live in. \"It's the wrong purse, but it's better than nothing. A lady needs her purse.\" \n In 2010, Oakland allowed the owner of the 40-unit building that burned to convert the structure into transitional housing for recovering drug addicts, people struggling with homelessness and others, records show. \n Since then, it has been the subject of several building department citations and investigations. City records show building officials verified complaints filed by the nonprofit organization that rents most of the building about deferred maintenance. \n The owner, Keith Kim, was sent a notice of violation on March 2 over complaints of large amounts of trash and debris, building materials and furniture behind the property. \n The building department also has an open investigation into complaints of \"no working heat throughout the building, electrical issues and a large pest infestation,\" city records show. \n The Oakland Fire Department did not respond to a request for inspection records involving the building, Kim did not return telephone calls from The Associated Press. \n Mayor Libby Schaaf viewed the building briefly and in a statement later offered her sympathies to the families of those affected but didn't address the complaints against the building. \n City fire officials have been criticized for failing to inspect the Ghost Ship warehouse and the mayor conceded that city agencies need to improve communications after records showed police responding to a number of complaints there in the months before the Dec. 2 blaze. \n The cause of the Ghost Ship fire is still under investigation and Fire Chief Teresa Deloach Reed announced she would retire May 2. \n Days after the warehouse fire, the owner of the building that burned sent an eviction notice to Urojas Community Center, which had leased the first two floors of the three-story building, said James Cook, an attorney for the center. \n The center assists about 60 people with transitional housing and services, Cook said. He had complained to the city about clogged toilets and disgusting bathrooms, exposed wires and water an inch deep on the ground floor, he said. \n \"It's like Ghost Ship, but worse,\" Cook said. \n Residents said the hallways were cluttered with trash and debris. \n \"There were no sprinklers or fire extinguishers,\" said Curtis Robinson, 52, who had to leave his wheelchair behind in his first floor room in the scramble to escape. \n Several residents said they discounted the initial commotion over the fire because the building and neighborhood are noisy. Loud arguments occur frequently, and some residents stayed up late, drinking and partying. \n Kirsten Evans, 52, said she paid $1,100 a month for a small studio apartment without a kitchen. She said she moved in three years ago after she was evicted from her apartment of 20 years because her landlord wanted to raise her rent dramatically. \n She said she woke up briefly to take her medication and heard yelling and screaming. Then she heard windows popping, shattering from the heat and a skylight overhead shattering and glass falling outside her door. \n As she fled, Evans said she trampled over broken glass as wires and light fixtures sparked red and white. \n \"I didn't hear a fire alarm,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Screams alert residents to fire that killed 3 in Oakland"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Flint will replace at least 18,000 lead or galvanized-steel water lines by 2020, and the state will pick up the bill with state and federal money. \n DETROIT >> Michigan and the city of Flint agreed today to replace thousands of home water lines under a sweeping deal to settle a lawsuit by residents over lead-contaminated water in the struggling city. \n Flint will replace at least 18,000 lead or galvanized-steel water lines by 2020, and the state will pick up the bill with state and federal money, according to the settlement filed in federal court. It will be presented to a judge on Tuesday for his approval. \n More than 700 water lines already have been replaced and work is ongoing, but the agreement would rid Flint's roughly 100,000 residents of uncertainty over how to pay for the enormous task. Under the settlement, the state will set aside $87 million and keep another $10 million in reserve if necessary. \n \"The proposed agreement is a win for the people of Flint,\" said Dimple Chaudhary, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which is working with the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan to represent Flint residents. \n \"It provides a comprehensive framework to address lead in Flint tap water and covers a number of critical issues related to water safety,\" Chaudhary told The Associated Press. \n Flint's water was tainted with lead for at least 18 months, as the city tapped the Flint River but didn't treat the water to reduce corrosion. As a result, lead leached from old pipes and fixtures. \n Water quality has improved but residents still are advised to use filters if drawing water from the kitchen tap. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Michigan, Flint to replace 18,000 lead-tainted water lines"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A group of women, some with their daughters, linked hands on Westminster bridge in central London in an act of solidarity organized by Women's March London to pay tribute to the victims of the Westminster attack on Sunday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack were placed outside the Palace of Westminster, London today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Khalid Masood, who authorities identified as the man who mowed down pedestrians and stabbed a policeman to death outside Parliament, March 22, in London. Masood, the British man who killed several people in a rampage in London last week made had three trips to Saudi Arabia in his lifetime. \n LONDON >> Police have found no evidence that the man who killed four people in London last week was associated with the Islamic State group or al-Qaida, a senior British counterterrorism officer said today. \n Deputy Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu of the Metropolitan Police said Westminster attacker Khalid Masood clearly had \"an interest in jihad,\" but police have no indication he discussed his attack plans with others. \n Basu, who also serves as Britain's senior national coordinator for counterterrorism policing, said Wednesday's attack \u2014 in which Masood ran down pedestrians on London's Westminster Bridge before fatally stabbing a policeman guarding Parliament \u2014 \"appears to be based on low-sophistication, low-tech, low-cost techniques copied from other attacks.\" \n Masood was shot dead by police after his deadly rampage, which police have revealed lasted just 82 seconds. \n Police believe Masood \u2014 a 52-year-old Briton with convictions for violence who had spent several years in Saudi Arabia \u2014 acted alone, but are trying to determine whether others helped inspire or direct his actions. \n Detectives today continued to question a 30-year-old man arrested Sunday and a 58-year-old man arrested shortly after Wednesday's attack. Both were detained in the central England city of Birmingham, where Masood had recently lived. \n Prime Minister Theresa May said last week that Masood was \"a peripheral figure\" in an investigation into violent extremism some years ago. But Basu said he was not a \"subject of interest\" for counterterrorism police or the intelligence services before last week's attack. \n Masood was born Adrian Elms, but changed his name in 2005, suggesting a conversion to Islam. \n His mother, Janet Ajao, said today she was \"deeply shocked, saddened and numbed\" by his murderous actions. \n In a statement released through the police, Ajao said that \"since discovering that it was my son that was responsible I have shed many tears for the people caught up in this horrendous incident.\" \n Basu said there was no sign Masood was radicalized during one of his stints in prison, the last of which was in 2003. \n \"I know when, where and how Masood committed his atrocities, but now I need to know why,\" Basu said. \"Most importantly, so do the victims and families.\" \n As Basu appealed for anyone who spoke to Masood on the day of the attack to come forward, the British government repeated calls for tech companies to give police and intelligence services access to encrypted messages exchanged by terrorism suspects. \n Masood used the messaging service WhatsApp just before he began his attack. Home Secretary Amber Rudd said Sunday that such services must not \"provide a secret place for terrorists to communicate with each other.\" \n Tech companies have strongly resisted previous calls to create back-doors into encrypted messaging, arguing that to do so would compromise the secure communications underpinning everything from shopping to tax returns to online banking. \n Rudd is due to hold a previously scheduled meeting with internet companies on Thursday. \n Prime Minister Theresa May's spokesman, James Slack, said tech firms \"should be helping us more\" to prevent terrorism. \n \"The ball is now in their court,\" he said. \n Slack said that if agreement was not reached with the companies, the government \"rules nothing out,\" including legislation. \n Meanwhile, the families of the dead and injured set about the difficult task of going on with their lives. \n The family of an American victim expressed gratitude today for the kindness of strangers as they insisted some good would come from the tragedy. A dozen members of Kurt W. Cochran's family gathered to face the media, sharing their shock and sense of loss. \n Cochran, from Utah, was on the last day of a European trip celebrating his 25th wedding anniversary when he was killed on Westminster Bridge. Cochran's wife, Melissa, suffered a broken leg and rib and a cut head, but is steadily improving. \n The family offered profuse thanks to first responders, British and American authorities and people who had sent notes, prayer and donations. \n \"Last night we were speaking as a family about all this, and it was unanimous that none of us harbor any ill will or harsh feelings towards this,\" said Sarah McFarland, Melissa Cochran's sister. \"So we love our brother. We love what he brought to the world, and we feel like that this situation is going to bring many good things to the world.\" \n Jonathan Shenfield contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: 'No evidence' London attacker associated with IS"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Charging Bull and Fearless Girl statues are sit on Lower Broadway in New York. \n NEW YORK >> The globally popular statue of a young girl will keep staring down Wall Street's famed \"Charging Bull\" through February 2018 instead of being removed this coming Sunday, the mayor said. \n She's \"standing up to fear, standing up to power, being able to find in yourself the strength to do what's right,\" said Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio, who appeared with the \"Fearless Girl\" statue Monday on the lower Manhattan traffic island where the two bronze figures face each other. \n The mayor said the political turmoil surrounding Republican President Donald Trump makes the endearing child particularly relevant. \n \"She is inspiring everyone at a moment when we need inspiration,\" he said. \n The 4-foot-tall, 250-pound ponytailed girl in a windblown dress was installed this month to highlight the dearth of women on corporate boards as she stands strong against the 11-foot-tall, 7,100-pound bull. The girl became an instant tourist draw and internet sensation. \n On Monday morning, Democratic U.S. Rep. Carolyn Maloney, of New York, led a group of prominent women in front of City Hall to honor the artist, Kristen Visbal, and State Street Global Advisors, the asset management firm that commissioned the work and, with the McCann advertising firm, helped Visbal create her sculpture. \n \"She was created to bring attention to the courage and unrealized power of women in so many fields, and she has clearly struck a nerve,\" said Maloney, who is pushing for the statue to become a permanent installation. \n Visbal said the positive response to her artwork \"renewed my faith in sculpture to make an impact on society, to create a debate the way a good piece of art should.\" \n She has received more than 1,000 emails from India, Denmark, Sweden, Spain and elsewhere, including one from a mother who wanted to wallpaper her daughter's room with the girl's image. \n \"I see men and women as the ying and yang of society,\" Visbal said. \"They bring different things to the table. They solve problems in a different way. But we need to work together.\" \n \"Fearless Girl\" will stay in place for another 11 months through an art program of the city's Department of Transportation that manages lower Broadway near Wall Street. \n Visbal said one of her models was a friend's young daughter, whom she asked \"to envision staring down a great big bull and, boy, she really had style.\" The girl was white, and the creative team then incorporated another girl, a Latina, \"to come up with a child that has universal appeal,\" Visbal said. \n The fictional figure is linked to a very real message: Women make up only about 16 percent of U.S. corporate boards, according to the ISS Analytics business research firm. \n Artist Arturo Di Modica's bull arrived after the 1987 stock market crash as a symbol of Americans' financial resilience and can-do spirit. He wants the girl gone, calling the statue an \"advertising trick\" fashioned by two corporate giants, while his sculpture is \"art.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Fearless Girl' statue opposite bull stays through February"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester holds a sign that reads \"ICE Hands Off DACA Families Free Daniel,\" during a demonstration in front of the federal courthouse in Seattle. A federal judge upheld a decision not to release Daniel Ramirez Medina, a Mexican man who was arrested near Seattle, despite his participation in a program designed to protect those brought to the U.S. illegally as children, saying Ramirez should challenge his detention in immigration court. \n SEATTLE >> A federal judge upheld a decision not to release a Mexican man arrested near Seattle, despite his participation in a program designed to protect those brought to the U.S. illegally as children. \n In the decision Friday, U.S. District Judge Ricardo S. Martinez said \"many questions remain regarding the appropriateness of the government's conduct\" in the arrest of 24-year-old Daniel Ramirez Medina. But the judge said he should challenge his detention in immigration court, a separate legal system run by the U.S. Justice Department. \n The order upheld a previous decision by U.S. Magistrate Judge James P. Donohue. \n Immigration agents arrested Ramirez Feb. 10 at a suburban apartment complex where they had gone to arrest his father, a previously deported felon. Agents said Ramirez acknowledged affiliating with gangs. \n Ramirez, who is being held at a federal detention center in Tacoma, denies the claims. He has no criminal record and twice passed background checks to participate in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which allows people brought to the U.S. illegally as children to stay in the country and work. \n Federal authorities said the arrest of Ramirez was routine. \n However, it was one of several arrests that have left immigration activists fearing an erosion of protections under the DACA program. \n U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Portland, Oregon, on Sunday arrested Francisco J. Rodriguez Dominguez, a DACA participant who was brought to the U.S. from Morelia, in Mexico's Michoacan state, at age 5. \n The American Civil Liberties Union of Oregon said in a written statement that last December, he entered a diversion program following a drunken driving arrest, and that he had attended all his court dates and required meetings. \n \"Despite Francisco's best efforts to make good on his mistake, ICE has taken the position that even a misdemeanor DUI eligible for diversion is enough to end DACA status,\" Andrea Williams, executive director of Causa Oregon, an Oregon immigrant rights organization, said in the statement. \"This policy is tearing apart his family, our communities, and does nothing to keep us safer.\" \n The federal agency did not immediately return an email seeking comment Monday. \n About 750,000 immigrants have enrolled in the program since President Barack Obama instituted it in 2012. \n Ramirez's lawyers have sought to keep his case out of federal immigration court, which they say is ill-equipped to handle his claims that his arrest violated his constitutional rights to due process and to be free from unreasonable seizure. \n They have not challenged the deportation proceedings initiated by the government but have sought his release on constitutional grounds. \n The judge noted that the Department of Homeland Security has the authority to detain people who are in the U.S. illegally during their deportation proceedings. \n That means Ramirez would not be entitled to release even if the court found his rights were violated, Martinez said. \n \"He has placed himself in the tenuous position of arguing that his arrest and detention have violated his constitutional rights, while also asserting that he is not challenging the revocation of his DACA status or 'anything that has to do with the removal proceedings themselves,'\" Martinez wrote. \n The judge added that the case is unusual and he had sympathy for Ramirez's situation. \n Ramirez' lawyers are disappointed that he remains in custody and are trying to determine how to win his release, Manny Rivera, a spokesman for the lawyers, said Monday. \n Ramirez is originally from the city of La Paz in Mexico's Baja California Sur state. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge won't release Mexican man jailed near Seattle"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this combination photo, Ted Koppel, left, prepares for the taping of his last broadcast of \"Nightline,\" in Nov. 2005 in Washington and Sean Hannity of Fox News, speaks during the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), in March 2016, in National Harbor, Md. \n NEW YORK >> Fox News Channel's Sean Hannity is calling on CBS News to release the full tape of his interview with Ted Koppel for \"Sunday Morning,\" in which the veteran \"Nightline\" anchor answered \"yes\" when Hannity asked if Koppel thought he was bad for America. \n The exchange between two different generations of television news personalities continued to resonate today: It was the lead \"hot topic\" that hosts of \"The View\" kicked around on their talk show. \n Hannity was interviewed for the Sunday show's cover story about partisan media, and sensed some unease by Koppel when he discussed his role as an opinion host. Hannity is a fervent supporter of President Donald Trump and has attacked his opponents and traditional media outlets for how they report on the president. \n \"You're cynical,\" Hannity said. \n \"I am cynical, Koppel replied. \n \"Do you think we're bad for America? You think I'm bad for America?\" Hannity asked. \n \"Yeah,\" Koppel said. \n Koppel said he lumped Hannity in with other opinion shows and that while he thought Hannity was \"very good at what you do,\" his audience feels ideology is more important than facts. \n It was one of two excerpts of Koppel's interview with Hannity that was included in the broader 10-minute story, and it quickly attracted attention. CBS News fanned it, breaking out a 45-second clip of their exchange for its website and writing a story about it. \n Hannity, in a series of tweets, criticized the report as \"fake edited news. I did about a 45-minute interview with CBS. They ran less than two. Why did Ted cut out my many examples of media bias?\" He called on CBS to release the unedited interview so people could see the \"games\" being played by editors. \n Hannity didn't indicate that his words were edited to make them appear misleading; he just seemed upset that so much got left on the cutting-room floor. \n CBS News didn't respond to Hannity's request today. Koppel said he was content to let the story speak for itself. \n Koppel has expressed similar opinions before. In an appearance on Fox's \"The O'Reilly Factor\" last year, Koppel told host Bill O'Reilly that he had changed the television landscape by taking news from being objective and dull to subjective and entertaining. When O'Reilly said that Koppel believed that \"people like me have ruined the country,\" the former ABC newsman answered, \"That's right.\" \n In 2012, Koppel also took MSNBC's liberal host Rachel Maddow to task in a speech at the National Press Club. \n \"I don't want to know what she thinks about these issues,\" he said. \"I really don't. I want to hear her informed reporting. I want to hear her interview people with that sharp mind of hers.\" \n CBS News released a lengthier outtake of Koppel's interview with Hannity online Saturday, before the television report aired. Hannity discussed his working class background, criticisms of former President Barack Obama and his attitudes toward liberals and journalism. \n \"We are stuck in an ideological rut and programs like yours, popular as you are, haven't helped,\" Koppel said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hannity angry at treatment by CBS in interview"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "Uber is resuming its self-driving car program after a brief suspension following a crash. The company had also grounded self-driving cars in San Francisco over the weekend but they resumed operating earlier today. \n NEW YORK >> Uber says it is resuming its self-driving car program in Arizona and Pittsburgh after it was suspended following a crash over the weekend. \n The company had also grounded self-driving cars in San Francisco over the weekend but they resumed operating earlier today. The difference between the California program versus the ones in Arizona and Pennsylvania is that California does not allow passengers to ride in the vehicles. \n The company said Monday that it paused the operations over the weekend to better understand what happened in Arizona, but feels confident in returning the cars to the road. \n There were no serious injuries reported in the incident in Tempe, Arizona on Friday night. Police said the self-driving Uber SUV was obeying the law while the human driver of the other car was cited for a moving violation. \n Uber says it is investigating the incident and that there were no passengers in the back seat of the self-driving car. \n Multiple automakers and technology companies are testing fleets of self-driving vehicles. In nearly all cases, the cars have backup drivers who can take the wheel in an emergency. \n Testing hasn't been accident-free. Waymo \u2014 a division of Google \u2014 has been testing self-driving cars since 2009 and has driven them more than 2 million miles. Last year, Waymo reported 13 accidents involving its fleet in the state of California, which requires companies testing autonomous vehicles to report any accidents. Most of the accidents were minor and weren't caused by Waymo's vehicles. But in February 2016, a Waymo test car struck a public bus near the company's headquarters in Mountain View, California. No one was injured. \n Cruise Automation \u2014 a self-driving startup owned by General Motors Co. \u2014 and Nissan Motor Co. also reported fender benders involving self-driving cars in California within the last year. \n Last year, a driver of a semi-autonomous Tesla \u2014 which is different from a self-driving car \u2014 was killed with the car's Autopilot system engaged. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Uber resumes self-driving car program after brief suspension"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Members of the ATF and local police worked a crime scene at the Cameo club after a fatal shooting, Sunday, in Cincinnati. \n CINCINNATI >> Cincinnati police said they are making progress in their investigation into a nightclub shooting while city leaders today encouraged more witnesses to come forward to help find those responsible for the gun battle inside the crowded club that left one man dead, 16 people injured and more questions about safety in public gathering spots. \n Police Chief Eliot Isaac said investigators believe there were multiple shooters based on the number of shots fired in the melee early Sunday morning in the Cameo club, a popular hip-hop music spot near the Ohio river east of downtown Cincinnati. Police estimated there were more than 20 shots, sending club patrons diving to the floor or scrambling away from a chaotic and terrifying scene. \n \"We're gathering information \u2026 we're making some progress,\" Isaac said after giving city council members an update on the investigation. He declined to say whether police have identified possible suspects, but said police weren't actively looking for anyone.\" \n The FBI and federal firearms agents are assisting Cincinnati police. \n Isaac said the initial investigation indicates a dispute in the bar escalated into a gun fight around 1:30 a.m., with shots fired by \"several individuals.\" He said no club security footage of the shooting has emerged. \n He said \"a number\" of people have contacted police with tips or information, including a person who came forward Sunday evening to report having been shot, raising the total number injured to 16 besides the 27-year-old man slain. Two of the 16 injured were in critical condition today. Three other people remained hospitalized in stable condition. \n Isaac said some of the wounded could be key witnesses. City officials urged potentially reluctant witnesses to help, saying they would be protected. Crime witnesses afraid to testify for fear of retribution have been a problem in some past Cincinnati cases. \n Isaac said the nightclub had metal detectors, or wands, but wasn't required to by law. Four police officers were working off-duty security details in the club parking lot, but he emphasized the club provides its own security inside. \n He said Cameo club operator Julian \"Jay\" Rodgers has been cooperating with investigators. \n The veteran Cincinnati area entertainment operator has pledged to \"do everything in our power to make sure the monsters that did this are caught and brought to justice.\" Rodgers also said the club will remain closed until police and internal investigations are completed. \n The city solicitor told council members the annual review of liquor licenses is coming up next month, and establishments with a history of violence or being a neighborhood nuisance could find their licenses challenged. Authorities said bar owners often work with police to make safety improvements. \n City officials have said the Cameo club has had past violent incidents, including a shooting inside the club on New Year's Day in 2015 and one in the parking lot in September of that year. \n Several city leaders pledged to try to find a way to prevent such violence, while acknowledging such violent outbreaks have continued to occur across the country. \n \"We live in a city and a country where we ought to be able to go out and have a good time and not be terrorized by gun violence,\" Mayor John Cranley said. \n He said there has been an outpouring of support from elected officials, including fellow mayors in other cities. \n \"I think they know that this could happen anywhere,\" Cranley said. \n The first reports of the shooting raised alarms about a possible terror-related attack, like those that have struck crowded public venues around the globe. \n Cincinnati Police Lt. Steve Saunders said he received calls from an Australian consulate and from other countries, such as Germany and Canada, concerned that their citizens could have been hurt. Saunders said he was unaware of any foreign visitors wounded in the club. \n Shootings at U.S. bars and nightclubs have rarely involved more than a handful people. But the Orlando, Florida, nightclub massacre last June that killed 49 people and injured 53 was the exception, making it the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history. \n One teen died and eight others were injured in 2010 when gunfire broke out in the parking lot of a St. Louis club after a group was turned away from entering. Two teen girls died and seven other people were hurt in a 2009 shooting outside an underage nightclub in Portland, Oregon. \n In Cincinnati, four candles illuminated a makeshift memorial outside the club on a foggy morning today. A poster dedicated to O'Bryan Spikes, the man killed, said \"R.I.P. Lucky\" and \"Father Son Uncle Brother.\" \n Associated Press reporters John Seewer in Toledo, Andrew Welsh-Huggins in Columbus and John Minchillo in Cincinnati and AP researcher Jennifer Farrar in New York contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Suspects sought in deadly Cincinnati nightclub shooting"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 23-year-old man after he allegedly sexually assaulted a 35-year-old woman in the Ewa Beach area. \n The assault occurred at about 4:30 a.m. on Mar. 18. Police said the victim reported to police she was sexually assaulted by the suspect. \n Police arrested the 23-year-old man in Ewa Beach Sunday afternoon on suspicion of first-degree sexual assault. He was released pending investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested in Ewa Beach sex assault case"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 41-year-old man after he allegedly sexually assaulted a 23-year-old man in Honolulu. \n Police said the victim reported the suspect sexually assaulted him and stole property at about 3 a.m. Sunday. \n Police arrested the 41-year-old man on suspicion of first-degree sexual assault about seven hours later. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man reports sex assault in Honolulu"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "Police arrested a 36-year-old woman after she allegedly attempted to run over her boyfriend with a vehicle in Kalihi. \n At about 11:25 a.m. Sunday, police said the woman also assaulted the 45-year-old man with an undisclosed object causing injury. \n A few minutes later, police arrested the woman at the Liliha branch of First Hawaiian Bank on suspicion of attempted second-degree murder and second-degree assault. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman arrested in Kalihi attempted murder case"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif, spoke with reporters outside the White House, March 22, in Washington following a meeting with President Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> House intelligence chairman Devin Nunes went to the White House grounds to review intelligence reports and meet the secret source behind his claim that communications involving associates of President Donald Trump were caught up in \"incidental\" surveillance, the Republican congressman said today. \n Nunes' revelation prompted the top Democrat on the committee, Rep. Adam Schiff, as well as the Democratic leaders in the House and Senate, to call on Nunes to recuse himself from the committee's Russia probe. \n Schiff said Nunes' connections to the White House have raised insurmountable public doubts about whether the committee could credibly investigate the president's campaign associates. \n \"I believe the public cannot have the necessary confidence that matters involving the president's campaign or transition team can be objectively investigated or overseen by the chairman,\" Schiff said in a statement. \n Nunes confirmed today that he met with the source at the White House complex, but he denied coordinating with the president's aides. \n After reviewing the information last week, Nunes called a news conference to announce that U.S. spy agencies may have inadvertently captured Trump and his associates in routine targeting of foreigners' communications. Trump quickly seized on the statements as at least partial vindication for his assertion that President Barack Obama tapped his phones at Trump Tower \u2014 though Nunes, Schiff and FBI Director James Comey have said there is no such evidence. \n The Senate intelligence committee is also conducting an investigation into Russia's interference in the election and possible ties with the Trump campaign. Today it announced that Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has agreed to be interviewed. The White House confirmed that Kushner, a senior Trump adviser, had volunteered to be interviewed about arranging meetings with the Russian ambassador and other officials. \n Kushner is the fourth Trump associate to offer to be interviewed by the congressional committees looking into the murky Russia ties. Trump's former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, Trump adviser Carter Page and Trump associate Roger Stone last week volunteered to speak as well. \n \"Mr. Kushner will certainly not be the last person the committee calls to give testimony, but we expect him to be able to provide answers to key questions that have arisen in our inquiry,\" the chairman, Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, and the top Democrat, Mark Warner of Virginia, said in a joint statement in a sign of bipartisanship. \n Trump himself suggested that the House panel should investigate Bill and Hillary Clinton's dealings with Russia. \"Trump Russia story is a hoax,\" he tweeted. \n Besides the two congressional committees, the FBI is also investigating connections between the Trump campaign and Russia. \n The House investigation, meanwhile, has been plagued with partisan divisions under Nunes' leadership. \n The chairman did not tell top Democrat on the committee about the meeting at the White House complex. It is highly unusual for a committee chairman and ranking member not to coordinate meetings related to an investigation. \n \"'I think the chairman has to make a decision whether to act as a surrogate of the White House \u2014 as he did during the campaign and the transition \u2014 or to lead an independent and credible investigation,\" Schiff said Sunday on CBS' \"Face the Nation.\" \n Nunes argued he had to review classified, executive branch documents from a secure facility at the White House because the reports had not been provided to Congress and could not be transported to the secure facilities used by the House intelligence committee. \n \"Because of classification rules, the source could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence committee space,\" Nunes spokesman Jack Langer said. \"The White House grounds was the best location to safeguard the proper chain of custody and classification of these documents, so the chairman could view them in a legal way.\" \n Nunes would not name the source of the information, nor would he disclose who invited him on the White House grounds for the meeting. In addition to the White House itself, the grounds include an adjacent building with offices for National Security Council and other executive branch employees. \n Nunes described the source as intelligence official, not a White House official. In an interview on CNN, he suggested the president's aides were unaware of the meeting. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer would not comment on whether White House officials were involved with Nunes. \n \"I'm not going to get into who he met with or why he met with them,\" Spicer said. \n The clandestine meeting was remarkable for a committee that seeks to demonstrate bipartisanship, said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University who has written extensively about separation of powers. \n \"Ideally, any meeting at the White House on a subject under investigation would have been done with the knowledge of the ranking member or his staff,\" Turley said. \"Because these committees are the least transparent in Congress, both parties have historically tried to be open with each other on contacts or meetings with agencies on key questions.\" \n The disclosure renewed calls for an independent committee to investigate the Russia ties. \n Indeed, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called on House Speaker Paul Ryan to replace Nunes as chairman of the intelligence committee. \n \"He has not been operating like someone who is interested in getting to the unvarnished truth. His actions look like those of someone who is interested in protecting the president and his party,\" Schumer said. \n House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said, \"Chairman Nunes' discredited behavior has tarnished that office,\" and said Ryan should insist that Nunes \"at least recuse himself\" from the Russia probe. \n AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Ryan, said the speaker has \"full confidence that Chairman Nunes is conducting a thorough, fair and credible investigation.\" \n When Nunes disclosed the intelligence reports last week, he said what he reviewed had nothing to do with Russia, which could suggest that Trump associates were in touch with other foreign targets of U.S. intelligence surveillance in November, December or January. \n \"The chairman is extremely concerned by the possible improper unmasking of names of U.S. citizens, and he began looking into this issue even before President Trump tweeted his assertion that Trump Tower had been wiretapped,\" Langer said. \n It is unclear exactly what documents Nunes reviewed. \n Nunes and Schiff have asked the FBI, CIA and National Security Agency for the names of officials who were cited in intelligence reports. The committee has said it is getting some of what it requested, but has not received everything. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Visit to WH grounds by intel chairman clouds investigation"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "HAWAII CRIMINAL JUSTICE DATA CENTER \n A.J. Achuo \n A 26-year-old man has been charged in the fatal stabbing of a 19-year-old man in Honolulu. \n A.J. Achuo of Waipahu was charged Sunday with second-degree murder and is being held in lieu of $1 million bail. \n The victim's name has yet to be released by the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office. \n At about 1:20 a.m. Saturday, police said Achuo and the victim were involved in an altercation at 729 Kinau St. when Achuo allegedly stabbed him with a dangerous instrument. \n Police arrested Achuo at the scene about 20 minutes after the fatal stabbing. \n Emergency Medical Services treated the victim and transported him to a trauma hospital in critical condition where he later died from his injuries. \n Paramedics also transported a second man described to be in his 20s to a hospital in serious condition. \n Achuo has a criminal record of third-degree assault, a misdemeanor, as well as disorderly conduct and driving under the influence of an intoxicant by mental impairment. His first offense and inattention to driving are classified as petty misdemeanors. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waipahu man charged in fatal stabbing"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner arrived for a Jan. 24 meeting between President Donald Trump and automobile leaders in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's son-in-law has volunteered to answer questions before the Senate Intelligence Committee about arranging meetings with the Russian ambassador and other officials, the White House confirmed today. \n Jared Kushner has agreed to speak to the committee, which is conducting an investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 election, including whether there are any ties between Trump associates and the Kremlin, the White House said. \n Kushner is the fourth Trump associate to offer to be interviewed by the congressional committees looking into the murky Russia ties. Trump's former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, Trump adviser Carter Page and Trump associate Roger Stone last week volunteered to speak to the committee as well. \n The White House noted that throughout the 2016 presidential campaign and transition Kushner served as the main contact with foreign governments and officials. Trump associates' meetings with the Russian ambassador during the transition period have come under question, in part because those who met with him were not immediately forthcoming about the meetings. \n It was not immediately clear when or how the Senate questioning would take place or whether Kushner would be under oath. An official familiar with the Senate investigation said that the details of the interview have not yet been set, and the Trump associates will speak to the committee on the committee's terms. That these Trump associates volunteered to be interviewed does not prevent the committee from issuing a subpoena for testimony. The official spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss details of the Senate investigation. \n Lawmakers announced investigations into possible ties between Trump's campaign and Russian officials and whether Russia meddled in the 2016 election. \n In a House intelligence hearing March 20, FBI Director James Comey confirmed that the bureau has been conducting a counterintelligence investigation into these matters since late July. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Kushner agrees to speak to Senate panel about Russia"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Firefighters conducted a rescue operation at a ski resort following an avalanche in Nasu, Tochigi prefecture on Monday. \n TOKYO >> An avalanche killed seven Japanese high school students and an instructor Sunday during a mountaineering field trip at a ski resort north of Tokyo, authorities said. \n Nearly 50 students and instructors were caught by the morning avalanche in the town of Nasu in Tochigi prefecture, about 120 miles from the Japanese capital. \n Police confirmed the death of the eight people late Sunday, the prefecture said. Forty other people were injured, including two who were in serious condition, a prefecture report said. \n Japanese media said the students were on the last day of a three-day training program for members of mountaineering clubs from seven schools in the area. They had earlier reported that all eight fatalities were students. \n Heavy snow had fallen overnight, so a planned climb was canceled and students instead were practicing moving through heavy snow as mountain survival training, public broadcaster NHK said. \n One unidentified student told NHK by telephone that there was a strong wind and he could see a white mass heading toward him. An instructor said to get down, and then everyone was engulfed, he said. \n Tochigi prefecture said 40 students and eight instructors were on the slope. Fourteen others in the group did not go out Sunday. The ski season had ended at the resort. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Avalanche kills 7 students, instructor in Japan"}

{"date": "March 27, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo taken Thursday, March 23, 2017, Sheryl, left, a homeless woman who declined to give her last name, talks with outreach worker Brenda Frazier, as part of a new team of outreach workers and police officers that go out and connect homeless people to services in Seattle. Sheryl said she has lived in a tent in a greenbelt near Interstate Highway 90 for about six months. \n SEATTLE >> Sixteen months after he declared a state of emergency on homelessness, Seattle's mayor is asking voters in this liberal, affluent city for $55 million a year in new taxes to fight the problem. \n Some are pushing back, saying the city already spends millions to combat homelessness, and things appear to have gotten worse, not better. \n In making his case, Mayor Ed Murray says the problem has grown exponentially and federal and state help is unlikely. He wants voters to support a proposed ballot initiative that would increase property taxes to raise $275 million over five years for homeless services \u2014 almost doubling what Seattle spends each year. \n Supporters say current resources haven't been enough to stem the rising tide of people on the streets, and the proposed levy will provide more housing for those who need it most. \n \"This is a city that's not going to wait for a dysfunctional federal government to show up and do something \u2014 because lives are being lost,\" Murray said at a recent news conference. \n The mayor, who is up for re-election, would be on the same ballot as the tax initiative if backers gather enough signatures to qualify it for the August election. \n City voters have approved three property tax increases in as many years to pay for affordable housing, preschools and buses, on top of other taxes, and some say the higher bills are pricing out working- and middle-class families. Others are demanding accountability. \n The mayor \"needs to make these reforms first and then come to the taxpayers,\" said Harley Lever, founder of a group called Safe Seattle, which helped form one of two campaigns opposing Initiative 126. \n The city should spend money more efficiently and adopt the data-driven, performance-based approach that places like Houston and Boston have used to successfully reduce homelessness, Lever said. \n \"Seattle citizens are very generous. They've done their part,\" he added. \n While homelessness has decreased nationwide and in many cities, the problem has grown in others, such as Seattle. In 2016, a one-night homeless count found nearly 3,000 people living outside in this city of about 650,000, marking the fourth straight year of increases. \n Daniel Malone, executive director of the nonprofit Downtown Emergency Services, blames rising rents and low vacancy rates for the spike. \n \"As rents have skyrocketed, more and more people have fallen into homelessness, and it's harder for people to scratch their way out,\" he said. \n Since declaring a civil emergency on homelessness in November 2015, Murray expanded shelter beds, authorized new encampments and hired a homelessness czar, a $135,000 cabinet-level position. \n Last fall, following two consultant reports that said the city needed to revamp its approach, the mayor announced a shift to focusing on moving people into long-term housing, among other changes. \n Communities such as Houston, Las Vegas and New Orleans have made the greatest reductions in homelessness by acting urgently, focusing relentlessly on housing placement, using data to drive funding and creating a person-centered response, one report noted. \n City officials say they're making improvements in line with recommendations in those reports. \n Under the new strategy called Pathways Home, Seattle is focusing on getting people into long-term housing. This summer, for the first time in a decade, city homeless contracts will be up for competitive rebidding, and programs that get money will have to show they move people into housing. \n While Seattle has numerous homeless programs, the mayor and others conceded it has not supported a coordinated system. In 2015, city money was spread across 183 contracts and 60 agencies. \n City officials also have started working through a list of names to figure out how to get individuals into housing. Last month, Murray launched trained teams of outreach workers and police officers that go out and connect people to services. The city also plans a 24-hour shelter and service center open to all, even those struggling with addiction. \n \"It probably feels very slow to our community and the public, but I remind folks that we're making a pretty significant system shift,\" said Catherine Lester, who directs the city's Human Services Department. \n She said 1,300 people were helped out of homelessness last year. \n But Lever said the city needs to demonstrate its reforms work before asking taxpayers for more. \n Others were irked that a millionaire who doesn't live in the city, venture capitalist Nick Hanauer, brought the initiative proposal to the mayor. Hanauer lives in Shoreline, just north of Seattle, and has been prominent in backing liberal causes in the state. \n Murray's proposal would raise property taxes by 27 cents for every $1,000 in assessed value. That means about $163 a year for a $604,000 home, the median price in Seattle, according to the real estate data firm Zillow. Commercial property taxes would account for about 40 percent. \n About 70 percent of the money would go to a range of rental subsidies, while other money would expand addiction and mental health treatment and add more trained outreach teams. An independent panel would monitor the work. \n Barbara Poppe, a national housing expert hired by the city as a consultant, said programs to be funded by the initiative align with recommendations in her August report and that the city generally appears to be on track. \n Asked whether the city needed more resources, she said the number of homeless people has increased since data in her report. \n \"You're going to need more resources if you're having people experience more homelessness,\" she added. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Some balk as Seattle seeks to spend more money on homeless"}

