{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ARMED FORCES OF THE PHILIPPINES VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Armed Forces of the Philippines on Wednesday showed boats that the military said were used by Abu Sayyaf militants to enter the Ibananga River in Bohol province, central Philippines. \n MANILA, Philippines >> A foiled attack on a central Philippine resort island this week was a kidnapping and bombing mission by at least three extremist groups affiliated with the Islamic State group in one of their most daring terror plots, security officials said today. \n The Philippine military initially said that government forces, backed by airstrikes, successfully detected and thwarted a kidnapping plot by Abu Sayyaf militants in the island province of Bohol, a popular tourist destination far from the militants' southern jungle bases. \n Three soldiers, a policeman, two villagers and at least four militants, including key Abu Sayyaf commander and spokesman Moammar Askali, were killed in the daylong siege Tuesday in a hinterland village in Bohol's Inabanga town. \n Military spokesman Brig. Gen. Restituto Padilla said combined military and police forces in Bohol thwarted \"major terrorist activities\" by the militants, who were aiming to divert the military's focus from intense offensives on the militants' jungle encampments in southern Sulu province and outlying islands. \n \"The persons who died in the area, some of whom have been identified to be known terrorists, are still the subject of a continuing investigation to ascertain their participation,\" Padilla said, adding that the result of the investigation would be made public in the near future. \n Interviews with three security officials, along with documents and pictures seen by the Associated Press, indicated that three extremist groups that have pledged allegiance to IS deployed their leading bombers and fighters, some of whom wore IS-style black flag patches, for the Bohol assault. \n The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose details of the ongoing investigation of the foiled attack. \n While considered a key commander and emerging leader of Abu Sayyaf, Askali had also led a hard-line Abu Sayyaf faction called the Marakat Ansar Battalion, which is among 10 small armed groups that pledged allegiance to IS about three years ago and formed an IS-inspired alliance in the southern Philippines. Askali had been implicated in the beheadings of two Canadian hostages last year and a German tourist in February in Sulu's jungles, the officials said. \n Other Abu Sayyaf commanders have refused to align themselves with the Middle East-based extremist group, according to the officials. \n Aside from Askali, another key Sulu-based militant killed in Bohol was Edimar Isnain, who had worked with Malaysian and Indonesian militants in assembling bombs and leading bomb-making training for recruits of Abu Sayyaf and another violent group called Dawla Islamiya Ranao, also known as the Maute group, based in southern Lanao del Sur province. \n Troops recovered four assault rifles, rifle grenades and a sack load of bomb-making materials, including detonating cords, blasting caps and electronic bomb parts, a military report said. \n The AP obtained military pictures of Isnain's body, which was dug up by troops in Inabanga, and the other casualties, including an elderly village couple. It's not clear whether the two Inabanga villagers were killed in the crossfire or gunned down by the cornered Abu Sayyaf militants at the height of the fighting. \n The militants, who traveled from Sulu, more than 500 kilometers (300 miles) by motor boat to the south of Bohol, were guided to Inabanga's interior hinterlands by Joselito Melloria, a convert to Islam. Military officials believed he may have been designated to lead another IS-linked extremist band called Ansar Khilafa Philippines had the Bohol attack been successful, the officials said. The AKP group's leader, Mohammad Jaafar Maguid, was killed by Philippine counterterrorism forces in southern Sarangani province in January. \n Melloria, who uses the nom de guerre Abu Alih and allowed the militants to stay at his Inabanga home, was wounded in the Bohol fighting and escaped with several other militants, the three officials said. \n It remains unclear what the targets of the militants were, but Bohol draws foreign and local tourists for its beach resorts, waterfalls, caves and wildlife. Bohol island lies about 640 kilometers (397 miles) southeast of Manila and is about an hour by boat from Cebu province, a trade and tourism center. Bohol is to host a meeting next week of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the regional bloc the Philippines is leading this year. \n Militants from the three IS-linked groups first collaborated by bombing a night market in southern Davao city, President Rodrigo Duterte's hometown, in a 2016 attack that killed 15 people and prompted Duterte to declare a state of lawless violence. The Bohol attack was the farthest and most daring plot so far by the allied militants. Duterte has threatened to place the south under martial law if terrorism threats spiral out of control. \n A few days before the Bohol violence, the U.S. Embassy in Manila advised Americans to take precautions amid \"unsubstantiated yet credible information\" of possible kidnappings by terrorists in Bohol and other central areas. A number of other Western embassies, including Canada and Britain, later issued similar travel warnings to their citizens. \n Abu Sayyaf militants on Thursday beheaded a kidnapped Filipino fishing boat captain in Sulu, apparently in retaliation for the death of their comrades in Bohol and the failure of the hostage's family to pay ransom, officials said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippines says foiled attack staged by IS-linked extremists"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Suffolk County Police Commissioner Timothy Sini addressed the media today in Bay Shore, N.Y. \n BAY SHORE, N.Y. >> Four young people found brutally slain near a soccer field in a park as part of a suspected gang killing were a 16-year-old, two 18-year-olds, including one visiting from Florida, and a 20-year-old man, police said. \n The four were found on Wednesday night, all with what police described as \"significant trauma\" wounds inflicted by sharp instruments. \n The killings are among 11 that have struck the working-class immigrant communities of Brentwood and Central Islip, on eastern Long Island, since last September. They're all suspected to be at the hands of the MS-13 street gang, police said. \n \"At this point all indications are that this is the work of MS-13,\" Suffolk County police Commissioner Timothy Sini said today in announcing the identities of the victims. \n He cautioned, however, that detectives were still pursuing leads. \n A day earlier Sini said the tactics employed in the killings \u2014 using sharp instruments and extreme violence \u2014 were consistent with the gang, which has been gaining a foothold on Long Island for years. \n He identified the four people found Wednesday as Jefferson Villalobos, 18, of Pompano, Fla.; Michael Lopez Banegas, 20, of Brentwood; Jorge Tigre, 18, of Bellport; and Justin Llivicura, 16, of East Patchogue. Newsday reported that relatives said Villalobos was visiting his cousin, Banegas, and other family members. \n On Thursday, William Tigre told reporters near the crime scene that an acquaintance had called him to say his brother Jorge was among those killed. The acquaintance also indicated he knew of the killings because he said he had been there. \n \"He just said, 'I saw your brother dying, and I escaped,'\" William Tigre said. \n He did not return a telephone call seeking comment after police confirmed his brother was among the victims. \n Sini said today that police are aware of a grisly video of the crime scene that was sent to one of the victims' girlfriends, but he declined to comment further, citing the ongoing investigation. \n He reiterated that Suffolk County detectives have been working with FBI investigators to solve the killings. Police have offered a $25,000 reward. \n Last month, authorities announced the arrests of more than a dozen gang members, including some charged with killing two high school girls with baseball bats and machetes as they walked near their home. \n The MS-13 gang, also called Mara Salvatrucha, is believed to have been founded as a neighborhood street gang in Los Angeles in the mid-1980s by immigrants fleeing a civil war in El Salvador. It grew after some members were deported to El Salvador, helping turn that country into one of the most violent places in the world. It's now a major international criminal enterprise, with tens of thousands of members in several Central American countries and many U.S. states. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police ID 4 found slain in suspected gang killing"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This Nov. 2016 photo provided by the U.S. Navy shows Chief Petty Officer Joseph Schmidt III, assigned to the Navy SEAL and SWCC Scout Team, encouraging a young fan to do pushups at the 2016 Stuart Air Show in Stuart, Fla. The Navy is investigating Schmidt, a decorated SEAL who moonlights as a porn actor. \n CORONADO, Calif. >> The Navy is investigating a decorated SEAL who moonlights as a porn actor. \n \"There are very clear regulations which govern outside employment \u2026 as well as prohibitions on behavior that is discrediting to the service,\" said Capt. Jason Salata, a SEALs spokesman. \n Schmidt, 42, has spent 23 years in the military and holds numerous medals, including a citation of valor for combat overseas. He has appeared in recruiting campaigns, even serving as the face of the SEAL program on its website, the Union-Tribune said. \n He has appeared under the name Jay Voom in at least 29 sex films over seven years with titles such as \"Apple Smashing Lap Dance\" to \"Strippers Come Home Horny from the Club,\" the paper said. \n Many feature his wife, porn star Jewels Jade. \n Schmidt declined to comment to the newspaper, but his wife said many of his fellow SEALs at the Coronado base in Southern California watched the videos online. \n \"They knew about it at work,\" Jade said. \"He got called in and they said, 'Look, keep it on the low, don't mention the SEAL name and blah, blah, blah.' \" \n \"He was always pretty open about it with the command,\" she said. \"I mean, honestly, all of his buddies knew about it. Everybody knew about it.\" \n Jade first appeared in porn films in 2001, but she left the industry by 2003 to become a wife and mother and help run a real estate firm the couple founded in 2005 while Schmidt was assigned to Virginia. \n The business foundered, and the couple filed for bankruptcy after running up nearly $2 million in debt, the Union-Tribune said. \n As business losses deepened, Jade turned to stripping to make ends meet and then returned to making porn films. \n \"It's helped our family. It got us out of a lot of financial issues we were going through,\" Jade said. \"I could take care of the child. I could try to get us out of financial debt.\" \n Jade said she has tried to obtain other work. But her fame, with millions of fans worldwide, made it difficult. \n She sought a management job at a San Diego luxury hotel last year but was recognized before she finished her employment interview. \"Once you're recognized and you build a brand and you've got your fans who know who you are, when you go to try to find a job, you can't get another job,\" she said. \n Schmidt was transferred to Coronado in 2009. Jade said she recruited her husband as an unpaid performer to cut the costs of making films for her website and film-distribution service. \n The military has taken a dim view of its members engaging in racy pursuits. \n U.S. Air Force Staff Sgt. Michelle Manhart, a training instructor, was reprimanded and demoted after she posed nude for Playboy in 2007. The Navy discharged or otherwise disciplined about a dozen servicemen and servicewomen in 1980 for posing in Playboy or Playgirl. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Navy investigating SEAL's porn-movie moonlighting"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters gather outside the state Capitol building today in Little Rock, Ark., to voice their opposition to Arkansas' seven upcoming executions. \n LITTLE ROCK, Ark. >> Arkansas' push to resume executions after nearly 12 years with an already compromised plan to put eight men to death over 11 days is in limbo after a judge blocked the use of a lethal injection drug a supplier says officials misleadingly obtained and the state's highest court halted the execution of one of the first inmates who had been scheduled to die. \n A federal judge could further upend the plans, with a possible ruling on Saturday on whether to halt the executions over the inmates' complaints about the compressed timetable and the use of a controversial sedative in the lethal injections. \n Pulaski County Circuit Judge Wendell Griffen issued a temporary restraining order Friday blocking the state from using its supply of vecuronium bromide after a company said it had sold the drug to the state for medical purposes, not capital punishment. Griffen scheduled a hearing Tuesday, the day after the first execution was scheduled. \n Griffen's order effectively halts the executions, which had dropped to six after the state Supreme Court blocked one execution Friday and a federal judge halting another last week, unless it's reversed or the state finds a new supply of the drug. \n Arkansas, which has not executed an inmate since 2005 because of drug shortages and legal challenges, had initially planned to execute eight before the end of April, when its supply of midazolam expires. That plan, if carried out, would have marked the most inmates executed by a state in such a short period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. \n \"The rulings today are just part of the process and not unexpected,\" J.R. Davis, a spokesman for Gov. Asa Hutchinson, said in a statement. \"The Governor will meet with the Attorney General next week to discuss the appropriate action.\" \n Attorney General Leslie Rutledge's office said she planned to file an emergency request with the state Supreme Court to vacate Griffen's order, saying Griffen shouldn't handle the case. Local media outlets had tweeted photos and video of Griffen appearing to mimic an inmate strapped to a gurney at an anti-death penalty demonstration outside the Governor's Mansion Friday afternoon. \n \"As a public opponent of capital punishment, Judge Griffen should have recused himself from this case,\" Rutledge spokesman Judd Deere said. \n The order came the same day justices issued a stay for Bruce Ward, who was scheduled to be put to death on Monday night for the 1989 death of a woman found strangled in the men's room of the Little Rock convenience store where she worked. Attorneys asked for the stay after a Jefferson County judge said she didn't have the authority to halt Ward's execution. Ward's attorneys have argued he is a diagnosed schizophrenic with no rational understanding of his impending execution. \n \"We are grateful that the Arkansas Supreme Court has issued a stay of execution for Bruce Ward so that they may consider the serious questions presented about his sanity,\" Scott Braden, an assistant federal public defender representing Ward, said in a statement. \n U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker is also considering the inmates' arguments that such a compressed schedule could lead to undue pain and suffering. Baker had not ruled by Friday evening. \n McKesson said it had requested Arkansas return its supply of vecuronium bromide after the San Francisco-based company learned it would be used in executions. The firm said Thursday night the state had assured it would return the drug and the company had even issued a refund, but it never was given back. The company accused the Department of Correction of misleadingly using its medical director's license, which was to be used only to order products for \"legitimate medical uses,\" to buy the drug. \n \"Without the medical license, and the associated tacit representation that the controlled drug would only be used for a legitimate medical purpose, McKesson would not have sold the vecuronium to ADC,\" the company said in its lawsuit. \n Under Arkansas' protocol, midazolam is used to sedate the inmate, vecuronium bromide then stops the inmate's breathing and potassium chloride stops the heart. \n Baker is also considering a request from two pharmaceutical companies that their products not be used for capital punishment. Fresenius Kabi USA and West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp. have asked the court to prohibit Arkansas from using their drugs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Arkansas' multiple execution plan in limbo after rulings"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Su-Yeon Jang took the lead in the completion of the third round this morning and opened a three-stroke cushion in the afternoon with a third-round 7-under 65. \n Su-Yeon Jang took the Lotte Championship lead in the completion of the second round this morning and opened a three-stroke cushion in the afternoon with a third-round 7-under 65. \n The 22-year-old sponsor invite from South Korea had a 17-under 199 total at Ko Olina Golf Club. She completed her second straight 67 in the morning in the rain-delayed event. \n Cristie Kerr and Alena Sharp, the 35-year-old Canadian looking for her first LPGA Tour victory, were tied for second. Kerr had a 62 to tie Lizette Salas' tournament record. Kerr, who turns 40 this year, played the back nine in 29, with birdies on seven of her last eight holes. \n Sharp had a 66. \n In Gee Chun, the 2015 U.S. Women's Open champ, was 12 under after a 65. \n Top-ranked Lydia Ko, looking for her first win since July, was tied for seventh at 9 under after a 65. She was eight strokes behind the leader, a shot behind second-ranked So Yeon Ryu (69) and two back of third-ranked Ariya Jutanugarn (70). \n Jang, who doesn't have a bogey this week, also played in the final group last year at Lotte and finished fifth. \n Click here to see more photos. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Su-Yeon Jang takes the lead at Lotte"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters have rescued a window washer who suffered a medical emergency while rappelling down a high-rise building. \n Capt. David Jenkins says a woman on the ground noticed commotion from four window washers dangling at the eighth or ninth floor today. She alerted building security guards, who called 911. \n Jenkins says responding firefighters broke through the glass of an eighth-floor window and pulled the man inside. \n Honolulu Emergency Medical Services spokeswoman Shayne Enright says the 25-year-old man was taken to a hospital in serious condition. Co-workers told paramedics the man said he was feeling dizzy. \n Keith Abe lives in a nearby high-rise and watched the other workers holding the man up. He says firefighters took quick action, cleared the ground below and used an ax to break the glass. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rappelling window washer rescued from Honolulu high-rise"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Koreans offer flowers in front of a mural of late leaders Kim Il Sung, left, and Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang, North Korea. Amid rising regional tensions, Pyongyang residents have been preparing for North Korea's most important holiday: the 105th birth anniversary of Kim Il Sung, the country's late founder and grandfather of current ruler Kim Jong Un. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> North Korea has started a massive parade in its capital city to mark the 105th birth anniversary of its founding father, Kim Il Sung, and trumpet the leadership of third-generation dictator Kim Jong Un. \n North Korea's state television showed thousands of soldiers marching at Kim Il Sung Square on Saturday morning to kick off the event that is expected to be attended by Kim Jong Un. The parade may also feature some of the country's most valuable military hardware, such as its prototype intercontinental ballistic missiles. \n The festivities take place amid concerns that North Korea is possibly preparing its sixth nuclear test in a decade or a rocket launch of significance, such as its first flight test of an ICBM. \n Kim, a 30-something leader who took power in late 2011, emphasizes nuclear weapons as the foundation of his national defense strategy. The country under his watch has been aggressively pursuing a goal of putting a nuclear warhead on an ICBM capable of reaching the continental United States. \n In his annual New Year's address, Kim said that North Korea's preparations for an ICBM launch have \"reached the final stage.\" U.S. satellite imagery suggests the country could conduct another underground nuclear test at any time. \n North Korea conducted two of such tests last year alone, which analysts say would have taken the country a step forward in gaining the knowledge to make nuclear weapons small enough to fit on long-range missiles. The North also last year launched a long-range rocket that put a satellite into orbit, which Washington, Seoul and others saw as a banned test of missile technology. \n Amid the elevated tensions, the United States a few days ago dispatched what President Donald Trump called an \"armada\" of ships in a show of force, including an aircraft carrier, into waters off the Korean Peninsula. \n The move, coupled with the U.S. retaliatory strikes against Syria over a chemical weapons attack on civilians, touched off fear in South Korea that the United States was preparing for military action on the North. \n However, U.S. officials told The Associated Press on Friday that the Trump administration has settled on a policy that will emphasize on increasing pressure on Pyongyang with the help of China, North Korea's only major ally, instead of military options or trying to overthrow Kim's leadership. \n A U.S. military official, who requested anonymity to discuss planning, said the United States doesn't intend to use military force against North Korea in response to either a nuclear test or a missile launch. \n Pyongyang has expressed anger over the annual spring military exercises the U.S. holds with South Korea, which it considers an invasion rehearsal. It has warned of a nuclear attack on the United States in retaliation for any sign of aggression. That threat, however, has been made numerous times in the past. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea starts celebrating birthday of country's founder"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The mangled remains of cars involved in a fatal accident on the Northbound Interstate 17 in Phoenix, Ariz. Northbound Interstate 17 is closed following the wrong-way crash that authorities say involved two vehicles and killed three people. \n PHOENIX >> A wrong-way collision on a Phoenix freeway killed two university students and a young adult today in the latest in a string of head-on wrecks on Arizona highways. \n A 22-year-old man driving a car with Colorado license plates on the wrong side of the freeway slammed into a vehicle carrying two women, ages 19 and 20, at about 2 a.m., said Arizona Department of Public Safety spokesman Raul Garcia. \n Authorities have been seeing a spate of wrong-way wrecks on Phoenix freeways in recent years, with drug and alcohol use typically the main culprit. Authorities have responded to seven wrong-way wrecks with injuries or deaths statewide so far this year, compared to nine for all of last year, said Trooper Kameron Lee, another Arizona DPS spokesman. \n State officials are trying to find ways to prevent the crashes, most of which happen on the web of freeways that weave through the Phoenix metro area. \n Garcia said the identities of those killed in the wreck weren't immediately available. But Grand Canyon University spokesman Bob Romantic said two of those killed were students at the private Christian university and that they were in separate vehicles involved in the crash on Interstate 17. \n Romantic said the university, out of respect for the privacy of the families, would not be releasing information about the students. The car carrying the two women, believed to be sisters, had North Carolina license plates. \n Arizona troopers were working with Colorado and North Carolina authorities to notify relatives, Garcia said. \n It's not immediately known whether the wrong-way driver was under the influence of drugs or alcohol, and that will be determined by toxicology tests conducted by the Maricopa County Medical Examiner's Office, Garcia said. \n In an effort to keep drivers on the right side of the freeway, the Arizona Department of Transportation has installed hundreds of larger and lower \"wrong way\" and \"do not enter\" signs on more than 100 freeway ramps. \n The agency plans later this year to install a pilot detection and warning system on Interstate 17 and ramps, agency spokesman Steve Elliott said. \n The system will send alerts to law enforcement and transportation department traffic operators, post warnings on overheard message boards, provide location updates on wrong-way drivers and trigger flashing warning signs at exit ramps to try \"to get the wrong-way driver to self-correct,\" ADOT said in a statement. \n \"Ultimately, engineering, along with enforcement, can be only one part of the response to wrong-way driving because this is first and foremost a driver behavior issue,\" the statement said. \n ADOT began planning the pilot project in late 2015 following a rash of wrong-way crashes, including ones that killed an off-duty Mesa police officer and a young Mesa couple. \n The Department of Public Safety regards wrong-way driving primarily as a societal problem, Garcia said. \n \"We want the public to take responsibility\" to not get behind the wheel if impaired and to keep others from driving if they're impaired, he said. Alternatively, \"if they can't take those keys away, dial 911 so we can take those keys away.\" \n He also said drivers should stay alert, avoid distractions and plan how they would respond in a split second to a hazard such as an oncoming wrong-way vehicle. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wrong-way crash kills 3 in Phoenix"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York Fire Dept. EMTs make their way to a track at Penn Station in New York. A New Jersey Transit train with about 1,200 passengers aboard is stuck in a Hudson River tunnel between New York and New Jersei. \n TRENTON, N.J. >> A New Jersey Transit train with about 1,200 passengers aboard has made it to New York's Penn Station after being stuck in a Hudson River tunnel between New York and New Jersey for nearly three hours. \n Authorities say the train became disabled around 3:25 p.m. Friday due to an Amtrak overhead power problem. \n A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman says the train finally reached Penn Station just before 6 p.m. \n The loss of power caused delays of an hour or more on both Amtrak and New Jersey Transit. \n Amtrak is assessing the extent of the damage. \n A passenger from the disabled train became belligerent and sparked a stampede among passengers leaving the overcrowded station. \n Police said reports that shots were fired at the station are not true. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Train stuck in tunnel between NJ, NY finally makes it out"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A new report says Uber used a secret program dubbed \"Hell\" to track Lyft drivers to see if they were driving for both ride-hailing services and otherwise stifle competition. A representative for Uber did not respond to messages for comment. \n NEW YORK >> A new report says Uber used a secret program dubbed \"Hell' to track Lyft drivers to see if they were driving for both ride-hailing services and otherwise stifle competition. \n It's the latest in a series of troubles for Uber, which is also dealing with executive departures and accusations of sexism and sexual harassment. \n Only a small group of Uber employees, including CEO Travis Kalanick, knew about the program, according to a story in The Information (subscription required), which was based on an anonymous source who was not authorized to speak publicly. \n The program was discontinued in early 2016, according to the report. \n A representative for Uber did not respond to messages for comment Thursday. Lyft said in a statement to the publication that \"if true, the allegations are very concerning.\" \n Last month, another report surfaced about a different secret tracking weapon with a sinister-sounding name. \"Greyball,\" as it was called, identified regulators who were posing as riders while trying to collect evidence that Uber's service was breaking local laws governing taxis. The service allowed Uber to thwart those efforts by canceling investigators' ride requests. \n Uber acknowledged that it used Greyball, and after the New York Times report came out the company said it would shut down the system. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Report: Uber used secret program to track Lyft drivers"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Apple will begin testing self-driving car technology in California, its first public move into a highly competitive field that could radically change transportation. The California Department of Motor Vehicles awarded Apple a permit to test autonomous vehicles and disclosed that information on its website. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Apple is joining the fiercely competitive race to design self-driving cars, raising the possibility that a company that has already re-shaped culture with its iPhone may try to transform transportation, too. \n Ending years of speculation, Apple's late entry into a crowded field was made official Friday with the disclosure that the California Department of Motor Vehicles had awarded a permit for the company to start testing its self-driving car technology on public roads in the state. \n The permit covers three vehicles \u2014 all 2015 Lexus RX 450h hybrid SUVs \u2014 and six individual drivers. California law requires people to be in a self-driving car who can take control if something goes wrong. \n APPLE GOES MOBILE \u2026 IN A NEW WAY \n Apple confirmed its arrival in the self-driving car market, but wouldn't discuss its intentions. Its interest in autonomous vehicle technology, however, has long been clear . \n The Cupertino, California, company pointed to a statement that it issued in December. \" \n Apple is investing heavily in machine learning and autonomous systems,\" the company said then. \"There are many potential applications for these technologies, including the future of transportation.\" \n Apple released that statement after Steve Kenner, a former Ford Motor executive who is now Apple's director of product integrity, notified federal regulators of the company's interest in self-driving cars in a letter. \n Like others, Apple believes self-driving cars could ease congestion and save millions of people who die annually in traffic accidents often caused by drunk or distracted motorists. \n Self-driving cars could also be a lucrative new market. And Apple has been searching for its next act for a while, one that will take it beyond its mainstay phones, tablets and personal computers. \n A NEXT BIG THING \n Although iPhone's ongoing popularity has helped Apple remain the world's most valuable company, the company hasn't had a breakthrough product since the 2010 debut of the iPad, currently in the throes of a three-year sales slump. The dry spell has raised doubts as to whether Apple lost some of its trend-setting magic with the death of co-founder Steve Jobs in 2011. \n Apple will be vying against 29 other companies that already have California permits to test self-driving cars. The list includes major automakers, including Ford, General Motors, BMW, Volkswagen and Tesla, as well as one of its biggest rivals in technology, Google, whose testing of self-driving cars has been spun off into an affiliate called Waymo. \n Since Google began its work on self-driving vehicles eight years ago, Waymo's fleet of self-driving cars has logged more than 2 million miles on the road. \n That means Apple has a long way to catch up in self-driving technology. But it has often been a follower in markets that it eventually revolutionized. It wasn't the first to introduce a digital music player, smartphone, or tablet before its iPod, iPhone and iPad came out. \n DEEP POCKETS \n With $246 billion in cash, Apple also could easily afford to buy technology that accelerates its development of self-driving cars. There has been recurring speculation that Apple might eventually acquire Tesla, which has a market value of about $50 billion. Neither Apple nor Tesla has given any inkling that they're interested in joining forces, though. \n Speculation about Apple's interest in expanding into automobiles began swirling in 2015 amid media reports that the company had begun secretly working on building its own electric car under the name project \"Titan.\" Apple never confirmed the existence of Titan, which is now believed to be dead. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "The iPhone of cars? Apple enters self-driving car race"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "COURTESY SOLOMON ELEMENTARY \n Solomon Elementary School was one of several public schools on Oahu military bases ranked in a 2011 study of Department of Defense school facilities. \n The office of Sen. Brian Schatz, who is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the $70,248,901 grant from the Department of Defense's Office of Economic Adjustment. \n \"The students at Schofield need a safe, well-maintained school environment to learn and grow,\" Schatz said in a statement. \"These much-needed funds will help Solomon Elementary build a better school and better futures for every student.\" \n Schatz said the funding will be used to demolish aging buildings and add new facilities at the school, which has 933 students enrolled in prekindergarten through grade 5 this school year. \n The elementary campus was one of several public schools on Oahu military bases ranked in a 2011 study of Department of Defense school facilities. Schools were rated on their physical condition and capacity to accommodate students, and the worst-rated schools were invited to apply for federal grants. \n Solomon had ranked 28th worst among the 160 schools studied nationwide. \n The other Hawaii schools cited in the report included Daniel K. Inouye Elementary (ranked ninth worst), also on Schofield Barracks; Mokapu Elementary (33rd worst) at Marine Corps Base Hawaii; and Shafter Elementary (36th worst) at Fort Shafter. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Elementary school at Schofield to get $70M federal grant"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thomas Demetrio, an attorney for Dr. David Dao, speaks at a news conference in Chicago. Dao, a passenger dragged from a United Express flight suffered a \"significant\" concussion and broken nose, and he lost two front teeth, Demetrio said Thursday. \n CHICAGO >> United Airlines and the city of Chicago may find themselves the target of lawsuits by the man who was dragged off a United plane in Chicago last week after refusing to give up his seat. \n One of Dr. David Dao's lawyers, Thomas Demetrio, said as much Thursday during a news conference in which he suggested that Dao could be \"a poster child\" for the mistreatment of passengers by the airline industry. \n \"It took something like this to get a conversation going,\" attorney Demetrio said. \n Dao was forcibly removed from a fully-booked United Express flight out of O'Hare International Airport on Sunday to make room for crew members. \n Demetrio said the 69-year-old Kentucky physician and father of five lost two teeth and suffered a concussion and broken nose during the incident. He also indicated that Dao will be suing the airline and the city of Chicago, which employs the airport police who dragged Dao down the aisle, his face bloody. \n Demetrio said the video showed an extraordinary instance of something that happens too routinely: Airlines overbooking flights then bumping paying customers. \n It also exposed a corporate culture in which airlines \u2014 and United in particular \u2014 have long \"bullied\" passengers, he said. The situation could have been avoided if the airline, which offered $800 travel vouchers and a hotel stay for passengers to rebook on another flight, had simply upped their offer, Demetrio said. \n \"I hope he becomes a poster child for all of us,\" he said. \"Someone's got to.\" \n Dao, who didn't attend the news conference, was released from a local hospital late Wednesday and will need reconstructive surgery, Demetrio said. He said his client was in a \"secure location\" because he has been hounded by media, but that he would speak at a future date. \n One of Dao's children, Crystal Pepper, said the family was \"horrified, shocked and sickened\" by what happened. \n Early on, United CEO Oscar Munoz added to what was already a public relations nightmare for the company when he apologized for the incident but accused Dao of being belligerent. Later, Munoz offered a more emphatic mea culpa, saying: \"No one should ever be mistreated this way.\" \n He promised to review the airline's policies to make sure something like that never happens again, and said United will no longer use police to remove bumped passengers. The airline also said all passengers on the flight would get a refund. \n In a statement issued immediately after Thursday's news conference, United insisted that Munoz and the airline called Dao numerous times to apologize. Munoz himself said on Wednesday that he had left a message for Dao. \n But Demetrio said neither Dao nor his family had heard from United. \n The union for the airline's pilots issued a statement Thursday seeking to distance them from the incident, pointing out that it happened on a United Express carrier that is \"separately owned and operated by Republic Airline\" and that United pilots weren't flying the jet. It also said United pilots are \"infuriated\" by what happened and blamed the incident on the \"grossly inappropriate\" actions of the security officers. \n The three officers who removed Dao have been suspended from their jobs at the Chicago Aviation Department. \n Pepper said her father and mother had been traveling from California to Louisville, Kentucky, and had caught a connecting flight at O'Hare. \n United had selected Dao and three other passengers at random for removal from the plane after unsuccessfully offering the vouchers and a hotel stay to customers willing to give up their seats. The three other passengers left the plane, but Dao would not. \n The attorney was unable to say precisely how Dao was injured. Dao doesn't remember exactly what occurred because of the concussion he suffered, Demetrio said. \n For Dao, who came to the U.S. after fleeing Vietnam by boat in 1975 when Saigon fell, being dragged off the plane \"was more horrifying and harrowing than what he experienced in leaving Vietnam,\" Demetrio said. After what happened, Dao \"has no interest in ever seeing an airplane\" and will probably be driven to Kentucky, he said. \n At a City Council committee hearing Thursday, aldermen ripped officials from United and the aviation department about the episode. \n \"There are no excuses,\" Alderman Michael Zalewski said. \n John Slater, a United vice president, said bumping passengers to accommodate airline employees happens infrequently, and that federal guidelines requiring rest for crew members made it necessary to get the employees on the Sunday flight to Louisville. \n Aviation Commissioner Ginger Evans told the committee that the officers had the authority to board the flight but that what happened on the plane is being investigated. \n The department's roughly 300 officers guard the city's two main airports but are not part of the regular Chicago police force, receive less training and cannot carry guns inside the terminals. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyer: Dragged passenger will need reconstructive surgery"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The White House won't make public the logs of visitors to the White House complex, breaking with the practice of President Donald Trump's predecessor. \n WASHINGTON >> The White House said today that lists of visitors to the building will be kept secret, breaking with the practice of President Donald Trump's predecessor. \n The Trump administration cited privacy and national security concerns, but the decision angered government watchdog groups who accused Trump of reneging on his promise to \"drain the swamp\" in Washington. The groups see the visitor logs as important tools for monitoring which individuals or groups may be trying to influence White House policy. Trump has been widely criticized for a lack of openness in refusing to release his tax returns, breaking with decades of precedent. \n Senior White House officials argued that the decision to keep the logs secret is in line with what previous administrations have done, except for President Barack Obama's, and that continuing Obama's practice of voluntarily releasing the records could interfere with policy development. \n White House communications director Michael Dubke said Trump has taken steps to improve the ethical climate in Washington, such as imposing new restrictions on lobbying by departing administration officials and opening the White House press briefing room to outlets that previously didn't have access. \n He said the decision was based on the \"grave national security risks and privacy concerns of the hundreds of thousands of visitors annually.\" \n But Judicial Watch, a conservative legal advocacy group which has sued administrations of both parties over the visitor records and other matters, argued that Trump should allow the Secret Service to release the logs under the Freedom of Information Act, which would allow sensitive details to remain private. The White House says the records are exempt from the law. \n \"This new secrecy policy undermines the rule of law and suggests this White House doesn't want to be accountable to the American people,\" said Tom Fitton, the group's president. \n The Obama administration initially fought attempts by Congress and conservative and liberal groups to obtain visitor records. But after being sued, it voluntarily began disclosing the logs in December 2009, posting records every three to four months. It continued to release the records even though a federal appeals court ruled in 2013 that the logs can be withheld under presidential executive privilege. That unanimous ruling was written by Judge Merrick Garland, whom Obama later nominated to the Supreme Court. \n Ultimately, nearly 6 million visitor records were released, though certain visits were excluded, including for national security or law enforcement reasons. That meant the records provided an incomplete account of who passed through the White House gates. \n The Trump administration's decision to keep the records secret means no documentation of any White House comings and goings will be routinely released while Trump is in office, though officials said information could be released case by case. \n However, visitor logs for White House agencies, such as the Office of Management and Budget and the U.S. Trade Representative, may be released under the Freedom of Information Act. \n Robert Weissman, president of the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, said, \"The only reason to keep secret the White House visitor logs is to hide from the American public the corporate influence-peddlers who are seeking favors and gifts from the White House.\" He said more secrecy will breed more cronyism, insider dealing and corruption. \n Three government watchdog groups sued this week to try to force the Trump administration to reinstate the public release of the logs. Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the National Security Archive and the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University cited freedom of information laws. \n CREW said today's decision was disappointing, given that Trump repeatedly promised at his raucous campaign rallies to \"drain the swamp.\" \n \"The Obama administration agreed to release the visitor logs in response to our lawsuits, and despite the Trump administration's worry over 'grave national security risks and concerns,' only positives for the American people came out of them,\" said Noah Bookbinder, the group's executive director. \"It looks like we'll see them in court.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House decides to keep visitor records secret"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n EPA administrator Scott Pruitt, left, shakes hands with coal miners during a visit to Consol Pennsylvania Coal Company's Harvey Mine in Sycamore, Pa. The Trump administration wants to trash Obama-era rules to limit water pollution from coal-fired power plants. Pruitt announced the change this week. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration is moving to rewrite Obama-era rules limiting water pollution from coal-fired power plants. \n Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, sent a letter announcing his decision to a coalition of energy companies that lobbied against the 2015 water pollution regulations. \n The rule would have required utilities by next year to cut the amounts of toxic heavy metals in the wastewater piped from their plants into rivers and lakes often used as sources of drinking water. Arsenic, lead and mercury and other potentially harmful contaminates leach from massive pits of waterlogged ash left behind after burning coal to generate electricity. \n The Utility Water Act Group petitioned Pruitt last month to reverse course on the regulations, which they claim would result in plant closures and job losses. \n Pruitt responded Wednesday, saying he would delay compliance with the rule while EPA reconsiders the restrictions. EPA will also request that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit freeze ongoing lawsuits filed over the rules by energy companies. \n The move is part of a broad effort by the Trump administration to scrap stricter environmental regulations enacted over the last eight years, especially those intended to curtail the use of fossil fuels. Trump has pledged to reverse decades of decline in coal-mining jobs and has questioned the consensus of climate scientists that man-made carbon emissions are to blame for global warming. \n Environmental groups vowed to oppose the regulatory rollback, calling it short-sighted. \n \"Scott Pruitt is continuing his scorched-earth crusade to sweep aside anything that gets in the way of fossil-fuel industry profits,\" said Pete Harrison, a lawyer with the advocacy group Waterkeeper Alliance. \"This rollback gives a blank check to the power companies, and it directly threatens drinking water supplies across the country.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "EPA moves to undo tougher pollution limits on coal plants"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Kekaha Beach on Kauai. \n A 28-year-old male visitor was hospitalized with severe injuries after being bitten by a 12-foot tiger shark at Kekaha Beach today. \n Shortly after 9 a.m., the man visiting from France was surfing at a popular spot called Davidson's \u2014 approximately 100 yards from shore \u2014 when a tiger shark bit him, according to the Kauai Fire Department. \n Kauai County spokeswoman Sarah Blane said the surfer suffered severe injuries to his lower right leg and was taken to Wilcox Medical Center in critical condition. \n Lifeguards closed Kekaha Beach today and posted \"shark sighted\" signs. Officials are expected to reassess the water Saturday morning. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Tiger shark bites visitor at Kauai beach"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Delta Air Lines jet sits at a gate at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, in Atlanta. Delta is giving airport employees permission to offer passengers up to almost $10,000 in compensation to give up their seats on overbooked flights. \n Delta is letting employees offer customers almost $10,000 in compensation to give up seats on overbooked flights, hoping to avoid an uproar like the one that erupted at United after a passenger was dragged off a jet. \n In an internal memo obtained today by The Associated Press, Delta Air Lines said gate agents can offer up to $2,000, up from a previous maximum of $800, and supervisors can offer up to $9,950, up from $1,350. \n United is reviewing its own policies, including incentives for customers, and will announce any actions by April 30, a spokeswoman said. The airline would not disclose its current compensation limit. \n Other airlines did not immediately comment on whether they would raise their ceiling. \n When there aren't enough seats, airlines usually ask for volunteers by offering travel vouchers, gift cards or cash. \n Last year Delta got more passengers to give up their seats than any other U.S. airline, partly by paying more than most of the others. \n As a result, it had the lowest rate among the largest U.S. airlines of bumping people off flights against their will \u2014 something that is legal but alienates customers and requires the airline to pay compensation of up to $1,350 per person. \n Overselling flights is a fact of life in the airline business. Industry officials say that it is necessary because some passengers don't show up, and that overbooking keeps fares down by reducing the number of empty seats. \n The practice has been questioned, however, since a 69-year-old man was violently dragged off a sold-out United Express flight over the weekend. He and three others were ordered off the plane after four airline employees showed up and demanded seats so they could be in place to operate a flight the next day in Louisville, Kentucky. \n It has turned into a public-relations nightmare for the entire industry, not just United, and led to calls from politicians and consumer advocates to suspend or ban overbooking. \n Ben Schlappig, a travel blogger who first wrote about the Delta compensation increase, said it shows Delta is trying to reduce forced bumping. He said he couldn't imagine many situations in which people wouldn't jump at nearly $10,000. \n Delta no doubt hopes that gate agents and their supervisors won't need to make maximum offers, and the financial cost to the airline is likely to be limited. If Delta paid $9,950 to every person it bumped involuntarily last year, that would total $12 million. Delta earned nearly $4.4 billion. \n Raising the limits \"lets them solve some PR problems\" and might head off U.S. Transportation Department regulations to curb overbooking, said another travel blogger, Gary Leff. \"They can say, 'Look, we're already solving the problem.'\" \n An Associated Press analysis of government data shows that in 2015 and 2016, Delta paid an average of $1,118 in compensation for every passenger that it denied a seat. Southwest Airlines paid $758, United $565, and American Airlines $554. \n After the incident in Chicago, critics questioned why United didn't offer more when no passengers accepted the airline's $800 offer for volunteers to give up their seats. \n \"If you offer enough money, even the guy going to a funeral will sell his seat,\" said Ross Aimer, a retired United pilot. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Delta OKs offers of up to $9,950 to flyers who give up seats"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A new set of documents purportedly lifted from the U.S. National Security Agency suggests that American spies have burrowed deep into the Middle East's financial network, apparently compromising the Dubai office of the anti-money laundering and financial services firm EastNets. \n PARIS >> A new set of documents purportedly lifted from the U.S. National Security Agency suggests that American spies have burrowed deep into the Middle East's financial network, apparently compromising the Dubai office of the anti-money laundering and financial services firm EastNets. The company said Friday the documents were dated and denied that any customer data had been affected. \n TheShadowBrokers, which startled the security experts last year by releasing some of the NSA's hacking tools, has recently resumed pouring secrets into the public domain. In a first for TheShadowBrokers, the data include PowerPoint slides and purported target lists, suggesting the group has access to a broader range of information than previously known. \n \"This is by far the most brutal dump,\" said Comae Technologies founder Matt Suiche, who has closely followed the group's disclosures and initially helped confirm its connection to the NSA last year. In a blog post , he said it appeared that thousands of employee accounts and machines from EastNets' offices had been compromised and that financial institutions in Kuwait, Bahrain and the Palestinian territories had been targeted for espionage. \n In a statement , EastNets said there was \"no credibility\" to the allegation that its customers' details had been stolen. \n The company, which acts as a \"service bureau\" connecting customers to the financial world's electronic backbone, SWIFT, said the ShadowBrokers documents referred to a \"low-level internal server\" that had since been retired and that a \"complete check\" of its systems had turned up no evidence of any compromise. \n The denial drew skepticism from those who'd reviewed the files. \n \"Eastnets' claim is impossible to believe,\" said Kevin Beaumont, who was one of several experts who spent Friday combing through the documents and trying out the code. He said he'd found password dumps, an Excel spreadsheet outlining the internal architecture of the company's server and one file that was \"just a massive log of hacking on their organization.\" \n SWIFT, based in Belgium, released a less categorical statement, saying, \"we understand that communications between these service bureaus and their customers may previously have been accessed by unauthorized third parties.\" It said there was no evidence its own network had been compromised. \n Repeated messages seeking clarification from EastNets went unreturned. \n Beaumont said there was bad news in the release for Microsoft as well. He said the malicious code published Friday appeared to exploit previously undiscovered weaknesses in older versions of its Windows operating system \u2014 the mark of a sophisticated actor and a potential worry for many of Windows' hundreds of millions of users. \n The opinion was seconded by Matthew Hickey of Prestbury, England-based cybersecurity company Hacker House. \n \"It's an absolute disaster,\" Hickey said in an email. \"I have been able to hack pretty much every Windows version here in my lab using this leak.\" \n Microsoft said in a statement that it is reviewing the leak and \"will take the necessary actions to protect our customers.\" It declined to elaborate. \n The NSA, which did not respond to emails, has previously shown interest in targeting SWIFT, according to documents leaked by former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden, and Suiche said other documents in the release suggested an effort to monitor the world's financial transactions that went beyond EastNets. \n \"I'll bet it's not the only SWIFT service bureau that's been compromised,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New leak suggests NSA penetrated Mideast banking networks"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis is helped to wear his skullcap as he celebrates the Good Friday Passion of Christ Mass inside St. Peter's Basilica, at the Vatican. Pope Francis began the Good Friday service at the Vatican with the Passion of Christ Mass and hours later will go to the ancient Colosseum in Rome for the traditional Way of the Cross procession. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis prostrated himself in prayer during a solemn Good Friday service in St. Peter's Basilica to recall the crucifixion of Jesus. His quiet reflection came hours before he was due at the Colosseum for the Way of the Cross procession that is being held this year under exceptionally tight security. \n The 80-year-old pope lay for several minutes before the central altar at the basilica. He wore crimson-colored vestments for the day commemorating the suffering of Jesus. \n Papal preacher the Rev. Raniero Cantalamessa told the faithful they were recalling the \"violent death\" of Jesus 2,000 years ago, even though most days now bring news if violent deaths, because the crucifixion \"changed forever the very face of death.\" \n Cantalamessa called the cross the definitive \"'No' of God to violence, injustice, hate, lies.\" \n Francis was scheduled to give his own homily Friday night at the traditional Way of the Cross procession in the Colosseum in Rome. Hours before the procession was scheduled to start, security was exceedingly tight around the ancient arena. \n It's the first time the Good Friday tradition, in which faithful take turns carrying a cross while accompanied by pilgrims holding lit candles, was being held since the truck attacks targeting pedestrians in Nice, Berlin, London and Stockholm raised apprehension about big public gatherings in Europe. \n Streets surrounding the Colosseum were closed to traffic, armored vehicles blocked intersections, bomb-sniffing dogs were out in force and there was a heavier-than-usual police presence to keep watch. \n Accredited media faced exhaustive security checks. Police initially refused to allow ladders and tripods into the press zone. The equipment was eventually permitted after media protested to authorities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope attends Good Friday service recalling Jesus' suffering"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin administered the House oath of office to U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, during a mock swearing-in ceremony Jan. 3 on Capitol Hill in Washington as the 115th Congress began. \n Democratic U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard surprised and angered many when she questioned whether Syrian President Bashar Assad was responsible for a chemical attack on civilians that killed dozens and sparked a U.S. attack on an air base. \n But back home in heavily Democratic Hawaii, she still has a deep reservoir of good will among those who believe their representative is right to question what many others take for granted. \n \"This is Tulsi country, and maybe it's not well understood by people who live in other parts of the United States,\" said Richard Harris, 78, a Gabbard supporter who teaches political science at the University of Hawaii at Hilo. \"She's doing what a congressperson should do.\" \n The 36-year-old Iraq War veteran is widely admired in Hawaii, where she was first elected to the state Legislature at age 21 and, a decade later, won a seat in the U.S. House, becoming both the first Hindu elected to Congress and the first member born in the U.S. territory of American Samoa. \n She alarmed fellow Democrats when she met with Trump during his transition to president and later when she took a secret trip to Syria and met with Assad. Last week, critics were quick and fierce in their judgment after she questioned who was responsible for the chemical attack. Former presidential candidate and Democratic Party chairman Howard Dean tweeted, \"This is a disgrace. Gabbard should not be in Congress.\" \n To be sure, some Hawaii residents are confounded by Gabbard's words and meeting with Assad, which they say gave legitimacy to a president accused of war crimes and genocide. \n \"People are talking about trying to get other candidates together to try to unseat her,\" said Deborah Bond-Upson, a Kailua resident who voted for her. \"All the people I'm running into have just gotten concerned about being represented by Tulsi. We're worried and embarrassed.\" \n But Josue Cevallos, 42, a retired Army National Guard recruiter in Oahu, said people may be reacting to her challenging popular opinion or questioning military action. \n \"But we have to ask the tough questions, especially when it comes to the military use of force,\" said Cevallos. \n In an interview with The Associated Press, Gabbard said her focus is on the fact that Trump launched the attack on a Syrian air base without congressional approval and before the U.N. could carry out an investigation. She said it reminds her of the 2003 invasion of Iraq based on intelligence \u2014 later proven untrue \u2014 that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. \"I and so many other veterans served in a war in Iraq that was based on false evidence and lies,\" Gabbard said. \n \"My point is: it's not what I think, it's not what you think, it's not what anybody thinks,\" said Gabbard, who is a major in the Hawaii Army National Guard. \"The point is actually understanding the evidence,\" which she and other members of Congress have not seen, she said. \n Gabbard says she was not planning to meet with Assad during the trip to Syria, but when the opportunity arose she took it because she's ready to meet with anyone if there's a chance it could end the war. \n Some Hawaii residents question why she's getting involved in international politics. \n \"To me it's just bizarre \u2026 What business does a Hawaii representative have doing these kind of foreign affairs?\" said Gaye Chan, chairwoman of the Department of Art and Art History at the University of Hawaii, who voted for Gabbard. \n But many call Gabbard, whose district covers rural parts of Oahu and the remaining islands that make up the state, brave for taking a difficult stand. \n \"You just have to put your confidence in elected leaders when it comes to international relations,\" said Robert Arthurs, a retired foreign service officer and Gabbard supporter. \"She's a warrior. And in the true sense of the word.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Many here support Gabbard despite Assad comment"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Marine soldiers patrolled, April 11, during the U.S.-South Korea joint Exercise Operation Pacific Reach in Pohang, South Korea. \n WASHINGTON >> The Trump administration has settled on its North Korea strategy after a two-month review: \"Maximum pressure and engagement.\" \n U.S. officials said today the president's advisers weighed a range of ideas for how to get North Korea to abandon its nuclear program, including military options and trying to overthrow the isolated communist dictatorship's leadership. At the other end of the spectrum, they looked at the notion of accepting North Korea as a nuclear state. \n In the end, however, they settled on a policy that appears to represent continuity. \n The administration's emphasis, the officials said, will be on increasing pressure on Pyongyang with the help of China, North Korea's dominant trade partner. The officials weren't authorized to speak publicly on the results of the policy review and requested anonymity. \n The new strategy will be deployed at a time of escalating tensions on the Korean Peninsula. U.S., South Korean and other officials are closely monitoring the North amid indications it could conduct another missile test or nuclear explosion to coincide with an important national anniversary this weekend. \n Pyongyang has undertaken five nuclear tests since 2006. \n An influential Washington think tank estimated that North Korea could already have up to 30 bombs. \n The Institute for Science and International Security cited a worrying increase in North Korea's nuclear program, but said the arsenal may only have been as large as 13 atomic weapons at the end of 2016. Its research suggested a range between 10 and 16 such weapons two years earlier. The institute's estimates are based on what it believes the North has produced in plutonium and weapons-grade uranium. The margins represent uncertainty as to whether North Korea has one or two uranium enrichment facilities. \n The North has owned up to one such facility, at its Nyongbyon nuclear complex, but the U.S. government assumes it has more. \n \"The bottom line is that North Korea has an improving nuclear weapons arsenal,\" said David Albright, the institute's president. \n He said the North may have a handful of plutonium-based warheads it can mount on medium-range ballistic missiles capable of reaching South Korea and Japan. But it's doubtful the North is currently able to build reliable, survivable warheads for an intercontinental ballistic missile that can strike the U.S. mainland, he said. \n As for the Trump administration's policy, the U.S. officials emphasized that no engagement of North Korea is currently taking place. Although China advocates for diplomatic outreach, the focus for now is on pressure. \n The officials said the goal of engagement would have to be North Korea's denuclearization. It cannot lead to an arms control agreement or reduction of the North's atomic arsenal that would imply American acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear power. \n The officials are hopeful China and Russia would agree to tighter U.N. sanctions on North Korea if it conducts another nuclear test. They pointed to a recent editorial in a state-run Chinese newspaper advocating tighter restrictions on selling oil to North Korea. \n Beijing's decision earlier this year to cut off coal imports from North Korea also are being seen as a hopeful sign. Coal sales are an important source of revenue for Kim Jong Un's government, and the U.S. says China has turned back some shipments in recent days. Russia and China are critical to any pressure campaign on North Korea because they both hold veto power on the U.N. Security Council. \n In an interview Friday with The Associated Press, North Korea's Vice Minister Han Song Ryol said President Donald Trump's tough tweets toward Pyongyang were adding to a \"vicious cycle\" of tensions. Han said if the U.S. shows any sign of \"reckless\" military aggression, Pyongyang is ready to launch a pre-emptive strike of its own. \n Trump, who last week acted unilaterally in ordering a cruise missile strike on Syria, has been using America's military might to send a message to Kim. An aircraft carrier, the USS Carl Vinson, is heading to waters off Korea in a show of force. Trump has repeatedly issued ambiguous threats that if Beijing isn't willing to do more to squeeze the North, the U.S. might take the matter into its own hands. \n But a U.S. military official, who requested anonymity to discuss planning, said the U.S. doesn't intend to use military force against North Korea in response to either a nuclear test or a missile launch. The official said plans could change in the unlikely event a North Korean missile targets South Korea, Japan or U.S. territory. \n AP National Security Writer Robert Burns contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump strategy on N.Korea: 'Maximum pressure and engagement'"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters hold up signs outside a courthouse where a federal judge will hear arguments in the first lawsuit challenging President Donald Trump's executive order to withhold funding from communities that limit cooperation with immigration authorities in San Francisco. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> President Donald Trump's executive order withholding funding from communities that limit cooperation with immigration authorities applies to a small pot of grant money, not the hundreds of millions of dollars that cities and counties around the country say is at stake, a lawyer with the Department of Justice said today. \n Acting Assistant Attorney General Chad Readler made the comments during a court hearing on lawsuits filed by the city of San Francisco and Santa Clara County against Trump's order targeting so-called sanctuary cities. \n Readler said the order would affect less than a million dollars in funding for Santa Clara County and possibly no money for San Francisco. \n The plaintiffs had argued that more than a billion dollars was at stake for each of them because the president's order referred broadly to federal funding. \n Readler's statement appeared to catch U.S. District Judge William Orrick by surprise. Orrick then questioned the point of the president's executive order. \n Readler said the administration was using a \"bully pulpit\" to highlight an issue it cares deeply about. \n The Department of Justice also says in court documents that San Francisco's lawsuit was premature because decisions about withholding funds have yet to be made. \n San Francisco and Santa Clara County have asked for a court order blocking the Trump administration from cutting off funds to any sanctuary cities. Orrick did not immediately issue a ruling after Friday's hearing. \n The sanctuary city order was among a flurry of immigration measures the president signed in January, including a ban on travelers from seven majority Muslim countries and a border security directive calling for a wall along the Mexico border. \n A federal appeals court blocked the travel ban. The administration then revised it, and the new version is also stalled in court. \n The sanctuary city order directs the attorney general and secretary of homeland security to ensure that local governments that refuse to provide people's immigration status to federal authorities are not eligible for federal grants except as deemed necessary for law enforcement purposes. \n The Trump administration says the stance by sanctuary cities allows dangerous criminals back on the street, and the president's order is needed to keep the country safe. San Francisco and other sanctuary cities say turning local police into immigration officers erodes trust that's needed to get people to report crimes. \n The order has also prompted lawsuits by Seattle, two Massachusetts cities, Lawrence and Chelsea, and the city of Richmond in California. None of those cases has received a court hearing yet. \n San Francisco, the first city to challenge the order in court, said the president does not have authority over federal funds and cannot force local officials to enforce federal immigration law. \n The city argues that the order also appears to apply to local governments that don't detain immigrants for possible deportation when they are due for release from jail. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyer: Little money involved in Trump sanctuary order"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A plume of smoke rising from a GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb strike on an Islamic State militant cave and tunnel systems in the Achin district of the Nangarhar Province in eastern Afghanistan. \n KABUL, Afghanistan >> The biggest non-nuclear bomb ever dropped in combat by the U.S. military killed 36 militants in eastern Afghanistan, officials said Friday, and villagers in the remote, mountainous area described being terrified by the \"earsplitting blast.\" \n The strike using the Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, or MOAB, was carried out Thursday morning against an Islamic State group tunnel complex carved in the mountains that Afghan forces have tried to assault repeatedly in recent weeks in fierce fighting in Nangarhar province, Afghan officials said. \n U.S. and Afghan forces have been battling the Taliban insurgency for more than 15 years. But the U.S. military brought out the biggest conventional bomb in its arsenal for the first time to hit the Islamic State, which has a far smaller but growing presence in Afghanistan. That apparently reflects President Donald Trump's vow for a more aggressive campaign against the group. \n The bomb \u2014 known officially as a GBU-43B but nicknamed the \"mother of all bombs\" \u2014 unleashes 11 tons of explosives. Pentagon video showed the bomb striking a mountainside overlooking a river valley with a giant blast that overwhelms the landscape and sent up a massive column of black smoke. Agricultural terraces are visible in the footage, but no population centers. \n The Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement that the bomb destroyed several IS caves and ammunition caches. \n Gen. Daulat Waziri, a ministry spokesman, said 36 IS fighters were killed, and that the death toll could likely rise. He said Afghan forces were at the tunnel complex assessing the damage. \n The Islamic State group's Aamaq news agency denied that any of its fighters were killed or wounded, citing a source within the group. \n Waziri said the bombing was necessary because the complex was extremely hard to penetrate, with some tunnels as deep as 40 meters (over 130 feet). He called it a \"strong position,\" with troops attacking it four times without advancing, adding that the complex \"was full of mines.\" \n \"This was the right weapon for the right target,\" said U.S. Gen. John W. Nicholson, NATO commander in Afghanistan, at a news conference. He added that there were no reports of civilian casualties. \n Nicholson said the bomb was intended to eliminate the militants' sanctuary in southern Nangarhar, \"and this weapon was very effective in that use.\" \n The office of President Ashraf Ghani said there was \"close coordination\" between the U.S. military and the Afghan government over the operation, and they were careful to prevent any civilian casualties. \n But the massive blast still terrified villagers 20 miles away across the border in Pakistan. \n Pakistani villagers living near the frontier said the explosion was so loud they thought a bomb had been dropped in their village by U.S. warplanes targeting militants in Pakistan. \n \"I was sleeping when we heard a loud explosion. It was an earsplitting blast,\" said Shah Wali, 46, who lives in the village of Goor Gari, 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the border with Nangarhar. \"I jumped from my bed and came out of my home to see what has gone wrong in our village.\" \n Dozens of other villagers also came out of their homes, Wali said. He later went near the border, where he met with other residents. He said he could see smoke in the sky. \n \"The whole house was shaking,\" said Mufti Khan of Achin district in Nangarhar. \"When I came out of my house, I saw a large fire and the whole area was burning.\" \n Another Achin resident, Mohammad Hakim, approved of the strike. \n \"We are very happy, and these kinds of bombs should be used in future as well, so Daesh is rooted out from here,\" he said, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State group. \n \"They killed our women, youths and elders, sitting them on mines,\" Hakim added. \"We also ask the Kabul government to use even stronger weapons against them.\" \n The U.S. estimates 600-800 IS fighters are in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. The U.S. has concentrated on fighting them while also supporting Afghan forces against the Taliban. \n Trump called Thursday's operation a \"very, very successful mission.\" \n \"I want a hundred times more bombings on this group,\" said Hakim Khan, a 50-year-old a resident of Achin. \n Inamullah Meyakhil, spokesman for the central hospital in eastern Nangarhar province, said no dead or wounded had been brought to the facility from the attack. \n District Gov. Ismail Shinwari added that there was no civilian property near the location of the airstrike. \n The Site Intelligence Group, which tracks extremist organizations, reported Friday on a statement from the Afghan Taliban that condemned the U.S. for its \"terrorist\" attack. \n The statement said it is the responsibility of Afghans, not the U.S., to remove the Islamic State group from the country. The two militant movements are rivals. \n The U.S. has more than 8,000 troops in Afghanistan, training local forces and conducting counterterrorism operations. In the past year, they have largely concentrated on thwarting a surge of attacks by the Taliban, who have captured key districts, such as Helmand province, which U.S. and British troops had fought bitterly to return to the government. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Afghanistan says massive U.S. bomb killed 36 militants"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, center, stood in the middle as Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem, left, and Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif shook hands after a shared press conference following their talks focused on Syria in Moscow, Russia today. \n MOSCOW >> Russia, Syria and Iran strongly warned the United States today against launching new strikes on Syria and called for an international probe into last week's chemical attack there. \n Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who hosted his Iranian and Syrian counterparts at a trilateral meeting in Moscow, denounced last week's U.S. attack on Syria as a \"flagrant violation\" of international law and warned that any further such action would entail \"grave consequences not only for regional but global security.\" \n Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moallem said the meeting sent a \"strong message\" to Washington. Iran's Mohammad Javad Zarif emphasized that the participants warned that any unilateral action by the U.S. is unacceptable. \n The U.S. has blamed the Syrian government for launching a deadly chemical attack in Khan Sheikhoun that killed over 80 people on April 4, and responded by striking a Syrian air base. Russia has alleged that the victims were killed by toxic agents released from a rebel chemical arsenal and warned against putting the blame on Damascus until an independent inquiry has been conducted. \n Moscow vetoed a Western draft U.N. resolution Wednesday, saying it failed to mention the need to inspect the area of the attack. \n Lavrov today accused the U.S. and its allies of what he described as attempts to stymie an international probe into the attack. He expressed strong skepticism about a preliminary investigation conducted by the U.N. chemical weapons watchdog, saying that its experts have failed to visit the site and it has remained unclear to Russia where the samples have been taken and how they have been analyzed. \n In Russia's view, the probe conducted by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons should be widened to include experts from many nations, he said. \n \"If our U.S. colleagues and some European nations believe that their version is right, they have no reason to fear the creation of such an independent group,\" Lavrov added. \"The investigation into this high-profile incident must be transparent and leave no doubt that someone is trying to hide something.\" \n Lavrov said the U.S. strike on the Syrian base has undermined peace efforts in Syria and reflected Washington's focus on ousting Syrian President Bashar Assad's government. \"Such attempts won't succeed,\" Lavrov said. \n The three ministers also discussed the beefing up of U.S. forces on Jordan's border with Syria. Moallem said. He added that Russia, Iran and Syria have \"common procedures against any aggression,\" but wouldn't offer any specifics. \n Lavrov that Moscow has asked Washington about the purpose of the buildup and received assurances they were there to cut supply lines between the Islamic State group factions in Syria and Iraq. \n \"We will keep monitoring the issue, since the only possible reason for using military force on the territory of Syria is to fight terrorism,\" Lavrov said. \n Russia has staunchly backed Assad's government throughout a civil war that has dragged into a seventh year. It has conducted an air campaign in Syria since September 2015, saving Assad from imminent collapse and helping reverse military fortunes. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia, Iran and Syria issue warning to U.S."}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n An unidentified person stood next to the wreckage of a single-car accident in Waianae today. A sedan ran off Waianae Valley Road this morning and ended up in an adjacent canal on its roof. \n ROSEMARIE BERNARDO / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A car lay on its roof in the drainage canal along Waianae Valley Road this morning. \n One man has died and another man was transported to a hospital in critical condition after they were involved in a crash early today on Waianae Valley Road. \n Friends at the crash site identified the man who died as James Gouveia. \n Over a dozen firefighters responded to the crash at about 3:35 a.m. near 85-443 Waianae Valley Road. When they arrived, they observed a heavily damaged white car on its roof approximately 10 feet below in a drainage ditch off of the roadway. \n Honolulu Fire Spokesman Capt. David Jenkins said two men were pinned inside the vehicle. \n Firefighters extricated Gouveia who was in the driver's seat. He was pronounced dead at the scene. A 34-year-old passenger also was extricated from the car before paramedics transported him to a hospital in critical condition. \n Resident Masi Maugaotega who lives near the crash site was sleeping at the time of the crash. \"I heard a loud screech and a really loud bang after that.\" \n \"That's what woke me up\u2026that loud screech and bang.\" \n He walked outside when a neighbor told him the vehicle was in the canal. \"This is sad,\" Maugaotega said while he carried his 1-year-old son, Elijah, as he stood near the crash site while police conducted an investigation. \n Gouveia's family members and friends arrived at the scene, emotionally distraught. His girlfriend, Hiilani Reinhardt, who also arrived after the crash occurred, is three months pregnant with Gouveia's child. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "1 dead, 1 critically injured after 1-car crash in Waianae"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Staff greet students at North Park Elementary School, at Cajon High School, in San Bernardino, Calif., after a deadly shooting occurred at the elementary school. Police on Friday, April 14, released portions of the 911 calls from the shooting that left a teacher and student dead. \n LOS ANGELES >> A panicked 911 caller immediately identified a teacher's husband as the man who opened fire at a San Bernardino elementary school and told the dispatcher that she had locked herself in the office. \n Police on Friday released portions of the emergency calls from the shooting this week that killed a special-education teacher and her student. In one of the short tapes, a caller says a teacher had been shot by her husband and describes his clothing. \n \"I'm scared,\" the caller says before the tape cuts out. \n Cedric Anderson walked into his estranged wife's classroom at North Park Elementary on Monday and fired 10 rounds from a .357 Magnum before turning the gun on himself, authorities said. \n He targeted Karen Smith but also struck two of her students: 8-year-old Jonathan Martinez, who died, and a 9-year-old boy who was expected to recover. \n Anderson had accused Smith of infidelity just weeks into their marriage, prompting her to move out of their home, San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan said. Police have said there was no evidence of unfaithfulness. When Anderson failed to win her back, he killed her, Burguan said. \n Smith told family members that Anderson had threatened her after she moved out last month, but she didn't take him seriously and thought he was just seeking attention, the police chief said. \n The young victim, Martinez, had previously survived heart surgery and had Williams syndrome, a rare genetic disorder characterized by learning delays, mild-to-moderate intellectual disabilities and heart problems. \n School officials said he was a happy child who loved music and playing with friends. \n The wounded boy, Nolan Brandy, was \"recovering better than we expected,\" his parents said in an CNN interview Friday. \n \"He's in really good spirits, he's upbeat,\" father Leon Brandy said. \n The boy was shot in the torso, but the bullet missed all of his vital organs, said Maria Garcia, a San Bernardino schools spokeswoman. He was released from the hospital Friday. \n Police were still interviewing witnesses in their investigation, a police spokesman said. The school is expected to reopen Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "911 caller in San Bernardino school shooting: 'I'm scared'"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated image provided by Universidade Federal de Goias shows a Synalpheus pinkfloydi, a newly discovered species of shrimp named for Pink Floyd. The shrimp uses a bright pink claw to create a sound loud enough to kill small fish. \n OXFORD, England >> A newly discovered species of shrimp that uses a bright pink claw to create a sound loud enough to kill small fish has been named for Pink Floyd. \n The shrimp found on Panama's Pacific coast has been dubbed Synalpheus pinkfloydi in the peer-reviewed journal Zootaxa. Oxford University Museum of Natural History researcher Sammy De Grave is one of three researchers credited with discovering the creature. He says the description of the shrimp was \"the perfect opportunity to finally give a nod to my favorite band.\" \n According to Oxford, pistol or snapping shrimps close their enlarged claws at a rapid speed to create an imploding bubble. The result is a sound so loud it can kill or stun a fish. \n Pink Floyd is also honored in nature with a damselfly named after its 1969 album \"Ummagumma.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Researchers name loud shrimp after Pink Floyd"}

{"date": "April 14, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi speaks during a joint press conference with his French counterpart Jean-Marc Ayrault at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing, Friday, April 14, 2017. \n BEIJING >> There can be no winners in an armed conflict between the U.S. and North Korea over Pyongyang's nuclear weapons and missile programs, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Friday, while pledging China's support for any attempts at dialogue between the sides. \n Wang's comments mark the latest attempt to cool tensions by North Korea's most important ally and key provider of food and fuel aid. Any fighting on the Korean Peninsula is likely to draw in China, which has repeatedly expressed concerns about a wave of refugees and the possible presence of U.S. and South Korean troops on its border. \n \"Once a war really happens, the result will be nothing but multiple loss. No one can become a winner,\" Wang told reporters at a news conference with French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault. \n \"Therefore, we call upon all the parties, no matter verbally or in action, to stop provoking and threatening each other and not to allow the situation to become irretrievable and out of control,\" Wang said. \n He urged all sides to take a flexible approach to resuming dialogue, saying Beijing would offer whatever assistance it could. \n \"As long as dialogue takes place, it can be official or unofficial, through one channel or dual channels, bilateral or multilateral. China is willing to give support to all of them,\" Wang said. \n Wang last month urged North Korea to suspend its nuclear weapon and missile tests in exchange for South Korea and the U.S. putting their war games on hold, reviving a proposal first raised by Pyongyang. Washington swiftly dismissed the idea, but some observers have said administration officials may be becoming more amenable to renewed dialogue with the North. \n Despite their historic ties as neighboring communist states, China has grown increasingly frustrated with the refusal of Kim Jong Un's regime to heed its admonitions, and in February cut off imports of North Korean coal that provide Pyongyang with a crucial source of foreign currency. \n Earlier Friday, North Korea's Vice Minister Han Song Ryol told The Associated Press in an exclusive interview that his country will keep building up its nuclear arsenal in \"quality and quantity\" and said Pyongyang is ready to go to war if that's what President Donald Trump wants. \n Chinese experts said they see little immediate possibility of hostilities breaking out, but warned that Beijing will respond harshly to any further North Korean nuclear tests. \n Director of Jilin University's Institute of Northeast Asian Studies Guo Rui said that Trump's domestic troubles should prevent him taking such action, while North Korea doesn't appear to be on a war footing. Another nuclear test would invite tougher measures from Beijing, Guo said. \n Pang Zhongying of the School of International Studies at Beijing's Renmin University agreed that military action was unlikely, but said another North Korean nuclear test would mark \"the crossing of a red line\" that China was prepared to respond to. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chinese foreign minister: No winners if Korea war breaks out"}

