{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a government meeting in the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow, Russia, on Nov. 2. \n WASHINGTON >> Russian President Vladimir Putin is giving a thumbs-up to president-elect Donald Trump's victory. \n In a brief statement Wednesday, the Kremlin said Putin has sent Trump a telegram to congratulate him on winning. Putin expressed \"his hope to work together for removing Russian-American relations from their crisis state.\" \n Putin also says he has confidence that building a constructive dialogue between Moscow and Washington \u2014 one based on principles of equality, mutual respect and a real accounting each other's positions \u2014 is in the interest of both nations and the world. \n Trump has drawn criticism for repeatedly praising Putin's leadership and advocating a closer working relationship with Russia despite its record of human rights abuses and recent military incursions in Ukraine and Syria. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Putin gives thumbs-up on Trump victory"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Krystal Xiques smokes marijuana at a rally in support of Prop 64 at Sparc Dispensary Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016, in San Francisco. California voters approved a ballot measure Tuesday allowing recreational marijuana in the nation's most populous state. \n LOS ANGELES >> Voter support for marijuana legalization reached a new high as California, Massachusetts and Nevada approved recreational pot, joining four other states and Washington, D.C., with similar laws. \n Voters in Florida, North Dakota and Arkansas passed medical marijuana measures, pushing the number of states with such laws past two dozen. \n The California vote makes the use and sale of recreational cannabis legal along the entire West Coast and gives legalization advocates powerful momentum. Massachusetts is the first state east of the Mississippi to allow recreational use. \n The victories could spark similar efforts in other states and put pressure on federal authorities to ease longstanding rules that classify marijuana as a dangerously addictive drug with no medical benefits. \n \"I'm thrilled,\" said Northern California marijuana grower Nikki Lastreto. \"I'm so excited that California can now move forward.\" \n California was the first state to approve medical marijuana two decades ago. It was among five states weighing whether to permit pot for adults for recreational purposes. The other states were Arizona, which defeated the idea, and Maine, where the question remained undecided early Wednesday. \n Montana voted to ease restrictions on an existing medical marijuana law. \n In general, the proposals for recreational pot would treat cannabis similar to alcohol. Consumption would be limited to people 21 or older and forbidden in most public spaces. Pot would be highly regulated and heavily taxed, and some states would let people grow their own. \n State-by-state polls showed most of the measures with a good chance of prevailing. But staunch opponents that included law enforcement groups and anti-drug crusaders urged the public to reject any changes. They complained that legalization would endanger children and open the door to creation of another huge industry that, like big tobacco, would be devoted to selling Americans an unhealthy drug. \n \"We are, of course, disappointed,\" said Ken Corney, president of the California Police Chiefs Association. Corney said his organization plans to work with lawmakers to develop a driving-under-the-influence policy. \n The California proposal sowed deep division among marijuana advocates and farmers. In Northern California's famous Emerald Triangle, a region known for cultivating pot for decades, many small growers have longed for legitimacy but also fear being forced out of business by large corporate farms. \n \"I'm not necessarily stoked nor surprised,\" said Humboldt County grower Graham Shaw, reflecting the ambivalence of the region to the measure. \"I am very happy that the war on cannabis in California is finally over.\" \n If \"yes\" votes prevail across the country, about 75 million people accounting for more than 23 percent of the U.S. population would live in states where recreational pot is legal. The jurisdictions where that's already the case \u2014 Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, Washington state and the District of Columbia \u2014 have about 18 million residents, or 5.6 percent of the population. Twenty-five states allow medical marijuana. \n According to national polls, a solid majority of Americans support legalization. \n Proposition 64 would allow people 21 and older to legally possess up to an ounce of weed and grow six marijuana plants at home. Varying tax rates would be levied on sales, with the money deposited into the state's marijuana tax fund. \n The exit poll of 2,282 California voters was conducted for AP and the television networks by Edison Research. This includes preliminary results from interviews conducted as voters left a random sample of 30 precincts statewide Tuesday, as well as 744 who voted early or absentee and were interviewed by landline or cellular telephone from Oct. 29 through Nov. 4. Results for the full sample were subject to sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points; it is higher for subgroups. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Voter support of marijuana reaches new high"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "The state Senate's lone Republican Sam Slom has been ousted by former Honolulu City Councilman Stanley Chang who led 51 percent to 45 percent with all precincts reporting, making Hawaii the only state in the nation with an entirely Democratic state Senate. \n Slom, 74, known for his impassioned speeches on the floor of the Legislature railing against tax increases and government spending, has served the East Honolulu area, from Hawaii Kai to Kahala and Diamond Head, for five terms. \n Chang, 34, a Harvard Law School graduate who grew up in the Kahala area, waged a grassroots campaign, saying he knocked thousands of doors. \n Chang is viewed as a progressive within the Democratic Party, while Slom has trumpeted traditional Republican values and is known for his advocacy for small business interests. \n Republican Feki Pouha, who represents Oahu's North Shore in the state House of Representatives, was also narrowly ousted by Democratic challenger Sean Quinlan, 49 percent to 47 percent. \n There were nine Senate seats and 30 House seats up for grabs in this year's general election. Except for Rep. Jo Jordan, who lost during the August primary, the rest of the state Legislature's incumbents appear to have retained their seats. \n Political newcomer Cedric Gates, who ousted Jordan in the primary, has beat Republican Marcus Paaluhi, pulling in 62 percent of the votes, for the House seat representing Makaha, Waianae and Makua. \n The race has been controversial, with the Hawaii Democratic Party asserting earlier this year that Gates shouldn't have been able to run as a Democrat because he had run in 2014 as a Green Party candidate. Under party rules, this should have barred him from the party for three years. However, party officials said that they didn't notice the error in time and Gates remained on the ballot as a Democrat. \n Democrat Nadine Nakamura will take the place of Rep. Derek Kawakami representing Hanalei, Princeville and Kapaa on Kauai. Kawakami ran for a seat on the Kauai County Council instead this year, which he is expected to win. \n Nakamura, a former Kauai County councilwoman and managing director under Kauai Mayor Bernard Carvalho held 66 percent of the votes to Republican challenger Sandra Combs' 25 percent. \n Sen. Kai Kahele dominated Libertarian challenger Kimberly Arianoff for the Senate seat representing Hilo, pulling in 83 percent of the votes. Kahele was appointed to the seat by Gov. David Ige earlier this year following the sudden death of his father, Sen. Gil Kahele, from a heart attack. \n Rep. Karl Rhoads has also easily beat former Honolulu City Councilman Rod Tam, 67 percent to 23 percent, for the Senate seat representing downtown Honolulu, Nuuanu, Iwilei and Liliha. The seat was left vacant by Sen. Suzanne Chun Oakland, who chose not to seek reelection. \n Tam, who was convicted in 2011 for stealing city funds and violating campaign spending laws, tried to launch a political comeback this year as a Republican. He served as a Democrat in the state House from 1982 to 1994 and in the state Senate from 1994 to 2002, before being elected to the Honolulu City Council where he served until an unsuccessful mayoral bid in 2010. \n Rhoads, an attorney, served as a member of the House of Representatives representing Chinatown, Iwilei and Kalihi for a decade and served as chairman of the House Judiciary Committee since 2013. \n Democrat Daniel Holt will take Rhoads' place in the House after beating Republican Kaiwiola Coakley. \n In other key races, Democrat Rep. Matt LoPresti is beating Republican challenger Bryan Jeremiah 55 percent to 37 percent for the House seat representing Ewa, with three out of four precincts reporting. \n That race turned ugly at times, with both at one point seeking restraining orders against the other. \n LoPresti is an associate professor of philosophy and humanities at Hawaii Pacific University. Jeremiah is a project manager at PEI Construction. \n House Minority Leader Beth Fukumoto Chang, a moderate Republican, has easily fended off a challenge from former Democratic state Rep. Marilyn Lee for the House seat representing Mililani. Fukumoto Chang has 65 percent of the vote to Lee's 32 percent. \n This is the third time that Lee has attempted to win back the seat that she once held. \n Fukumoto Chang was criticized earlier this year by some of her Republican House colleagues who charged that she was too accommodating to ruling House Democrats. The party tension grew last summer when a crowd of delegates at the Republican state convention in Waipahu booed Fukumoto Chang when she announced from the convention stage that she could not support Donald Trump for president. \n Lee served in the state House as a Democrat for 16 years up until 2012 when she was ousted by Fukumoto Chang. Lee has a long history of community involvement, serving as chairwoman of the Mililani Neighborhood Board and as a member of the state Commission on the Status of Women. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Chang defeats Slom, the lone Republican in the state Senate"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump arrived to speak at a campaign rally in Ocala, Fla., on Oct. 12. \n NEW YORK >> Donald Trump awakened a movement of angry working-class voters fed up with political insiders and desperate for change. On Tuesday, that movement propelled him to the White House. \n Trump's stunning, come-from-behind victory over Hillary Clinton \u2014 a far more organized and experienced rival \u2014 served as a raised middle finger to the political establishment from his fervent backers. \n \"I have been so ready for this,\" said Oklahoma resident Holly Berry, who flew all the way from Tahlequah to celebrate at Trump's victory party in Manhattan. \n Berry, who works in sales, said that she can no longer afford her health insurance, which has spiked 86 percent. \n \"People are sick and tired,\" she said. \"This country's fed up with everything. We're ready for a change. We're ready for lower taxes, ready for our economy to grow, we're ready for jobs.\" \n But to millions of others, the billionaire businessman's elevation to the presidency is a shocking and terrifying reality that will take time to comprehend. Many see the president-elect as a bigot and a misogynist unfit for the office. \n \"He scares the daylights out of me,\" said Wendy Bennett, a Democrat and government worker from Reno, Nevada, who cast her ballot for Clinton. \"I think his personality is going to start World War III. He reminds me of Hitler.\" \n Lisa Moore, a registered Republican from Glen Rock, New Jersey, crossed party lines to vote for Clinton, who would have been the nation's first female president. \n \"As a woman, in good conscience, and as the mother of a daughter, I can't vote for somebody who's so morally reprehensible,\" said Moore, an exercise instructor. \n The 2016 election was vindication for Trump, a former reality TV star who was underestimated from the start. \n While pundits assumed his poll numbers would sink as soon as voters started taking the race seriously, Trump was drawing thousands each night to rallies packed with angry, largely white supporters who felt ignored and lied to by Washington. \n While statistics showed the U.S. economy improving overall, it didn't feel that way in places like upstate New York, Pennsylvania's coal country and former manufacturing towns across the Midwest devastated by outsourcing and globalization. Chaos abroad only added to the feeling that the country was sliding backward. \n Together, those factors drove a yearning to return to a simpler time when America was the world's undisputed superpower and middle-class wages were on the rise. \n \"We have our fingers in too many baskets,\" said Joe Hudson, 49, an engineer and registered Republican from Virginia Beach, Virginia, who said he would be voting for Trump because \"we're not taking care of our own people.\" \n \"We're trying to be too involved in world politics. And our country is imploding from within,\" he said. \"We need a new direction, a new attitude, and people to stop arguing and letting the media affect how we feel.\" \n Trump's vow was simple: He'd \"Make America Great Again.\" His outsider status, coupled with his personal business success, lent credibility to a populist message that emphasized recapturing manufacturing jobs, restoring American strength abroad and curtailing legal and illegal immigration. \n Trump promised to immediately create new jobs, end conflicts abroad and \u2014 in Trump's words, \"win again\" \n Trump, early on, painted his supporters as a \"movement\" larger than himself. \n \"This isn't about me; it's about all of you and our magnificent movement to make America great again all over this country. And they're talking about it all over the world,\" he said at a rally in Miami last week during the race's furious final stretch. \n \"There has never been a movement like this in the history of our country \u2014 it's never happened. Even the pundits, even the ones that truly dislike Donald Trump, have said it's the single greatest phenomena they have ever seen.\" \n But as he worked his base into a frenzy and locked down one primary win after the next, Trump was also repelling large swaths of the populace \u2014 including women, college-educated whites and minorities \u2014 with his deeply divisive rhetoric. \n Trump launched his campaign with a speech that accused Mexico of sending rapists and other criminals across the border. He later questioned 2008 Republican nominee and former POW John McCain's status as a war hero, saying he preferred people who hadn't been captured. He mocked a disabled reporter. And he called for a \"total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on\" \u2014 a blanket religion test denounced by many as un-American. \n After securing his party's nomination, Trump questioned a federal judge's ability to treat him fairly because of the judge's Hispanic origin, repeatedly insulted a Muslim-American family whose son had been killed in Iraq, and got into an extended spat with a former beauty queen, at one point instructing his millions of Twitter followers to \"check out\" her non-existent sex tape. \n Again and again, Trump appeared poised to close the gap with Clinton, only to go off on a tangent that would send his poll numbers tumbling. \n Then came the release of shocking old video footage from an \"Access Hollywood\" bus in which Trump bragged about being able to grope women because he was famous. The video's release was followed by a string of allegations from women who said Trump sexually harassed or assaulted them. \n Trump denied the accusations, at one point threatening to sue the women. \n But one October surprise was overshadowed by another. Trump's numbers had already been rising with news of health care premium increases when the FBI director informed Congress that the bureau had found a new trove of emails potentially relevant to its investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server a secretary of state. \n While the FBI eventually announced that there was nothing in the emails to merit criminal prosecution, the damage appeared to have been done. \n On Tuesday, Trump won a commanding victory, buoyed by a new Trump coalition. \n \"It's time to get together,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump rides his movement to vindication and White House"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "Voters in Hawaii gave Hillary Clinton the state's four electoral votes in her unsuccessful bid to become the first woman president of the United States. \n With all Hawaii precincts counted, Clinton had a decisive 61 percent to 29.5 percent for Republican Donald Trump, the New York billionaire and reality TV star, according to the state Office of Elections. Libertarian Gary Johnson received 3.6 percent and Green Party candidate Jill Stein had 2.8 percent. \n But in a tight nationwide race, Clinton, a former Secretary of State, U.S. senator and First Lady, lost to Trump who ran on a promise of \"making America great again.\" \n The loss left Hawaii Democrats stunned. \n \"What he was saying was resonating to a part of the population that we, especially in Hawaii, don't really understand,\" said Colleen Hanabusa, who will be dealing with the new president as a newly elected congresswoman. \n \"I am devastated by the result,\" she said tonight as she celebrated her own victory in Kakaako. \"I was hoping to be able to say tonight to all the young girls and women across the state that we finally cracked the glass ceiling.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Clinton wins Hawaii in unsuccessful presidential bid"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People line up to vote at Dendy Recreation Center on Election Day in Philadelphia on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON >> Americans emphatically declared their anger at government and their desire for change Tuesday as they decided between two presidential candidates who failed to generate much excitement. \n Exit polls recorded the simmering discontent of the American electorate. \n Four in 10 voters said they were hungry for change, and those voters overwhelmingly favored Republican Donald Trump. Smaller voting blocs who were seeking a candidate with good judgment, experience or who cared about them favored Hillary Clinton. \n Nearly 7 in 10 voters said they were unhappy with the way the government is working, including a quarter who said they were outright angry, according to preliminary results of exit polls conducted for The Associated Press and television networks by Edison Research. \n Three-fourths of those angry voters backed Trump. \n Six in 10 voters said the country is on the wrong track. \n Other findings from the exit poll: \n WORKING-CLASS WHITES vs. CLINTON COALITION \n Trump dominated among white voters, especially non-college-educated men; Clinton's coalition was made up of women, minorities and young people. \n Trump, who once famously declared that he loved the uneducated, got plenty of love back from white voters who never graduated from college: He got 7 in 10 votes from non-college-educated white men and 6 in 10 votes from non-college-educated white women. \n The advantage Trump had among whites without a college degree compared with whites who graduated from college was the largest seen in exit polls for a Republican since the surveys started in 1972. \n Clinton, meanwhile, got the support of less than a quarter of white men without a college degree; Barack Obama, by contrast, drew about a third of their votes four years ago. \n TIMES TWO \n What kind of impact did third-party candidates Gary Johnson and Jill Stein have on the race? They siphoned more votes from Clinton than from Trump. \n A quarter of Johnson and Stein voters said they would have backed Clinton if they had to pick between the two major-party candidates. About 15 percent would have backed Trump. \n RACIAL SPLIT \n Even with his tough talk about Mexican immigrants, Trump held on to roughly the same share of Hispanic voters as Romney had claimed four years ago. Likewise, he was drawing about the same levels of support from black voters as Romney won. \n The Republican was drawing about a quarter of Hispanic voters and about less than 1 in 10 black voters. \n TO BE HONEST \u2026 \n Neither Trump nor Clinton gets bragging rights when it comes to honesty. \n About 6 out of 10 voters said they don't view Clinton as honest and about the same share felt the same way about Trump. \n THE GENDER GAP \n It was the working-class white men backing Trump who helped to produce a gender gap with a capital \"G\" for Clinton. \n Tuesday's election was on track to produce the largest gender gaps since the exit poll began: The gender gap for Clinton \u2014 the difference between the number of men who voted for her and the number of women who voted for her \u2014 hit 13 percentage points. \n Clinton's support among women was roughly even with the support that women gave Obama in 2008 and 2012. \n MILLENNIALS VS. ELDERS \n Clinton managed to hang on to the millennials who were such a big part of Obama's winning coalition. \n PESSIMISM AND ANGER \n There were grim strains woven into voter sentiments as they cast their ballots. \n Nearly 7 in 10 voters said they were unhappy with the way the government is working, including a quarter who were outright angry. \n HOLDING THEIR NOSES \n Americans held their noses as they picked between Clinton and Trump: More than half of voters cast their ballots with reservations about their candidate or because they disliked the others running. \n That was true both for those backing Clinton and those supporting Trump, the exit polls showed \n After a long, hard-fought campaign, just 4 out of 10 voters strongly favored their candidate. \n WOMEN'S ISSUES VS. EMAIL ISSUES \n After all of the sound and fury over Trump's treatment of women, it turned out the issue bothered half of all voters a lot \u2014 and women were more concerned about it than men. \n About 6 in 10 women were bothered a lot, compared to about 4 in 10 men, the exit poll found. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The survey was conducted for The Associated Press and television networks by Edison Research with 23,583 voters as they left their polling places at 350 randomly selected sites throughout the United States supplemented by 4,404 telephone interviews with mail, early and absentee voters. The results among all those voting have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Americans register anger, desire for change with their votes"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "Incumbents cruised to victory in the neighbor island County Council races Tuesday night, although a few lost their seats, including veteran Kauai Councilman Gary Hooser and Maui Councilman Don Couch. \n On Kauai, state Rep. Derek Kawakami rejoined the County Council as he topped 13 candidates vying for seven at-large seats in a replay of August's primary election. Kawakami served on the Council from 2008 to 2011 before he was appointed to the state House. \n Councilman Arryl Kaneshiro was second, followed by Councilmen Mel Rapozo and Ross Kagawa. Councilwoman Joann Yukimura, the former mayor who was lagging in early returns, climbed to fifth, followed by challenger Arthur Brun, who enjoyed strong union backing. \n Councilman Mason Chock captured the seventh and final spot, leaving incumbents KipuKai Kualii and Hooser, the former state senator who has led the anti-GMO movement on Kauai, on the outside looking in, along with Juno Ann Apalla, Norma Doctor Sparks, Richard Fukushima and Matt Ber\u00adnabe. \n Kauai Prosecutor Justin Kollar defeated Lisa Arin, a former deputy prosecutor. \n In Maui County, the only incumbent who lost was Couch, of South Maui, who was edged by former state Board of Education member Kelly King by less than 150 votes. Couch, the veteran county official, held the seat since 2010. King is the co-founder of Pacific Biodiesel. \n Former Councilmember Dain Kane lost in a tight race with farmer Alika Atay, who played an active role in the 2014 anti-GMO ballot initiative. The two were vying for the Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu seat vacated by Councilman Mike Victorino, who is reaching his term limit. Kane, 54, held the seat from 1998 to 2004. \n Yuki Sugimura, vice chairwoman of the Maui County Democratic Party and business owner, defeated kumu hula Napua Greig-Nakasone for the Upcountry residency seat being vacated by Councilwoman Gladys Baisa, who also is reaching her term limit. \n In the Makawao-Haiku-Paia seat, incumbent Mike White held off community activist Trinette Furtado, a self-employed graphic and web designer. \n East Maui incumbent Robert Carroll soundly beat educator Shane Sinenci, while West Maui incumbent Elle Cochran trounced Ernest Balinbin, director of the Maui Preparatory Academy food program. \n Kahului incumbent Don Guzman defeated former Maui County Housing and Human Concerns director Vanessa Medeiros. \n Lanai incumbent Riki Hokama dispatched Gabe Johnson, an invasive species technician, while Molokai incumbent Stacy Crivello cruised past environmental lawyer Keani Rawlins-Fernandez. \n On Hawaii island, Susan Lee Loy, a legal assistant and land planner, defeated union agent Moana M.H. Kelii, in the District 3 seat previously held by Dennis \"Fresh\" Onishi, who was term-limited and unsuccessfully ran for state Senate. \n Business educator Eileen Ohara won over business owner Madie Greene. The winner will replace Greggor Ilagan, who unsuccessfully ran for the state Senate. \n The other Big Island Council races were set in August with primary victories that garnered votes of 50 percent or more. \n Also determined in August was the only neighbor island mayoral position up for grabs. Former Mayor Harry Kim regained the job after soundly beating former managing director Wally Lau and 11 other candidates. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hooser loses Kauai County Council seat"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Senator Brian Shatz defeatedRepublican lawyer John Carroll to claim his first full, six-year term in the U.S. Senate. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former U.S. Rep Colleen Hanabusa checks the morning election polls in her downtown office. Hanabusa will replace the late U.S. Rep Mark Takai, who died in July. \n Hawaii Democrats in the congressional races won easy victories Tuesday night, with U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz, U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard and former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa all headed back to Washington D.C. \n Schatz, 44, won over Republican lawyer John Carroll to claim his first full, six-year term in the U.S. Senate. \n Schatz had 289,298 votes to Carroll's 87,270 votes late tonight, giving Schatz more than 70 percent of the vote, with all precincts counted. \n Schatz was lieutenant governor when he was appointed by former Gov. Neil Abercrombie in 2012 to fill out the unexpired term of the late U.S. Sen. Daniel Inouye. Schatz went on to defeat Hanabusa in a special election in 2014 to retain the senate seat, and is now the senior senator from Hawaii. \n Carroll is an Air Force fighter pilot and Korean War veteran. He served four terms in the state House of Representatives and one term in the state Senate in the 1970s, but has never been able to climb the political ladder any further. \n Carroll, 86, lost bids to become governor in 2002 and 2010, and also ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate in 2000 and 2012. This year he raised less than $54,000 to fund the senate race, according to Federal Elections Commission records. \n By contrast, Schatz began this election season with $3 million in campaign cash on hand, and by mid-October had spent more than $1.7 million on the 2016 campaign. That included $500,000 he donated to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee to try to help shift control of the U.S. Senate to the Democrats. \n Hanabusa, meanwhile, held an insurmountable lead in her effort to return to the U.S. House to represent urban Honolulu. Hanabusa is a candidate in both the general election and a special election to decide who will serve out the final two months of the late Democratic U.S. Rep. Mark Takai's term. Takai died on July 20 from pancreatic cancer. \n Hanabusa, 65, is a lawyer and former president of the Hawaii State Senate who represented urban Honolulu in the U.S. House from 2010 until 2014. She left the House to make an unsuccessful run against Schatz to try to move up to the U.S. Senate, and more recently helped to oversee the Honolulu rail project as chairwoman of the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation. \n Hanabusa was far in front of a crowded field of 10 candidates who filed to run for the special election to serve out the remaining months of Takai's term, and also led by a wide margin the four candidates who filed for the general election contest to hold the seat for the following two years. \n Hanabusa's opponents include Republican Shirlene D. Ostrov, 47, a retired Air Force colonel who is making her first run for public office. She is chief executive officer of a Washington, D.C.-based transportation and shipping logistics company called Ares Mobility Solutions. \n Hanabusa had 135,069 votes in the general election contest, while Ostrov had 42,569 votes. In the special election, Hanabusa had 120,112 votes to Ostrov's 40,883 votes. \n Gabbard, who has ranked among Hawaii's most popular politicians in recent polling, also held a very large lead in her effort to win a third term in the U.S. House representing the neighbor islands and rural Oahu. \n Gabbard, 35, is a Hawaii Army National Guard major and an Iraq War veteran. Her Republican opponent is real estate developer Angela Aulani Kaaihue. \n The third printout of the night showed Gabbard with 163,484 votes, or more than 76 percent of the vote, while Kaaihue had 38,098. \n Kaaihue took the rare step of acknowledging in a news release last summer she had little chance of winning her race with Gabbard. She also offered to withdraw from the race if Democratic Gov. David Ige would help her to resolve a legal dispute involving an 82-acre property her family owns in Waimalu. \n Kaaihue also filed this year to run as a Democrat in the special election to replace Takai to represent urban Honolulu, and is listed on the special election ballot. The Hawaii Democratic Party filed suit in September to try to have her name removed from the ballot but was unsuccessful.  \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Democrats Schatz, Gabbard, Hanabusa cruise to congressional victories"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER/ JAN. 20 \n Rep. Matthew LoPresti stands on the steps of the Capitol Rotunda during a press conference in Honolulu with supporters in this Jan. 20 photo. \n Rep. Matt LoPresti trounced Republican challenger Bryan Jeremiah 3,882 votes to 2,612 votes, or 55 percent to 37 percent, for the state House seat representing Ewa in Tuesday's General Election. \n LoPresti has held the seat since 2014. \n This is the second time that the two candidates have battled for the seat in races that have at times turned ugly. \n Earlier this year, Jeremiah accused LoPresti of removing some of his signs in Ewa Beach. The two had a run in with LoPresti accusing Jeremiah of nearly assaulting him, which Jeremiah denied. \n Both candidates sought restraining orders against each other. \n LoPresti, who was born in Pittsburgh, is an associate professor of philosophy and humanities at Hawaii Pacific University. Jeremiah, who grew up on Hawaii island, is a project manager at PEI Construction. \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "LoPresti defeats GOP challenger Jeremiah for Ewa House seat"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER ARCHIVE \n Rep. Karl Rhoads (left) and former City Councilman Rod Tam (right) are running for a state Senate seat representing downtown Honolulu, Nuuanu, Iwilei and Liliha. \n Former Honolulu City Councilman Rod Tam lost badly to state Rep. Karl Rhoads tonight in the race for an open state Senate seat representing downtown Honolulu, Nuuanu, Iwilei and Liliha. \n Rhoads had 9,449 votes to Tam's 3,262 in the third election printout of the evening, with all precincts reporting. \n Tam has been dogged by his 2011 conviction for stealing city funds and violating campaign spending laws as he sought to return to state politics. \n Tam spent two days in jail in the case and was ordered by the City Ethics Commission to repay the city $13,700 for using city funds to cover hundreds of meals at places like Zippy's that were unrelated to his duties as a councilman. \n Rhoads and Tam are competing for the senate seat vacated by Senate Human Services Chairwoman Suzanne Chun Oakland, who announced this year she is stepping down. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Rhoads defeats Tam for state Senate seat"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n While surrounded by supporters, Hawaii state Sen. Sam Slom watches election results at his campaign manager's home in Honolulu. Slom is the sole Republican in the Hawaii Senate and his seat is being challenged by Democratic candidate Stanley Chang. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hawaii state Sen. Sam Slom checks in at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church polling place to vote on Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016. Slom, the only Republican in Hawaii's state Senate, hopes to hang on to the seat he's held for 20 years despite a challenge from Democrat Stanley Chang. \n Longtime Republican state Sen. Sam Slom, who is the last remaining GOP member in the state Senate, lost his seat by more than a thousand votes tonight. \n With all precincts reporting, Slom had 10,422 votes, while Democrat and former Honolulu City Councilman Stanley Chang had 11,720 votes. \n Slom, 74, was seeking his sixth term as senator representing East Honolulu from Hawaii Kai to Kahala and Diamond Head. He pointed out Hawaii was already the only state where the Senate was so completely dominated by one party that there was just one opposition party member, and now he is out. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Slom, state Senate's lone Republican, loses seat to Chang"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Kirk Caldwell gave a shaka to his supporters tonight at the former Sports Authority location at Ward Centers. \n NANEA KALANI / NKALANI@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Kirk Caldwell spoke to the crowd tonight at the former Sports Authority location at Ward Center. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Kirk Caldwell supporters react to the first printout showing their candidate ahead. \n KIM YUEN / KYUEN@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Kirk Caldwell supporters gathered at the mayor's party headquarters tonight at the former Sports Authority location on Ward Avenue. \n STAR-ADVERTISER \n Kirk Caldwell and Charles Djou \n Incumbent Kirk Caldwell defeated former U.S. Rep. and City Councilman Charles Djou in the battle for Honolulu mayor Tuesday night. \n With nearly all the ballots counted before midnight, Caldwell had 138,142 votes, or 52.3 percent, to Djou's 125,945, or 47.7 percent. \n Djou conceded shortly after 10 p.m., telling supporters at the Pearl Country Club clubhouse in Aiea, \"I'm very sorry that tonight I fell short. We gave it our all.\" \n His apology was met with supportive cries from the crowd. \n \"Our community, our city our Hawaii deserves an honest, accountable, responsible government,\" he said. \"I still believe that there will be a time where we're able to hold our elected officials accountable on promises they make to the people. I still believe there will be a time that we have a competitive two party democracy on our islands here in Hawaii and I believe there will be a time where it is not money but heart that determines the outcome of elections. I'm saddened that that time is not today.\" \n Caldwell, at his campaign party at the former Ward Center Sports Authority site, came on stage to Kool and the Gang's \"Celebration\" to after Djou's concession. \n \"We took our message all over this island into every single neighborhood,\" the mayor said. \"And we talked about what we were doing over the last four years, and I think this island heard what we're doing, and they want to give us another four years to even do more. \n \"For me, it is about infrastructure. But it's not about the stuff that's underground, on the ground and above the ground. It's about the people who live on this island \u2014 how do we help them to thrive.\" \n Caldwell said completing the rail line will be his biggest priority. \n \"No. 1 we're going to work really hard to complete rail all the way to Ala Moana \u2014 20 miles, 21 stations,\" he said. \"It's not about the construction. It's about giving people a choice to get out of cars and travel quickly. It's about transportation equality, social justice, to help those who work in town to get back and forth from home and get out of gridlock, just not for today but for 100 years from now. That is a legacy all of us are working on to complete.\" \n In the primary, Caldwell finished ahead of Djou by 1,530 votes in a field of 11 candidates, leading to the general election head-to-head contest. \n John Strandberg, a disappointed Djou supporter from Manoa, said of his candidate Tuesday night, \"He's an outsider and that's what we needed. The people of Honolulu aren't ready for change. It goes back to the same routine.\" \n The early part of the campaign was dominated by debate over the escalating costs of what is now projected to be an $8 billion rail project from East Kapolei to Ala Moana with Djou suggesting the city should consider alternatives to building the entire 20-mile line.\u00a0 \n But since the Aug. 13 primary, Djou acknowledged that federal transit officials left the city no choice but to go to Ala Moana, leaving how to fund the project's last leg the only difference between him and Caldwell on the issue. Caldwell favors extending the existing, Oahu-only 0.5 percent surcharge on the general excise tax beyond 2027. Djou said he opposes that idea. \n Djou has also questioned Caldwell's leadership and ethics, criticizing the mayor for not doing more to deal with ongoing conflict in several agencies, most notably turmoil in the Honolulu Police Department, and his role in what appeared to be an over-exertion of authority over the city Ethics Commission. \n While all city races are nonpartisan, Hawaii is a predominantly Democratic state and card-carrying Democrat Caldwell is boasting the support of current Gov. David Ige and former Democratic governors Neil Abercrombie, John Waihee and George Ariyoshi, President Barack Obama, as well as five Council Councilmembers. Djou has countered that his supporters include former Democratic Gov. Ben Cayetano, three Democratic Councilmembers including Chairman Ernie Martin and former Democratic Party Chairman Walter Heen. \n Caldwell has outspent Djou 3-to-1 since the primary, spending $947,549 to Djou's $339,628. \n The waning weeks of the race saw an upswing in negative campaigning, much of it by third-party independent expenditures or super PACS, which can spend an unlimited amount of money in support or opposition to a candidate so long as there is no coordination with any of them. \n The union-backed Workers for a Better Hawaii has spent more than $750,000 through Oct. 31 on radio and TV ads that touted Caldwell's support of seniors, women and other targeted groups as well as messages ripping Djou for voting with congressional and state legislative Republicans. The group is funded largely by the Hawaii Government Employees Association, the Hawaii State AFL-CIO, AFSCME and the Hawaii Regional Council of Carpenters. \n The latter was the main contributor to the Pacific Resource Partnership PAC, which spent $3.6 million on advertising aimed at persuading voters to reject Cayetano's anti-rail mayoral campaign. Cayetano subsequently filed a defamation lawsuit against the super PAC, which was settled when PRP agreed to issue a public apology and donate $125,000 to two charities. \n The newly formed Save Our City LLC, meanwhile, is expected to spend a minimum of $300,000 on its Anybody But Caldwell ads that portray Caldwell as greedy, pointing out that he has been paid $200,000 annually in recent years to be on Territorial Savings Bank's board of directors. \n Save Our City received $170,000 of its funding from Dennis Mitsunaga, president of local architectural, engineering and construction management firm Mitsunaga & Associates. An additional $36,490 came from 11 Mitsunaga officials and employees. Cayetano contributed $5,000. \n In the Aug. 13 primary, in what was considered to be a three-way fight between Caldwell, Djou and former Mayor Peter Carlisle, Caldwell beat Djou by 1,530 votes. Caldwell grabbed 74,062 votes, 44.6 percent of the votes cast, while Djou received 72,532 votes, or 43.7 percent. \n Honolulu Prosecutor Keith Kaneshiro appeared to be heading for a second, four-year term, handily beating little-known opponent Anosh Yaqoob. \n All three incumbent Councilmembers facing general election contests were well on their way to winning re-election. \n In Council District 5 (Kaimuki to Kakaako), Ann Kobayashi was besting opponent Kimberly Case; in District 7 (Kalihi to Foster Village), Joey Manahan was beating Chace Shigemasa; and in District 9 (Mililani Town to Ewa Beach), Ron Menor was running far ahead of Emil Svrcina. \n Two others won re-election during the Aug. 13 primary. \n Councilwoman Kymberly Pine won re-election to her District 1 seat (Waianae to Ewa Beach) after she received more than 50 percent of the votes cast. She beat out Kioni Dudley, Tom Berg and Marc E. Anthony. \n Councilman Ikaika Anderson, who represents District 3 (Ahuimanu to Waimanalo), ran unopposed and won re-election by virtue of receiving one vote.  \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Star-Advertiser staff writers Kathryn Mykleseth and Nanea Kalani contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Caldwell beats Djou to win reelection as Honolulu's mayor"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / DEC. 17, 2014 \n This photo shows a Honolulu Police Commission meeting at the Honolulu Police Department headquarters on Dec. 17, 2014. \n A Honolulu City Charter amendment to give the Police Commission greater authorities soared to approval with most of the vote counted late Tuesday. \n That amendment, which earned more than 80 percent of the vote, will allow the commission to suspend or dismiss the chief of police, according to the city's Charter Commission. The Police Commission would also have additional powers to investigate complaints concerning officer misconduct. \n It's one of 20 proposed charter amendments that Honolulu voters were asked to consider, part of a review that takes place every 10 years to review Honolulu's city government and its operations. \n Oahu voters also passed an amendment to establish a Honolulu Zoo Fund, with a minimum of 0.5 percent of estimated annual real property taxes. It passed with about 57 percent of the vote. \n Voters so far aren't accepting all of the key charter amendment proposals, however. Voters soundly rejected a proposal to increase the term limit to three terms from two for the mayor and City Council members. \n An amendment that would have the city's Department of Transportation Services handle operations for Oahu's eventual rail transit, along with the existing bus and para transit system, while leaving the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation to handle construction and give that agency's board more decision-making powers, won with about 68 percent of voters approving. \n An amendment that would create a city Office of Climate Change, Stability and Resiliency to promote better environmental practices on Oahu also won handily by about a 9-point margin. \n Honolulu voters further approved changes to the city's Affordable Housing Fund, allowing it to be used to develop rental housing for those earning 60 percent or less of the median household income as long as that housing remains affordable for at least 60 years. Proponents say they believe the move will encourage more affordable-housing development on the island. \n On Hawaii island voters approved by a large margin an amendment that would expand the scope of that county's general plan. On Kauai an initiative to rename and clarify the organization of the Civil Defense Agency also enjoyed a strong win. \n Voters across the state also considered two proposed amendments to the Hawaii Constitution. \n They defeated an amendment would ease congestion in the state court system by increasing the threshold for jury trials in civil lawsuits to $10,000 from $5,000. It received about 46 percent of the vote. \n Meanwhile, a second amendment to specifically authorize state lawmakers to set aside extra money in years when the state has been running a budget surplus to reduce public debt or pay down unfunded pension or health care obligations was passing by a razor-thin margin with several thousand votes left to count Tuesday. The night'slast tally had it winning with a 50.2 percent majority. \n The proposed charter amendments need to win by a majority of votes cast for or against those particular proposals. Blank votes and over-votes don't count to the total. \n The proposed constitutional amendments need to win by a majority of all votes cast statewide, including the ballots where those proposals were left blank or contained over-votes. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Star-Advertiser reporter Kevin Dayton contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Marcel Honor\u00e9 mhonore@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police commission powers, transit amendments lead in initial returns"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters will resume a search Wednesday for the body of a 20-year-old man who fell off a cliff into rough ocean conditions Tuesday morning. \n The man, reportedly a Maui visitor, was hiking with three friends along Puka Maui Trail in East Maui when he fell about 20 feet from a sea cliff at around 11 a.m., Maui firefighters said. \n He was last seen climbing up a steep rocky cliff area when he lost his footing and fell about 20 feet into the ocean or a blow hole near the water's edge, said Maui Fire Department spokesman Edward Taomoto. The man's companions saw him fall and called for help after losing sight of him in the water. \n On Tuesday afternoon, Maui firefighters in a helicopter spotted the man's body wash up on the rocks and get swept back into the ocean, Taomoto said. Crews did not see the man's body reappear. \n Puka Maui Trail is near the 7-mile marker on Hana Highway, and it is a 90-minute hike to the ocean from the highway. \n Taomoto said the area was wet from overnight rain and the trail was slippery. \n Firefighters searched by helicopter, on a boat and from land, and lifeguards assisted on two rescue watercraft. \n Taomoto said dangerous surf of 20 to 25 feet hampered Tuesday's search. \n Firefighters on a rescue boat had to stay 200 yards from shore because of the rough surf, and firefighters on shore couldn't walk the shoreline, which is mostly bluffs overlooking the ocean, Taomoto said. \n In addition, brown water from mountain stream runoff prevented divers from entering the ocean. \n Taomoto said firefighters ended their search at about 5:30 p.m. Tuesday because of darkness and planned to shift to a recovery mission when they resume their search at first light Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Body seen as firefighters search for man who fell off ocean cliff"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image released by CBS, CBS News Contributor Bob Schieffer, from left, CBS This Morning co-host Gayle King, CBS Evening News anchor Scott Pelley, CBS This Morning co-host Norah O'Donnell, Face the Nation anchor John Dickerson and CBS This Morning co-host Charlie Rose host 2016 election night coverage on Nov. 8, 2016, at the CBS Broadcast Center in New York. \n NEW YORK >> The presidential contest between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump turned into a made-for-TV thrill ride on Tuesday night \u2014 and a stern lesson to journalists to avoid leaping to conclusions. \n Relying on polls, the media began the evening with a barely-concealed assumption that Clinton would win, only to see actual results reflect a true nail-biter. Tens of millions of Americans followed the drama on all manner of screens. \n \"It is a white-knuckles kind of night,\" said Norah O'Donnell of CBS News. \n The New York Times' Upshot blog's constantly updating meter on the chances of each candidate began by listing Clinton with an 85 percent chance of winning. Shortly after 10 p.m., it had nearly flipped completely to 79 percent in favor of Trump. \n It was a far different mood while the polls were still open. Vice Media and Slate collaborated on a system that combined exit polling with early voting profiles to project candidate vote totals in seven battleground states and posted the material throughout the day on Tuesday. Clinton was leading Tuesday afternoon in all seven of the states, according to the VoteCastr model. \n Television networks vowed to stick with tradition and not reveal that information. But it was hard to miss some foreshadowing. \n Trump called in to Fox News Channel shortly after 2 p.m., where he talked about a rigged electoral system and passed up the chance to exhort supporters to vote. Fox interviewer Martha MacCallum asked him four questions about what he might do if he lost. \n Shortly thereafter, Republican National Committee aide Sean Spicer on Fox offered a very specific prediction \u2014 that Trump's electoral vote total would exceed those of President Barack Obama's two opponents \u2014 without predicting victory. Republican pollster Ed Rollins told Fox's Shepard Smith at 3 p.m. ET that it would take a miracle for Trump to win. \n CNN correspondent Brianna Keilar, covering the Clinton campaign, told Wolf Blitzer shortly after 5 p.m. that the Clinton camp was confident heading into the evening. \n \"I hear they're confident,\" Blitzer said. \"Are they very, very confident or are they nervous?\" \n Responded Keilar: \"I'm not picking up any nerves.\" \n A CNN discussion of heavy Latino voting caused Trump surrogate Kayleigh McEnany to warn that writing a headline that Latinos delivered victory to Clinton was premature. \n \"I said, 'if,'\" noted anchor Jake Tapper. \n Five hours later, Tapper said it was the kind of night that would put the polling industry out of business. \n Even before the polls closed, there were warnings not to jump to conclusions too early. \"Please keep in mind, exit polls can shift faster than a feather in a tornado,\" tweeted former CBS News anchor Dan Rather, in his familiar folksy style. \n As the hours went on, the mood brightened at Trump headquarters in New York City, and became more somber a few blocks south where Clinton's supporters were gathering. \n \"This night is getting exciting,\" said Fox News Channel's Megyn Kelly. \"And it is far from over.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Election coverage an unexpected thrill ride on TV"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n 754 Ilaniwai Street \n Three men were in custody today accused of robbing a Kakaako massage parlor last week at gunpoint. \n Tyndale Tiolu, 36, of Waianae, was charged with 14 felonies, including three counts of first-degree robbery, three counts of kidnapping, and eight firearm offenses. \n Keoki Davis, of unknown age and address, was charged with the same 14 offenses. Both men's bail was set at $250,000. \n Delbert Reis, 31, of Waianae, was charged with six counts of first-degree robbery. His bail was set at $100,000. \n All three mean were charged Thursday and remained at the Oahu Community Correctional Center today. They have preliminary hearings scheduled for Wednesday in District Court. \n Davis first entered Smile Spa, 754 Ilaniwai St., about 12:40 a.m. on Nov. 1 and was in a private room receiving services as a customer when Reis pushed his way into the parlor, forcing back the 72-year-old female owner, a police affidavit filed in District Court said. \n Reis asked the owner for \"the money\" and Tiolu, who followed Reis into the business, pulled out a handgun and also demanded money, the document said. The owner gave Reis an unknown amount of money. Davis came out of the private room and all three men ransacked the business while the owner and two employees were forced to stay in the kitchen, the affidavit said. \n Police responded to a 911 call a manager secretly made on the phone and when the owner answered the door, Tiolu pointed the gun at her head and told her to tell the officer that the business was closed, the document said. Instead, the owner partially opened the door and whispered to the officer, \"I'm being robbed.\" \n At that time, the three suspects ran out the back door and down the fire escape. \n Police captured the three men after finding Davis trapped in an alley by a large fence and the other two hiding in a nearby bathroom. Police recovered a .40-caliber Taurus semiautomatic pistol near where Davis was captured. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "3 men being held for Kakaako massage parlor robbery"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man walks past a display of the Hang Seng Index at a bank in Hong Kong Wednesday. \n HONG KONG >> The rising prospect of a Trump presidency jolted markets around the world Wednesday, sending Dow futures and Asian stock prices sharply lower as investors panicked over uncertainties on trade, immigration and geopolitical tensions. \n At one point, Dow futures plunged more than 4 percent and Japan's major index nosedived more than 6.1 percent, its largest drop in years. The Mexican peso likewise tumbled and investors looking for safe assets bid up the price of gold. \n During the campaign, Trump threatened to rip up trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement. He pledged to greatly restrict immigration to the U.S and to build a wall along the United States' southern border and force Mexico to pay for it. \n But the lack of clear policy details has left many worldwide uneasy over the future direction of the U.S. economy. Share prices began tumbling as soon as Trump first gained the lead in the electoral vote count. \n As of 1:00 a.m. EST (0600 GMT), Trump had taken 244 electoral votes to Hillary Clinton's 215. It takes a minimum 270 votes to win. \n Pricing in a possible Trump victory and presaging a gloomy Wednesday on Wall Street, Dow futures were down 3.7 percent or 679 points at 17,612.00 and S&P futures had dropped 4.4 percent to 2,041.70. \n The Federal Reserve had been considered all but sure to raise interest rates at its next meeting in mid-December, reflecting a strengthened U.S. economy. But a Trump victory could make a rate hike less likely \u2014 especially if financial markets remain under pressure. \n Trump's strong talk on trade also has left many in Asia deeply worried. \n \"This is going to work as a strong headwind for the economy,\" said Tomoyuki Ota, a senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute in Tokyo. He said a Trump victory could stifle spending during the critical year-end and Christmas shopping season. \n Top officials from Japan's central bank and finance ministry were to meet later Wednesday to discuss how to cope with the gyrations in financial markets. The Nikkei 225 stock index closed 5.4 percent lower, recouping some losses, at 16,251.54. \n Elsewhere in Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng slumped 2.7 percent to 22,294.38 and South Korea's Kospi shed 2.4 percent to 1,955.11. The Shanghai Composite index fell 0.2 percent to 3,141.87 and Australia's S&P ASX/200 in sank 1.9 percent to 5,156.60. \n Given Trump's stance on NAFTA and immigration, economists have said the Mexican economy could fall into a contraction if he wins. As results emerged Wednesday, the Mexican peso swooned 11.5 percent to 20.73 pesos to the dollar. \n The price of gold, seen as a safe place for investors' money in times of uncertainty, was up 3.7 percent, at $1,321.40 an ounce. \n The election uncertainty also jolted currency markets, sending investors fleeing from the dollar. The greenback plunged 3.5 percent to 101.22 yen from 105.46 earlier in the day. The euro rose to $1.1233 from $1.1020. \n Energy markets were also roiled. Benchmark U.S. crude futures lost $1.26, or 2.7 percent, to $43.74 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 9 cents to close at $44.98 a barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, slid $1.07, or 2.4 percent, to $44.96 a barrel in London. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump gains rattle world markets, as shares, dollar tumble"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "A 13-month-old boy who died Monday after he was backed over by an SUV in Kapalama was identified today as Francis Saimon of Kalihi. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office identified Saimon and said an autopsy was scheduled for tomorrow. \n Police said a 36-year-old Honolulu man struck Saimon while reversing a 2006 Toyota 4-Runner out of a driveway at 1518 Auld Lane. \n Saimon died after paramedics took him to the Queen's Medical Center in critical condition. \n Police opened a third-degree negligent homicide investigation. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Toddler who died after run over by SUV is identified"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "GO AKAMAI.ORG \n Honolulu police investigate the death of man found in the back of a dump truck on the H-1 freeway near the Fort Shafter offramp. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office determined that the man whose body was found Friday in the bed of a dump truck on the H-1 Freeway died from head injuries due to a suicidal fall from a height. \n The man was identified as 30-year-old Alvin Dela Cruz. \n A police department spokeswoman said the man was spotted on the Gulick Street overpass before the fall. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man found in dump truck on H-1 died from suicidal fall, examiner says"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. speaks to supporters at a campaign rally in Janesville, Wis. tonight. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. speaks to supporters at a campaign rally in Janesville, Wis. tonight. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans retained their lock on the House for two more years early Wednesday as GOP candidates triumphed in a checkerboard of districts in Florida, Virginia and Colorado that Democrats had hoped Donald Trump's divisive comments about women and Hispanics would make their own. \n Democrats who'd envisioned potentially big gains in suburban and ethnically diverse districts instead were on track for disappointingly modest pickups. Republican contenders were buoyed by Trump's surprising victory in his White House bid against Democrat Hillary Clinton and his appeal to white working-class voters. \n Expectations had been low that Democrats would win the 30 seats they'd needed to capture House control. But both sides had anticipated they'd cut the historic GOP majority by perhaps a dozen seats, which now seemed unlikely. Republicans currently hold a 247-188 majority, including three vacant seats, the most the GOP has commanded since their 270 in 1931. \n By Wednesday morning, Republicans had at least 233 seats \u2014 guaranteeing control \u2014 and just five of their incumbents had lost. The GOP retained seats in Minnesota, New York, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Iowa and Wisconsin that Democrats coveted, and Republicans prepared to build on their six-year run of House control. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., who won a 10th term, called Trump to congratulate him on his win, and pledged to work together. \n \"We are eager to work hand-in-hand with the new administration to advance an agenda to improve the lives of the American people,\" Ryan said in a statement. He said Trump's victory \"marks a repudiation of the status quo of failed liberal progressive policies.\" \n It was initially unclear what impact the marginally smaller size of the GOP majority would have on Ryan, who'd angered some Republican lawmakers by refusing to campaign for Trump. \n While one member of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus was defeated, several newly elected Republicans could bolster it. That would increase conservatives' leverage to demand their way on issues like curbing spending and government regulations. \n In Florida, freshman GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo won a race that underscored how Trump's damage to Republicans would be limited. With around 7 in 10 of the Miami-area district's voters Hispanic, Democrats targeted it and the race became one of the country's most expensive with an $18 million price tag. But Curbelo distanced himself from his own party's nominee and prevailed. \n Virginia freshman Rep. Barbara Comstock kept her seat in the Washington, D.C., suburbs despite Democrats' attempts to lash her to Trump. The two sides spent more than $20 million in a district of highly educated, affluent voters that both sides had viewed as vulnerable to a Democratic takeover. \n GOP Rep. Mike Coffman was re-elected outside Denver in another costly race. \n Democrats defeated two Florida GOP incumbents, but that seemed due to local circumstances. \n Rep. John Mica, 73, a 12-term veteran from the Orlando area, was criticized by GOP strategists for a lackluster campaign and lost to Democrat Stephanie Murphy, a political neophyte. Democrat Charlie Crist, once the state's Republican governor, defeated Rep. David Jolly in a St Petersburg district redrawn to favor Democrats. \n Democrats spent $4 million and beat GOP Rep. Scott Garrett, a Freedom Caucus member from New Jersey's New York City suburbs. Also defeated was Rep. Bob Dold, a GOP moderate from outside Chicago, and Nevada Republican Rep. Cresent Hardy. \n No Democratic incumbent had lost by early Wednesday. \n Both parties' candidates and outside groups spent nearly $1.1 billion combined on House campaigns, shy of the $1.2 billion record in 2012, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group. Republicans had only a slight financial edge. \n Even with the Ryan-led House GOP's current formidable advantage, work has stalled this year on spending bills after hitting objections from conservatives. \n Moving into 2017, Congress faces a fresh round of budget legislation plus the need to renew the government's borrowing authority or face an economy-jarring federal default. Those are never easy to pass. \n Ryan, 46, has said he wants to be speaker in the new Congress and has expressed confidence in doing so. But he is not immune to ire from the Freedom Caucus, which chased former Speaker John Boehner from Congress last year, and other Republicans upset over his frigid treatment of Trump. \n Just a handful of disgruntled conservatives could possibly block Ryan from the 218 votes he'd need to retain his post. That would be an embarrassing setback for the GOP's 2012 vice presidential candidate, who may harbor White House aspirations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP wins 2 more years of House control, Dem gains minimal"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "WASHINGTON >> Republicans held onto their slim Senate majority Wednesday, a stinging blow to Democrats in a night full of them. Democrats had been nearly certain of retaking control but saw their hopes fizzle as endangered GOP incumbents won in Missouri, Indiana, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and even Democrat-friendly Wisconsin. \n GOP-held New Hampshire remained too close to call in the early morning hours Wednesday, but even if Democrats eked out a win there it would not make a difference. \n Republicans started the night with a 54-46 majority in the Senate and were on track to end up with at least 52 seats, presuming they win a December runoff in Louisiana, as expected. \n The outcome added to a debacle of a night for Democrats, who lost the presidency and faced being consigned to minority status on Capitol Hill for years to come. \n Republicans celebrated their wins, already looking ahead to midterms in 2018 when Democrats could see their numbers reduced even further with a group of red-state Senate Democrats on the ballot. \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who will serve in that role next year under a President Trump, issued a statement congratulating the president-elect. \n \"After eight years of the Obama administration, the American people have chosen a new direction for our nation. President-elect Trump has a significant opportunity to bring our nation together,\" McConnell said. \"It is my hope and intent that we succeed in the years ahead by working together with our colleagues across the aisle to strengthen our national and economic security.\" \n As the night wore on, Democratic operatives struggled to explain why their optimistic assessments of retaking Senate control were so mistaken. Some blamed unexpected turnout by certain segments of white voters, or FBI Director James Comey's bombshell announcement that he was reviewing a new batch of emails connected with Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n In Pennsylvania, GOP Sen. Pat Toomey won a narrow victory for his second term over Democratic challenger Katie McGinty. It was a race Democrats expected to win going into the night \u2014 and one that many Republicans felt nearly as sure they'd lose. \n The story was the same in Wisconsin, where GOP Sen. Ron Johnson, written off for months by his own party, won re-election against former Democratic Sen. Russ Feingold in a rematch. \n In Missouri and North Carolina, where entrenched GOP incumbents Roy Blunt and Richard Burr faced unexpectedly strong challenges from Democrats, both prevailed in the end. \n Democrats did grab a Republican-held seat in Illinois, where GOP Sen. Mark Kirk lost to Democratic Rep. Tammy Duckworth, a double-amputee Iraq war vet. That stood as the one Democratic pickup as the early morning hours ticked toward Wednesday. \n The other bright spot for Democrats was in Nevada, where Minority Leader Harry Reid's retirement after five terms created a vacancy and the one Democratic-held seat that was closely contested. Reid maneuvered to fill it with his hand-picked successor, Catherine Cortez Masto, Nevada's former attorney general who spoke often of her family's immigrant roots in a state with heavy Latino turnout. \n Cortez Masto will become the first Latina U.S. senator. She beat Republican Rep. Joe Heck, who struggled with sharing the ticket with Donald Trump, first endorsing and then un-endorsing Trump to the disgust of some GOP voters. \n Indeed the Senate races were shadowed every step of the way by the polarizing presidential race between Clinton and Trump. Yet in the end, Trump was apparently not the drag on GOP candidates widely anticipated. Republicans like Johnson who endorsed him and stuck with it won re-election, as did others like Pennsylvania's Toomey who never backed Trump until the very end. And so did a few like GOP Sen. John McCain of Arizona who un-endorsed Trump after audio emerged of him boasting of groping women. \n McCain, at age 80, won his sixth term in quite possibly his final campaign. The 2008 GOP presidential nominee was re-elected without much difficulty despite early predictions of a competitive race, and struck a reflective note ahead of the outcome. \n \"While as Yogi Berra said, 'I hate to make predictions, especially about the future,' I'm not sure how many more I have in me,\" McCain said. \n In Indiana, GOP Rep. Todd Young beat former Democratic senator and governor Evan Bayh, who mounted a much-ballyhooed comeback bid, but wilted under scrutiny. And in Florida, GOP Sen. Marco Rubio beat Democratic Rep. Patrick Murphy, giving Rubio a platform from which he could mount another bid for president in 2020. \n In New York, Sen. Chuck Schumer, the Democrats' leader-in-waiting for a new Congress, easily won re-election. But the results elsewhere meant he would be leading a Senate minority when he replaces Reid in the leader's role. \n Even though the GOP's renewed control of the Senate will be narrow, the advantages of being in the majority are significant. The controlling party holds the committee chairmanships, sets the legislative agenda and runs investigations. First up is likely to be a nominee to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP keeps Senate control as Democrats fall short"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen.-elect Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., celebrates her win over incumbent Sen. Mark Kirk, R-Ill., during her election night party, Tuesday in Chicago. \n CHICAGO >> Democratic U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth unseated Republican U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk tonight, becoming the second woman to represent Illinois in the chamber and delivering a win that her party is banking on as it attempts to retake control of the Senate. \n The two-term congresswoman from Hoffman Estates, who graduated from McKinley High School in Honolulu and the University of Hawaii, entered the race a heavy favorite, as Illinois has long backed Democrats for statewide office, especially in presidential election years. \n She is the second person with Hawaii ties to win the seat. The other was President Obama, who gave up the office to run from president. \n Speaking at a victory party in Chicago, Duckworth recalled the day 12 years ago when the helicopter she was co-piloting in Iraq was shot down. She lost both legs but survived thanks to members of her unit who carried her lifeless body to safety, one of whom was in the crowd to help celebrate. \n \"Just as I try every day to live up to the sacrifice my buddies made to carry me off that battlefield, I will go to work in the Senate looking to honor the sacrifice and quiet dignity of all those Illinoisans who are facing challenges of their own,\" she said. \n \"I believe in an America that doesn't give up on anyone who hasn't given up on themselves.\" \n Minutes earlier, Kirk told supporters gathered at a party in the Chicago suburb of Northbrook that he called Duckworth to congratulate her and invited her to a join him for a beer at Chicago's Billy Goat Tavern. \n \"This beer summit will show kids across Illinois that opponents can peacefully bury the hatchet after a tough election, and that what unites us as Americans is much stronger than what divides us,\" Kirk said. \n Kirk worked for months to convince voters that he's independent of his party by criticizing GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump as \"racist\" and \"delusional\" and talking up his record of breaking from Republicans on issues such as gun control and gay marriage. \n Kirk also hurt his own campaign with a series of controversial statements. He had to apologize to Duckworth last month after mocking her immigrant background \u2014 she was born in Bangkok to a Chinese-Thai mother and American father \u2014 and her family's military history during a debate. Two organizations withdrew their endorsements, calling the remarks racist. \n That was enough to persuade Charles Hawley, a psychiatrist from the central Illinois town of Mahomet, to cast his ballot for Duckworth instead of Kirk. \n \"It just sort of stuck with me,\" the 49-year-old said just after voting at Lake of the Woods County Park in Mahomet, about 10 miles west of Champaign. \"It was hard to get past.\" \n Kirk also had apologized for referring to South Carolina U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, who's unmarried, as a \"bro with no ho,\" and was criticized for saying President Barack Obama was acting like \"the drug dealer in chief\" when his administration delivered $400 million cash to Iran contingent on the release of American prisoners. \n Duckworth campaigned on a pledge to help middle- and working-class families, often sharing her own compelling personal story. She said her family struggled to get by in Hawaii and had to use food stamps after her father lost his job. \n Duckworth pledged Tuesday to push to make college more affordable, create jobs and ensure veterans are getting the care they were promised. \n Duckworth served as director of the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs after losing her first bid for Congress in 2006. In 2009, Obama appointed her to a leadership post at the federal VA. \n Kirk, whose 2010 election made him only the second Republican to represent Illinois in the U.S. Senate in more than three decades, suffered a stroke in 2012. He battled questions during the race about whether he was still healthy enough to do the job. \n Mike Jobson, 61, of Mahomet, backed Kirk based on one reason: \"Government is too big. We want to get the power back in our hands.\" \n He also said he thinks Kirk \"has his heart in the right place.\" \n Democrats were so confident in Duckworth's odds they pulled back on planned TV airtime in the final weeks of the campaign to invest in states where the polls were tighter. \n She follows Carol Moseley Braun, who in 1992 became the first woman elected to the Senate from Illinois. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duckworth wins Obama's old seat in U.S. Senate"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A parent picks up her daughter at Slauson Middle School that was on lockdown as Azusa police and other agencies respond to a shooting near Fourth Street and Orange Avenue in Azusa, Calif. today. \n LOS ANGELES >> A gunman with an assault rifle killed a man and critically wounded two women Tuesday in a California neighborhood near two polling sites that were shut down before the attacker was found dead inside a nearby home, authorities said. \n One polling place was reopened hours after a gunbattle involving the gunman and Azusa police. \n The shooting \"had nothing to do with the ballot or voting,\" Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John Corina said. \"It just happened to be across the street from the park where the voting was taking place and also an elementary school\" that was being used as a polling site. \n \"Nobody was shooting at those locations,\" Corina said. \n County election officials advised voters to visit other polling places where they could cast provisional ballots. \n Police responding to reports of afternoon gunfire exchanged shots with the suspect before taking cover in the park, Azusa police Chief Steve Hunt said. No officers were hurt. \n A SWAT team sealed off the area and hours later entered the nearby home, where they found the gunman dead, authorities said. \n Investigators didn't know whether the gunman died by police bullets or killed himself, Corina said. \n Two women in their mid-50s were wounded and hospitalized in critical condition, Corina said. \n The motive of the shooting was unknown and it was unclear whether the attacker knew his victims, Corina said. \n The names of the gunman and victims were not immediately released. \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "2 dead, including gunman, in shooting near California polls"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump gives his acceptance speech during his election night rally tonight in New York. \n WASHINGTON >> The Latest on Election Day 2016 (all times EST): \n 3:10 a.m. \n President-elect Donald Trump is telling the American people that \"I promise you I will not let you down.\" \n Trump, addressing supporters at his victory party in New York City early Wednesday, says he looks \"very much forward to being your president.\" \n He tells his supporters he hopes to make them \"very proud\" for choosing him to be the nation's 45th president. \n And the celebrity businessman vows to \"get to work immediately for the American people\" and says his \"movement\" was just beginning. \n Trump is exiting the party to one of his campaign anthems, The Rolling Stones' \"You Can't Always Get What You Want.\" \n ___ \n 3:08 a.m. \n President-elect Donald Trump is trying to reassure jittery U.S. allies. \n Trump ran on a platform of pulling back from historic treaties like NATO. But in his victory speech Wednesday morning Trump is trying to reassure foreign countries. \n He says, \"I want to tell the world that, while we will always put America's interests first, we will deal fairly with everyone.\" \n ___ \n 3:06 a.m. \n Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is congratulating President-elect Donald Trump on his victory after he condemned statements and actions by Trump during the campaign. \n McConnell is pitching Trump's victory as an opportunity to move in a different direction after eight years under Democrat Barack Obama. He says Trump has \"a significant opportunity to bring our nation together.\" \n McConnell also says he hopes to work closely with Democrats to strengthen national and economic security. \n ___ \n 3:05 a.m. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan has called President-elect Donald Trump to congratulate him on his victory. \n Ryan, who criticized Trump during the campaign, is likely to face some opposition among Republicans in his bid to retain his leadership post. \n Ryan issued a statement early Wednesday calling Trump's victory a \"repudiation of the status quo of failed liberal progressive policies.\" \n He says he is eager to work with the new administration to advance the Republican agenda. \n First, he urges the GOP to work to bring the country together after the divisive election. \n ___ \n 2:55 a.m. \n Donald Trump has pledged to be a president \"for all Americans.\" \n The president-elect, addressing supporters at his victory party in New York City, asked that the nation to come together, and promised to \"represent every citizen of our land.\" \n He added that it was \"time for America to bind the wounds of division\" and \"time for us to come together as one.\" \n He also declared his administration will be a time of \"national growth and renewal.\" \n Trump said \"America will no longer settle for anything but the best\" and said that the nation will \"dream big and bold and daring.\" \n ___ \n 2:50 a.m. \n President-elect Donald Trump says Hillary Clinton called him to congratulate him on his victory. \n Trump, addressing supporters at his victory party in New York City, said Wednesday that he \"congratulated her and her family on a very, very hard-fought campaign.\" \n He added that \"we owe her a major debt of gratitude\" for her service. \n The gracious sentiment was a far cry from Trump's usually heated rhetoric about Clinton. He has suggested that she should go to jail and chants of \"Lock her up!\" were a staple at his campaign rallies. \n ___ \n 2:45 a.m. \n Vice President-elect Mike Pence is declaring Donald Trump's victory \"a historic night.\" \n Pence, Indiana's governor, addressed Trump's victory party in New York City early Wednesday. \n Trump's running mate said \"the American people have spoken and the American people have elected their new champion.\" \n ___ \n 2:39 a.m. \n Republican Chris Sununu has defeated Democrat Colin Van Ostern to become New Hampshire's next governor and the nation's youngest at 42. \n He will replace Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan, who ran for U.S. Senate. Sununu's father, John H. Sununu, served as governor in the 1980s. \n Both Chris Sununu and Van Ostern worked together on the governor's Executive Council but spent much of the campaign criticizing each other's day jobs. \n Van Ostern argued that the Waterville Valley ski resort suffered under Sununu's management, while Sununu said the few years Van Ostern spent working at Southern New Hampshire University and Stonyfield Yogurt hardly make him a business leader. \n ___ \n 2:29 a.m. \n Donald Trump has been elected president of the United States. \n The Republican nominee won Wednesday after capturing Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes, putting him over the 270 threshold. \n Voters eager to shake up the nation's political establishment picked the celebrity businessman to become the nation's 45th president. \n Trump rode an astonishing wave of support from voters seeking change and willing to accept a candidate loose with facts and accused of sexual misconduct. \n He upset Democrat Hillary Clinton, who would have become the first woman to serve in the Oval Office. \n Trump struck a populist tone and placed a hardline immigration stance at his campaign's heart. \n Trump rose to political fame after questioning whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States. He will now follow Obama into the White House. \n ___ \n 2:22 a.m. \n Donald Trump has arrived at his election night headquarters after winning the state of Pennsylvania. \n Trump's motorcade traveled from nearby Trump Tower to the midtown hotel where thousands of his supporters and hundreds of reporters are gathered. \n Trump is expected to address the crowd. \n ___ \n 2:08 a.m. \n Republicans have officially retained control of the U.S. Senate. \n It comes as Missouri Republican Roy Blunt and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski won their two races in Tuesday's election. \n Republicans have a 51-47 edge in the Senate. Two races remain outstanding: In Louisiana, the seat will head to a runoff election next month. And in New Hampshire, Democrat Maggie Hassan and Republican Kelly Ayotte are locked in a too-close-to-call race. \n ___ \n 2:05 a.m. \n Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman says it has nothing more to say even as votes turn against her. \n John Podesta told a crowd in New York early Wednesday that with states still uncalled \"we're not going to have anything else to say tonight.\" \n Clinton trails in the Electoral College count and Donald Trump is close to breaking the 270-vote threshold to become president. \n Podesta told the crowd Clinton \"has done an amazing job\" and \"is not done yet.\" \n ___ \n 1:56 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won the statewide vote in Maine. \n Clinton has won one of the state's congressional districts, giving her three electoral votes. Trump has won one district in the state and wins one electoral vote. \n Trump also won the remaining congressional district in Nebraska, which gives him another electoral vote. \n Clinton now has 218 electoral votes. Her Republican opponent has 266, just four shy of the threshold needed to be elected president. \n ___ \n 1:36 a.m. \n Donald Trump has won Pennsylvania and its prize of 20 electoral votes. \n Trump's stunning victory in the key battleground state gives him 264 electoral votes. \n It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. Trump's opponent, Hillary Clinton, has 215. \n Pennsylvania last voted for a Republican for president in 1988. Trump repeatedly campaigned there, believing his populist message would resonate with the state's working-class voters. \n Clinton long viewed the state as a key part of her \"firewall\" and rallied in Philadelphia with President Barack Obama on Monday night. The Democrats also held their nominating convention in the city. \n ___ \n 1:30 a.m. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan has congratulated Donald Trump on \"his big night.\" \n A Ryan spokeswoman confirms that the Republican speaker called the Republican presidential nominee Tuesday evening. The spokeswoman, AshLee Strong, says they had \"a very good conversation.\" \n She says, \"The speaker congratulated Trump on his big night and also spoke with his good friend Gov. Mike Pence.\" \n ___ \n 12:42 a.m. \n The mood is dark at Hillary Clinton's election night party. \n Stony-faced supporters were crying and anxiously staring at the big screens showing election results. Some began leaving as the race wore on into the early hours of Wednesday morning. \n Thousands had gathered at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York City for Clinton's election night party. The glass-ceilinged building was picked as a nod to what aides expected would be the historic election of the first female U.S. president. \n Clinton, her family and close aides have spent hours ensconced in a suite at the Peninsula New York, a luxury hotel in midtown Manhattan. \n ___ \n 12:30 a.m. \n Donald Trump's campaign manager Kellyanne Conway is describing the mood inside Trump Tower as \"buoyant.\" \n She tells The Associated Press that the team is hopeful as results continue to roll in. \n A Trump victory would represent a stunning upset against his rival Hillary Clinton. \n Thousands of his supporters are gathered in a midtown Manhattan hotel ballroom watching the results on Fox. \n ___ \n 12:25 a.m. \n Former Navy SEAL Eric Greitens has won the Missouri governor's race, beating Democratic Attorney General Chris Koster. The contest offered voters a vivid choice between experience and a fresh start. \n Greitens, a first-time Republican candidate, has touted himself as an outsider and pledged to tackle corruption in the state Capitol. Koster took the opposite approach, emphasizing that his nearly 22 years in elected office make him qualified to run state government. \n Without a voting record, Greitens was running on his time as a Navy SEAL officer and founder of a charity for veterans, The Mission Continues. Greitens' lengthy resume also includes stints as a Rhodes scholar and White House fellow, champion boxer and martial artist, a best-selling author and motivational speaker. \n ___ \n 12:23 a.m. \n Republicans have clinched continued House control for the new Congress. They'll likely lose seats from their current historic high, but they won enough seats to extend their six-year streak of commanding the chamber. \n With voting results still being counted early Wednesday, Republicans have won at least 218 House seats. That exceeds the number needed to control the chamber. \n Democrats started the year hoping Donald Trump's divisive presidential candidacy would cost Republicans bushels of House seats. His impact on down-ballot candidates proved spotty. \n Republicans now control 247 seats in the House. With a smaller GOP majority, dissident hard-right conservatives could have added leverage to press House Speaker Paul Ryan and other party leaders on the budget and other issues. \n ___ \n 12:21 a.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Nevada and its six electoral votes. \n Her victory there in the presidential election brings Clinton's Electoral College total to 215. Republican Donald Trump has 244 votes. \n It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. \n Clinton's win in Nevada is the first time since the 1940s that the Democrats have carried the state in three consecutive elections. \n The winner of the U.S. presidential election has failed to carry Nevada only once. \n ___ \n 12:05 a.m. \n Democrat Jay Inslee has been re-elected governor of Washington, beating challenger Bill Bryant. \n Inslee, a former congressman, touted his environmental record throughout the campaign. He said the state is requiring the biggest polluters to reduce emissions and is promoting alternative energy. \n Bryant, a former Seattle Port commissioner, sharply criticized Inslee in the months leading up to the November election. He said Inslee had mismanaged state departments, especially the state's mental health system. He also said Inslee had failed to come up with a plan to fund K-12 education, as mandated by the state Supreme Court. \n ___ \n 12:02 a.m. \n Donald Trump has won the battleground state of Iowa. \n He was awarded the state's six Electoral College votes early Wednesday. \n Trump now has 244 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 209. \n Iowa had voted for a Republican only once since 1984 but polls remained tight throughout the campaign. Trump proved popular with the state's sizable evangelical population while Clinton and her allies campaigned frequently in its college towns. \n __ \n 11:53 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Utah. \n The Republican nominee was awarded its six electoral college votes. \n He now has 238 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 209. \n Utah is normally one of the safest states on the map for Republicans. But the presence of independent Evan McMullin changed the calculation this year as polls consistently reflected a tight three-way race. Trump also had struggled with Mormons, who are normally reliably Republican voters. \n ___ \n 11:44 p.m. \n Kate Brown has been re-elected governor of Oregon over Republican newcomer Bud Pierce. \n Brown became governor in February 2015 after the resignation of John Kitzhaber over an influence-peddling scandal. Brown was then secretary of state and next in line to succeed him. \n Tuesday's gubernatorial vote was a special election to fill the remainder of Kitzhaber's four-year term. \n ___ \n 11:44 p.m. \n Kate Brown has been re-elected governor of Oregon over Republican newcomer Bud Pierce. \n Brown became governor in February 2015 after the resignation of John Kitzhaber over an influence-peddling scandal. Brown was then secretary of state and next in line to succeed him. \n Tuesday's gubernatorial vote was a special election to fill the remainder of Kitzhaber's four-year term. \n ___ \n 11:43 p.m. \n Donald Trump's victory in Ohio demonstrates the Republican nominee's ability to energize working-class voters outside of America's largest cities. \n Mahoning County stands out as a working-class county where organized labor still maintains political clout. Trump didn't win the county that surrounds Youngstown. But he might as well have. \n Hillary Clinton won by just 3 percentage points and less than 3,500 votes. Four years ago, President Barack Obama outpaced Mitt Romney by almost 25,000 votes on his way to a 28-point margin in the county. Clinton fell more than 20,000 votes shy of Obama's total. \n Youngstown is represented in Congress by a Democrat who offers some of the same populist appeal to labor as Trump. But those loyalties to Rep. Tim Ryan apparently didn't transfer to Clinton. \n ___ \n 11:37 p.m. \n Republican Lt. Gov. Phil Scott has won election as governor of Vermont. \n He defeated Democrat Sue Minter. \n The popular construction company executive and part-time race-car driver had served three two-year terms as Vermont's part-time lieutenant governor. He was previously in the state Senate. \n Scott takes over in January from Democratic Gov. Peter Shumlin, who decided not to seek a fourth two-year term. \n ___ \n 11:36 p.m. \n The crowd at Donald Trump's election watch party is jubilant as returns continue to roll in putting him closer to 270 Electoral College votes. \n Supporters packed into a hotel ballroom in midtown Manhattan are breaking into chants of \"USA!\" and embracing each other in groups. \n Others are breaking into song, bellowing \"God Bless America\" at the top of their lungs. \n The screens in the ballroom are turned to Fox News. When the station shows images of Clinton's election headquarters, the room breaks into boos and chants of one of Trump's slogans: \"Drain the swamp!\" \n ___ \n 11:33 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Georgia. \n The Republican nominee on Tuesday was awarded its 16 electoral votes. \n Trump now has 232 electoral votes while his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 209. \n The Democrats had some hopes that changing demographics in Georgia could allow then to flip the reliably Republican state but their efforts fell short. \n ___ \n 11:29 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Washington state and its 12 electoral votes. \n The victory in Tuesday's elections brings the former secretary of state's electoral vote total to 209. Republican Donald Trump has 216. \n It takes 270 votes to win the presidency. \n ___ \n 11:15 p.m. \n California voters passed a ballot measure to legalize the recreational use of marijuana, giving a big boost to the campaign to end the drug's national prohibition. \n Adults older than 21 can legally possess up to an ounce of marijuana and grow six plants. \n California was one of five states where votes were considering the legalization of recreational marijuana Tuesday. Four other states were considering measures to legalize medicinal marijuana. \n So far, voters in Florida and North Dakota have also passed marijuana measures Tuesday. \n Collectively, it's the closest the U.S. has ever come to national referendum on marijuana. \n ___ \n 11:15 p.m. \n Arizona voters have booted Sheriff Joe Arpaio from office in his bid for a seventh term after his legal problems in a racial profiling case culminated in a criminal charge two weeks before Election Day. \n The 84-year-old Republican became a national figure by cracking down on illegal immigration and forcing jail inmates to wear pink underwear. He lost to Democrat Paul Penzone on Tuesday. \n The race became a referendum on Arpaio's legal woes. Federal prosecutors brought a contempt-of-court charge stemming from his defiance of a judge's order to stop carrying out patrols targeting Latinos. \n Arpaio has faced criminal investigations in the past without being charged or losing his seat. That changed Tuesday despite a devoted base of supporters and strong fundraising, mainly from out-of-state donors. \n He still faces the possibility of jail time. \n ___ \n 11:11 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won battleground North Carolina and its 15 electoral votes. \n The victory in Tuesday's elections brings the billionaire's electoral vote total to 216. Democrat Hillary Clinton has 197. \n North Carolina was one of the hardest-fought contests of the election and is one of the map's newest swing states. It consistently went for Republicans until Barack Obama captured it in 2008. Republican Mitt Romney narrowly won the state in 2012. \n At least 270 electoral votes are needed to win the presidency. \n ___ \n 11:06 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Oregon. \n The Democratic nominee on Tuesday was awarded its seven electoral votes. \n Clinton now has 197 electoral votes. Her Republican opponent Donald Trump has 201. \n Several key battleground states have yet to be won. \n ___ \n 11 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won California and Hawaii. Donald Trump has won Idaho's four electoral votes. \n The results in the West bring Clinton's electoral vote total to 190 and Trump's to 201. It takes 270 votes to win the presidency. \n The results were not surprising. California, with 55 electoral votes, has voted for Democrats beginning in 1992. Hawaii has chosen Democrats consistently since 1988. \n Idaho has voted for Republicans beginning in 1968. \n ___ \n 10:50 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won the key battleground state of Florida. \n Trump on Tuesday was awarded 29 electoral votes. \n He now has 197 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 131. \n Both candidates have spent an extraordinary amount of time in Florida, one of the most important prizes on the map. Trump calls Florida his \"second home\" and his campaign acknowledged that a win there is vital to his White House hopes. \n Barack Obama captured the Sunshine State in both 2008 and 2012. \n ___ \n 10:43 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Colorado. \n The Democratic nominee captured its nine electoral votes Tuesday. She now has 131 total electoral votes while her Republican opponent Donald Trump has 168. \n Colorado has become an attainable state for Democrats in recent years thanks to shifting demographics. \n Clinton tried to woo a surge in Latino voters and the state's college-educated whites while Trump repeatedly made pitches to Colorado's large military population and swaths of rural voters. \n ___ \n 10:40 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Virginia. \n The Democratic nominee has captured its 13 electoral votes. \n Virginia was reliably Republican for decades until Barack Obama won it twice, thanks in part to huge turnout from Washington, D.C.'s suburbs. Clinton's running mate, Tim Kaine, is a senator from Virginia, though Trump made a late push in the state. \n The victory gives her 122 electoral votes. Her Republican opponent Donald Trump has 168. \n 10:37 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won the electoral prize of Ohio, a state known for picking presidents. \n The Republican wins the state's 18 electoral votes in Tuesday's election, bringing his total to 168. Hillary Clinton has 109. \n Clinton had appeared ready to concede Ohio's 18 electoral votes to Trump as polls showed him pulling ahead even in some traditionally Democratic blue-collar areas. But Trump struggled after release of a video in which he talked about groping women and kissing them without their permission. \n Republicans held their nominating convention in Cleveland. Governor and one-time Republican presidential rival John Kasich refused to endorse Trump. \n ___ \n 10:25 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Missouri. \n The Republican nominee was awarded its 10 electoral votes. The result was not as a surprise, as the last Democratic victory in the Show Me State came in 1996. \n Trump now has 150 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 109. \n ___ \n 10:25 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Missouri. \n The Republican nominee was awarded its 10 electoral votes. The result was not as a surprise, as the last Democratic victory in the Show Me State came in 1996. \n Trump now has 150 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 109. \n ___ \n 10:21 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won New Mexico and its five electoral votes. \n That brings her electoral college vote total in Tuesday's election to 109. Republican Donald Trump has 140 votes. \n 10 p.m. \n Republican Gary Herbert has been re-elected governor of Utah. \n Herbert had a strong advantage in Tuesday's elections and was considered the favorite in the conservative state. But many Utah conservatives were not enthused about GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. And Herbert had vacillated on his support for the New York billionaire. \n Herbert has been in office since 2009 and had been challenged by Democrat Mike Weinholtz, a wealthy former CEO of a medical staffing company. \n ___ \n 10 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Montana. \n The Republican presidential nominee on Tuesday was awarded the state's three electoral votes. \n The result was not a surprise, as Montana was considered a safely Republican state. \n Trump now has 132 electoral votes. His Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton has 104 votes. \n ___ \n 9:40 p.m. \n Preliminary exit polls show the racial divides that were expected to define the 2016 presidential election. \n Polls conducted for national media by Edison Research show Republican Donald Trump winning a majority of white voters while Democrat Hillary Clinton is drawing support from about three out of four nonwhite voters. \n Trump's support is strongest among whites without a college degree. He's winning nearly two-thirds of them. Whites with college degrees are split between Trump and Clinton. Trump is winning both among white men and white women, though his margin is much higher among men. \n Clinton's strongest support comes from African-Americans. She's winning about nine out of 10 black voters. She's winning about two out of three Hispanics and Asian-Americans. \n ___ \n 9:30 p.m. \n Republican Donald Trump is maintaining Republicans' advantage among white voters nationwide, but perhaps not by the usual margin that the party's nominees have enjoyed. \n Preliminary exit polls of voters who have already cast presidential ballots show Trump winning a majority of whites. He has not quite reached the roughly six-out-of-10 share that Mitt Romney notched four years ago in his unsuccessful challenge of President Barack Obama. \n The difference appears to come among white women. Trump is posting about the same, if not a slightly wider margin among white men as Romney did in 2012. But his lead over Clinton among white women appears to be in single digits, short of Romney's double-digit advantage four years ago. \n ___ \n 9:28 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Louisiana and its eight electoral votes. \n That extends his Electoral College total in Tuesday's elections to 137, compared with Hillary Clinton's 104. \n History was on Donald Trump's side in the state. Louisiana hasn't given its electoral votes to a Democrat since Bill Clinton won 52 percent of the vote two decades ago. \n ___ \n 9:26 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Connecticut. \n The Democratic nominee on Tuesday was awarded Connecticut's seven electoral votes. \n The result was not a surprise, as Connecticut was considered a safely Democratic state. \n Clinton now has 104 electoral votes. Her Republican opponent Donald Trump has 129. \n ___ \n 9:15 p.m. \n Republican Eric Holcomb has won the governor's race in Indiana and Democrat Jim Justice has won the governor's race in West Virginia. \n Holcomb defeated Democrat John Gregg in Tuesday's election and will succeed Gov. Mike Pence. Pence is presidential candidate Donald Trump's vice presidential running mate. \n In West Virginia, Gregg defeated state Senate President Bill Cole. \n ___ \n 9:08 p.m. \n Republican Donald Trump has won Arkansas and its six electoral votes. \n That brings his electoral vote total in Tuesday's election to 129. Democrat Hillary Clinton has 97. \n It takes 270 votes to win the presidency. \n The result was expected. Earlier polling showed Trump leading Clinton by double digits in the state where she served as first lady for 12 years while her husband was the governor. \n The once reliably blue state has turned red in recent years. Republicans now control all of Arkansas' statewide and federal offices, as well as a majority of seats in both chambers of the state legislature. \n Arkansas has backed the Republican candidate for the White House in every election since 1980 \u2014 except for years when Bill Clinton was running for president. \n ___ \n 9:05 p.m. \n Hopeful Hillary Clinton supporters have gathered on a Brooklyn street corner they expect to be prophetic: The intersection of President and Clinton Streets. \n Photos and video posted on social media Tuesday show hundreds of people gathered for a block party where the streets cross. \n Organizers have set up a large screen to stream election coverage. A food truck is dispensing tacos to the crowd. \n The street signs in the intersection have been an attraction all Election Day for Clinton boosters snapping selfies. \n It is just under a mile from Clinton's national campaign headquarters in Brooklyn. \n ___ \n 9:05 p.m. \n Polls in Colorado will close at 7 p.m. MST after a judge denied the Colorado Democratic Party's request to extend voting by two hours. \n The head of the Colorado Democratic Party argued that voting hours should be extended to account for a 29-minute computer glitch Tuesday afternoon. The statewide glitch affected same-day voter registration and caused some voters to have to cast provisional ballots. \n The Secretary of State opposed the extended hours. Deputy Secretary of State Stephanie Staiert says no one was prevented from voting because of the glitch. \n ___ \n 9:01 p.m. \n Republican Doug Burgum has won the North Dakota governor's race. \n The Fargo businessman and onetime Microsoft Corp. executive was considered a shoo-in in Tuesday's election. He defeated Democrat Marvin Nelson. \n The matchup focused on qualifications to lead the socially conservative state amid declining oil and crop revenues. \n Burgum has stuck to themes of budget discipline, job creation and opposition to tax increases. Nelson has been highly critical of deep cuts to government agencies and a massive raid on the oil-rich state's savings to make up for a more than $1 billion budget shortfall due to a drop in oil drilling and depressed crude prices \n ___ \n 9 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Texas, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Kansas and Nebraska while Hillary Clinton has won New York and Illinois. \n Trump also on Tuesday won two of Nebraska's congressional districts. In the state that awards by congressional district, one remains too close to call. \n Trump was awarded Texas' 38 electoral votes, the second-largest prize on the map. He also won six from Kansas, four from his victories in Nebraska and three apiece from Wyoming, North Dakota and South Dakota. \n Clinton was awarded 20 from Illinois and 29 from New York, the state both candidates call home. Trump had declared he would try to win New York but never mounted a serious effort there. \n The Republican nominee now has 123 electoral votes. Clinton has 97. \n ___ \n 8:55 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton is watching election returns with a collection of close campaign aides and her family in a suite at the Peninsula New York, a luxury hotel in midtown Manhattan. \n Aides say the group is snacking on salmon, roasted carrots and fries \u2014 along with vegan pizza and cr\u00e8me brulee for former President Bill Clinton, who's careful about his diet. Her granddaughter, Charlotte, is wearing a dress emblazoned with the campaign logo. \n Clinton and her husband have also been working on her election night remarks with her speechwriters. \n Later Tuesday evening, they'll move to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York City for her election night party. It's a building with a glass ceiling \u2014 a nod to the historic moment. \n ___ \n 8:51 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Mississippi and its six electoral votes. \n That brings his Electoral College total in Tuesday's election to 66, compared with Hillary Clinton's 48. \n The outcome was not unexpected. Mississippi has voted for Republicans in every presidential election starting with 1972, with the exception of Democrat Jimmy Carter in 1976. \n 8:40 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton has won Rhode Island and its four electoral votes. \n That brings her total Tuesday to 48, compared with Donald Trump's 60. \n It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. \n Rhode Island has voted for Republicans for president only four times since 1928. \n In 2012, President Barack Obama defeated Republican Mitt Romney in the state by about 27 percent. \n __ \n 8:33 p.m. \n Exit polls conducted by Edison Research for national media outlets suggest Hillary Clinton is still struggling with white voters who have put Georgia in the Republican column for every presidential election but one since 1980. \n Exit polls in Virginia show Clinton and Republican Donald Trump split white Virginia voters with college degrees. In North Carolina, Trump apparently won a slight majority of college-educated whites. But in Georgia, whites with college degrees sided with Trump by more than 2-to-1. \n Among whites with no degree, the gaps were even wider. Trump won about two out of three of those voters in North Carolina and Virginia. In Georgia, he won about four out of five. \n __ \n 8:27 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Alabama and its nine electoral votes after Sen. Jeff Sessions endorsed the billionaire candidate. \n That brings Trump's total in the Electoral College to 60 votes, to Clinton's 44 votes. \n It takes 270 votes to win the presidency. \n The results continue the state's streak of voting for Republicans every presidential election since 1980. \n ___ \n 8:25 p.m. \n A mariachi band has serenaded Donald Trump on the sidewalk outside Trump Tower in New York City. \n The group of men in big white sombreros paraded down the sidewalk Tuesday across the street from the skyscraper playing horns and guitars. \n The vibrant performance interrupted a mostly low-energy night outside Trump headquarters. \n A separate group of about five Trump backers marched along the sidewalk across from the midtown Manhattan hotel where Trump is expected to address supporters later Tuesday night. They chanted, \"Lock her up!\" as they marched behind police barricades. \n A group of enterprising vendors also patrolled the outside of the hotel, selling Trump buttons, shirts and hats. \n ___ \n 8:25 p.m. \n Texas authorities say they arrested a man who claimed to be working for Donald Trump for voter fraud. \n Phillip Cook, Jr. was arrested after trying to vote for a second time at a polling station in an unincorporated area outside of Houston on Tuesday. Fort Bend County Sheriff Troy Nehls says Cook told poll officials and sheriff's deputies that he was helping the Trump campaign and testing election security. \n Nehls said Cook was booked on suspicion of a felony charge. \n Trump has alleged widespread voter fraud and that there are insufficient safeguards to protect the integrity of the election. \n ___ \n 8:13 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won Tennessee and its 11 electoral votes. \n Tuesday's vote is the fifth presidential contest in a row in which the state voted for the Republican candidate. That includes the 2000 election, when native son Al Gore lost the state to Republican George W. Bush. \n It takes 270 votes to win the presidency. \n ___ \n 8:10 p.m. \n An election watchdog says some voters were denied provisional ballots at several polling stations in Atlanta. \n Georgia Election Protection coalition spokesman Harold Franklin says poll mangers refused to provide provisional ballots to voters Tuesday. He says the group received reports that voters were given no reason for being refused. \n Franklin claims voters who are eligible or entitled to a provisional ballot were denied. He did not know the number of voters who were refused, but said the bulk occurred in Fulton County. \n Franklin says he spoke with Fulton County election officials, who he said told polling managers to provide voters with ballots. The Fulton County elections office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. \n Election Protection is organized by the Lawyers Committee for Civils Rights Under Law. \n ___ \n 8:09 p.m. \n Donald Trump has won South Carolina. \n The Republican nominee was awarded the state's nine electoral votes, giving him 40 for the night. The result was expected as the state has long been a Republican stronghold. \n ___ \n 8:08 p.m. \n Democratic Rep. John Carney has won the Delaware governor's race eight years after losing his first bid to become the state's chief executive. \n Carney easily defeated Republican state Sen. Colin Bonini of Dover in Tuesday's gubernatorial contest. The victory was driven by voter registration numbers that heavily favor Democrats. \n Carney has said job creation and economic development will be among his top priorities, along with improving Delaware's public education system. \n He also has acknowledged that the next governor faces significant challenges given troubling revenue expectations and escalating costs for Medicaid and state employee health care. \n Carney will succeed Jack Markell, who defeated Carney in the 2008 Democratic gubernatorial primary. \n Carney previously served as lieutenant governor. \n ___ \n 8:05 p.m. \n Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan has written in his father, former Rep. Lawrence Hogan, as his choice to be president. \n Doug Mayer, Hogan's spokesman, said Tuesday the Republican governor voted early. \n Hogan has been saying for months that he wasn't going to support Republican Donald Trump. He has said he has been extremely disappointed in the candidates from both major parties. \n Mayer says the governor decided to write in the name of the person who taught him what it meant to hold public office with integrity. \n ___ \n 8 p.m. \n Democrat Hillary Clinton has won Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, Delaware and the District of Columbia while Republican Donald Trump has captured Oklahoma. \n Clinton was awarded Massachusetts' 11 electoral votes, 10 from Maryland, 14 from New Jersey and three each from Delaware and the nation's capital, giving her 44 for the night. Trump picked up seven from Oklahoma, giving him 31. \n The results Tuesday were not surprising. Massachusetts and the District of Columbia are two of the nation's safest Democratic strongholds. \n The last time Oklahoma went for a Democrat was 1964, when it voted for Lyndon Johnson. Maryland last went for the GOP in 1988. \n New Jersey has been a safe Democratic state for 20 years. Its governor, Chris Christie, is a close Trump ally but is saddled with low approval numbers. \n ___ \n 7:45 p.m. \n A state official says Democrats have gone to court to extend voting across Colorado by two hours after the secretary of state's voter registration system went down for nearly 30 minutes Tuesday. \n Lynn Bartels, a spokeswoman for the secretary of state's office, says the hearing was scheduled for federal court in Denver. \n She says state officials are investigating what caused the outage, which forced in-person voters to cast provisional ballots. Some county clerks were unable to process mail ballots that needed to have the signature verified. \n Tauna Lockhart, spokeswoman for the state information technology office, says the system came back up about 3:20 p.m. She says the incident is under investigation by state officials, but there is no evidence the network was hit by hackers. \n ___ \n 7:35 p.m. \n The North Carolina Board of Elections has agreed to extend voting in eight precincts in Durham County, where Democrats have a 4-to-1 registration advantage over Republicans. \n The state board voted 3-2 Tuesday night to extend voting by an hour in two precincts most affected by a computer glitch. The problem forced poll workers to check for registered voters on paper printouts, causing long lines at some locations. \n The board says six more precincts can stay open for a shorter time. \n The NAACP's North Carolina chapter had asked for the eight precincts to stay open for 90 extra minutes. Hillary Clinton's campaign also supported keeping the polls open later in Durham. \n Two groups filed lawsuits seeking to keep the polls open, but a state superior court judge declined to intervene. \n ___ \n 7:32 p.m. \n North Carolina got more attention than usual this election, and exit polls show why. \n Exit polls conducted by Edison Research for national media outlets suggest a tight finish between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump for the state's 15 electoral votes. \n The polls suggest a majority of men back Trump, while Clinton won a majority among women \u2014 with the margins essentially even. The polls suggest women made up slightly more of the electorate. \n About four out of five nonwhite voters backed Clinton, while about six out of 10 white voters supported Trump. But the exit polls don't offer definitive information about actual turnout among those groups, with the estimates again pointing to a close finish. \n ___ \n 7:30 p.m. \n Republican Donald Trump has won West Virginia and its five electoral votes. \n The Mountain State was one of the billionaire's biggest supporters in the Republican primary. He is popular for promising to bring back coal jobs. Hillary Clinton had largely been largely shunned for making comments perceived as an affront to the industry. \n The dynamic has resulted in one of the few states where Republicans didn't shy from the brash businessman and instead looked to ride his coattails. Many Democrats for congressional and other races scrambled to distance themselves from Clinton and refused to endorse her. \n West Virginia has voted for Republican presidential candidates in each of the last four presidential races. \n It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. \n ___ \n 7:15 p.m. \n Philadelphia District Attorney Seth Williams says he has found no evidence of fraud or intimidation at the city's polls despite Republican candidate Donald Trump's warnings about voter fraud. \n Williams says no major problems have emerged among the 68 complaints his office investigated during the first half of Election Day. \n Meantime, several Pennsylvania counties are reporting a handful of complaints about touchscreen machines switching votes. They say the machines are quickly being re-calibrated to fix the problem. \n Pennsylvania Secretary of State Pedro Cortes says the GOP reported problems with about 25 machines, out of nearly 24,000 deployed statewide. He says in all cases votes ended up being recorded correctly. \n State GOP Chairman Rob Gleason says he doesn't see anything \"nefarious\" in the apparent vote switching on older machines. \n ___ \n 7:10 p.m. \n Vast divides of race, gender and education are keeping the presidential race in two tightly fought southern states close shortly after polls close. \n In both Virginia and Georgia, about 9 in 10 black voters and two-thirds of Hispanics backed Clinton, while most whites backed Trump. \n That's according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research for national media outlets. \n In Georgia, large majorities of whites with and without college degrees backed Trump. In Virginia those two groups diverged. Whites without a college degree backed Trump by a large margin, while those with a degree split their votes between the two major-party candidates. \n Women in both states were far more likely than men to back Clinton. Majorities of women in both states said Trump's treatment of women bothers them a lot. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 7 p.m. \n Republican Donald Trump has won Kentucky and Indiana while Democrat Hillary Clinton has won Vermont. \n Trump was awarded Kentucky's eight electoral votes and Indiana's 11. Vermont gives Clinton three. These are the first states to be decided Tuesday in the 2016 general election. \n The wins were expected. \n Vermont has voted for a Democrat every election since 1988, while Kentucky has gone Republican every cycle since 2000. \n Indiana is normally a Republican stronghold but went for President Barack Obama in 2008. The Republicans captured it again in 2012 and Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, is the state's governor. \n The winning candidate needs 270 electoral votes. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6:45 p.m. \n Americans who have voted already in the presidential election appear to be evenly divided on the benefits of international trade. \n According to an exit poll conducted by Edison Research for national media outlets, about four out of 10 voters believe trade among nations creates jobs. Another four out of 10 say it takes jobs from Americans. \n Republican nominee Donald Trump has railed against decades of U.S. trade policy and has energized working-class voters with his promises to create more jobs at home. Democrat Hillary Clinton has historically supported U.S. trade deals, including as secretary of state. \n But she has backed off her support for the Trans-Pacific Partnership. President Barack Obama's trade agreement with Pacific Rim nations is still pending. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6:40 p.m. \n OK, so forget those ballot box selfies. Bring on the \"I voted\" stickers! \n Stuck to noses, dogs and children, the stickers are front and center on social media, including many customized by cities and states. Others were served generic designs of stars and flags. \n New York City went with the Statue of Liberty. In Tennessee, there were red stickers in the shape of the state. Some Georgia voters got an orange peach, and in parts of Virginia, a fancy eagle emblem was encircled in yellow. \n One of the most impressive stickers may have belonged to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where stickers featured one of the famous Blue Dogs painted by New Iberia native George Rodrigue. \n But alas, not everyone went home with a sticker. Some polls ran out, prompting some to express their sadness on social media as well. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6:35 p.m. \n A majority of Americans who have cast ballots already are at odds with Republican Donald Trump on two of his signature immigration proposals. \n According to the preliminary results of exit polling conducted by Edison Research for The Associated Press and television networks, just four out of 10 voters say they support building a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. A majority oppose the idea. \n About seven out of 10 people who have voted already say they'd rather allow workers in the U.S. illegally have a way to apply for legal status than have them deported. About a quarter of voters support deportation. \n Trump fueled his rise to the Republican nomination with his promise to build a border wall and deport millions of residents in the U.S. illegally. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6:25 p.m. \n Hillary Clinton is thanking members of a Facebook group called \"Pantsuit Nation.\" \n In a message Tuesday, Clinton said the group, which was named for her signature apparel, provides a special place for supporters to build a community. She said that \"for some of you, it's been difficult to feel like you could wear your support on your sleeve.\" \n Clinton also joked about the group's moniker, saying \"have you ever heard a better name?!\" \n The Democratic presidential nominee said she was hopeful she would win the presidential contest. If she does, she said she wants \"to use those pantsuits for the best occasion of all \u2014 celebrating.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6:05 p.m. \n Guests are beginning to gather at Donald Trump's election night party in midtown Manhattan. \n The GOP nominee is holding his event in the grand ballroom of a midtown Hilton hotel, where a stage has been decorated with dozens of American and state flags. \n Trump's campaign has also set up museum-style glass displays around the venue holding campaign merchandise, including his iconic \"Make America Great Again\" hats and pins. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 6 p.m. \n More than half of Americans who went to the polls earlier Tuesday say Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has the temperament to serve as president. About a third of voters say the same about Republican nominee Donald Trump. \n But neither candidate can claim a mandate as the honest candidate according to the preliminary results of exit polling conducted by Edison Research for The Associated Press and television networks. \n About six out of 10 voters say they don't view Clinton as honest. About the same proportion say Trump isn't honest. About three out of 10 voters say they believe neither candidate is honest. \n As for what percentage of voters think both nominees are honest, that number is in single digits. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:55 p.m. \n The Colorado Secretary of State's voter registration system went down for nearly 30 minutes during midday voting Tuesday. \n The failure forced in-person voters to cast provisional ballots, and some county clerks were unable to process mail ballots that needed to have the signature verified. \n Tauna Lockhart, spokeswoman for the state information technology office, says the system came back up about 3:20 p.m. She says the incident is under investigation by state officials, but there is no evidence the network was hit by hackers. \n She says the IT office has been monitoring its network for activity and said \"there were no blips or anything.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:40 p.m. \n Police say they arrested two women after they took off their tops in protest at the Manhattan polling place used by Donald Trump. \n The disruption occurred Tuesday morning at a grade school gym about two hours before Trump arrived. \n The women began shouting and took off their tops to reveal anti-Trump slogans painted across their bare chests before police escorted then away. \n They were released after being given summonses for electioneering, a violation of rules outlawing political activity at polls. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:37 p.m. \n At least 2,000 people are already waiting inside the New York City convention center where Hillary Clinton is scheduled to hold her election night party. \n Most people are sitting on the floor in an area the size of an airplane hangar. A handful of women are wearing pantsuits to honor Clinton. \n Barnard College senior Madeline Walsh is wearing a black pantsuit. She says the garment means its wearer is more than just a woman. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:35 p.m. \n A spokesman says former President George W. Bush did not vote for Republican Donald Trump or Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n Freddy Ford says the most recent Republican president voted \"none of the above for president and Republican down-ballot.\" That means Bush voted for Republicans in congressional and local races. \n It's not a complete surprise. The Bush family includes the two most recent Republican presidents but neither endorsed nor campaigned for the billionaire businessman who captured the party's nomination. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush was a one-time favorite to win the GOP presidential nomination until Trump got into the race and branded him with a name that stuck: \"Low energy.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:30 p.m. \n Preliminary presidential exit polls results suggest that a clear majority of Americans going to the polls Tuesday have at least a moderate amount of confidence that votes will be counted accurately. \n About half of those polled for The Associated Press and television networks told Edison Research they are very confident in the results. Another third said they are somewhat confident. \n Fewer than one out of five say they're not very confident or at all confident in the vote count. \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has railed against the electoral system. He's called it rigged and suggested without evidence there is widespread voter fraud that could affect the outcome. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n 5:25 p.m. \n Just more than half of voters going to the polls Tuesday approve of the job President Barack Obama is doing. But a majority is still upset with the way the federal government is working. \n That's according to preliminary results of the exit poll conducted for The Associated Press and television networks by Edison Research. \n Just under half of those surveyed say they're dissatisfied with the government's performance. About a quarter say they're angry. \n About four out of 10 voters said the top quality they're looking for in a candidate is change. That outranks good judgment, the right experience and caring about people like you as the preferred qualities in a president. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump pledges to be president 'for all Americans'"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pump jack for pulling oil from the ground, near New Town, N.D. On Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016, the Energy Department said it is raising its forecast of U.S. production for both 2016 and 2017, as drillers respond to higher crude prices. Still, output won't match 2015, which was the biggest year for U.S. production in 35 years. \n DALLAS >> The decline in U.S. oil production may not be as severe as expected just a month ago. \n The government is raising its forecast of U.S. production for both this year and 2017, as drillers respond to higher crude prices. Still, output won't match 2015, which was the biggest year for U.S. production since 1972. \n The Energy Department predicted Tuesday that domestic production will top 8.7 million barrels per day next year. That's 140,000 more barrels per day than the department estimated just a month ago. Forecasters also raised their estimate of 2016 daily oil production by 110,000 barrels to more than 8.8 million barrels. \n That's still below 2015's output that hit 9.4 million barrels per day. \n The rising forecast is because this year's rebound in oil prices has translated into more drilling, said Anthony Starkey, an energy analyst for S&P Global Platts. The number of active oil rigs in the U.S. has risen by more than 100 since oil prices plunged below $30 a barrel early this year. About 20 rigs have been added in just the past month. \n \"Most analysts have been revising their production numbers higher as rig activity increases and the outlook for prices has improved with the rhetoric from OPEC that they will do something to help balance the market\" when cartel members meet later this month, Starkey said. \n Meanwhile, OPEC trimmed its forecast for growth in world crude consumption over the coming decades but predicted again that oil and gas will still account for more than half the world's energy in 2040. \n In its annual forecast, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said that world oil demand will be 109 million barrels a day by 2040. That is 16 million barrels more than current demand but 400,000 barrels a day less than OPEC predicted in its previous annual forecast. \n The 14 OPEC nations are more interested, however, in doing something about short-term prices. OPEC oil ministers are scheduled to meet Nov. 30 to complete a September agreement on slightly reducing production to drive up prices. \n It won't be easy for OPEC to nail down the details. \n OPEC nations have been pumping record amounts of crude this fall even though prices are less than half what they were in mid-2014. Iran, Libya and Nigeria have reportedly argued to be exempted from production cuts, which could put pressure on Saudi Arabia to shoulder more of the reduction. And it's unclear whether any OPEC pullback might be offset by production from countries outside the cartel. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Energy Department grows less bearish about U.S. oil production"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Austin Harrouff in an Oct. 3 photo provided by the Martin County Sheriff's Office. Harrouff, accused of killing a couple and chewing on the dead man's face, has been indicted on first-degree murder charges. \n STUART, Fla. \u00bb A Florida college student accused of killing a couple and chewing on the dead man's face has been indicted on first-degree murder charges. \n A Martin County grand jury formally charged 19-year-old Austin Harrouff today with two murder counts, attempted murder and burglary. \n Harrouff was initially charged with second-degree murder in the Aug. 15 attack on 59-year-old John Stevens, and his wife, 53-year-old Michelle Mishcon, outside their Tequesta home. The indictment enables prosecutors to seek the death penalty against Harrouff. \n Deputies say they found the former high school football player and wrestler in his underwear, making animal noises and biting Stevens' face as he pinned his victim's body to the driveway. Authorities say Harrouff also stabbed a neighbor, 47-year-old Jeff Fisher, who tried to help the couple. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Florida teen indicted on murder charges in face-biting attack"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Sam Slom, the lone Republican in the Hawaii Senate, talked about the race to hold onto his seat, outside an Oct. 6 luncheon of the Oahu League of Republican Women at the Waialae Country Club. \n Sen. Sam Slom, the only Republican in Hawaii's state Senate, hopes to hang on to the seat he's held for 20 years despite a challenge from Democrat Stanley Chang. \n If Chang wins today, Hawaii could become the only state in the country with a one-party legislative body. The last time that happened was in 1980, according to the National Conference on State Legislatures. \n Hawaii has long been a Democratic stronghold. Democratic voters outnumbered Republicans 2-to-1 in the last presidential election. In the Hawaii state House of Representatives, many Democrats are running un-contested. \n Independent voter Linda Makela doesn't see a problem with an all-Democrat state Senate, she said after voting for Chang on Tuesday at Kamiloiki Elementary School in Hawaii Kai. \"It will be a change and maybe the change would help for the better,\" the insurance claims professional said. \n At the same polling place, Republican voter Alec Haller said Slom seems \"like a great guy\" and he voted for him. The prospect of an all-Democrat legislative body is \"concerning,\" the retail sales clerk said, \"but Hawaii has always been one of the bluest states in the country so it's not all that different.\" \n Russell Pinho, a retired professional engineer, said he voted to return Slom to the state Capitol. \n \"He's been in office many, many years. He provides a little diversity. He's the only Republican senator. It's good to have that,\" Pinho said. \n Slom is widely viewed as a fiscal watchdog. \n \"I think if you look over the years, I brought a number of arguments that at first were totally ignored or people disagreed with,\" Slom said. \"I used to be the only one that always could be opposed to taxes. Well that's not the case anymore.\" \n Chang is a Harvard-educated lawyer who served on Honolulu City Council. He visited more than 15,000 homes in the district by late October. \n \"We're hoping that the combination of Democratic interest in the presidential election and Stanley Chang's hard work on the doorsteps in that district will ensure a Democratic victory there,\" said Tim Vandeveer, chairman of the Democratic Party of Hawaii. \n The possibility of Slom's defeat has some puzzling about what would happen with politically charged issues such as re-drawing the lines of voting districts and naming members of the elections commission. Typically, the Senate minority leader appoints two people to each panel. But the state Constitution is silent on who gets that power if there's no minority leader, and the state attorney general's office wouldn't speculate on the matter. \n Rep. Beth Fukumoto Chang, minority leader of the Hawaii House, tried to change that with legislation, but the bill died. Her caucus of seven Republicans is far outnumbered by the 44 Democrats in the Hawaii House. \n \"He does a good job of riling up the Republican base in a way that no one else has been able to do,\" Fukumoto Chang said of Slom. \"I don't know what happens if we don't have that.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii's lone Republican state senator tries to keep seat"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A long line of voters this morning walked into the Manoa Elementary School cafeteria to vote as the polling site opened. The line wrapped around the cafeteria. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb  \n Voters around the country faced long lines, occasional broken machines and some hot tempers Tuesday, but as the polls began closing from east to west, there were no signs of the large-scale fraud, intimidation or hacking some had feared in the run-up to the presidential election. \n The scattered problems mostly involved the sort of glitches that arise in every election, including discrepancies in the voter rolls, with no immediate indication of a snag big enough to meaningfully alter the overall vote count. \n \"The biggest surprise is how uneventful things have been with this large a turnout,\" said Illinois State Board of Elections spokesman Jim Tenuto. \"Everyone was expecting more problems than this \u2014 and nothing.\" \n In Texas, a computer malfunctioned at a polling place in suburban Houston, and voters were briefly sent to another site more than two miles away. In key battleground North Carolina, a computer problem in the Democratic stronghold of Durham County triggered long lines when election officials had to rely on a paper check-in process. Several precincts there extended their closing times up to an hour \n A computer glitch in Colorado forced in-person voters to cast provisional ballots, though there was no evidence the network was hit by hackers. Some people in North Carolina and Virginia complained they were not on the rolls despite registering through the motor vehicle departments. \n And in Dover, New Hampshire, polls were staying open for an extra hour because the city mistakenly sent an email to voters with the wrong closing time. \n Outside a Florida polling place, a woman campaigning for Donald Trump pepper-sprayed a Hillary Clinton voter. \n There were reports of voters waiting for hours to cast their ballots in such states as Missouri and Utah. Some polling places in the Phoenix metropolitan area had more than 100 voters lined up at 6 a.m. \n The voting unfolded amid repeated but unsubstantiated claims from Trump that the election would somehow be rigged. His exhortations to followers to watch for fraud at the polls gave rise to fears of vigilantism and harassment. There was also anxiety that hackers might attack voting systems. \n \"Overall, the story that everyone was expecting \u2014 mass reports of voter intimidation \u2014 hasn't happened,\" said Wendy Weiser, head of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU's Law School. \"I've definitely seen an uptick in it \u2026 but it's not the overriding story of the election, which certainly ought to be a relief to many.\" \n Trump again suggested the election might not be on the up-and-up. His campaign said it was seeking an investigation in the battleground state of Nevada over reports that some voters were allowed to get in line after poll closing times. \n In an interview on Fox News, Trump would not say whether he would accept the outcome. \n \"We're going to see how things play out today and hopefully they will play out well and hopefully we won't have to worry about it,\" he said. Later in the interview, he said, \"It's largely a rigged system.\" \n Fears of voter intimidation and fraud led to a flurry of lawsuits in the run-up to Election Day, and new voter regulations in more than a dozen states also held the potential to sow confusion at polling places. \n In Philadelphia, one of the places Trump had suggested were ripe for fraud, District Attorney Seth Williams said that as of the afternoon, there were no substantiated reports of voter fraud or intimidation, and \"no walking apocalypse of zombies voting around town.\" \n Meanwhile, state election officials were guarding against any attempt to breach their computer systems. \n Forty-eight states accepted \"cyber hygiene\" help from the Homeland Security Department to patch their networks and root out problems that could allow hackers in, and the remaining two states hired contractors to do the same, officials said. \n With voters casting ballots in 9,000 jurisdictions and more than 185,000 precincts, the decentralized nature of the U.S. voting system was seen as a major protector against a hacker having any sizeable effect on the vote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Voters face machine problems, long lines in some states"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police displayed pieces of evidence used to convict British banker Rurik Jutting of murder in the High Court, Tuesday, in Hong Kong. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rurik Jutting, a British banker, was escorted, Monday, in a prison bus to a court in Hong Kong. Rurik was convicted of murder Tuesday for killing two Indonesian women in Hong Kong, torturing one of them over three days while using cocaine in a gruesome case that shocked the Chinese financial hub. \n HONG KONG \u00bb A British banker was convicted of murder Tuesday for killing two Indonesian women in Hong Kong, torturing one of them over three days while using cocaine in a gruesome case that shocked the Chinese financial hub. \n The nine-person jury returned unanimous verdicts against Rurik Jutting after a two-week trial in the High Court. The slayings in 2014 and disclosures as the case developed highlighted Hong Kong's significant inequality as well as the decadent lifestyles of some members of the former British colony's expatriate elite. \n Jutting bowed his head briefly as the verdicts were read out to a packed courtroom but otherwise showed little reaction. He was given an automatic mandatory life sentence. \n While he has the right to an appeal, his defense lawyer indicated ahead of the verdict that Jutting would request a transfer to a British prison to serve out his sentence there. \n In a statement his lawyer asked to be read into the court record, Jutting said he was sorry and accepted the verdicts as \"just and appropriate punishment.\" He also said he was haunted by his actions and the pain he'd caused to the women's loved ones. \n Jutting, a Cambridge University graduate who worked for Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, was convicted of killing 23-year-old Sumarti Ningsih and then killing 26-year-old Seneng Mujiasih days later. The two originally came to Hong Kong as foreign maids but ended up as sex workers. \n As statements from their families were read out by the prosecutor, Jutting stared at the floor. \n Jurors were shown graphic smartphone video clips taken by Jutting of his apparent torture of Sumarti, which the judge deemed too graphic for the public to view. He slit her throat and then nearly decapitated her when she didn't die immediately, according to facts agreed upon by both the prosecution and defense. He then stuffed her body inside a suitcase that he left on the balcony of his upscale apartment near Hong Kong's famous Wan Chai red-light district. \n Jutting had planned to torture Mujiasih with about $900 worth of tools and sex toys he had bought hours before. But he killed her when she spotted a gag in his apartment and wouldn't stop screaming, according to the two sides. \n After the verdict, Judge Michael Stuart-Moore called the case \"one of the most horrifying murder cases to come to the courts in Hong Kong.\" \n \"There are insufficient superlatives to describe the cruelty\" that Jutting inflicted on Ningsih and planned for Mujiasih, he said, adding that the defendant had not shown \"one shred of remorse\" and rejected his apology. \n He called Jutting an \"archetypal sexual predator\" and cited testimony from an expert psychiatric witness who said Jutting would be prone to committing sexual violence again. \n The judge said his sentencing remarks were aimed at notifying authorities in Britain, who must hold their own sentencing hearing if his transfer is granted, of the \"immense danger\" Jutting poses if he is allowed out of prison. \n Ningsih's brother, Suyit Khaliman, said the family welcomed the verdict and was grateful that Jutting was given the maximum penalty under Hong Kong law. \n \"Justice finally has been upheld after two years,\" Khaliman said. \"The sentence is still incomparable to the pain that is felt by us who lost Ningsih in such a terrible way.\" \n Khaliman said the family, from Central Java province, has suffered financially and emotionally since the death of Ningsih, who has a son, now aged 7. \n Associated Press writer Niniek Karmini in Jakarta, Indonesia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "British banker found guilty of murdering Indonesians in Hong Kong"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "Utility poles damaged in two separate motor vehicle crashes in Kaimuki closed heavily travelled roadways this morning. \n The first crash occurred at around 5 a.m. and forced police to close 11th Avenue between Waialae and Harding avenues. The stretch of road was reopened around 10 a.m. \n The second crash occurred around 8 a.m. and forced the closure of Harding Avenue between 7th and 9th avenues. \n Motorists are advised to seek alternate routes. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Damaged utility poles close Kaimuki roadways"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, accompanied by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, right, gave a thumbs-up to supporters outside Douglas G. Grafflin School in Chappaqua, N.Y., today, after voting. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife Melania, gave a thumbs-up after casting his ballot at PS-59, today, in New York. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This combination of photos taken at late-night campaign rallies shortly after midnight on Tuesday, shows Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in Raleigh, N.C., and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump in Grand Rapids, Mich. A polarized America went to the polls today to pick its 45th president. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Donald Trump moved within reach of the White House Tuesday night, capturing crucial victories over Hillary Clinton in Florida, Ohio and North Carolina, a remarkable show of strength in an unexpectedly tight race for the presidency. \n Trump also battled for a breakthrough in the upper Midwest, a region that reliably backed Democrats in presidential elections for three decades. His victories left Clinton with a perilously narrow path and no margin for error in battleground states where votes were still being counted. \n As the race lurched past midnight, neither candidate had cleared the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Trump stood at 244 to Clinton's 215. \n The uncertainty sent Dow Jones futures and Asian markets tumbling, reflecting investor alarm over what a Trump presidency might mean for the economy and global trade. \n As Clinton's team anxiously waited for results to roll in, the candidate tweeted to supporters, \"Whatever happens tonight, thank you for everything.\" \n Clinton, a fixture in American politics for decades, was hoping to become the first woman to serve as commander in chief. Her race against Trump, a celebrity businessman with no political experience, was among the nastiest in recent memory, exposing and deepening the nation's economic and racial divides. \n Exit polls underscored the deep divisions that have defined the 2016 contest. Women nationwide supported Clinton by a double-digit margin, while men were significantly more likely to back Trump. More than half of white voters backed the Republican, while nearly 9 in 10 blacks and two-thirds of Hispanics voted for the Democrat. \n If Trump pulls off the stunning upset, he'll likely govern with Congress fully under Republican control. The GOP was poised to fend off a Democratic challenge in the Senate, winning key races in North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, and expected to win a late race in Alaska and a December runoff in Louisiana. The party extended its grip on the House. \n Democrats, as well as some Republicans, expected Trump's unconventional candidacy would damage down-ballot races and even flip some reliably red states in the presidential race. But Trump held on to Republican territory, including in Georgia and Utah, where Clinton's campaign confidently invested resources. \n Clinton carried Virginia, Nevada and Colorado. Her fate hinged in part on wins in Michigan and Wisconsin, states where her campaign spent little time during the general election in anticipation of comfortable victories. \n The 45th president will inherit an anxious nation, deeply divided by economic and educational opportunities, race and culture. The economy has rebounded from the depths of recession, though many Americans have yet to benefit. New terror threats from home and abroad have raised security fears. \n Clinton asked voters to keep the White House in her party's hands for a third straight term. She cast herself as heir to President Barack Obama's legacy and pledged to make good on his unfinished agenda, including passing immigration legislation, tightening restrictions on guns and tweaking his signature health care law. \n But she struggled throughout the race with persistent questions about her honesty and trustworthiness. Those troubles flared anew late in the race, when FBI Director James Comey announced a review of new emails from her tenure at the State Department. On Sunday, just two days before Election Day, Comey said there was nothing in the material to warrant criminal charges against Clinton. \n Trump, the New York real estate developer who lives in a gold-plated Manhattan penthouse, forged a striking connection with white, working-class Americans who feel left behind in the changing economy and diversifying country. He cast immigration, both from Latin America and the Middle East, as the root of many problems plaguing the nation and called for building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. \n \"I see so many hopes and so many dreams out there that didn't happen, that could have happened, with leadership, with proper leadership,\" he said by telephone on Fox News before casting his own ballot in Manhattan. \"And people are hurt so badly.\" \n Seven in 10 Americans who went to the polls Tuesday said immigrants now in the country illegally should be allowed to stay, while just a quarter said they should be deported. More than half oppose building a border wall, according to the exit polls, which were conducted for The Associated Press and television networks by Edison Research. \n The Republican Party's tortured relationship with its nominee was evident right up to the end. Former President George W. Bush and wife Laura Bush declined to back Trump, instead selecting \"none of the above\" when they voted for president, according to spokesman Freddy Ford. \n Trump set both parties on edge when he refused to say in the third and final debate whether he would accept the election's results, citing with no evidence the possibility of a rigged outcome. His statement threatened to undermine a fundamental pillar of American democracy and raised the prospect that his fervent supporters would not view Clinton as a legitimate president if she won. \n Asked Tuesday in an interview with Fox News if he would accept the election results, Trump continued to demur, saying \"We're going to see how things play out.\" \n Most problems that did pop up at polling places Tuesday appeared to be routine \u2014 the kinds of snags that come every four years, including long lines, machines not working properly and issues with ballots or voter rolls. \n Even before Tuesday, almost 45 million people had cast ballots for president. Many expressed relief the end was in sight after an election season in which personal attacks often drowned out the issues. \n Clinton has denounced Trump for calling Mexican immigrants \"rapists\" and promoting a ban on Muslims entering the U.S., and for his long line of remarks about women that culminated in an audio in which he bragged about grabbing their genitals. Her campaign was hoping high turnout among Hispanics push her over the top in states like Florida and Nevada. \n \"I grew up in a Hispanic family, and the way that Donald Trump has referred to illegal immigrants \u2014 being from illegal immigrants, I took that to heart,\" said Angel Salazar, a 22-year-old sanitation associate from Oklahoma City. \"I don't like anything that he said. I don't like his views. So I voted for Hillary Clinton because she supports us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump moves within reach of White House"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A massive shinkhole was created in the middle of the business district in Fukuoka, southern Japan on Tuesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A massive shinkhole was created in the middle of the business district in Fukuoka, southern Japan on Tuesday. \n TOKYO \u00bb Parts of a main street collapsed in the heart of a major city in southern Japan on Tuesday, creating a massive sinkhole and cutting off power, water and gas supplies to parts of the city. \n Authorities said no injuries were reported from the pre-sunrise collapse in downtown Fukuoka, which created a sinkhole more than half the size of an Olympic pool in the middle of the business district. \n The cause of the collapse is under investigation, Fukuoka officials said, but they linked it to ongoing subway construction nearby. A smaller sinkhole occurred in Fukuoka in 2014 at another location of the subway construction. \n Fukuoka, a city of more than 1.5 million people, is about 620 miles southwest of Tokyo. The massive cave-in appeared in the city's bustling Hakata district, a major business and entertainment center, with muddy underground water flowing into the hole. \n The incident prompted the evacuation of some residents in nearby buildings. Officials were concerned that further erosion inside the sinkhole could prompt nearby structures to collapse. \n \"An accident like this is unheard of, one that should not have happened,\" Fukuoka Mayor Soichiro Takashima said. \"We must prevent secondary accidents, and will do our utmost to restore important infrastructure.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Street collapse opens massive sinkhole in Japan"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The Manoa Elemenatary School cafeteria is packed was voters this morning. Patricia Aucheta, front, waited for her husband, Ben, and sons, Benjamin, 13, Adam, 11, and William, 9, to exit the booth after Ben finished voting. \n DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A long line of voters this morning waited to get into the Manoa Elementary School cafeteria to vote. Robin Leong, left, and Janell Yim were among the many who waited in line for the polling place to open. \n DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The Manoa Elemenatary School cafeteria was packed with voters this morning. Three-year-old Ryan Jenkins waited patiently outside the voting booth for his dad to finish voting. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Voters waited in line to cast their ballots this morning at the Waipahu Intermediate school polling station. \n The second printout of election night results was released after 8:30 p.m. and includes 124 precincts accounting for about 57,000 ballots, elections officials said. The third printout of election returns is expected at 10 p.m. \n All Oahu polls were closed by about 7:45 p.m. and the first printout of statewide elections were released a few minutes later. The results included 211,802 ballots, and contained 100 percent of the walk-in votes, a portion of mail-in ballots but nothing from today's polling sites, according to state elections officials. \n State elections officials are checking on 29 outstanding polling sites on Oahu to see if they are still open. \n Twenty-nine polling sites on Oahu are still open, including Lunalilo, Waipahu and Pope elementary schools, according to the state Office of Elections. \n Update: 7 p.m. \n Fifty-two polling places on Oahu were open at 7 p.m., an hour after the scheduled closing time, a state Elections Office spokeswoman said. All Neighbor Island sites are closed. \n Any voter who was on line at 6 p.m. is allowed to vote. \n Update: 6:15 p.m. \n State Elections Office spokeswoman said 125 of Hawaii's 233 polling places across the islands were still open after their scheduled 6 p.m. closure, meaning a delay in getting the first return of election results tonight. \n The first results of the night are now expected after 6:30 p.m., she said. \n Officials blamed the delays on the two-page ballot that voters had to scan. \n \"It's double the length,\" state Chief Elections Officer Scott Nago said. \"If voters don't study the ballot it takes them longer to answer the questions.\" \n Update: 4:30 p.m. \n Tonight's first election returns should come out around 6:30 p.m. and will include 100 percent of the walk-in votes, a portion of mail-in ballots but nothing from today's polling sites, said Nedielyn Bueno, spokeswoman for the state Office of Elections. \n The second results are expected sometime after 8:30 p.m., she said, adding that they will include more mail-in ballots and a portion of the results from today's voting, she said. \n Update: 2:47 p.m. \n Nedielyn Bueno, spokesman for the state Office of Elections, said, \"We did definitely experience a rush of voters this morning. It kind of leveled off in the afternoon and we'll see toward the end of the day because of people who may be trying to make it after work.\" \n Registered voters who are in line at 6 p.m., when polling sites are scheduled to close, will still be allowed to vote. Typically, a poll worker would stand behind the last person in line. \n Previous coverage \n Long lines and sporadic scanning machine problems greeted many Hawaii voters who poured into the polls throughout the state today for the 2016 General Election. \n \"We've been non-stop since the doors opened,\" said Robyn Loudermilk, who oversaw voting operations at the Manoa Elementary School Cafeteria. \"Excellent turnout.\" \n By mid-morning, turnout remained strong throughout Oahu, with waits of more than 40 minutes reported at Kamiloiki Elementary in East Oahu and Holomua Elementary in Ewa, and more than an hour at Kainalu Elementary in Kailua. Rather than waiting for the privacy of the voting booth, voters at some precincts were filling out their ballots at cafeteria tables and on the line for the scanning machine that records their vote. Volunteers were also running low on blue privacy folders in some precincts. \n About 10:20 a.m. at the Manoa Elementary School Cafeteria, 21 private voting booths were occupied and more than a dozen people sat at long cafeteria tables filling out their ballots with their blue secrecy folders on hand. About a dozen more voters waited in line to feed their ballots into the scanning machine. \n The electronic machine at Manoa Elementary malfunctioned and was down from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m., adding to the wait for people casting paper ballots. \n Standing in the shade outside the cafeteria, waiting for her husband to complete his ballot, Hilda Thomas said she voted for Hillary Clinton because she reminds her of herself at that age. A feminist,who has one adult granddaughter and six adult grandsons, the 89-year-old Thomas said she voted for Clinton because \"I want her to have some security.\" \n Overall, \"This is a really hard election for everybody,\" she said. \n At the Waipahu Intermediate School Cafeteria, Claire Au who lives two minutes away from the school prepared to cast her vote for Donald Trump. \"I can't see Hillary being in office so I have to pick Trump,\" she said. \"We need a change in America.\" \n Waipahu resident Frances Diocares stood outside the doors of the Waipahu Intermediate School Cafeteria at 6:50 a.m., awaiting the opening of the polling site to cast her ballot. \n It's important to vote because otherwise the wrong people could end up in office, said Diocares, 24. \"The ramifications could be very, very bad and that's an understatement.\" \n To registered voters who are reluctant to cast their vote, Diocares said, \"We should not take the right to vote lightly.\" \n Polling places on Oahu have been running smoothly so far with the exception of a couple of sites that experienced issues with missing or malfunctioning equipment. \n All 233 polling places statewide were scheduled to open at 7 a.m. \n Nedielyn Bueno, spokeswoman of the Office of Election, said Kapunahala Elementary School in Kaneohe had yet to open as of 8 a.m. because poll workers couldn't locate the Hart eScan machine where voters feed paper ballots once they finish voting. \n \"We had to deploy a troubleshooter to send a replacement machine,\" she said. \n Schools at times move the machine to a secure location and information isn't passed on to poll workers of its location. \n The Office of Elections also reported malfunctioning eScan machines at Aiea High School and University of Hawaii Laboratory School today. At the Lab School, voters were told to leave their ballots in a box where they would be scanned later. \n That wasn't good enough for one frustrated register voter, Jamie Swan, who left the polling site with her ballot in hand. \"I think it's understandable. Machines can go down,\" she told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. \"I've got the day off from work, so I'll take care of what needs to be taken care of. So I'll bring it back.\" \n Troubleshooters were sent to Aiea High and the UH Lab School to fix the problem. \n Aside from the rainy weather, Hawaii County Clerk Stewart Maeda said operations have been relatively smooth at this time. Some polling sites in both East and West Hawaii experienced problems with electronic voting machines this morning and has since been resolved. \"All of our issues with our voting equipment is fine and people seemed to be voting with no problem.\" \n Troubleshooters responded to machine problems at Waiakea High School, Ocean View Community Center and Mountain View Elementary School early today. Electronic machines at those sites have since been fixed or replaced. \n Troubleshooters also responded an eScan machine that wasn't working properly at Kaumana Elementary School. \n Some voters at a few polling sites in Maui County who missed the registration deadline wanted to register today. They gave some precinct chairpersons a difficult time because they felt they were being deprived to vote, said Maui County Clerk Danny Mateo. \n Nevertheless, voter turnout has been steady. \"It's pretty consistent,\" said Mateo adding he hopes to to see a surge of voters later today. \n Close to 750,000 people registered to vote in this year's general election. Of that, nearly 270,000 people cast their ballots by early walk-in or absentee voting by the Nov. 5 deadline. A total of 44,122 people took advantage of the early walk-in voting option, and 225,135 people mailed in their ballots with 157,605 returned absentee ballots. \n Samuel Iokia, chairman of the 38-04 precinct at Waipahu Intermediate, said that, so far, operations were running smoothly this morning. Nine volunteers including Iokia arrived well before 7 a.m. to set up. \n The National Weather Service said voters can expect some showers mostly for windward sections of Hawaii island and Maui County, while the other islands will see better conditions with light winds, an occasional shower and highs in the mid 80s. \n Once at the polls, Hawaii voters finally get their say in the acrimonious presidential contest that has pitted Democrat Hillary Clinton against Republican Donald Trump. \n For Congress, former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa, a Democrat, is running against Republican Shirlene Ostrov to replace the late U.S. Rep. Mark Takai, who died of cancer in July, in Hawaii's 1st Congressional District. The two-year term begins in January. \n In an unusual simultaneous special election, Hanabusa is also running against Angela Kaaihue and others in a race for the two-month assignment to finish Takai's current term. Kaaihue is running as a Democrat in this race but as a Republican in the 2nd Congressional District against incumbent Democrat U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who is heavily favored. Kaaihue has been rebuked by Hawaii Republicans and Democrats, alike, for her many comments against Japanese-Americans, Buddhists, and Hindus, and for pointing out that she is \"cancer-free,\" an apparent reference to Takai. \n Democratic U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz is also hoping to return to his seat, and facing a challenge from Republican John Carroll and others. \n On Oahu, incumbent Mayor Kirk Caldwell faces former U.S. Rep. Charles Djou in a contest that has seen a late influx of PAC and Super PAC money on both sides. \n And in the state Legislature, the lone Republican state senator, Sam Slom, who has held his seat for the last 20 years, is facing a challenge from Democrat Stanley Chang. \n Voting results will be issued over the course of the night, starting soon after the last poll closes after 6 p.m., with updated numbers at about 8:30, 10 and 11:30 p.m., according to the state Office of Elections. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press and Star-Advertiser reporter Dave Reardon contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Many Oahu polls remain open past scheduled closing time"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Grant Twiggy Baker of South Africa took a massive drop as he wiped out during Round 1 of the Quiksilver In Memory of Eddie Aikua at Waimea Beach on Feb. 25. \n Surf up to 35 feet has been reported along the north shores of some islands as a high surf warning remains in effect for most of the state. \n A high surf warning is in effect for north and west shores of Niihau, Kauai, Oahu and Molokai and the north shores of Maui and Hawaii island. \n The National Weather Service reported a large north-northwest swell impacting affected shores. Conditions are expected to continue throughout the day, prompting officials to caution people inexperienced in the water to steer clear of those areas. \n At least five beaches on Hawaii island were closed this morning due to the dangerous surf. Richardson Beach Park, Leleiwi Beach Park, Carlsmith Park, James Kealoha Parkand and James Kealoha Park have been closed until further notice. \n The high surf warning remains in effect until 6 p.m. today. \n Surf of up to 25 to 35 feet has been reported along the north shores of Oahu, Maui and the Big Island and the north and west shores of Kauai, Niihau and Molokai, weather officials said. Conditions are expected to decrease to 18 to 25 feet by this afternoon. \n Officials said surf will gradually subside throughout the day yet remain at warning levels. Conditions are expected to drop to advisory levels tonight and below advisory levels Wednesday. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Surf up to 35 feet reported; high surf warning remains in effect"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Early voting at Honolulu Hale on Oct. 25. Voters lined up to cast their ballots. \n Election Day in Hawaii \n >> Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. today, but anyone who is standing in line at 6 p.m. will be allowed to vote. Elections officials say voters can save time by voting during nonpeak hours, which are in the morning from 7:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., or in the afternoon from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. \n >> All polling places are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and most offer accessible parking. Voters requiring assistance can request services at the Voter Assistance Station at any polling place. Polling places offer a number of additional services including auxiliary aids such as magnifiers and communication cards, and curbside voting for voters who are unable to leave their vehicles. \n >> Voters who have requested and filled out mail-in absentee ballots but did not actually mail those ballots can drop those ballots off at any polling place in their county. Voted ballots that are postmarked today but are not received by the Clerk's office by 6 p.m. today will not be accepted. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Time to cast your ballot: What Hawaii voters need to know"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Britain's Prince Harry took part in a July 7 round table discussion with HIV doctors at King's College Hospital in south London as part of his desire to learn more and raise public awareness in the fight against HIV and AIDS both internationally and in the UK. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actress Meghan Markle participated in AOL's March 17 BUILD Speaker Series to discuss her role on the television show, \"Suits\", in New York. \n LONDON \u00bb Prince Harry condemned the media for subjecting girlfriend Meghan Markle to \"a wave of abuse and harassment,\" issuing a highly unusual statement today that confirmed his relationship with the American actress and expressed concern for her safety. \n Harry's office said that while the 32-year-old prince understood that there was significant curiosity about his private life, a line had been crossed in terms of media intrusion. Harry said the statement was issued in hopes that media driving the story will \"pause.\" \n \"Prince Harry is worried about Ms. Markle's safety and is deeply disappointed that he has not been able to protect her,\" said the statement from Kensington Palace. \"It is not right that a few months into a relationship with him that Ms. Markle should be subjected to such a storm.\" \n The 35-year-old Markle is best known for playing paralegal Rachel Zane in the TV legal drama \"Suits.\" She has also worked with the United Nations on gender equality and is a global ambassador for the charity World Vision Canada, traveling to Rwanda earlier this year to campaign for clean water. \n Tabloids in Britain and beyond have jumped on the story and speculated about the relationship for weeks, with many commenting on her mixed-race heritage and contrasting her background with the prince's. The palace said the harassment has \"been very public \u2014 the smear on the front page of a national newspaper; the racial undertones of comment pieces; and the outright sexism and racism of social media trolls and web article comments.\" \n One Daily Mail headline called her a \"saucy divorcee.\" Another described her ancestors as \"a tailor, a teacher and a cleaner in racially-divided Jim Crow South \u2014 while his were ruling the British Empire.\" One Daily Mirror article linked Markle with an online pornography site, saying clips of her from \"Suits\" featured on an adult site. \n Harry said the commentators will say this is \"the price she has to pay\" and that \"this is all part of the game.\" \n The palace said that Harry \"strongly disagrees.\" \n \"This is not a game \u2014 it is her life and his,\" the statement said. \n The scrutiny of the relationship drew immediate parallels to the media scrutiny of Harry's mother, the late Princess Diana, who died in a 1997 car accident while being pursued by paparazzi. It also invited comparisons to the early revelations that Kate Middleton was dating Prince William. That relationship was also the subject of relentless media attention. \n But choosing to tackle the issue directly is unusual for the palace, which initially declined comment to reports in the Sunday Express newspaper on the relationship, as per its usual policy of refraining from discussions on the personal lives of the royal family. \n \"It's a very unusual step, I can't think of a precedent for it in recent years,\" said Joe Little, managing editor of Majesty magazine. \"Some would regard this is something he should put up with, but that's not in his nature.\" \n Harry has been linked to a number of women in the past, including another actress, Cressida Bonas. Media intrusion was also seen as having hurt that relationship. \n In 2012, Harry spoke of the difficulties of finding a partner willing to take on the responsibilities of being a royal. \n The palace said some of the harassment hasn't been apparent to the public. It said Markle's mother has struggled to get past photographers to gain entry to her front door, reporters and photographers have tried to gain illegal entry to her home, her ex-boyfriend has been offered bribes while friends and co-workers have been bombarded for data. \n \"But the past week has seen a line crossed,\" the palace said. \"His girlfriend, Meghan Markle, has been subject to a wave of abuse and harassment.\" \n Harry said the statement was issued in hopes that the media \"can pause and reflect before any further damage is done.\" \n In a 2015 article for Elle magazine, Markle wrote candidly about how she came to terms being a \"biracial woman.\" She said her mother is African- American while her father is white. \n \"While my mixed heritage may have created a gray area surrounding my self-identification, keeping me with a foot on both sides of the fence, I have come to embrace that,\" she wrote. \"To say who I am, to share where I'm from, to voice my pride in being a strong, confident mixed-race woman.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Prince Harry condemns media 'abuse' of American girlfriend"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Emotional supporters of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos cheered, Tuesday, after the Philippine Supreme Court voted 9-5 with one abstention to rule that the former dictator can be buried at the heroes' cemetery in a ruling opponents say rolled back the country's democratic triumph when Filipinos ousted the strongman in a 1986 \"people power\" revolt. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Governor Imee Marcos, the eldest daughter of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, flashed a victory sign, Tuesday, after the Philippine Supreme Court voted 9-5, with one abstention, to rule that the former dictator can be buried at the heroes' cemetery in a ruling opponents say rolled back the country's democratic triumph when Filipinos ousted the strongman in a 1986 \"people power\" revolt, in Manila. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos displayed his image prior to marching towards the Supreme Court for an overnight vigil Monday in Manila. \n MANILA \u00bb The Philippines' Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that the late dictator Ferdinand Marcos can be buried at a heroes' cemetery, a decision that opponents said rolled back the democratic triumph of the \"people power\" revolt that ousted the strongman three decades ago. \n \"While he was not all good,\" the 15-member court said in passing judgment on one of Asia's most infamous strongmen, \"he was not pure evil either.\" \n Court spokesman Theodore Te said the justices voted 9-5 with one abstention to dismiss petitions opposing President Rodrigo Duterte's approval of the Marcos family's plea for the dictator to be buried at the Heroes' Cemetery in metropolitan Manila, where former presidents, soldiers and national artists have been interred. \n The decision on a deeply emotional issue that has divided the poor Southeast Asian nation can be appealed. \n Outside the court, more than 300 Marcos supporters erupted in celebration, chanting the dictator's name repeatedly. Some waved Philippine flags and wept in joy. Anti-Marcos activists were outraged, and some of the petitioners vowed to ask the court to reconsider. \n Riot police stood between the opposing groups. \n \"We are disappointed. We are heartbroken. We are outraged,\" a coalition of nearly 40 groups opposed to Marcos's burial at the cemetery said in a joint statement. \"With this decision, the very definition of hero is now in question.\" \n Sen. Risa Hontiveros, an anti-Marcos activist in her younger years, lamented the decision. \"No tombstone, no grandiose cemetery can change the fact that Marcos was not a hero,\" she said in a statement. \"He was a plunderer, torturer and a thief with a family seeking to rewrite history to serve their interests.\" \n The dictator's son and namesake, former Sen. Ferdinand \"Bongbong\" Marcos Jr., thanked the high court for its \"magnanimous act to uphold the rule of law\" and expressed his gratitude to Duterte. \n \"It is our sincerest hope that this will lead the nation towards healing,\" Marcos Jr. said in a statement, citing the decades of discord over his father's burial. \n The Marcos family did not immediately announce a burial date. \n Burying a dictator accused of massive rights violations and corruption by thousands of activists and dissenters at the heroes' cemetery has long been an emotional issue in the Philippines, where Marcos was ousted by a largely nonviolent army-backed uprising in 1986. At the height of the political turbulence, Marcos flew to Hawaii, where he lived with his wife, Imelda, and children in exile until he died in 1989. \n The Philippine revolt became a harbinger of change in authoritarian regimes worldwide. \n The Marcoses, however, have repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. The late dictator's wife, Imelda, and two of his children eventually ran for public office and won in a stunning political comeback. Marcos Jr. ran for vice president in May and garnered more than 14 million votes, but lost by a slim margin. \n In 1993, Marcos's body was flown back to his hometown in the northern province of Ilocos Norte, where it has been displayed in a glass coffin and became a tourist attraction. But his family fought for his remains to be transferred to the heroes' cemetery. \n Duterte, who took over the presidency in June, backed the dictator's burial at the cemetery, citing Marcos's privilege as a president and soldier, and taking a political risk in a country where pro-democracy advocates still celebrate Marcos's ouster each year. \n Duterte has said his late father, a former provincial governor, had served in Marcos's Cabinet and was one of his most loyal men. He acknowledged that one of Marcos's daughters, Imee Marcos, the current governor of Ilocos Norte, had backed his presidential bid. \n After the court ruled, Duterte's spokesman, Ernesto Abella, expressed \"hope the matter will finally be laid to rest, and that the nation finds the wherewithal to move forward.\" The military, which is in charge of burials at the heroes' cemetery, said it would abide by the decision. \n The Supreme Court dismissed seven petitions, including by former torture victims under Marcos, that argued that an honorable burial for the dictator is \"illegal and contrary to law, public policy, morals and justice.\" Opponents cited Duterte's political debt to the Marcoses. \n Marcos had not been convicted by final judgment of any offense involving moral turpitude, the court ruled, saying court convictions cited by anti-Marcos petitioners were civil in nature. \n While critics may disregard Marcos as president and commander-in-chief due to his human rights abuses, the court said he cannot be denied the right to be acknowledged as a former legislator, a defense secretary, a military member, a war veteran and a Medal of Valor awardee. \n \"We agree with the proposition that Marcos should be viewed and judged in his totality as a person,\" the court said, adding that he was \"just a human who erred like us.\" \n Despite the ruling, Sen. Hontiveros called on Duterte to reject plans to give Marcos a heroes' burial and \"to rise above his indebtedness and loyalty to the Marcos family.\" \n Left-wing activist Renato Reyes said his group could not accept the court decision. \n \"Our protests will hound Marcos all the way to his grave,\" Reyes said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Court says dictator Marcos can be buried at heroes' cemetery"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "Keli'i Akina, president of the Grassroot Institute of Hawaii, seemed headed for a surprising victory over Office of Hawaiian Affairs veteran Haunani Apoliona, after trailing narrowly in early returns. \n OHA Chairman Robert Lindsey defeated challenger Mililani Trask, 44.6 percent to 32.5 percent, with almost all votes counted Tuesday. \n Akina waged a spirited campaign against Apoliona, who has served continuously on the board since first being elected in 1996. He had 37.3 percent to her 35.9 percent of the votes for the at-large seat in a tally near midnight, with the remaining votes blank. \n It was Akina's second campaign for OHA and he recognized the challenge of taking on a well-known incumbent. \n \"Name recognition is a huge advantage for any candidate who has it, but we've made use of all forms of media to build our own name recognition,\" Akina said. \n \"This has been a great opportunity to do something good for the people of Hawaii, both Native Hawaiians and non-Hawaiians. The public has responded tremendously to our message that it's time for all people to work together.\" \n Akina had made some headlines himself as plaintiff in the lawsuit that wound up stopping the Na'i Aupuni Hawaiian self-governance election, which he considered racially discriminatory. The institute he leads is devoted to individual liberty and limited government. \n As the polls closed Tuesday evening, Apoliona looked back over her tenure, which includes a decade as OHA chairwoman. \n \"It definitely has been a building process,\" she said. \"It's all about empowering Native Hawaiians in our efforts for self-determination, social and economic development. Having the opportunity to serve for these 20 years, you have the chance to see the improvements and the bigger challenges that await OHA.\" \n Lindsey, a retired land assets division director for Kamehameha Schools, was seeking his third term. He sees his role as being \"a thoughtful rudder in leading the board\" and \"a quiet, rational voice in times of crisis.\" \n In the primary, Trask had edged Lindsey for the Hawaii island seat by less than 2 percentage points in a three-way race. A former trustee herself, Trask campaigned as a critic of OHA, calling on it to be more transparent, accountable, and focused in its efforts. \n \"OHA can't continue to be everything to everyone,\" Trask said. \"Trustees must consider and prioritize their areas of service to beneficiaries.\" \n All voters statewide may cast ballots in OHA elections. In the past, the top vote-getters in November were declared the winners. But since 2014, OHA elections have had primaries. \n The Office of Hawaiian Affairs is governed by nine trustees who serve four-year terms. Four were up for election this year. \n Molokai Trustee and 20-year OHA veteran Colette Machado received more than half of the votes in the primary and won outright. Trustee Dan Ahuna was unopposed for his Kauai seat. \n Many voters leave the OHA portion of their ballots blank. First-time voter Tobi Watanabe, a University of Hawaii student, decided to weigh in on the races although she didn't know a lot about the candidates. \n \"I voted for Bob Lindsey,\" she said after casting her ballot at Stevenson Middle School. \"That was solely based off things I heard on the radio. If it wasn't for Bob Lindsey's radio commercials, I wouldn't have known who he was.\" \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Lindsey tops challenger Trask Akina in OHA race"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/CALEB JONES, FILE \n In this July 25, 2016 file photo, former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa speaks during an interview in Honolulu, Hawaii. The death of one of Hawaii's Congressmen has led to an unusual ballot and voter confusion in urban Honolulu. A rare double election means residents are selecting someone to fill the late U.S. Rep. Mark Takai's seat for the two-month unfinished term and someone to represent the district for the next two years. Hanabusa is one of the candidates. \n Honolulu \u00bb Some voters might be confused when they vote as there are two separate elections to replace a congressman who died in office. That could be the biggest issue in otherwise heavily Democratic Hawaii. \n Here are some things to look for in this year's general election in Hawaii: \n BLUE OVER RED IN THE RAINBOW STATE \n Hawaii has a strong tradition of voting for Democrats, and there are no indications this year will be any different. GOP voters outnumbered Democrats 2-to-1 in the last presidential election. There is only one state Senate seat held by a Republican, Sam Slom, who has represented his district for 20 years. The wealthy district and its neighboring precincts are known for sending the state's few Republicans to office. If he loses his seat to Stanley Chang, a 34-year-old Democrat, Hawaii could become the first state in the nation to have a one-party legislative body in decades. The last time a party held all the seats in any state Legislature was 1980, when state Senates in Alabama and Louisiana were completely Democratic. \n TWO ELECTIONS, ONE SEAT \n Voters in Honolulu face an unusual ballot this Election Day. U.S. Rep. Mark Takai died in office last July, and residents on Tuesday will select someone to fill his seat for the remaining two months of his term. They're also choosing a candidate to represent the district for the next two years. The two elections, combined with voter confusion, could wind up with two different people winning the same House seat on election night, to serve the two different terms. \n U.S. HOUSE SEAT \n Former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa is running and wants to return to the seat she gave up to run for Senate. Hanabusa served in the U.S. House from 2011 until 2015. She had given up her House seat to run for Senate, but lost to U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz. In the Second Congressional District, U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard is running for re-election. She's facing Republican challenger Angela Aulani Kaaihue, whose Republican Party membership was revoked because she's also running as a Democrat in the special election to finish Takai's term. \n U.S. SENATE SEAT \n U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz is largely seen as a shoo-in for keeping his seat in Washington as the incumbent faces Republican John Carroll. The win would give Schatz his first full term in the U.S. Senate. When Hawaii's Sen. Daniel Inouye died in 2012, it was left to then-Gov. Neil Abercrombie to fill the seat. Inouye's dying wish was to have then-U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa fill the seat, but Abercrombie instead chose Schatz, his lieutenant governor. Carroll, a longtime Hawaii resident, served as a Hawaii lawmaker five times, four in the House and once as a state senator. He is an Army veteran of the Korean War, was an Air Force fighter pilot and has been a commercial pilot for Hawaiian Airlines. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii races include 2 elections for 1 seat"}

{"date": "November 8, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/CATHY BUSSEWITZ, FILE \n In this Oct. 6, 2016, file photo, Sen. Sam Slom, the lone Republican in the Hawaii Senate, talks about the race to hold onto his seat, outside a luncheon of the Oahu League of Republican Women at the Waialae Country Club in Honolulu. Slom, who held his seat for the last 20 years, is facing a challenge from Democrat Stanley Chang. \n With a polarizing presidential race, an election to replace the late U.S. Rep. Mark Takai and the possibility of an all-Democrat state Senate, Hawaii voters face difficult choices at the polls. \n Many have taken advantage of early voting held on most islands over the last two weeks, and others will head to the polls Tuesday to cast their votes. Some are expressing relief that campaign season is coming to a close. \n \"I am really looking forward to this election cycle being over and Hillary being president\" said Tamara Luthy, 30, a graduate student at University of Hawaii, who voted early for Democrat Hillary Clinton on Oct. 31 in Honolulu. \"Unfortunately, this election cycle has played like a reality TV show, and I think that there are really serious repercussions for whoever gets elected to be our president.\" \n Even though Democrats outnumbered Republicans 2-to-1 in Hawaii's last presidential election, voters are still divided between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump. \n \"I voted against Hillary. I don't trust her,\" said Al Coleman, 57, an IT professional who lives in Waikiki and cast his vote for Trump in early voting in Honolulu. \n In other races, former U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa, a Democrat, is hoping to return to her old seat in Congress, which she gave up to run for Senate two years ago. She's running in against Republican Shirlene Ostrov and others in Hawaii's 1st Congressional District, where voters are deciding who will replace the late U.S. Rep. Mark Takai, who died in July. \n There's a chance voters could send two different candidates to fill Takai's former seat, to serve different periods of time. The double election includes candidates for the two-month assignment to finish Takai's term and candidates to serve for two years starting in January. \n Democratic U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz is also hoping to return to his seat, and facing a challenge from Republican John Carroll and others. \n Democratic U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard is also running for re-election, facing challenger Angea Aulani Kaaihue, who's running in that race as a Republican. But Kaaihue is also running as a Democrat against Hanabusa and others in the special election to serve the rest of Takai's term. \n The lone Republican state senator, Sam Slom, who held his seat for the last 20 years, is facing a challenge from Democrat Stanley Chang. \n \"He does a good job of riling up the Republican base in a way that no one else has been able to do,\" said Republican state Rep. Beth Fukumoto Chang, minority leader of the Hawaii House, about Slom. \"I don't know what happens if we don't have that.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii voters to choose president, senators, representatives"}

