{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pedestrian walks past the site for the third presidential debate between Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton at UNLV in Las Vegas. \n WASHINGTON >> Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump's ugly and acrimonious battle for the White House is barreling toward the end, with the candidates taking the debate stage Wednesday night for one final primetime showdown. \n For Trump, the debate is perhaps his last opportunity to turn around a race that appears to be slipping away from him. His predatory comments about women and a flood of sexual assault accusations have deepened his unpopularity with women and limited his pathways to victory. His supporters remain intensely loyal, but there are few signs he's attracting the new backers he desperately needs. \n Clinton takes the stage facing challenges of her own. While the electoral map currently leans in her favor, the Democrat is facing a new round of questions about her authenticity and trustworthiness, concerns that have trailed her throughout the campaign. The hacking of her top campaign adviser's emails revealed a candidate that is averse to apologizing, can strike a different tone in private than in public, and makes some decisions only after painstaking political deliberations. \n The last in a trio of presidential debates, Wednesday's contest in Las Vegas comes just under three weeks from Election Day and with early voting already underway in several key battleground states. \n Trump has leaned on an increasingly brazen strategy in the campaign's closing weeks, including peddling charges that the election will be rigged, despite no evidence of widespread voter fraud in U.S. presidential contests. He's also charged that Clinton attacked and intimidated women involved with her husband's affairs, bringing three women who accused former President Bill Clinton of unwanted sexual contact and even rape to sit in the audience for the second debate. The former president has never been charged with crimes related to the encounters, though he did settle a sexual harassment lawsuit. \n Trump is bringing President Barack Obama's half-brother, Malik Obama, as his debate guest. Clinton is bringing billionaire and frequent Trump critic Mark Cuban and Hewlett Packard Enterprise CEO Meg Whitman, one of the former secretary of state's highest-profile Republican backers. \n Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said the Democratic nominee \"will be ready for whatever scorched-earth tactics (Trump) tries\" in Wednesday's debate. \n Republicans desperately hope Trump can close the campaign by focusing on Clinton's weaknesses, a strategy some privately concede may not be enough at this point for him to win, but could help GOP Senate candidates salvage their races. \n The businessman has shown flashes of renewed focus in recent days, including highlighting a senior State Department official's request that the FBI help reduce the classification of an email from Clinton's private server. It was to be part of a bargain that would have allowed the FBI to deploy more agents in foreign countries, though it was not immediately clear whether the State Department official or someone at the FBI first raised that prospect. \n Campaigning Tuesday in Colorado, Trump called the matter \"felony corruption\" and worse than the Watergate scandal that brought down President Richard Nixon. \n Clinton, who has meticulously prepared for the three debates at the expense of time in battleground states, visibly rattled Trump in their first showdown by using his own controversial comments about women and minorities against him. The businessman was on the defense at the start of the second debate \u2014 which came days after the release of a video in which he brags about kissing and grabbing women \u2014 but ended on stronger footing, hammering Clinton for being a creature of Washington who won't be able to bring about change. \n Trump denied in the second debate that he had made the kind of unwanted sexual advances he is heard describing on the video. His denial prompted some of the women who have since publicly accused him of assault to come forward. \n The Republican has acquiesced to some advisers who pressed for him to do more serious preparations after the first debate. Still, he's continued to eschew the mock debates and multiday prep sessions that he's criticizing Clinton for. \n \"She's been doing this for 30 years and now she has to do debate prep for five days,\" Trump said. \"You know what the debate prep is? It's resting. It's lying down and going to sleep. \n Moderator Chris Wallace \u2014 the first Fox News journalist to moderate a debate \u2014 has said he plans to ask the candidates about debt and entitlements, immigration, the economy, the Supreme Court, foreign hot spots and their fitness to be president. He aims to spend 15 minutes on each topic. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton, Trump set for last debate as ugly race nears finish"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. speaks at a rally for Missouri Democratic Senate candidate, Secretary of State Jason Kander, in Kansas City, Mo. \n KANSAS CITY, Mo. >> From liberal California to conservative Missouri, there are few places Sen. Elizabeth Warren won't go this election season. The Massachusetts Democrat is campaigning for Hillary Clinton, for Senate Democratic candidates and for liberal policies. \n And she's banking political capital that she could end up spending in ways that make Clinton and other Democratic leaders uncomfortable. \n Already Warren has been laying down markers for Clinton, in public and private, to consider activist progressives over Wall Street allies for appointments to key financial positions like Treasury secretary. The months to come will tell whether Warren serves as ally, antagonist, or both, to a new Democratic president and leadership in Congress. \n Warren's stature has never been more evident. The wind-down of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign has left her onstage as arguably the most influential liberal politician in the country. \n She gets rock-star treatment from Democrats everywhere she goes. \"This is bucket list territory. \u2026 She is a hero!\" Judy Baker, Democratic candidate for Missouri state treasurer, shouted to an excited crowd in Kansas City, Missouri, before Warren appeared last Friday with Senate candidate Jason Kander. \n She's emerged as one of Donald Trump's most pointed antagonists, attacking him over Twitter and goading him into labeling her Pocahontas, a reference to her disputed claim of Native American heritage. \n And hacked emails from Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta, show just how anxious the Clinton team has been about keeping her happy. In one email, campaign manager Robby Mook frets about how it would be \"such a big deal\" for an early meeting between Warren and Clinton to go well. In another exchange, Clinton adviser Dan Schwerin details a lengthy meeting with Warren's top aide, Dan Geldon, in which Geldon makes the case for progressive appointments to financial positions. \n It all underscores Warren's role as what allies call the \"north star\" of the Democratic Party. Thanks to Sanders' candidacy and her influence, many Democrats say the party's center of gravity has moved to the left, away from centrist policies on health care and entitlements in favor of embracing expanded Social Security, a higher minimum wage, debt-free college and a new government insurance option in Obama's health law. \n Now the question is how Warren, 67, will use her influence if Clinton becomes president. With Sen. Chuck Schumer set to become the Democratic leader in the Senate, the party would have two New Yorkers with Wall Street ties in top roles. \n At the same time, a whole group of Democratic senators from red states like North Dakota, West Virginia and Montana will be up for election in 2018. Will liberal policies on wages, tuition and other issues resonate in those states? \n \"The way I see this, Hillary Clinton has run on the most progressive agenda in decades, so I think it's the job of progressives like me to help her get elected on that agenda and then help her enact that agenda,\" Warren said in a brief phone interview Friday in Missouri. \n As for her advocacy on appointments, Warren said: \"There's no 'hell no' list. But I'll say the same thing publicly that I've said privately \u2014 personnel is policy. Hillary Clinton needs a team around her that is ambitious about using the tools of government to make this economy work better for middle class families. That happens only if she has the right people around her.\" \n As a freshman senator in the political minority, Warren has found creative ways to use her influence outside the creaky legislative process. She's gone public to needle the executive branch for action on issues like overtime rules and for-profit colleges, getting results. After she lectured the chief executive of Wells Fargo and told him to resign, he did. \n Within the insular confines of the Senate, according to lawmakers and staff, Warren is more popular than the gruff Sanders. She is willing to listen, collaborate, and compromise. She uses her star power judiciously. During budget negotiations last month, for example, she pushed Democratic leaders to use must-pass legislation to undo a measure supported by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that blocks the SEC from requiring corporations to disclose political spending. \n The effort was ultimately unsuccessful, but Warren's advocacy kept the issue alive through final negotiations and likely ensures that it comes back up again. \n Many Democrats would like to see Warren run for president someday, even four years from now, but if Warren is thinking that far ahead she is not saying. She may have a political contest closer to home: Former Red Sox star Curt Schilling said in an interview on WPRO radio in Providence, Rhode Island, Tuesday that he will run against Warren in 2018, if he gets permission from his wife. \n Either way the ideas she advocates are at the center of the national debate and could be so for election cycles to come. \n \"Part of what independent voters want and swing voters want is conviction and a willingness to stand up to powerful interests,\" said Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii. \"So you probably won't be running in a red state as a full-on Elizabeth Warren Democrat, but you may well be running on some of her ideas.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Warren builds political capital \u2014 to what post-election end?"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n San Jose State University in San Jose, Calif. When a water polo player at San Jose State was accused of sexually assaulting two women over Labor Day weekend, the university acted decisively. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> When a student athlete at San Jose State University in California was accused of sexually assaulting two women at an off-campus party over Labor Day weekend, school officials acted decisively. \n The student was ordered to stay away from the women involved and was moved from his dorm into a staff housing facility. He was also temporarily suspended from campus and team events pending the result of an investigation. \n University officials also acted quietly, prompting many students to ask why they were kept in the dark about the alleged assaults. Fueling the criticism, the suspect \u2014 identified as an international student \u2014 left the country as authorities investigated. \n The case has renewed focus on the problem of sexual assaults involving college students and raises questions about what obligations a university has to inform students and when it's time to go public about an alleged assault. \n University officials and legal experts say it's a delicate issue. On one hand, students have an interest in knowing immediately if a perpetrator is on their campus. But schools also need to protect students' privacy before an arrest is made or charges filed. \n One proposed solution is for schools to notify students of suspected assaults in police-blotter style, without divulging details that could identify suspects or victims. \n San Jose campus president Mary Papazian addressed student concerns in an email sent Monday to the university's 35,000 students and 5,000 faculty and staff. \n \"I am determined to do everything possible to ensure that SJSU is a safe, caring, inclusive community,\" she said. \"We will look comprehensively at how to improve communication.\" \n The school has said the male student was immediately interviewed by police and school officials. Since no arrests have been made and the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office is still reviewing the case for possible charges, the school felt there was no imminent safety threat to the campus community. \n Still, given the student concerns, the university will review the way it responds in sexual assault cases. \n \"I believe it is time to re-examine and consider changes to notification policies,\" Papazian said. \n The case follows the high-profile trial of former Stanford University athlete Brock Turner, who was convicted of attacking a woman while she was passed out near a trash bin on campus in January 2015. Turner's six-month prison sentence sparked national outrage and ignited a debate about campus rape and the criminal justice system. \n The California State University system, which includes San Jose State and 22 other campuses, has no systemwide policy on notifying the campus community about alleged assaults. \n But the schools adhere to the federal Clery Act, which requires universities to issue \"timely warnings\" of situations seen as a threat to the campus, said Toni Molle, spokeswoman for the California State University system. The decision of when to issue warnings is up to each campus. \n The Stanford case did not become public until Turner was charged, said Stanford law professor Michele Dauber, who favors some public disclosure early on after assaults are reported. \n \"As long as student privacy is protected, schools should err on the side of greater transparency and issue the timely warnings,\" said Dauber, a friend of the woman Turner assaulted who has been outspoken against the judge's sentencing. \n Families Advocating for Campus Equality, which works on behalf of students accused of assault, says it's important not to name names prematurely. \n \"I think it's OK for a campus to notify in the abstract. Take more precautions, say there's been a report,\" said Cynthia Garrett, a co-president at the group. \"But to put somebody's name and face out there, you need to be pretty sure something has happened. Imagine if you're innocent. Just imagine, how that could ruin a life.\" \n Most universities will wait until there is a clear public safety issue to sound an alarm. \n But publicizing an assault could lead more victims to step forward, says Fatima Goss Graves, an attorney at the Washington D.C.-based national Women's Law Center. \n In San Jose, one of the women came forward immediately, and the second woman waited two weeks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Campus sex assaults stir debate on when to alert students"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Cyrus Zaveih, also known as Cido the Clown. A spate of scares involving people doing menacing things while dressed in clown costumes has been no laughing matter for real clowns \n NEW YORK >> Send in the frowns. \n This year's nationwide creepy clown craze has become a nightmare before Halloween for actual, working clowns, who say their bookings at parties and other events have dropped sharply, even after many of the social media-fueled scary clown sightings have turned out to be hoaxes. \n Some fear going out with their greasepaint makeup and red noses will make them a target of police, or even marauding mobs who take to the streets on so-called \"clown hunts.\" \n \"It's definitely a scary feeling leaving your house and you fear you are going to get jumped because you're dressed as a clown,\" says Cyrus Zavieh, a New York City hospital administrator who also performs professionally as \"Cido the Clown.\" \n \"You're there to make them happy, to make them have fun, and now they are saying, 'Aaaagghh!'\" Zavieh says. \"All of a sudden these stories are putting fear into kids. \u2026 Before they'd just look the other way, but now it's like, 'You're a scary clown and I hate you.'\" \n The World Clown Association \u2014 comprised of more than 2,000 members in 30 countries \u2014 has been flooded with calls from scared performers. It's been sending out safety tips, suggesting clowns consider changing into their costumes when they arrive at a party or go with a handler. \n Association president Randy Christensen says clowns are also increasingly getting requests for \"modified performances\" in which they entertain without makeup and traditional clown attire. \n This week, retail giant Target took the step of pulling scary clown masks from its shelves. And McDonald's says its signature clown character, Ronald McDonald, will be keeping a lower profile. \n All of the fallout follows a phenomenon in the U.S. involving dozens of stories, many fabricated, about clowns stalking or attacking people. \n In multiple states, people have called police to report being menaced by people in clown costumes. In Kentucky, a man dressed as a clown was arrested after lurking in the woods. Children in Ohio and Texas have been charged with making clown-related threats to school classmates. A New York City teen told police a clown threatened him with a knife in the subway. \n \"They aren't clowns. They are clown impersonators,\" said Wendy Pincus, who has performed in New York City for the last 20 years. \"We're here to make people happy. We don't threaten people. We bring joy.\" \n Pincus, whose clown alter ego is \"Crazy Daisy,\" says she's seen a 30 percent to 40 percent decrease in just the past few weeks. \n Clown sightings, hoaxes and pranks \u2014 especially around Halloween \u2014 aren't new. In fact, they've become a recurring staple of crime blotters since serial killer and working clown John Wayne Gacy was convicted in 1980 of killing 33 people. \n In 2012, James Holmes dyed his hair red as Batman's Joker when he opened fire at a Colorado movie theater, killing 12 people. \n Those high-profile cases notwithstanding, experts say it's relatively common for people to feel creeped out by clowns. \n \"It primarily has to do with the exaggerated makeup and features. We recognize it, but there is something abnormal,\" says Dr. Kristie Golden, associate director of operations for psychiatry and neurosciences at Stony Brook University Hospital. \"We can be drawn in by that or we can be repelled.\" \n World Clown Association's Christensen says this year's clown scares seems to be reaching new heights, and suggests working clowns repel them the same way they always have, by spreading a message of happiness and boundless. \n \"Go out and clown and show people what this is,\" he says. \"Show them what good entertainment is \u2014 show them what a caring clown does.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Crying inside? Creepy craze no joke for real clowns"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters hit a Philippine National Police van after it rammed into protesters outside the U.S. Embassy in Manila ON Wednesday. \n MANILA \u00bb A Philippine police van rammed into protesters, leaving several bloodied, as an anti-U.S. rally turned violent Wednesday at the American Embassy in Manila. \n The van's driver, police officer Franklin Kho, told reporters he did not deliberately hit the protesters but was trying to drive away from them because they were hitting the vehicle with wooden clubs and he feared they would commandeer it and use it to attack other policemen. \"They were already trying to seize the vehicle,\" Kho told reporters. \n In front of horrified crowds, the van suddenly charged backward then sprinted forward twice over a space of about 60 feet, barreling through the scattered protesters and hurtling some to the side like bowling pins. A few were run over but somehow managed to stand. \n Some screamed in surprise, others hurled stones at the van and yelled invectives. A speaker called the police \"puppies of imperialists\" on a loudspeaker. \n At least three student activists were taken to a hospital after they were run over by the van, protest leader Renato Reyes said. \n \"There was absolutely no justification for it,\" Reyes said of the violent police dispersal of about 1,000 protesters. \"Even as the president vowed an independent foreign policy, Philippine police forces still act as running dogs of the U.S.\" \n More than two dozen policemen were injured, police officials said, adding that police observed \"maximum tolerance\" but rowdy protesters kept assaulting the law enforcers. \n Police lobbed tear gas and arrested at least 29 protesters who broke through a line of riot police and hurled red paint at the officers and a U.S. government seal at the start of the rally at the seaside embassy compound. \n A firetruck doused the rowdy protesters with water to push them back, but they took hold of the water hose and confronted the outnumbered police with rocks and red paint. After breaking through the police corridor, they scribbled \"U.S. troops out now\" and other slogans at the embassy's tall fence with red paint. \n The national police said in a statement that the violent dispersal was \"unfortunate\" and an investigation would try to determine if the riot policemen followed crowd-control procedures. Investigators will also evaluate criminal and civil liabilities of the protesters and their leader for an alleged illegal mass assembly. \n A left-wing legal group, the National Union of People's Lawyers, condemned the police violence and said it would help the injured and detained protesters file criminal complaints against the police for violating their constitutional rights to free assembly. \n The protesters, consisting of students, workers and tribespeople, were demanding an end to the presence of visiting U.S. troops in the Philippines and to support a call by President Rodrigo Duterte for a foreign policy not dependent on the U.S., the country's longtime treaty ally. \n The activists came from the largest left-wing umbrella group, Bayan (Nation), which has organized regular anti-U.S. protests in front of the embassy for decades, most of which are peaceful. \n Duterte was on a state visit to China, where he is seeking to repair relations strained under his predecessor over territorial conflicts in the South China Sea. He is also seeking to expand trade and investments and financing for badly needed infrastructure projects. \n Amid an uneasy relationship with the U.S., Duterte has tried to reach out to China and Russia, bringing uncertainty to his country's long alliance with America. \n But the protesters also opposed the president's effort to lean toward China. \"The Philippines will not be dictated on, whether by the U.S. or China,\" they said in a statement. \n The violence happened as the police and Duterte are under increased international scrutiny for their alleged role in the killings of thousands of drug suspects and pushers as part of the president's war on illegal drugs. \n Associated Press writer Jim Gomez contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine police van rams protesters in front of U.S. Embassy"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "KAAIHUE4CONGRESS.COM \n Angela Aulani Kaaihue \n Angela Kaaihue's name will remain on the special election ballot as a Democratic candidate for the 1st Congressional District to complete the term of the late Rep. Mark Takai. \n A state judge dismissed today a lawsuit by the Democratic Party of Hawaii seeking to remove her name from the ballot. \n Kaaihue is also a Republican candidate for Hawaii's 2nd Congressional seat held by Democrat Tulsi Gabbard in next month's general elections, which is happening on the same day as the special election. \n Democratic Party of Hawaii Chairman Tim Vandeveer says the party will continue its effort to remove Kaaihue's name from the special election ballot and is considering its options. \n Circuit Judge Karl Sakamoto dismissed the lawsuit because the Democratic Party did not serve Kaaihue the lawsuit within the 18 days of today's court hearing, as prescribed by state court rules. \n Sakamoto also said the Democratic Party did not file an objection to Kaaihue's nomination papers with the chief election officer or county clerk before filing the lawsuit. He rejected Democratic Party lawyer Anthony Gill's argument that the lawsuit, which names as defendants Kaaihue and state Chief Election Officer Scott Nago, also serves as the party's objection to Kaaihue's nomination papers. \n Even if the lawsuit could also serve as an objection, Sakamoto said the Democratic Party missed another deadline because state law requires objections to be filed at least 60 days prior to the election. The special and general elections are on Nov. 8. \n Kaaihue said state election officials assured her in June that she could run as a Democrat in the special election and as a Republican in the primary elections when she filed her nomination papers for both races at the same time. \n The Democratic Party filed its lawsuit to take Kaaihue's name off the special election ballot on Sept. 14. The court scheduled a hearing for Sept. 22 but according to court records, the Democratic Party was a no-show. \n The party filed papers indicating that it served Kaaihue the lawsuit on Oct. 11. \n Gill told Sakamoto that the party had difficulty serving Kaaihue the lawsuit because she was not available at the address she lists on her candidate reports. There is no home at the address, which is unimproved land next to Newtown Estates in Aiea. \n Kaaihue said the property is mostly preservation land she owns and that she has always used it as her residence address. She said the Democratic and Republican parties each notified her in August that she is not a member of their party. \n Kaaihue this summer attracted some unfavorable notice for a campaign banner advertising herself as \"healthy and cancer free,\" which many interpreted as a reference to U.S. Rep. Takai's fight to overcome pancreatic cancer. Takai died in office of the disease on July 21. Kaaihue has also spoken disparagingly of Gabbard's Hindu faith and has complained of what she describes as the \"Japanese-Buddhist\" domination of local politics. \n ", "author": "Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Court rules Kaaihue can remain on ballot for Takai's seat"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "USGS / HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY \n This webcamera image shows lava overflowing on the Halemaumau crater floor after the lake level rose over the vent rim Saturday afternoon. \n Lava overflowed on the crater floor at Kilauea's summit this weekend, the first time the lava lake level at Halemaumau Crater has overtopped the rim since May of last year. \n Lava flowed on the crater floor between 1 to 2 p.m. Saturday and at around 6:30 p.m. Saturday. \n The lava lake level has since dropped and was about 56 feet below the rim this morning. \n At that level, the lava spatter is visible from the Jagger Museum overlook. \n The lava lake level has been rising and falling, often within view of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park overlooks for the last several weeks. \n On September 22, the lake level rose to within 33 feet of the vent rim. At that time it was the highest level reached since the previous lake overflow in April-May 2015. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Lava lake overflows on Halemaumau Crater floor"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Undersecretary of State for Management Patrick Kennedy testified, on Sept. 8, on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A now-retired FBI agent and a State Department official involved in a discussion over the classification of information in one of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's emails said today they had discussed mutual agency requests but had not linked the two as a bargain, as another FBI employee had reported. \n The two men's accounts of a 2015 conversation were not identical and will likely not calm the furor over allegations of the State Department trying to arrange a \"quid pro quo\" to reduce the classification of an email from Clinton's private server in exchange for more FBI positions at the U.S. Embassy in Iraq. The issue was thrust into the presidential campaign Monday when the FBI published documents containing the allegation, which has been seized upon by Republican lawmakers and GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. \n In a statement released by the State Department, Under Secretary for Management Patrick Kennedy said he had called the agent, who was not named in the FBI documents but was identified by The Washington Post as Brian McCauley, \"to better understand a proposal the FBI had made to upgrade one of former Secretary Clinton's emails prior to its public release.\" \n Kennedy said he and other State Department officials wanted an explanation of the upgrade, which they believed was unnecessary. \n \"The FBI official I spoke to raised the topic of FBI Iraq slots as an entirely separate matter,\" Kennedy said. \"The two matters were not linked. There was no quid pro quo, nor was there any bargaining. At no point in our conversation was I under the impression we were bargaining. In the end, State upgraded the email at the FBI's request and in addition, no increase in FBI Iraq slots resulted from this conversation.\" \n Kennedy was a close aide to Clinton during her tenure as the nation's top diplomat between 2009 and early 2013. He had served in his position since November 2007, under President George W. Bush. In his statement, he denied any political motive in making the call. \n In an interview with The Washington Post, McCauley, the former FBI international operations official, recalled a 2015 phone call in which he said the two men each raised something that they wanted. \n \"He said: 'Brian. Pat Kennedy. I need a favor,'\" McCauley told the Post. \"I said: 'Good, I need a favor. I need our people back in Baghdad.\" \n According to McCauley's account, Kennedy replied: \"There's an email. I don't believe it has to be classified.\" \n McCauley acknowledged to the Post that he had agreed to do a favor for Kennedy, but he said that after consulting with another FBI official about the email in question, he told Kennedy that he was unable to help him. He said there was no \"collusion\" between the two men and nothing improper occurred. \n McCauley did not immediately respond to a phone message left in the mailbox of a company, Brainwave Science, that named him to its advisory board earlier this year. \n The use of the phrase \"quid pro quo\" actually arises in a separate interview with a different FBI official from the bureau's records management division. \n That official, whose name is redacted in the documents, relayed to the FBI a conversation between Kennedy and a colleague in the international operations division \u2014 presumably McCauley \u2014 that was characterized as a \"quid pro quo\" agreement to change the email's classification status in exchange for allowing the FBI to place more agents in countries where they are currently forbidden, according to a summary of the interview. \n The email in question described reports in November 2012 that Libyan police were arresting suspects in the attack on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, Libya. It had been forwarded to Clinton's private email address by Jake Sullivan, one of her top aides and the department's director of policy planning, who was using his government email account. \n The Associated Press reported the existence of the secret Benghazi-related email in May 2015, though the classified content of the document has never been made public. At the time, administration officials acknowledged interagency disagreements about whether certain information in the emails was classified. \n Although the State Department and FBI denied there had been a quid pro quo, Republicans seized on the report as collusion within the Obama administration to protect Clinton, now the Democratic presidential nominee. \n \"CORRUPTION CONFIRMED: FBI confirms State Dept. offered 'quid pro quo' to cover up classified emails,\" read a tweet from Team Trump, retweeted by the candidate. \n Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said the campaign had never been part of any such discussion about email classifications. \n House Republicans said Monday the reports of behind-the scenes maneuvering with the FBI were \"extremely disturbing.\" \n \"Those who receive classified intelligence should not barter in it \u2014 that is reckless behavior with our nation's secrets,\" House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., said in a joint statement. \n The ambiguities laid bare in the FBI documents \u2014 summaries of interviews \u2014 are fairly standard for criminal investigations, where different witnesses offer different accounts of the same interaction and agents and prosecutors behind closed doors are left to try to determine the truth. \n The summaries being released in this case reflect what witnesses told agents without presenting an agreed upon or easily reconcilable narrative. In promising extraordinary transparency in the Clinton email investigation, FBI Director James Comey authorized the release of interview summaries and agents' notes that are almost never seen by the public \u2014 particularly in cases that close without charges. \n Associated Press writer Matthew Lee contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI, State Dept. officials say no talk of email quid pro quo"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during a campaign rally, today, in Colorado Springs, Colo. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb People Magazine reported today that a half-dozen people have come forward to corroborate its writer's account of being sexually assaulted by Donald Trump and its aftermath. \n Natasha Stoynoff, a former staff writer at the celebrity magazine, wrote last week that Trump grabbed her, pinned her against a wall and forcibly kissed her in a room at his Mar-a-Lago mansion in Florida in 2005. She was on assignment to write a profile of the billionaire businessman and his then-pregnant wife, who Stoynoff said was upstairs when it happened. \n The Republican presidential nominee has denied the accusation, saying Stoynoff fabricated the incident. He also suggested Stoynoff, 51, is not physically attractive enough to merit his attention. \n \"She lies! Look at her, I don't think so,\" Trump, 70, said at a campaign rally last week. \n Stoynoff is one of about a dozen women who have recently accused Trump of such misconduct as groping, unexpected kisses on the mouth and unwanted sexual advances. \n Though Stoynoff says she and Trump were alone when he accosted her, the magazine's latest story quotes five friends and former co-workers who say the writer told them about the incident shortly after it happened. \n In Stoynoff's first-person account, she also wrote of a chance meeting and brief conversation with Melania Trump along New York's Fifth Avenue weeks later. She said Trump's third wife was by then carrying the couple's infant son, Barron, in her arms while outside Trump Tower. She said Melania called her by her first name and gave her a hug. \n But Melania Trump said in an interview with CNN broadcast Monday that the conversation never happened. \n \"I was never friends with her, I would not recognize her,\" the candidate's wife said of Stoynoff. \n However, a sixth person quoted in People's story today, Liza Herz, said she was with Stoynoff and remembers the moment well. \n \"They chatted in a friendly way,\" Herz is quoted as saying. \"And what struck me most was that Melania was carrying a child and wearing heels.\" \n Stoynoff's longtime friend Marina Grasic told People she got a call from the reporter the day after the alleged attack. Grasic said Stoynoff detailed everything, from Trump pushing her against a wall to the mogul later showing up at her massage appointment. \n \"Beyond just the attack, she was horrified by the vulgar circumstances under which she was attacked and propositioned to have an affair,\" Grasic recounted. \"She was there in a professional capacity, writing an article about their happy marriage, and after the incident Trump acted like nothing happened.\" \n Paul McLaughlin, Stoynoff's former journalism professor, told the magazine she called him in tears looking for advice on the night of the alleged encounter. He cautioned her to remain quiet in fear of how Trump might retaliate to destroy her career and reputation. \n \"I advised her not to say anything, because I believed Trump would deny it and try to destroy her,\" McLaughlin told People. \n The former People co-workers quoted to bolster Stoynoff's account were East Coast Editor Liz McNeil, Deputy East Coast News Editor Mary Green and former staff writer Liza Hamm. All said Stoynoff confided in them years ago about the incident. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Associated Press reporter Michael Biesecker at http://Twitter.com/mbieseck \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Witnesses back People writer's account of Trump sex assault"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam performed at Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival in Manchester, Tenn. on June 11. The late rapper Tupac Shakur and Seattle-based rockers Pearl Jam are among the first-time nominees on the ballot for induction next year into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rapper Tupac Shakur attended an Aug. 1996 voter registration event in South Central Los Angeles. Shakur and Seattle-based rockers Pearl Jam are among the first-time nominees on the ballot for induction next year into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. \n NEW YORK \u00bb The late rapper Tupac Shakur and Seattle-based rockers Pearl Jam are among the first-time nominees on the ballot for induction next year into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. \n Nine of the 19 acts nominated are on the ballot for the first time, with Shakur and Pearl Jam in their first year of eligibility. More than 800 artists, historians and music-industry officials vote, with results announced in December and induction next April. Others back for another chance include pop superstar Janet Jackson; she was nominated for the first time last year. \n Nominations were announced today. \n The prolific Shakur was shot and killed at his peak in 1996. His album \"Me Against the World\" hit the top of the charts when he was in prison for sexual assault. \"Keep Ya Head Up,\" \"Life Goes On,\" \"Ambitionz Az a Ridah\" and \"Changes\" are among his best-known songs. He recorded so much while alive that releases kept flowing after his death. \n Pearl Jam would be the second band, following Nirvana in 2014, with roots in Seattle's grunge scene to make the hall. Behind charismatic frontman Eddie Vedder, Pearl Jam was a huge initial success behind songs like \"Jeremy,\" \"Even Flow,\" \"Alive\" and \"Better Man.\" They consciously stepped back from the commercial world, and persist as a respected and popular touring outfit. \n And \"Don't Stop Believin'\" it's true: Journey is another first-time nominee. Its members must wait a couple of months to find out if voters welcome them with \"Open Arms.\" \n Other first-time nominees: the hardcore punk pioneers Bad Brains; 1980s synth-poppers Depeche Mode; Jeff Lynne's 1970s hit machine Electric Light Orchestra; Lollapalooza instigators Jane's Addiction; 1960s folkie Joan Baez; and Steppenwolf, Canadian rockers of \"Born to be Wild\" fame. \n The influential disco-era band Chic, who have become the hard-luck losers of the rock hall induction process, are on the ballot for the 11th time. \n Others back as nominees include Jackson; soul singer and former Rufus frontwoman Chaka Khan; the Peter Wolf-led rockers J. Geils Band; late \"I Gotcha\" singer Joe Tex; the German electronic music band Kraftwerk; the Detroit-area punk forerunners MC5; Ric Ocasek's new wavers The Cars; the Zombies, British makers of \"Time of the Season\" and \"She's Not There\"; and the 1970s-era progressive rockers Yes. \n There is no set number of inductees. This year's class had five members. \n To be eligible, all of the nominees had to have released their first recording no later than 1991. The induction ceremony, open to the ticket-buying public and televised later on HBO, will take place in Brooklyn's Barclay's Center. \n The public will also be invited to vote online among the nominees, with their top five selections cast as a \"fan's ballot.\" \n Inductees will eventually be enshrined in the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame museum in Cleveland. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tupac Shakur, Pearl Jam lead rock hall of fame ballot"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A pilot demonstrates how a tablet inflight controls the Aurora Flight Sciences' Aircrew Labor In-Cockpit Automantion System (ALIAS), which is mounted in a Cessena Caravan aircraft at Manassas Airport in Manassas, Va., Monday, Oct. 17, 2016. Government and industry are working together on a robot-like autopilot system that could eliminate the need for a second human pilot in the cockpit. \n MANASSAS, Va. >> Think of it as the airborne cousin to the self-driving car: a robot in the cockpit to help human pilots fly passengers and cargo \u2014 and eventually even replace them. \n The government and industry are collaborating on a program that seeks to replace the second human pilot in two-person flight crews with a robot co-pilot that never tires, gets bored, feels stressed out or gets distracted. \n The program is funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Pentagon's arm for development of emerging technologies, and run by Aurora Flight Sciences, a private contractor. With both the military and airlines struggling with shortages of trained pilots, officials say they see an advantage to reducing the number of pilots required to fly large aircraft while at the same time increasing safety and efficiency by having a robot pick up the mundane tasks of flying. \n The idea is to have the robot free the human pilot, especially in emergencies and demanding situations, to think strategically. \n \"It's really about a spectrum of increasing autonomy and how humans and robots work together so that each can be doing the thing that it's best at,\" said John Langford, Aurora's chairman and CEO. \n Langford even envisions a day when a single pilot on the ground will control multiple airliners in the skies, and people will go about their daily travels in self-flying planes. \n At a demonstration of the technology at a small airport in Manassas, Virginia, on Monday, a robot with spindly metal tubes and rods for arms and legs and a claw hand grasping the throttle was in the right seat of a single-engine Cessna Caravan. In the left seat, a human pilot tapped commands to his mute colleague on an electronic tablet. The robot did the flying. \n Sophisticated computers flying planes aren't new. In today's airliners, the autopilot is on nearly the entire time the plane is in the air. Airline pilots do most of their flying for brief minutes during takeoffs and landings, and even those critical phases of flight could be handled by the autopilot. \n This program, known as Aircrew Labor In-Cockpit Automation System, or ALIAS, goes steps further. For example, an array of cameras allows the robot to see all the cockpit instruments and read the gauges. It can recognize whether switches are in the on or off position, and can flip them to the desired position. And it learns not only from its experience flying the plane, but also from the entire history of flight in that type of plane. \n The ALIAS robot \"can do everything a human can do\" except look out the window, Langford said. Give the program time and maybe the robot can do that, too, he said. \n In other ways, the robot is better than the human pilot, reacting faster and instantaneously calling up every emergency checklist for a possible situation, officials said. \n In some ways, it will be like flying with a \"co-pilot genius,\" Langford said. \"The robot carries in them the DNA of every flight hour in that (aircraft) system, every accident,\" he said. \"It's like having a human pilot with 600,000 hours of experience.\" \n The robot is designed to be a \"drop-in\" technology, ready for use in any plane or helicopter, even 1950s vintage aircraft built before electronics. \n But the robot faces a lot of hurdles before it's ready to start replacing human pilots, not the least of which is that it would require a massive rewrite of Federal Aviation Administration safety regulations. Even small changes to FAA regulations often take years. \n Elements of the ALIAS technology could be adopted within the next five years, officials said, much the way automakers are gradually adding automated safety features that are the building blocks of self-driving technology. Dan Patt, DARPA's ALIAS program manager, said replacing human pilots with robots is still a couple of decades away, but Langford said he believes the transition will happen sooner than that. \n Pilot unions are skeptical that robots can replace humans. Keith Hagy, the Air Line Pilots Association's director of engineering and safety, pointed to instances of multiple system failures during flights where only the heroic efforts of improvising pilots saved lives. \n In 2010, for example, an engine on a jumbo Qantas airliner with 469 people on board blew up, firing shrapnel that damaged other critical aircraft systems and the plane's landing gear. The plane's overloaded flight management system responded with a cascading series of emergency messages for which there was no time to respond. By chance, there were five experienced pilots on board \u2014 including three captains \u2014 who, working together, were able to land the plane. But it was a close call. \n \"Those are the kind of abnormal situations when you really need a pilot on board with that judgment and experience and to make decisions,\" Hagy said. \"A robot just isn't going to have that kind of capability.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Robot pilots may someday fly passenger and cargo planes"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Millions of Social Security recipients and federal retirees will get only tiny increases in benefits next year, the fifth year in a row that older Americans will have to settle for historically low raises. \n WASHINGTON >> Millions of Social Security recipients and federal retirees will get a 0.3 percent increase in monthly benefits next year, the fifth year in a row that older Americans will have to settle for historically low raises. The adjustment adds up to a monthly increase of less than $4 a month for an average recipient. \n The cost-of-living adjustment, announced by the government Tuesday, will affect more than 70 million people \u2014 about 1 in 5 Americans. For recipients, the average monthly Social Security payment now is $1,238. \n Unfortunately for some seniors, even the small increase will probably be wiped out by an expected increase in Medicare Part B premiums, which are usually deducted from Social Security payments. \n By law, rising premiums for most Medicare recipients cannot exceed their Social Security cost-of-living increase. That's known as the \"hold harmless\" provision. However, new enrollees and high-income retirees are not covered by that provision, so they could face higher Medicare premiums, which will be announced later this year. \n There was no Social Security benefit increase this year, and next year's will be small because inflation is low, driven in part by cheaper fuel prices. The low inflation rate should help keep some older folks' bills from rising very rapidly. \n Don't tell that to Millicent Graves, a retired veterinary technician, who says Medicare and supplemental insurance premiums eat up nearly a third of her $929 monthly Social Security payment. The 72-year-old from Williamsburg, Virginia, says her insurance premiums went up by $46.50 this year, and her cable TV, internet and phone bill went up, too. \n \"I just lose and lose and lose and lose,\" Graves said. \n More than 60 million retirees, disabled workers, spouses and children get Social Security benefits. The COLA also affects benefits for about 4 million disabled veterans, 2.5 million federal retirees and their survivors, and more than 8 million people who get Supplemental Security Income, the disability program for the poor. Many people who get SSI also receive Social Security. \n Since 2008, the COLA has been above 2 percent only once, in 2011. It's been zero three times. \n \"This loss of anticipated retirement income compounds every year, causing people to spend through retirement savings far more quickly than planned,\" said Mary Johnson of the Senior Citizens League. \"Over the course of a 25- or 30-year retirement, it reduces anticipated Social Security income by tens of thousands of dollars.\" \n The cost-of-living adjustment is based on a broad measure of prices generated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. It measures price changes for food, housing, clothing, transportation, energy, medical care, recreation and education. \n If prices go up, benefits go up. If prices drop or stay flat, benefits stay the same. \n Gasoline prices have fallen by more than 6 percent over the past year, according to the September inflation report, while the cost of medical care has gone up by more than 5 percent. \n For seniors who don't drive much, they don't get the full benefit of low gas prices, said Max Gulker, a senior research fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research. Many seniors spend more of their income on health care. \n Graves said she appreciates lower gas prices, but the higher medical costs are a problem. \n \"I just have to rely more each month on cashing in investments,\" Graves said. \"I'm lucky I can do that.\" \n Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has embraced the idea of expanded benefits for certain low-income retirees. She says the nation would pay for it by raising taxes on \"the highest-income Americans.\" \n Breaking with other Republicans, GOP nominee Donald Trump has pledged not to cut benefits. However, he has offered few specifics on how he would address Social Security's long-term financial problems. \n Social Security is financed by a 12.4 percent tax on the first $118,500 of a person's annual wages, with the worker paying half and the employer paying the other half. The amount of wages subject to the payroll tax will go up to $127,200 next year, the Social Security Administration said. \n About 173 million workers will pay Social Security taxes next year \u2014 about 12 million of them will face higher taxes because of the higher cap, the agency said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "$4 a month? Social Security recipients to get tiny increase"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK DAILY NEWS \n A screenshot of video showing a woman tussling with others over a statue depicting a topless, hoofed Hillary Clinton in New York City today. \n NEW YORK \u00bb A statue of a topless, hoofed Hillary Clinton appeared outside a subway station today, prompting a tussle after one woman purposely knocked it down and sat on it to prevent others from picking it back up. \n The display marked the second time a life-size, exaggerated depiction of a naked presidential nominee has surfaced outside a Manhattan subway stop during the general election campaign. In August, an artist's statue of an unclothed Donald Trump was eventually hauled away by city workers. \n But the crowd's reaction to the naked Clinton was markedly different from that to the Trump statue, when a largely jovial group of onlookers took photos of it and posed for selfies. Some parts of the portly Trump's genitalia were visible in that statue. \n \"We shouldn't be treated this way. Period,\" another woman can be heard saying in the video. \n It wasn't immediately clear who created the Clinton statue. An activist collective called INDECLINE was behind the naked Trump statue but said in a statement that it had no role in the Clinton one. \n A police spokesman said the Clinton statue was eventually removed by whoever brought it to lower Manhattan, and no summonses or tickets were issued. \n Representatives for Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Clinton supporter, haven't responded to questions about the statue. In August, a spokesman for the parks department issued a tongue-and-cheek statement in explaining that the statue of the Republican presidential nominee was removed because it was being displayed without a permit. \n \"NYC Parks stands firmly against any unpermitted erection in city parks, no matter how small,\" spokesman Sam Biederman said then. \n The Clinton campaign didn't respond to a request for comment. \n Carin Kuoni, a professor of contemporary art and political engagement at The New School, said the Clinton statue could be seen as offensive rather than satirical since women have been defined for years in culture, media and politics by how they look. \n \"The history of how the female body appears has clearly been so negatively coded and inscribed that it makes for a completely different intervention when you see the sculpture of a naked woman than when you see a naked man,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Video shows tussle over naked Hillary Clinton statue in NYC"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "KECK TELESCOPE \n This webcamera image shows the Keck telescope on Mauna Kea surrounded by snow this morning. \n NASA INFRARED TELESCOPE FACILTY \n This webcamera imagefrom the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility on Mauna Kea is looking south toward Mauna Loa. \n CANADA HAWAII FRANCE TELESCOPE \n This webcamera image shows snow around the Canada Hawaii France Hawaii telescope on the summit of Mauna Kea this morning. \n UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII-HILO \n This webcamera image from the University of Hawaii-HIlo webcamera at the Physics and Astronomy telescope shows snow on the summit of Mauna Kea. \n Wet weather over the Big Island overnight reached the summit of Mauna Kea and left a dusting of snow this morning. \n What the weather service calls \"wet tradewind weather\" is expected today over most of the state through Wednesday night. \n Rain clouds are being blown over windward and mauka areas of most islands by the tradewinds. Some of the showers may move over leeward areas. \n \"Over the eastern and central parts of the state, we expect mostly moderate rains with a few locally heavier downpours at times. The highest rain chances will of course be over windward areas, but some leeward areas will see scattered showers as well,\" forecasters said. \n The snow on Mauna Kea melted by this afternoon. But the wet tradewind weather and cool temperatures in the upper atmosphere means there is a chance more snow may fall on Mauna Kea overnight. \n Winds are likely to pick up Thursday and another band of moisture from a dissipating weather system could bring an increased chance of showers, mostly in windward and mauka areas, Friday or Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Mauna Kea gets October snow"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "President Barack Obama answers a question during a joint news conference with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington, Tuesday, Oct. 18, 2016. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais) \n WASHINGTON \u00bb \"Stop whining,\" President Barack Obama rebuked Donald Trump today, speaking out as seldom before on next month's election and chiding the Republican for sowing suspicion about the integrity of America's presidential vote. \n Obama also accused Trump of cozying up to Russia's Vladimir Putin to a degree \"unprecedented in American politics.\" \n The president said Trump's intensifying pre-emptive warnings about voter fraud are unheard of in modern politics. The rhetoric is not based on any evidence, Obama said, but is simply aimed at discrediting the outcome before the first votes are counted. \n \"You start whining before the game is even over?\" Obama said at a Rose Garden news conference. \"If whenever things are going badly for you and you lose you start blaming somebody else \u2014 then you don't have what it takes to be in this job.\" \n Campaigning in Colorado, the GOP candidate repeated his assertions about \"corrupt\" elections but did not respond directly to the president. Trump vowed to \"drain the swamp\" in Washington, and for the first time promised to push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress. \n The president's remarks came as Trump and his Republican allies look for ways to regain momentum after a damaging few weeks in the campaign. Heading into the third and final debate Wednesday night, Trump is trailing in the polls and running out of time for a comeback before Nov. 8. \n Obama waded into the race to elect a successor, speaking at the White House where he was hosting his final state visit. Italy's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi at his side, the president initially said he would pull his punches when it came to politics, respecting the official setting. But when he was asked about Trump's rhetoric, he hardly held back. \n \"I would invite Mr. Trump to stop whining and go try to make his case to get votes,\" he said. \n The GOP candidate has ramped up warnings about potential fraud. That's drawing criticism not only from Democrats but from his own party, particularly the state and county officials who run local elections, who fear the rhetoric will give losers license to dispute any results. \n \"They even want to try and rig the election at the polling booth, where so many cities are corrupt and you see that and voter fraud is all too common,\" Trump said at a rally in Colorado Springs. \n Independent studies and election officials in both parties say they see no evidence that voter fraud \u2014 individuals impersonating others to cast ballots \u2014 is a widespread problem. \n Asked about Trump's claims today, running mate Mike Pence dodged and suggested Trump's point actually was about the \"overwhelming bias in the national media.\" \n Pence spoke after touring the burned-out offices of the Republican Party in Hillsborough, North Carolina. The GOP office was firebombed over the weekend in what Pence called an \"act of political terrorism.\" Trump pointed at Clinton supporters, but Pence did not assign blame. Police are investigating. \n Clinton held no public events today while she prepared for the debate. She has her own troubles and is certain to be asked about the latest revelations involving her use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state. \n New FBI documents released Monday revived questions about whether she received classified information and whether State Department allies sought to protect her from criticism over the email arrangement. \n The FBI notes show a State Department official asked the FBI to lower the classification of a sensitive email found on her server. The email was related to the attack on the U.S. compound in Benghazi, Libya. \n The documents revealed discussion of a \"quid pro quo\" in trying to get the email reclassified, though it's not clear who first raised the issue. Both State and FBI officials deny any bargaining took place, and the email was not declassified. \n Trump called it an \"elaborate and deliberate cover-up\" and called for the State Department official, Undersecretary for Management Patrick F. Kennedy, to be fired. \n The Republican is hoping to turn the conversation away from the allegations of sexual misconduct that partly dominated his last debate against Clinton. \n In an interview with Fox News aired today, Melania Trump vouched for her husband and blamed the accusations on political rivals: \"They want to damage the presidency of my husband, and it was all planned, it was all organized from the opposition.\" \n Her comments carried echoes of Clinton's allegations of a \"vast right-wing conspiracy\" organized to raise similar allegations against her husband two decades ago. Trump notably tried to revive Bill Clinton's history by inviting his accusers to the last debate. His guest list for Wednesday's faceoff in Las Vegas includes Pat Smith, whose son, Sean Smith, was killed in the attack in Benghazi. Smith was a featured speaker at the Republican National Convention, where she delivered an emotional speech blaming Clinton for her son's death. \n As for Russia, Obama accused Trump of showering praise and modeling his policies on Russian President Putin to a degree that is \"unprecedented in American politics.\" \n He said he has been \"surprised and troubled\" by Republican lawmakers who he said are echoing their presidential nominee's positions. Trump has praised Putin as a strong leader and criticized Obama and Clinton for Washington's deteriorating relationship with Moscow. \n In an interview Monday, Trump said Russia \"can't stand\" either Democrat. He promised a closer relationship with Putin, if elected, starting with a possible meeting before Inauguration Day. \n Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Michael Biesecker and Eric Tucker in Washington. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Stop whining,' Obama tells Trump"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Department of Agriculture wildlife specialist Tony Salas held a brown tree snake outside his office on Andersen Air Force Base on the island of Guam in Feb. 2013. The snake, which is native to Australia and Papua New Guinea, was accidentally introduced to Guam after World War II. \n HILO \u00bb A state biosecurity plan says the brown tree snake could cause as much as $2 billion each year in damages if introduced to Hawaii. \n The snake, which is native to Australia and Papua New Guinea, was accidentally introduced to Guam after World War II. \n \"It's pretty rare when we have a species that cuts across all issues as a problem,\" said Christy Martin of the Hawaii Invasive Species Council. \n The estimates cited to deal with a potential brown snake problem in the draft Hawaii Interagency Biosecurity Plan stem from the anticipated costs of establishing eradication programs and outbound cargo inspection plus the economic impacts on Hawaii's agriculture and tourism sectors. \n If Hawaii became known for having brown tree snakes \"like Guam has, a lot less people would be inclined to come,\" said Shane Siers, Hawaii field station leader for the U.S. Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services National Wildlife Research Center. \"And if all the native birds were wiped out, that would diminish the amount of nature enthusiasts visiting.\" \n The U.S. Department of Agriculture spends $5 million annually to keep the brown tree snakes from getting into Guam's outbound cargo. \n Last year, more than 10,000 snakes were removed from areas surrounding Guam's airports and seaports, Siers said. \n Preventing the invasive animal from coming to Hawaii would be \"a pretty darn good return on investment,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brown tree snake could pose costly threat to Hawaii"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "HOLLYN JOHNSON/POOL PHOTO \n Mayor Billy Kenoi stands with his attorneys Todd Eddins (right) and Richard Sing (left) during his trial today in Hilo Circuit Court. \n HILO >> Hawaii County Mayor Billy Kenoi's attorney portrayed him as a 24/7 workhorse for the county on the opening day of testimony at Kenoi's trial on theft and records tampering charges today, but prosecutors said the public servant crossed the line by using his government-issued purchasing card for lavish personal spending, including large amounts of alcohol. \n \"It was not his intent to permanently deprive the county of any money,\" Defense attorney Todd Eddins said in his opening statement. The mayor may have purchased alcohol at a mainland hotel bar, but that was to build, nurture and strengthen relationships, Eddins said. \n \"That was his style of leadership,\" he said. \"Everything in the interest of this county.\" \n Kenoi is on trial before Judge Dexter Del Rosario in Circuit Court in Hilo after being indicted in March on four counts of theft, two of them second-degree felonies, and two third-degree; three counts of tampering with government records; and one count of false swearing or making a false statement under oath. \n Before the indictment and in the wake of media reports Kenoi had admitted to inappropriate expenditures, including nearly $900 at a Honolulu hostess bar in 2013. \n Two key prosecution witnesses took the stand after opening statements, in which State Deputy Attorney General Michelle Puu outlined the 15 transactions on Kenoi's purchasing card from May 2011 to October 2011. \n Nancy Cook-Lauer, the West Hawaii Today reporter who broke the story about Kenoi's use of the county purchasing card, testified she requested pCard records for the mayor and other county heads and executive assistants for November 2010 through February 2012. The records, she said, did not include eight of the 15 transactions that are included in the charges. \n Eddins tried to discredit Cook-Lauer, questioning her motives for doing the story and whether she wanted to see Kenoi convicted. \n The initial story Cook-Lauer wrote included Kenoi's payment of a Honolulu hostess bar tab of nearly $900, but that and many other personal purchases, which include a surfboard and bicycle, are not a part of the charges in the indictment. \n Eddins said the county charter provided the authority for the mayor to authorize expenses, including meals and alcohol. \n The second witness, former county Finance Director Nancy Crawford who was appointed by the mayor, appeared hesitant when testifying, explaining there were things she wasn't supposed to speak about. \n Crawford, who served from 2011 to 2014, said the pCard was not for personal purchases. She also said, however, that the mayor could authorize his personal purchases. \"The mayor authorizes his own purchase of liquor,\" she said, adding that she was aware of personal purchases. \n In opening statements, Puu presented receipts showing large purchases of alcohol that the mayor did not provide to the Finance Department. \n Some of the receipts in question were described as payment for dinner, including for staff and for volunteers at the Big Island Film Festival. But a receipt for $265 for liquor and $50 for beer showed no food, as Puu noted. \n Some purchases were on Hawaii island while others were made on trips to Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Honolulu. \n Eddins tallied the expenditures alleged by the prosecution as personal to be $4,129.31. He said that Kenoi reimbursed the county $3,929.31, for 14 out of the 15 transactions. \n Puu said the reimbursements range from four to 26 months and many followed requests by the media for pCard records. \n ", "author": "Leila Fujimori", "title": "Kenoi's liquor purchases take center stage in trial's opening day"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "A downed utility pole forced the closure of the Teshima Junction in South Kona early this morning. \n Hawaii County police reported that a motor vehicle accident forced the junction closure around 4:30 a.m. No serious injuries were immediately reported. \n Motorists are advised to seek alternate routes. The duration of the road closure is unknown, but expected to be at least several hours. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Downed utility pole closes junction in south Kona"}

{"date": "October 18, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Wednesday, May 18, 2016, file photo, the Home Depot logo appears on a credit card reader at a Home Depot store in Bellingham, Mass. The Yahoo hack, reported on Thursday, Sept. 22, 2016, exposed personal details from at least 500 million user accounts, potentially the largest breach of an email provider in history. Home Depot said in September 2014 that attackers stole 56 million debit and credit card numbers in a months-long breach of its computer systems. About two months later, the nation's largest home improvement chain disclosed that hackers also stole 53 million email addresses in addition to the card data. \n Washington \u00bb Reset your password. Update your anti-virus program. If such demands irritate you, you may have computer \"security fatigue.\" \n It's been studied by behavioral scientists and computer security experts. It happens when users are bombarded with security warnings and demands for compliance. As a result, the studies show, three-quarters of computer users know how to make strong passwords but don't practice what they know. It just seems too overwhelming. \n Average users have dozens of accounts that require logins and passwords. \n \"We've been coming to realize that we've been asking people unreasonable things in terms of passwords,\" said Dr. Lujo Bauer of the school of electrical and computer engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. \n \"It's not possible to create 100 strong passwords that are unique and actually remember them. It's even worse if we have to periodically change them,\" he said. \n A government study titled \"Security Fatigue\" argues that users feel it's gotten too hard to maintain adequate security, so they've become careless. Security may be getting worse. \n \"Users are tired of being overwhelmed by the need to be constantly on alert, tired of all the measures they are asked to adopt to keep themselves safe, and tired of trying to understand the ins and outs of online security,\" said the study by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, a unit of the Commerce Department. \n It's not just average users. Silicon Valley companies reuse the same simple password for multiple websites, a big problem for computer security. \n Mark Zuckerberg's Twitter and Pinterest accounts were hacked in June. His password for both accounts was \"dadada,\" according to the hackers. \n Hillary Clinton campaign Chairman John Podesta's Twitter account, his iPhone and his iPad were hacked recently. He apparently used the same password for his Apple ID and Twitter. \n Concern about online security grows apace with the frequency and volume of hacks of retailers, banks, social media and other sites that let vast numbers of passwords fall into the hands of hackers. So far in 2016, more than 500 million passwords have been leaked, according to a study from LastPass, a password managingr product. \n \"What you hear about is just the tip of the iceberg. People don't even know that they've been hacked,\" said Joe Siegrist, vice president of LastPass. \n \"It's probable that everybody in the United States has lost a password or had one stolen, and they don't even know about it,\" Bauer said. \n The problem is that if you reuse a password and it is stolen from a site that was hacked in the past year or so, bank or social media accounts could be at risk, experts said. \n LastPass arranged a survey of 2,000 adults in the United States and five other developed countries to explore their password habits, and found that 91 percent know there is a risk to reusing passwords but 61 percent continue to do so. \n \"It's a bit like all the people have their teeth falling out, and we say, 'Use a toothbrush,' your dentist is screaming at you, 'Use a toothbrush,' and you refuse to do it,\" Siegrist said. \n What users do, according to the survey, is prioritize their accounts, using stronger passwords for financial websites (69 percent) and weaker ones for social media (31 percent) and entertainment accounts (20 percent). \n \"If users are using the same or similar passwords across accounts \u2014 which a majority of respondents indicated \u2014 then they are also essentially handing the key to hackers to access their most critical information when they attack another, less important account,\" the survey said. \n Hackers are using algorithms to check stolen passwords and simple variations of them on other accounts, Bauer said, looking for variations that simply add exclamation points, pound signs and asterisks to the end. \n The LastPass survey brought bad news for businesses: A third of respondents say they create stronger passwords for their personal accounts over work accounts. \n Experts agree on asking users not to reuse passwords but disagree on what users should do for adequately strong passwords. \n The LastPass survey called for \"unique passwords that contain a minimum of 12-14 characters made up of numbers, letters and symbols.\" \n \"If you make a password long, it's strong,\" Siegrist said. \"The complexity explodes as you get longer.\" \n But maybe lengthy passwords aren't needed, others said. \n \"An eight-character password is more than sufficient for your online account, because your account will get locked up after three or four attempts,\" said Christopher Soghoian, a technologist with the American Civil Liberties Union and a visiting fellow at Yale Law School's Information Society Project. \n Companies that demand that employees change their passwords routinely may be exposing their networks to greater risks, Bauer said. \n \"The security is fairly dubious,\" he said. \"There is anecdotal evidence that it results in lower security because it makes people write down their passwords.\" \n Computer users create their passwords in secret, and despite the wishes of computer security experts, users often choose the easy way. \n \"If any security function requires a user to change the way they work, in this world of 'Apple easy' we find workarounds, or we just ignore security for the sake of ease,\" said V. Miller Newton, chief executive of PKWare, a Milwaukee-based vendor of data encryption software. \n Password managers \u2014 low-cost or free programs that store encrypted passwords for all of a user's accounts and require the user to remember just one master password \u2014 are widely recommended but have their own complications. Users must migrate account information into them. \n \"I'm still moving my life over to a password manager, and I've had one for three years,\" Soghoian said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 McClatchy Washington Bureau \n Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. \n ", "author": "McClatchy Washington Bureau", "title": "Asking you to change passwords makes it easier to hack the system"}

