{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters listened to a speaker during a rally against President Donald Trump's order cracking down on immigrants living in the U.S. at Washington Square Park in New York. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's wide-ranging executive actions tightening border security\u2014 and the prospect of additional measures restricting refugee flows \u2014 mark a sharp shift away from Washington's elusive efforts to forge comprehensive immigration legislation. \n \"We do not need new laws,\" Trump said today during remarks at the Department of Homeland Security. \"We will work within the existing system and framework.\" \n The centerpiece of the measures Trump signed was an order to jumpstart construction of his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall. He also ordered cuts in federal grants for immigrant-protecting \"sanctuary cities\" and a boost in the number of border patrol agents and immigration officers, pending congressional funding. \n Sometime this week, Trump is expected to pause the flow of all refugees to the U.S. and indefinitely bar those fleeing war-torn Syria. The president's upcoming order is also expected to suspend issuing visas for people from several predominantly Muslim countries \u2014 Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen \u2014 for at least 30 days, according to a draft executive order obtained by The Associated Press. \n The actions, less than a week into Trump's presidency, would fulfill pledges that animated his candidacy and represent a dramatic redirection of U.S. immigration policy. They were cheered by Republicans allies in Congress, condemned by immigration advocates and triggered new tension with the Mexican government. \n Trump was expected to turn back to the economy Thursday, signing a notice to Congress that he plans to start bilateral trade negotiations with most of the countries in the Trans-Pacific Partnership pact, according to a White House official. On Monday, Trump moved to pull the U.S. out of the 12-nation Pacific Rim agreement, which he said would be damaging for American workers. Instead, he said he wanted to negotiate with countries individually. \n The official insisted on anonymity in order to confirm the executive action ahead of Trump's announcement. \n For years, lawmakers in both parties have worked to pass immigration legislation that would provide some form of legal status for people living in the U.S. illegally, most recently in 2013. Given the growing political power of Hispanic voters, Republicans had feared the opposition from some in the party would deeply damage their prospects of winning back the White House. But Trump's ability to win on a hard-line immigration message has recalibrated the party's view. \n Trump is unveiling his immigration plans at a time when detentions at the nation's southern border are down significantly from levels seen in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The arrest tally last year was the fifth-lowest since 1972. Deportations of people living in the U.S. illegally also increased under President Barack Obama, though Republicans criticized him for setting prosecution guidelines that spared some groups from the threat of deportation, including those brought to the U.S. illegally as children. \n As a candidate, Trump tapped into the immigration concerns of some Americans who worry both about a loss of economic opportunities and the threat of criminals and terrorists entering the country. His call for a border wall was among his most popular proposals, and supporters often broke out in chants of \"build that wall\" during rallies. \n Immigration advocates and others assailed the new president's actions. Omar Jadwat, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights Project, said Trump's desire to construct a border wall was \"driven by racial and ethnic bias that disgraces America's proud tradition of protecting vulnerable migrants.\" \n How Trump plans to pay for the wall project is murky. While he has repeatedly promised that Mexico will foot the bill, U.S. taxpayers are expected to cover the initial costs. The new administration has said nothing about how it might compel Mexico to reimburse the money. \n In an interview with ABC News today, Trump said, \"There will be a payment; it will be in a form, perhaps a complicated form.\" \n Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto responded, \"I have said time and again, Mexico will not pay for any wall.\" Pena Nieto was expected to meet with Trump at the White House next week, but a senior official said Trump's announcement led him to reconsider the visit. \n Congressional aides say there is about $100 million of unspent appropriations in the Department of Homeland Security account for border security, fencing and infrastructure. That would allow planning to get started, but far more money would have to be appropriated for construction to begin. \n House Speaker Paul Ryan, in an interview today on MSNBC, said Congress will work with Trump on the upfront financing for the wall. Asked about estimates that the project could cost $8 billion to $14 billion, Ryan said: \"That's about right.\" \n Trump has insisted many times the border structure will be a wall. The order he signed referred to \"a contiguous, physical wall or other similarly secure, contiguous and impassable physical barrier.\" \n To build the wall, the president is relying on a 2006 law that authorized several hundred miles of fencing along the 2,000-mile frontier. That bill led to the construction of about 700 miles of various kinds of fencing designed to block both vehicles and pedestrians. \n The president's orders also end what Republicans have labeled a catch-and-release system at the border. Currently, some immigrants caught crossing the border illegally are released and given notices to report back to immigration officials at a later date. \n Trump's crackdown on sanctuary cities \u2014 locales that don't cooperate with immigration authorities \u2014 could cost individual jurisdictions millions of dollars. But the administration may face legal challenges, given that some federal courts have found that cities or counties cannot hold immigrants beyond their jail terms or deny them bond based only on a request from immigration authorities. \n The president also moved to restart the \"Secure Communities\" program, which was launched under President George W. Bush and initially was touted as a way for immigration authorities to quickly and easily identify people in the country illegally who had been arrested by local authorities. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Alicia A. Caldwell, Vivian Salama and Andrew Taylor in Washington and E. Eduardo Castillo in Mexico City contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's immigration actions mark sharp shift in U.S. policy"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ANSA VIA ITALIAN FIREFIGHTERS \n Italian firefighters searched for survivors after an avalanche buried Hotel Rigopiano near Farindola in central Italy. \n PENNE, Italy >> The final death toll from Italy's devastating avalanche stands at 29 after the remaining bodies were pulled out of the rubble of a hotel crushed by tons of snow, firefighters said Thursday. \n Firefighters issued the update after a week of search efforts at the isolated Hotel Rigopiano in central Italy. Nine people were pulled out alive in the first days of the rescue. \n Premier Paolo Gentiloni acknowledged delays and \"malfunctioning\" in the initial rescue effort after local authorities brushed off the first alarms about the avalanche. But Gentiloni told parliament today that now wasn't the time to find scapegoats. \n Prosecutors say that autopsies on the first six bodies examined showed most died from the initial physical trauma of the hotel collapsing, with some also showing signs of hypothermia and asphyxiation. \n In his briefing to parliament, Gentiloni stressed the unprecedented perfect storm that unfolded last week as more than two meters (six feet) of snow fell within 72 hours on the isolated hotel, followed by four powerful earthquakes that shook all of central Italy. \n The ensuing landslide and avalanche dumped upwards of 60,000 tons of snow, rocks and uprooted trees on top of the resort, burying the 40 people inside. Nine were pulled out alive, including all four children. Two people escaped and called for help, but the Pescara prefect's office brushed off the alarm thinking it was a joke and that the hotel was safe. \n The rescue operation only got underway an hour or two later, and it took some eight hours for the first crews to reach the site, on foot, because the roads were impassable. \n Gentiloni told lawmakers a criminal investigation underway would ascertain responsibilities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Final toll for Italy avalanche stands at 29 as recovery ends"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Zou Yi talked about his work documenting the city's air quality from his apartment in Beijing. \n BEIJING >>Beijing residents concerned about breathing the capital's thick gray air are adapting, inventing and even creating businesses to protect the health of their families and others. Some of their efforts could help people around the world. \n Already this year, the smog-shrouded capital has suffered particularly hazardous bouts of pollution caused mainly by coal burning and vehicle emissions. Like other Chinese cities, Beijing is trying to tackle the problem: City authorities say they will spend $2.7 billion this year to help replace coal with natural gas, close heavily polluting factories and take older vehicles off the road. \n Official figures show improvement since 2013, but Beijing has a long way to go. With no quick fix available, many residents developing their own partial solutions. Here are some of their ideas: \n SHOOTING THE SKY \n For the last four years, Zou Yi has diligently captured the sky's change in colors from the window of his central Beijing apartment, where he can \u2014 usually \u2014 see the landmark Beijing Television tower. The background in his photos runs from dirty brown to deep gray, interspersed with one or more days of cobalt blue. On the worst days, nearby buildings can't be seen. \n A 10-day period of particularly heavy pollution inspired his project. The government had just started publishing data on levels of PM2.5 \u2014 tiny particulate matter that can clog lungs \u2014 and a taboo on state media's discussion of the sensitive topic had just been lifted. \n \"I couldn't go out, I couldn't open windows, I couldn't see the building next to me because the smog was so bad,\" he said. \n Zou shared the photos on the Twitter-like Sina Weibo and the smartphone messaging app WeChat. He found his friends had similar feelings of frustration and recruited his building manager to take the pictures when he was out of town. \n \"They wanted me to share a photo with them every day, so I did it every day, every month,\" said Zou, 50. Hundreds of thousands of people have seen his photos on social media. \n What started as a way to complain has morphed into his full-time passion. This month, Zou set up the non-governmental organization BeijingAirNow to work with scientists on technology to read pollution levels from around the world by analyzing the tint in the images rather than using expensive monitoring equipment to collect air particles. He says he is handing over more than 300,000 photos for computer analysis. \n A PURIFIED HOME \n Wang Jiang, 42, and her family had eight air purifiers at home, yet found that the indoor air quality was still not good enough on heavy pollution days. Then they decided to take their efforts up a notch. \n But sealing windows and doors and turning on the purifiers caused carbon dioxide levels to spike, leaving Wang to wake up last year with headaches while pregnant with her second daughter. \n So now they have installed a $5,000 industrial-grade filtration system that sucks in outdoor air, cleans it via three filters and distributes it around the house through newly fitted pipes. They filled in vents from their building's central heating system and installed their own. \n While some might find that extreme, it's an increasingly popular solution. Filter manufacturer Yuanda says their customers range from the ruling Communist Party's Central Committee to homes and about 1,000 kindergartens and schools. \n A marketing representative, who only gave his surname, Hu, said their purifying systems often go out of stock. \"If you order one today, it won't get installed until March,\" Hu said. \n Now Wang, a coffee importer, can exercise on a living room treadmill when pollution is bad without worrying about her health. \n Her husband, Frenchman Ludovic Bodin, 38, said he thinks every house should have an air filtering and ventilation system pre-installed. \"At least if you cannot secure outdoors because it takes time \u2026 at least try to secure the house inside,\" he said. \n CROWDSOURCING DATA \n Frenchman and long-term Beijing resident Yann Boquillod wanted to know what kind of air his five children were breathing at home, so he developed a portable air quality monitor. It also tells users when carbon dioxide levels are high from sealing rooms too tightly, and advises that they should open windows for 10 minutes even if there is pollution outside. \n Boquillod's start-up, AirVisual, also provides air pollution readings around the world using data from more than 10,000 monitoring sources, both public and private. The company shares a 3-D real-time global map of air pollution and weather patterns on its website. \n On the website Wednesday, easily the largest mass of unhealthy levels of PM2.5 pollution was a swath that covered much of eastern China, from Beijing in the north to Kunming in the south. \n Boquillod, 39, sees this as an educational tool and means of self-protection. He consults with schools, hospitals and offices to test air quality and find gaps in door and window frames that could allow pollution in. \n \"The most important thing is to first start by monitoring the air quality and from that we can take the right decisions on what kind of air purifiers to install (and) know about the leakage inside the building,\" he said. \n MASKED STUDENTS \n Children as young as 3 at Ivy Bilingual School know they need to wear face masks when the smog is bad. The school also invites mask makers to come in and cut open masks to demonstrate which ones have extra layers and are better for their health. The children can even educate their parents on the masks and how to fit them, said campus director Victoria Li. \n The school monitors pollutant levels and instructs teachers to make sure windows are closed 15 minutes before school starts to give the air purifiers time to work. It also puts up green or red signs indicating whether children can go out and play. \n Some international schools in Beijing have installed air-inflated sports domes for athletics, complete with air filters and rotating doors to help keep them sealed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Smog pushes Beijing residents to innovate for the world"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People pass graffiti along the border structure in Tijuana, Mexico on Wednesday. President Donald Trump signed executive actions Wednesday to jumpstart construction of his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall and cut federal grants for immigrant-protecting \"sanctuary cities.\" \n SAN DIEGO >> As President Donald Trump announced his plans for a wall on the U.S. border with Mexico, Border Patrol agents in San Diego on the lookout for drugs and smugglers drove all-terrain vehicles along a barrier that reaches 18 feet, topped by razor wire and reinforced by cameras and lighting. \n Mexicans shopped at an outlet mall that bumps up against the border. And dozens of migrants huddled in tents outside a shelter in Mexico hoping to get into the U.S. someday. \n To them, Trump's executive order Wednesday to build a wall seemed more like a symbolic and worrisome gesture of a new chapter in U.S-Mexico relations than a real deterrent for people to enter the country illegally. \n \"Even if they build the wall, I will climb the wall. I bring a ladder the size of the wall, even from sticks or whatever, but I'll make it, and I'll jump over there,\" said Jos\u00e9 de Jes\u00fas Ram\u00edrez, a recently deported Mexican migrant whose wife and children are in the U.S. \n Ramirez's response echoed the mood along the border that was a combination of resentment, defiance \u2014 and business as usual. A crew of laborers was actually building a fence on the border as Trump made his announcement. On a cold morning in the desert, the workers installed concrete blocks on which the 22-foot steel fence will stand between the town of Sunland Park, New Mexico, and Ciudad Juarez in Mexico. The project has been underway for several months. \n In Tijuana, a high school student went to a stone monument dedicated by both countries in 1848 as a sign of the friendship between the U.S. and Mexico. The monument once stood on the border but now is in Mexico, a few feet away from a giant wall of towering steel bars that lead into the Pacific Ocean. \n The student, 17-year-old Brandon Dzul, said talk of another wall stirred up painful memories of his 34-year-old uncle who died in the desert six years ago after being abandoned by smugglers. \n \"He just had the American dream, you know, to make a better life,\" he said. \"I think now we aren't going to be able to get in even with a visa.\" \n Nearby, about 150 people gathered in tents outside a 40-bed migrant shelter that has been overwhelmed since May, when large numbers of Haitians began stopping in the Mexican border city on their way to the United States. Many moved to Brazil after Haiti's 2010 earthquake and went north after jobs dried up in the South American country. \n Haitians generally turn themselves in to U.S. inspectors at San Diego's San Ysidro port of entry, the nation's busiest crossing, making no attempt to jump the fence or evade authorities. They were released on humanitarian parole until September, when the U.S. ended special treatment for Haitians and began deporting them just as they do people from other countries. \n U.S. authorities lack resources to process Haitians quickly enough, leading Mexican authorities to create a ticketing system that leaves them waiting in Tijuana for weeks. Migrant shelters are full, forcing many to sleep on the streets. \n Fences and other barriers already blanket about 700 miles of border, much of it in California and Arizona. In San Diego, they helped to virtually shut down what was the busiest corridor for illegal crossings in the 1990s. It's now one of the most fortified stretches of landscape on the 2,000-mile divide between the two countries. \n Border Patrol sector chiefs were asked in November to identify areas where the fence could be expanded, though Trump and his advisers have yet to detail their next steps. Brandon Judd, president of the National Border Patrol Council and a member of Trump's transition team, supports building a wall in strategic locations and reinforcing existing barriers in certain areas but not where there are natural obstacles, like the Rio Grande river in Texas. \n \"We do not need a Great Wall of China from California to Texas,\" Judd said in an interview last week. \n Away from the border, Trump drew support from his base. Tammy Allen, a 52-year-old supporter from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, applauded Trump's interest in curbing the number of refugees coming to the U.S. and building a wall. \n \"A lot of countries do. Why not us? Something has got to be done,\" she said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Michael Kunzelman in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump's wall met with skepticism, unease on U.S.-Mexico border"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "COURTESY MAUI FIRE DEPARTMENT \n Maui firefighters searched today for a Utah man who was swept into the ocean in the area of Olivine Pools. \n The Maui Fire Department concluded a three-day search Wednesday evening for a missing Utah man who was swept off the rocks on Monday by waves in Kahakuloa. \n The Fire Department and Coast Guard were unable to locate the man, who was swept away with a Connecticut man while taking photos with two women in the area of Olivine Pools, an MFD news release said. The other man was rescued. \n The Fire Department did not identify the missing man. Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto said police would do that pending notification of next of kin. \n The Fire Department used a fire rescue boat, helicopter, and fire ground crews to search the shoreline with the Coast Guard. \n A Coast Guard cutter and an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter searched in offshore waters. \n The Fire Department extended its condolences to the man's family and friends. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Maui firefighters end search for missing Utah man"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "HAWAII POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Kahekili Krause \n Hawaii County police alerted the public Wednesday evening that 18-year-old fugitive Kahekili John Krause, considered dangerous and possibly armed, was spotted in Ainaloa. \n Krause was charged Wednesday with two counts of first-degree terroristic threatening and reckless driving, according to court records. \n Krause, of Mountain View, reportedly was involved in a crash at 2:45 p.m. Wednesday in Ainaloa with a stolen Nissan Z. \n Police said Krause fled with a female after the crash. \n Police issued a wanted bulletin on Jan. 19, saying Krause was wanted for questioning about an incident that same day. \n In that case, the driver of a stolen Honda sedan in the Hawaiian Beaches area in Puna allegedly drove toward a police officer who approached him in a marked subsidized patrol vehicle. \n The officer was uninjured. \n Krause is described as part Hawaiian, 6 feet tall, weighing 145 pounds with brown eyes and short, brown hair. \n Anyone spotting Krause is asked to call police at 935-3311 or contact Detective Grant Todd at 961-2381 or Detective Dean Uyetake at 961-2379. \n Anonymous tips may be made to CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Big Island police seek public's help in locating fugitive"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo from Monday, provided by Chris Hasson, 10-year-old Eden Hasson, Chris' son, surfs near what is believed to be a great white shark at Samurai Beach, Port Stephens, Australia. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this photo from Monday, provided by Chris Hasson, 10-year-old Eden Hasson, Chris' son, surfs near what is believed to be a great white shark at Samurai Beach, Port Stephens, Australia. \n CANBERRA, Australia >> A 10-year-old surfer has had a close encounter with a photo-bombing shark that shared a wave with him off an Australian beach. \n Chris Hasson said today that he was taking photos of his son Eden riding a wave off Samurai Beach at Port Stephens, 110 miles north of Sydney, on Monday when something unexpected and indistinct caught his eye. \n He discovered he had photographed the face of a twisting shark just below the surface with his son on an apparent collision course. Hasson said shark experts had since told him it was a juvenile great white about 2.5 meters (8 feet) long. \n \"I saw the second photo and (thought) \u2014 no way,\" Hasson told the AP. \"I quickly called him in and whistled.\" \n \"He (Eden) saw a shape in the wave and thought it was seaweed and felt something as he went over the top \u2014 he got his leg rope caught on something \u2014 but he thought nothing of it until he saw the photo,\" Hasson said. \n James Cook University shark researcher Andrew Chin said the photographed shark was possibly a small great white. \n \"From the angle, it looks like the shark was spooked and is rolling away from the board to escape it,\" China said. \"There is no way that this is a hunting approach.\" \n Eden said he was glad he hadn't seen the shark until he was safe on the beach and saw the photo. \n \"If I was on the wave and saw it, I probably would've freaked out and fell off,\" Eden told Nine Network television today. \"I was lucky I didn't fall off.\" \n Port Stephens is on the northern coast of New South Wales state which has experienced an extraordinary increase in shark attacks since a Japanese tourist was killed by a great white in early 2015. \n Hasson said he was back in the surf with Eden and his siblings, aged 12 and 5, on Tuesday to enjoy the final week of the school summer vacation. \n \"Everyone's back to business. It's too good a lifestyle sport not to,\" Hasson said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Young Aussie surfer photo bombed by shark that shared wave"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "Hawaii County firefighters have suspended their three-day ocean and land search for a missing man in the area of Hookena Beach Park. \n The Fire Department said a local man was last seen at the beach park by campers on Thursday. \n The Fire Department received a call Sunday night from police asking for help in searching for him because his vehicle remained at the park, but he had not been seen. \n Some of his belongings were found in a cave, and fire personnel began searching Sunday night. \n The search continued on land Monday, and divers searched Wednesday and Thursday. \n A fire rescue boat and eight fire rescue personnel were involved in the search. \n The Coast Guard assisted the Fire Department with radio communication on the marine channel for the missing person with no results. \n The Fire Department did not find any further evidence or leads, so the search was concluded Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Firefighters suspend search for missing man on Big Island"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Facebook is updating its \"trending\" feature, which shows popular topics discussed and shared on its site, in an effort to root out fake news and misinformation. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Facebook is updating its \"trending\" feature that highlights hot topics on its social networking site, part of its effort to root out the kind of fake news stories that critics contend helped Donald Trump become president. \n With the changes announced Wednesday, Facebook's trending list will consist of topics being covered by several publishers. Before, it focused on subjects drawing the biggest crowds of people sharing or commenting on posts. \n The switch is intended to make Facebook a more credible source of information by steering hordes of its 1.8 billion users toward topics that \"reflect real world events being covered by multiple outlets,\" Will Cathcart, the company's vice president of product management, said in a blog post. \n Facebook also will stop customizing trending lists to cater to each user's personal interests. Instead, everyone located in the same region will see the same trending lists, which currently appear in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Australia and India. \n That change could widen the scope of information Facebook's users see, instead of just topics that reinforce what they may have already heard or read elsewhere. The broader perspective might reduce the chances of Facebook's users living in a \"filter bubble\" \u2014 only engaging with people and ideas with which they agree. \n Facebook introduced its trending list in 2014 in response to the popularity of a similar feature on Twitter, the short-messaging service that competes for people's attention and advertising revenue. \n Questions about Facebook's influence on what people are reading intensified last summer after a technology blog relying on an anonymous source reported that human editors routinely suppressed conservative viewpoints on the site. \n Facebook fired the small group of journalists overseeing its trending items and replaced them with an algorithm that was supposed to be a more neutral judge about what to put on the list. \n But the automated approach began to pick out posts that were getting the most attention, even if the information in them was bogus. Some of the fake news stories targeted Democratic presidential nominee Hilary Clinton, prompting critics to believe the falsehoods help Donald Trump overcome a large deficit in public opinion polls. \n Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg initially brushed off that notion as \"crazy ,\" but in December the company announced a slew of new measures to curb the spread of fake news. \n To discourage the creation of fake news in the first place, Facebook also is banishing perpetual publishers of false information from its lucrative ad network. \n Google, which operates an even larger digital ad network, has taken a similar stand against publishers of fake news. In a report released Wednesday, Google said it had exiled about 200 publishers from its AdSense network for various misrepresentations as part of a review conducted during the six weeks of last year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Facebook takes aim at fake news with new 'trending' formula"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Moina Shaiq holds a sign at a rally outside of City Hall in San Francisco, Wednesday, Jan. 25, 2017. President Donald Trump moved aggressively to tighten the nation's immigration controls Wednesday, signing executive actions to jumpstart construction of his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall and cut federal grants for immigrant-protecting \"sanctuary cities.\" \n SEATTLE >> Politicians in New York, Seattle and other \"sanctuary cities\" that protect immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally declared Wednesday they won't be intimidated by a move by President Donald Trump to cut off millions in federal funding to such communities. \n Many cities vowed legal action, arguing that the threatened punishment would be unconstitutional. Boston Mayor Marty Walsh promised to let immigrants who feel threatened by the administration's actions take shelter in City Hall if necessary. \n \"This city will not be bullied by this administration,\" Seattle Mayor Ed Murray said, adding that he instructed city departments to rework their budgets to prepare for the possibility that federal dollars could be lost. \"We believe we have the rule of law and the courts on our side.\" \n Washington Gov. Jay Inslee called Trump's executive orders on immigration mean-spirited and unnecessary. California Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, a Los Angeles Democrat, tweeted: \"See you in court.\" \n In New York, Trump's hometown, city officials said the administration's action could take away over $150 million in law enforcement funding mainly for counterterrorism efforts, protecting international missions and dignitaries and, arguably, safeguarding Trump Tower, city officials said. \n \"Here in New York City and in cities across this nation, this order could in fact undermine public safety,\" Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference Wednesday evening. \n While there is no formal definition of the term \"sanctuary city,\" it generally refers to jurisdictions that do not cooperate with federal immigration officials. \n In some cases, these cities tell police not to inquire about the immigration status of those they encounter, or they decline requests from immigration officials to keep defendants in custody while they await deportation. \n Others say they do cooperate with such \"detainer\" requests as long as they're backed by court-issued warrants, but won't allow local officers to enforce federal immigration law. \n Advocates say such noncooperation policies protect people who may not have exhausted their rights to apply for U.S. residency. They also say that crime victims and witnesses are more likely to cooperate with police if they are not afraid of being deported. \n \"We're not going to sacrifice any of our folks here in Providence,\" said Jorge Elorza, the mayor of Providence, Rhode Island. \"My job is to represent every single resident in the city of Providence, and we will continue to do that.\" \n Supporters of a crackdown on sanctuary cities point to cases like the fatal shooting of Kate Steinle last year on a San Francisco pier. A man who had been previously deported and had been released by local law enforcement was charged in her death. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said the Trump administration is going to \"strip federal grant money from the sanctuary states and cities that harbor illegal immigrants.\" \n Trump signed an executive order that appeared more limited than that. It referred to withholding Justice Department and Homeland Security funds from only those jurisdictions that bar local officials from communicating with federal authorities about someone's immigration status. \n Peter L. Markowitz, a professor at Cardozo Law School in New York, said such an attempt to cut off funding would face strong legal challenges. \n \"The Constitution prohibits the president from defunding jurisdictions that won't do his bidding,\" Markowitz said. \"There's nothing in federal law that requires localities or states to participate in federal immigration enforcement. Second, the Constitution grants Congress \u2014 not the president \u2014 the power to determine how federal dollars are spent.\" \n In California, local law enforcement officials are barred from holding immigrants arrested on lesser crimes for deportation purposes. \n More than 100 immigration rights advocates crowded on the steps of San Francisco City Hall, holding signs that said \"Undocumented & Unafraid\" and \"Don't let hate Trump our values.\" \n \"When we know that there is a violation of human rights here, this is where we excel,\" San Francisco Supervisor Sandra Lee Fewer said to cheers. \"This is where we lead the nation and we say, 'We will not back down and we will stand up for what we believe is right.'\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Sanctuary cities' undaunted by Trump move to cut funding"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The National Park Service employees' Twitter campaign against President Donald Trump has spread to other parks. A day after three climate-related tweets sent out by Badlands National Park were deleted, other park accounts have sent out tweets. This one, by Redwoods National Park in California, notes that redwood groves are nature's No. 1 carbon sink, which capture greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming. A park service spokesman declined to comment on Jan. 25. \n WASHINGTON >> The National Park Service employees' Twitter campaign against President Donald Trump spread to other parks Wednesday with more tweets on climate change on official social media accounts. \n A day after three climate-related tweets sent out by Badlands National Park were deleted, other park accounts have sent out tweets that appear to defy Trump. One, by Redwoods National Park in California, notes that redwood groves are nature's No. 1 carbon sink, which capture greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming. \n \"More redwoods would mean less #climatechange,\" the park said in a tweet. \n Golden Gate National Park in California said in a tweet that 2016 was the hottest year on record for the third year in a row. The tweet directed readers to a report by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, also known as NOAA. \n Trump has called climate change a hoax, and many readers saw the climate-related tweets as a message of defiance to the new president. \n Other park accounts got swept up in the conversation. \n Death Valley National Park tweeted photos of Japanese Americans interned there during World War II, a message that some saw as objecting to Trump's pledge to ban Muslims from entering the country and a proposal to restrict the flow of refugees to the United States. \n Park spokeswoman Abby Wines said the posts were not intended to be political criticism, and the woman responsible had been in tears earlier in the day because of the attention. \"This is a topic we've done tweets on before,\" she said. \"We've been doing ranger talks on this topic since 2012. This is part of Death Valley Park's history.\" \n No one from the Trump administration has complained or asked them to remove the posts, she said. \n Tom Crosson, the chief spokesman for the park service, declined to comment on any of the tweets sent out by park service accounts, but he said there is no restriction on agency use of Twitter or other social media. \n \"There's no gag order on national parks that would prevent people from tweeting,\" he said in a phone interview Wednesday. \n Three climate-related tweets sent out by the Badlands park account were deleted after they went viral on Twitter, sparking debate over whether the park was defying the Trump administration. \n The South Dakota park posted tweets Tuesday that accurately quoted climate science data, including the current record-setting high concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. \n The park service said in a statement that several tweets on the Badlands account were posted by a former employee who was not authorized to use the account. \"The park was not told to remove the tweets but chose to do so when they realized that their account had been compromised,\" the statement said. \n Social media managers for the park service \"are encouraged to continue the use of Twitter to post information relating to public safety and park information, with the exception of content related to national policy issues,\" the statement said. \n The Badlands tweets were shared thousands of times, and the Democratic National Committee circulated the message by email with the subject line \"Resist.\" \n That message \u2014 resist \u2014 was featured on massive banner unfurled atop a 270-foot construction crane blocks from the White House. A spokesman for the environmental group Greenpeace said protesters who climbed the crane to place the banner are encouraging resistance to Trump and his agenda, including executive orders signed Tuesday to boost the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines, both of which were blocked by President Barack Obama. \n The tweets by the park service accounts came after the Interior Department briefly suspended park service accounts and others run by Interior in response to photos retweeted by the park service during Trump's inauguration. \n The photos contrasted turnout at Friday's inauguration with previous ceremonies. Trump has claimed without evidence that turnout at his event was larger than reported by news media. \n The Interior accounts were reactivated the next day. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "National Park Service staff step up campaign against Trump"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A truck drives near the Mexico-US border fence, on the Mexican side, separating the towns of Anapra, Mexico and Sunland Park, New Mexico. U.S. President Donald Trump will direct the Homeland Security Department to start building a wall at the Mexican border. \n HOUSTON >> President Donald Trump announced his long-awaited plan Wednesday to build a wall on the 1,954-mile U.S. border with Mexico, calling for its \"immediate construction\" to stop illegal immigration, drug and human trafficking and acts of terrorism. \n He is not the first president to embark on an aggressive buildup on the border. \n Here's a look at what is already there: \n SEMI-FORTIFIED BORDER \n One-third of the U.S.-Mexico border, or 653 miles, is already studded with fence in a potpourri of styles, from menacing barriers to those that can be easily hopped. The barriers arose from the Secure Fence Act passed in the last year of the George W. Bush administration. \n In California, the fence climbs out of the Pacific. Its meanest stretch, three layers thick, separates San Diego from Tijuana. Half those 14 miles are topped by razor wire. In dunes to the east, a \"floating fence\" of 16-foot steel tubes can be raised or lowered as sands shift. \n Almost all of Arizona's border is fenced, although the deterrence effect for human-and drug smugglers is constantly questioned. Cities such as Yuma and Nogales have high fencing but stretches of the remote desert have things like posts, wire-mesh and livestock fencing that can halt vehicles but people can hop. \n Nearly all Texas' 1,250-mile border is fence-free, the winding Rio Grande the only barrier. The state has just 110 miles of fences and fortified concrete levees. \n Mountains, rivers and other natural barriers are expensive to build on and have been largely left alone. One stretch in Texas' Hidalgo County along the Rio Grande cost $10 million a mile. \n SURVEILLANCE TECH \n Politicians along the border, even GOP lawmakers in Washington, have endorsed surveillance technology as offering more security for the buck than fence or wall. The Border Patrol is expanding the use of eye-in the-sky tethered dirigibles that scan the horizon as they float on cables and of camera-studded towers. Its high-flying Predator drones have logged more than 3,000 hours a year since 2011. \n Neither technology nor maintenance of existing fence comes cheap. The government spent $450 million last fiscal year on \"Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology.\" \n And a major Boeing-led project in Arizona called the \"SBINet,\" whose network was supposed to marshal surveillance monitoring, proved a boondoggle, costing taxpayers $1 billion before it was canceled in 2010. \n PEOPLE CROSSING \n Not a single person involved in a terrorist act in the United States is known to have illegally entered the country from Mexico along the southwest border. Apprehensions of undocumented immigrants, meanwhile, are far down from a peak of 1.6 million in 2000 to 408,870 in the year ending Sept. 30, with net immigration by Mexicans at zero. \n More Central Americans were apprehended illegally crossing the border than Mexicans last year. The Central Americans are fleeing a humanitarian crisis \u2014 the world's highest murder rates and abject poverty. Most surrender at the border and seek asylum. The Border Patrol has bulked up, too, from about 9,500 agents in 2004 to some 17,500 today. \n The locals, meanwhile, mostly don't want a wall. A May poll in U.S. southwest border cities found 72 percent against the idea. The Cronkite News-Univision-Dallas Morning News poll had a 2.6 percent error margin \n DRUG SMUGGLING \n Most drugs entering the United States sneak through legal ports of entry \u2014 not through fence-less wilds. They hide in concealed compartments of passenger vehicles or commingled with legitimate goods in tractor-trailers, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration says. \n The U.S. Border Patrol says it seized 1.3 million pounds of marijuana, most of it in Arizona, and 4,180 pounds of cocaine, most split between the San Diego sector and Texas' Rio Grande valley, in the most recent fiscal year. \n Smugglers have been tunneling under fences for years, primarily in California and Arizona where marijuana is the payload. Authorities also occasionally find ladders constructed a foot higher than existing fence as creative smugglers find new ways in \u2014 and under. \n And since 1990, the DEA says, 225 border tunnels have been discovered. Off-road vehicles and backpackers are also used, but that tends to require scouts. Ultralight aircraft and drones have also made cross-border airdrops, mostly of marijuana. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at border security, fencing as Trump announces wall"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC CO. \n The Waianae Solar Project was developed on 200 acres of land in West Oahu. \n The developer of Hawaii's largest solar farm said it has begun pumping power into the grid. \n San Diego-based, Eurus Energy America Corp. said today its 27.6-megawatt solar photovoltaic facility \u2013 with the potential capacity to power more than 4,000 homes \u2014 called EE Waianae Solar Project LLC has begun commercial operation. \n Eurus will sell energy to HECO at a rate of about 14.5 cents per kilowatt-hour. The facility is jointly owned by affiliates of Eurus and Toyota Tsusho America Inc. \n Satoshi Takahata, president and CEO of Eurus Energy America, said in a statement he wants to help Hawaii reach its goal of 100 percent electricity production from renewable energy by 2045. \n \"Eurus is committed to bringing highly viable renewable energy projects online in a responsible and timely manner to help the state of Hawaii meet its ambitious renewable energy goals\" he said. \n The solar project in Waianae will triple the amount of utility-scale solar connected to Oahu's grid. \n HECO has said solar farms cost less and are easier to manage than 10,000 separate private systems. \n There are three other solar facilities on Oahu, Kalaeloa Solar Two with 5 megawatts, Kalaeloa Renewable Energy Park with 5 megawatts and Kapolei Sustainable Energy Park with 1 megawatt. One megawatt of solar photovoltaic powers on average 164 homes, according the Solar Energy Industries Association. \n The second largest solar arrays are on Kauai. Kauai Island Utility Cooperative has two 12-megawatt arrays. The Koloa array went online in August 2014. The Anahola array was completed in summer 2015. \n ", "author": "By Kathryn Mykleseth kmykleseth@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii's largest solar farm goes online in Waianae"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto pauses during a press conference at Los Pinos presidential residence in Mexico City, Monday, Jan. 23, 2017. Pena Nieto said Monday that Mexico's attitude towards the Donald Trump administration should not be aggressive or biased, but one of dialogue. (AP Photo/Marco Ugarte) \n MEXICO CITY >> Mexico's president is \"considering\" canceling next week's visit to Washington following President Donald Trump's order to begin construction of a wall between the two countries, a senior official said Wednesday. \n The decision to rethink the visit comes amid growing outrage in Mexico, and a sense among many that President Enrique Pena Nieto has been too weak in the face of Trump's tough policy stance. \n The official, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press the administration \"is considering\" scrapping the Jan. 31 visit. \"That's what I can tell you.\" \n It was not clear when a final decision may be made. \n Trump's order came the same day Mexico's foreign relations and economy secretaries arrived in Washington for talks with his administration, and its timing was seen by many in Mexico as a slap in the face. \n Critics of Pena Nieto \u2014 whose approval ratings were just 12 percent in a recent survey, the lowest for any Mexican president in the polling era \u2014 have hammered him for his perceived weakness on Trump. Opposition politicians urged him Wednesday to call off the trip. \n \"The position is very clear,\" said Ricardo Anaya Cortes, president of the conservative opposition National Action Party. \"Either one cancels the meeting with Donald Trump, or one attends it to say publicly and with absolute firmness that Mexico rejects the wall and we will not pay a single cent for it.\" \n Trump has vowed to force Mexico to pay for the wall, and also to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. Pena Nieto and other officials have repeatedly said Mexico will not pay. \n The U.S. president has also promised to step up deportations. He launched his campaign with remarks calling immigrants crossing in illegally from Mexico criminals, drug dealers and \"rapists.\" Trump added that \"some\" were presumably good people, but the comments nonetheless deeply offended many Mexicans. \n Pena Nieto was roundly criticized after inviting candidate Trump to Mexico City last August and disappointed many of his countrymen by not publicly confronting Trump on the wall. \n On Tuesday, ahead of their trip to Washington, the economy and foreign relations secretaries suggested that Mexico could leave NAFTA if negotiations with Washington are unsatisfactory \u2014 though that would not be the first choice. \n Already Mexico is feeling the effects of the new tone from Washington. The Mexican peso has sharply devalued since Trump was elected, and several high-profile business ventures have been canceled amid threats to impose a border tax on goods made in Mexico and exported to the United States. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Mexico's president 'considering' scrapping U.S. trip"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russia's Tatyana Lebedeva reacts after the final of the Women's long jump during the World Athletics Championships in Berlin, Germany. \n MOSCOW >> A Russian senator who has been a vocal defender of the country's embattled state sports system was caught up in her own doping scandal and stripped of two Olympic medals on Wednesday. \n Tatyana Lebedeva won silver in both the long jump and triple jump at the 2008 Beijing Games. But the International Olympic Committee recalled those medals after Lebedeva tested positive for the steroid turinabol in a re-analysis of samples taken at the time. \n Lebedeva, who also won the gold medal in the long jump at the 2004 Athens Games and still has two other Olympic medals from Sydney and Athens, retired from competition in 2013 and became a Russian senator a year later. \n A maverick in her sports career, known for dying her hair bright red, the 40-year-old Lebedeva is a rising political star in Russia and has repeatedly accused the World Anti-Doping Agency of trying to manipulate the Olympics, calling it a tool of \"the Anglo-Saxon lobby.\" \n In May, she warned in an interview on the Russian track and field federation's website that WADA could \"abuse\" its collection of athletes' doping samples to exploit the DNA, \"right up to fantastic stories in which from the biological material of elite athletes they clone a superhuman.\" \n A WADA-commissioned report into Russian track in 2015 alleged widespread drug use and extortion, leading to the national team being banned from international competition. Since then, more WADA reports provided further details of drug use in more sports and the swapping of tainted samples for clean ones. \n The IOC ruling to strip Lebedeva of the two silver medals from Beijing could prove politically embarrassing for defenders of the status quo in Russian sports, and may deepen the conflict between the Kremlin and the global anti-doping movement. \n The IOC also stripped the Jamaican team of its gold medal from the 4\u00d7100-meter relay in 2008, taking away one of Usain Bolt's nine gold medals. Bolt's teammate, Nesta Carter, tested positive for the banned stimulant methylhexaneamine. \n Lebedeva, a former vice president of the Russian track federation and a current member of the IAAF's women's committee, told state news agency Tass that she plans to appeal the decision and \"will always fight to the end.\" \n In government, Lebedeva shot up the political ladder, going from a regional sports minister in the southern Volgograd region to a full-fledged senator who has been broadly supportive of the Kremlin. \n In the Russian parliament, she is one of several sports stars. In longstanding strategies by various parties to use former athletes, the lower house includes former top-ranked tennis player Marat Safin and various other Olympic gold medalists. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russian senator stripped of Olympic medals for doping"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "COURTESY ABRAHAM WILLIAMS \n Rep. Tulsi Gabbard meets with Syrian religious leaders in Aleppo, led by Archbishop Denys Antoine Chahda of the Syrian Catholic Church of Aleppo, and joined by Archbishop Joseph Tabji of Maronite Church of Aleppo, Rev. Ibrahim Nseir of the Arab Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Aleppo, and others. Each called for peace, and an end to foreign support of terrorists who are trying to rid Syria of its secular, pluralistic, free society. \n COURTESY ABRAHAM WILLIAMS \n Rep. Tulsi Gabbard visits with Syrian Arab Red Crescent and other humanitarian workers at the Jibreen shelter, housing nearly 1,400 families who fled mostly the eastern part of Aleppo City. \n Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii said she originally had no intention of sitting down with Assad, according to a statement issued by her office detailing her travels. But she changed her mind when the opportunity arose. \n \"I think we should be ready to meet with anyone if there's a chance it can help bring about an end to this war, which is causing the Syrian people so much suffering,\" Gabbard said. \n Lawmakers have accused the Assad government of war crimes and even genocide as the number of people killed during the violence in Syria continues to mount. The war, now in its sixth year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people, contributed to Europe's worst refugee crisis since World War II and given the Islamic State group room to grow into a global terror threat. \n Rebel groups in Syria are bitter over a string of territorial losses, including last month's defeat in Aleppo, Syria's largest city. Russia, with its massive air power, and Iran, with thousands of Shiite militiamen in Syria, turned the war unequivocally in Assad's favor. \n Gabbard said her trip included stops in Aleppo and Damascus, Syria's capital. She also visited Beirut during the trip, which began in mid-January. Gabbard said she also met with refugees, Syrian opposition leaders, widows and family members of Syrians fighting alongside groups like al-Qaeda, and Syrians aligned with the Assad regime. \n Gabbard said that the U.S. has \"waged wars of regime change\" in Iraq, Libya and Syria. Yet each has resulted \"in unimaginable suffering, devastating loss of life, and the strengthening of groups like al-Qaeda\" and the Islamic State group, she said. \n \"My visit to Syria has made it abundantly clear,\" Gabbard said. \"Our counterproductive regime change war does not serve America's interest, and it certainly isn't in the interest of the Syrian people.\" \n Gabbard said the House Ethics Committee approved her trip, as required by House rules, and taxpayers didn't foot the bill. \n Other members of the delegation that traveled with her included former Ohio congressman Dennis Kucinich and Gabbard's husband, Abraham Williams. \n Gabbard, a major in the Army National Guard, met last November with Donald Trump shortly after the presidential election. She backed Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent. \n She said at the time that she took the meeting with Trump over concern that a wing of the Republican Party known as the neocons would grow in influence once Trump took office. She feared that could push the U.S. more deeply into Syria, which could lead to a direct conflict with Russia. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gabbard met with Syria's Assad during trip"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump, accompanied by Vice President Mike Pence, left, and Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly, pauses while speaking at the Homeland Security Department in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump declared today he believes torture works as his administration readied a sweeping review of how America conducts the war on terror. It includes possible resumption of banned interrogation methods and reopening CIA-run \"black site\" prisons outside the United States. \n In an interview with ABC News, Trump said he would wage war against Islamic State militants with the singular goal of keeping the U.S. safe. Asked specifically about the simulated drowning technique known as waterboarding, Trump cited the extremist group's atrocities against Christians and others and said: \"We have to fight fire with fire.\" \n Trump said he would consult with new Defense Secretary James Mattis and CIA Director Mike Pompeo before authorizing any new policy. But he said he had asked top intelligence officials in the past day: \"Does torture work?\" \n \"And the answer was yes, absolutely,\" Trump said. \n He added that he wants to do \"everything within the bounds of what you're allowed to do legally.\" \n A clip of Trump's interview was released after The Associated Press and other news outlets obtained copies of a draft executive order being circulated within his administration. \n Beyond reviewing interrogation techniques and facilities, the draft order would instruct the Pentagon to send newly captured \"enemy combatants\" to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, instead of closing the detention facility as President Barack Obama had wanted. Altogether, the possible changes could mark a dramatic return to how the Bush administration waged its campaign against al-Qaida and other extremist groups. \n Trump spokesman Sean Spicer, questioned about the draft order, said it was \"not a White House document\" but would not comment further. \n The draft says U.S. laws should be obeyed at all times and explicitly rejects \"torture.\" But its reconsideration of the harsh techniques banned by Obama and Congress raises questions about the definition of the word and is sure to inflame passions in the U.S. and abroad. \n After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, President George W. Bush authorized a covert program that led to dozens of detainees being held in secret locations overseas and to interrogation tactics that included sleep deprivation, slapping and slamming against walls, confinement in small boxes, prolonged isolation and even death threats. Three detainees faced waterboarding. Many developed psychological problems. \n While some former government leaders insist the program was effective in obtaining critical intelligence, many others say the abuses weakened America's moral standing in the world, hurt morale among intelligence officers and proved ineffective before Obama shut it down. \n The AP obtained the draft order from a U.S. official, who said it had been distributed by the White House for consultations before Trump signs it. The official wasn't authorized to speak publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity. \n The Pentagon didn't immediately comment and Spicer, Trump's press secretary, said: \"I have no idea where it came from.\" But reports of the upcoming order quickly sparked alarm among Republicans and Democrats. \n \"The president can sign whatever executive orders he likes. But the law is the law,\" said Republican Sen. John McCain, tortured himself as a prisoner during the Vietnam War. \"We are not bringing back torture in the United States of America.\" \n On the campaign trail, Trump spoke emphatically about toughening the U.S. approach to fighting the Islamic State group. He said he would authorize waterboarding and a \"hell of a lot worse.\" After winning the election, however, he appeared to backtrack, pointedly citing Mattis' advice that torture is ineffective. \n Pompeo, Trump's CIA director, said in his confirmation hearing that he would abide by all laws. But he also said he'd consult with CIA and other government experts on whether current restrictions were an \"impediment to gathering vital intelligence to protect the country or whether any rewrite of the Army Field Manual is needed.\" \n Specifically, Trump's draft order calls for reinstating an executive order \u2014 \"to the extent permitted\" by current law \u2014 that President Bush signed in 2007 and Obama later revoked. \n Trump's draft would reverse two other executive orders of Obama's. One called for closing Guantanamo Bay. The other ordered the CIA to shut any detention facility it operated and prohibited the U.S. from using any interrogation technique not listed in the Army Field Manual, demanding treatment in compliance with the Geneva Conventions, including timely access for the International Red Cross to all detainees. \n Among the interrogation techniques banned by the manual were forced nakedness, hooding, beatings, sexual humiliation, threatening with dogs, mock executions, electric shocks, burning and waterboarding. \n Any changes would face steep legal and legislative hurdles. \n McCain, the Senate Armed Services Committee's chairman, may be the most formidable opponent in Congress, but he is not the only one. \n \"It is wrong and I hope he will rethink it,\" House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. \n On Guantanamo, the draft order says detention facilities \"are a critical tool in the fight against international jihadist terrorist groups who are engaged in armed conflict with the United States, its allies and its coalition partners.\" About 40 detainees remain in Guantanamo. \n The document says \"over 30 percent of detainees\" who've been released have returned to armed conflict, with at least a dozen conducting attacks \"against U.S. personnel or allied forces in Afghanistan.\" Six Americans, including a civilian aid worker, died as a result of those attacks. \n U.S. intelligence agencies say 17.6 percent of detainees released from Guantanamo are confirmed to have re-engaged in conflict. An additional 12.4 percent are \"suspected\" of re-engaging. \n Trump pledged on the campaign trail to \"load it up with some bad dudes.\" \n But it's unclear who the new detainees would be. As American ground troops have stepped back this decade from the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan, captures of high-level detainees have become much rarer, and Obama tried to direct them through the U.S. justice system. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump says torture works as his government readies a review"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement and EMS wait outside after a shooting at West Liberty-Salem Schools in West Liberty, Ohio. A male student was shot and wounded was hospitalized Friday, and another student suspected in the shooting was in custody, officials said. \n COLUMBUS, Ohio >> A newly released police report says the Ohio teen accused of shooting a classmate in school turned the weapon around and asked the victim to kill him. \n The report was released today by the Champaign County Sheriff's Office. It says the 17-year-old suspect expressed surprise that his victim was still alive before asking that he pull the trigger. \n The report says the victim, 16-year-old Logan Cole, refused to shoot his attacker. \n The account by Sheriff's Detective Glenn Kemp says the suspect assembled the shotgun inside a school bathroom stall and waited several minutes until the first class bell rang. \n The Associated Press isn't naming the suspect because it generally doesn't identify juveniles charged with crimes. \n A message was left with the suspect's public defender. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Boy shot classmate, then asked victim to shoot him"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n A bunch of surfers caught a wave off Waimea Bay in November. A high surf warning is in effect until 6 p.m. today for most of the Hawaiian islands. \n Update 4:17 p.m. \n The National Weather Service extended the high surf warning for most Hawaiian islands until 6 a.m. tomorrow. \n The high surf warning was issued for north and west facing shores of Oahu, Niihau, Kauai and Molokai and or north facing shores of Maui. \n A large northwest swell will continue to generate warning-level surf overnight before lowering to advisory levels tomorrow morning, weather officials said. \n Surf is expected to be between 20 and 25 feet with high impacts sweeping across portions of beaches and strong breaking waves. \n Officials urge the public to take precaution as large breaking surf, significant shorebreak and dangerous currents can make entering the water very dangerous. \n Previous coverage \n A high surf warning is in effect until 6 p.m. today for most of the Hawaiian islands. \n The National Weather Service warned beachgoers of hazardous ocean conditions as a large northwest swell is expected to generate waves of 22 to 28 feet along the north and west shores of Niihau and Kauai as well as the north shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui. \n Waves on the west shores of Oahu and Molokai are expected to peak at 15 to 20 feet throughout the day before they subside tonight. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf warning for most islands extended until Thursday"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Signs were displayed today in the bitter weather at an encampment near Cannon Ball, N.D., to protest the Dakota Access pipeline. Some protesters were vowing to stay in the camp despite a Trump administration order that seeks to expedite the pipeline's completion. \n CANNON BALL, N.D. >> Most of the demonstrators who gathered on the North Dakota plains to oppose the Dakota Access oil pipeline declared victory and departed their snowy protest camp last month after the Army announced it would halt the project. \n Now that President Donald Trump's administration is pushing to complete the pipeline, the few hundred protesters still living on the wind-whipped prairie must decide what to do \u2014 accept the likely defeat and leave, or stay and keep fighting. \n Some vow to remain, but Trump's action seems unlikely to spark a major rejuvenation of the depleted camp of people who dubbed themselves \"water protectors.\" \n Dan Hein, a 43-year-old Ohio man who has been living at the camp since September, was packing Tuesday to go home. \n \"I knew this was coming,\" he said. \n But Gena Neal, 43, who came from Oklahoma, said she was staying, even if protests remain subdued. \n \"We are proving action by just being here,\" she said today as snow swirled around a dozen people, many wearing donated ice grippers on their shoes. \n Trump on Tuesday signed an executive action ordering the Army Corps of Engineers to quickly reconsider its Dec. 4 decision to stop the construction to allow time for more environmental study. Before the project can be finished, builders need permission to lay pipe under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir from which an American Indian tribe draws its drinking water. \n The tribe at the center of the protests, the Standing Rock Sioux, says the pipeline threatens its water and cultural sites. Developer Energy Transfer Partners disputes that. \n The Oahe segment is the last major piece of the four-state pipeline designed to move North Dakota oil to a shipping point in Illinois. It was not clear when the Corps will act on Trump's memorandum. \n Local law enforcement agencies geared up for a possible resumption of protests after Trump's action, but no major incidents materialized, the Morton County Sheriff's Office said today. \n There have been more than 625 arrests in the region since mid-August. Clashes and arrests tailed off dramatically in recent weeks after the tribal council told the protest camp to disband because of the Dec. 4 decision, the harsh winter weather and the need to get the area cleaned up before spring flooding. \n At the camp's peak, several thousand people were packed into a half-mile square, living in teepees, tents, buses, motor homes and semi-permanent wooden structures. One occupant set up a portable radio station. Others established a school for children in a large tent. \n Today, fewer than 300 people remain on the federal land along the confluence of the Cannon Ball and Missouri rivers. \n The school and radio station are gone. The site is now dotted with abandoned tents, and many of the teepee tarps have been taken down, leaving only bare frames. The ground is covered with ice and several feet of snow that have buried abandoned vehicles and piled up against buildings that were left unfinished. \n Even with its diminished population, the camp remains under constant surveillance from law enforcement officers and National Guard soldiers perched on nearby bluffs and in aircraft making regular flyovers. \n Hein still believes in the cause but is resigned to leaving. \n \"People have dedicated months of their lives to this and now they're telling us to leave,\" he said. \"If they don't want your help, what are you going to do?\" \n Not everyone feels that way. Cindy Lou, a 55-year-old New Jersey woman who has been at the camp since October, said she and her husband will stay or \"all of this would be for naught.\" \n The tribe is planning to focus on a court battle in distant Washington, D.C., against any reversal of the Dec. 4 decision. \n Within hours of Trump's announcement, two leading pipeline opponents issued pleas on social media to maintain a presence in the area and for other supporters to come. But in interviews both LaDonna Brave Bull Allard and Chase Iron Eyes said they were not advocating a return to the large-scale protests of 2016. \n Allard, who operates a separate camp on her own land, said she plans to convert it into a summer camp to teach people how to respect the land, culture, history and traditions. The anti-pipeline effort \"will continue to be a world movement,\" she said. \n Iron Eyes said he advocates maintaining a presence in the area, but that anyone who comes should not expect a large camp that can provide for them. \n \"We're asking for people to be self-sufficient,\" he said. \"We don't expect the numbers \u2014 15,000, 12,000 or whatever it was \u2014 it's just not sustainable.\" \n Rather, he said, \"we have to win the war of public relations. We expect to win in the court of public opinion.\" \n Trump's action could re-ignite protests, but \"to what degree, we don't know,\" said Dallas Goldtooth, with the Indigenous Environmental Network, which had been one of the main camp organizers before heeding the tribe's call to leave last month. That group and others have since called on pipeline opponents to spread out around the country. \n \"Standing Rock has ignited a fire in all of us,\" Goldtooth said. \"We hope to see those fires continue to burn.\" \n Helen Red Feather, 60, of Pine Ridge, South Dakota, said she plans to stay and continue fighting the pipeline that opponents have dubbed \"the black snake.\" \n \"I came here to kill the snake,\" she said. \"And I'm staying here to kill the snake.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Last Dakota pipeline protesters weigh whether to fight or leave"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump's White House Senior Advisor Steve Bannon arrives at a White House senior staff swearing in ceremony in the East Room of the White House. \n MIAMI >> President Donald Trump has called for a national investigation into voter fraud, including people who registered to vote in two states \u2014 despite the fact that his campaign chief registered in both Florida in New York. \n The voter registration of Stephen Bannon drew a complaint during the campaign from a group that opposed Trump, but ultimately Florida election officials dropped the complaint. \n On Wednesday, the Sarasota County Supervisor of Elections office removed Bannon from the voter roll based on information received from the New York City Board of Elections, said Ron Turner, a Sarasota elections official. Bannon never voted in Sarasota County. \n Bannon registered to vote in Miami but never voted there. In August, Bannon switched his voter registration to Sarasota County. The global activist group Avaaz filed a complaint with the Florida Division of Elections on Oct. 19, claiming Bannon didn't actually live at the Sarasota County address. \n The address in Sarasota County was at the home of Breitbart News writer Andrew Badaloto. Bannon ran the conservative news outlet until August. \n But Bannon didn't vote in Sarasota County either. On Oct. 14, he registered to vote at an address on West 40th Street in New York City, according to Thomas Connolly, a spokesman for the New York State Board of elections. \n Bannon remains registered to vote in New York and voted in the Nov. 8 election, said Barbara Brunson, a clerk at the New York City Board of Elections. He voted by mail. \n Florida Division of Elections deputy counsel Lydia Atkinson wrote in a Jan. 11 letter to the person that filed the complaint that the state would take no further action after looking into it. \n \"These allegations are neither facially sufficient or do not set out an incident of 'election fraud' as defined,\" she wrote. \n Kendall Coffey, a Democrat and election law expert in Florida, said voters commonly don't take the time to cancel a voter registration when they move and re-register in a new location. That's common for college students, for example. \n \"It is not a crime to be registered in two states as long as, at the time of each registration, the voter's residency was claimed truthfully,\" said Coffey, a former U.S. attorney in Miami. \"Residency is principally a matter of the voter's intent as long as there is some accompanying physical movement to the new location. If one intends the new location to be his or her residence, and has a residence in the new jurisdiction to which movement has been made, courts will usually find that to be sufficient.\" \n Trump tweeted Wednesday morning: \"I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time). Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!\" \n Trump has repeatedly claimed widespread national voter fraud, but there is no evidence to support his claims. \n On Nov. 27 he tweeted that he \"won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.\" The fact-checking website PolitiFact rated his claim Pants on Fire. \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Trump campaign chief registered to vote in two states"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nebraska state Sen. Bill Kintner of Papillion announced at a news conference in Lincoln, Neb., today, that he is resigning the seat he has held since 2012, following an uproar over a tweet he sent that implied Women's March protesters were too unattractive to be victims of sexual assault. He made the announcement less than an hour before Nebraska lawmakers were scheduled to debate whether to expel him. \n LINCOLN, Neb. >> A Nebraska state legislator known for his blunt, occasionally offensive manner, who was fined for having cybersex using a state computer, resigned today after he retweeted a comment that implied participants at a women's march were too unattractive to be sexually assaulted. \n Republican Sen. Bill Kintner announced at a news conference in the state Capitol that he would step down from the seat he has held since 2012. He made the announcement less than an hour before Nebraska lawmakers were scheduled to debate whether to expel him \u2014 the first time the Legislature would have taken such an action in recent history. \n Kintner said he received many calls from constituents urging him to stay, and that he was resigning even though he was worried it would \"be hailed as a victory to the progressive and aggressive liberal movement.\" \n The Republican \u2014 who previously enjoyed support from his conservative allies, despite his penchant for inflammatory comments \u2014 described his last four years in office as \"frustrating\" and acknowledged that senators likely had enough votes to remove him. \n \"To paraphrase Richard Nixon, you won't have Bill Kintner to kick around anymore,\" he said. \n He did not apologize for his social media faux pas and left the press conference without taking questions. \n Kintner, of Papillion, retweeted a comment Sunday by conservative radio personality Larry Elder that mocked three women pictured with signs protesting Donald Trump's comments about touching women inappropriately. Above the photo, Elder wrote: \"Ladies, I think you're safe.\" \n Kintner's office later released a statement saying: \"By retweeting a message, I was not implying support for putting women in fear of their personal safety. I took down the retweet as soon as I became aware that it was being misconstrued.\" \n Kintner's resignation won't go into effect until Monday at 12:01 a.m. Speaker of the Legislature Jim Scheer said he has asked Kintner not to participate in any more floor debates or votes. \n Scheer, a fellow Republican, said he appreciated Kintner's decision to step down and spare the Legislature the \"toil and disruption\" of a vote to expel him. He said he met with Kintner Tuesday night and again this morning, but declined to elaborate on what they discussed. \n Nebraska Democratic Party chairwoman Jane Kleeb celebrated Kintner's announcement. \n \"The Women's March just took down their first politician. The Nebraska Democratic Party welcomes the resignation of Bill Kintner and looks forward to electing a candidate who stands up for women and working class families,\" Kleeb said. \n Even before Kintner's Twitter blunder, he was already under scrutiny for his behavior. \n He paid a $1,000 fine last year for misuse of state property, after he admitted to engaging in mutual masturbation in July 2015 with a woman using Skype, an online video-chatting service. Kintner reported the transgression to the Nebraska State Patrol after the woman threatened to expose the encounter unless he paid her $4,500. \n That scandal drew calls for him to resign from top state officials, including Republican Gov. Pete Ricketts, but Kintner refused to bow to the pressure. \n In a statement today, Ricketts said Kintner \"did the right thing\" by stepping down and promised to fill the vacancy quickly. \n Lawmakers said they were bombarded with calls, emails and letters this week from constituents outraged by Kintner's most recent indiscretion. \n \"It would have been a huge distraction and a disservice to the state,\" if Kintner had tried to stay, said Democratic Sen. Adam Morfeld. \n Sen. Ernie Chambers, Kintner's longtime adversary, urged him to resign, calling his behavior \"disgusting\" and embarrassing for his wife, who works for the governor. \n Kintner's history of offensive statements made even some of his conservative allies cringe. \n In 2015, the Nebraska Latino American Commission condemned Kintner for repeatedly using an ethnic slur during a debate over allowing driver's licenses for certain youths brought to the country illegally. \n Some were bemused and others offended by his 2013 comment to a newspaper, which asked him what he considered the biggest mystery. Kintner responded, \"Women. No one understands them. They don't even understand themselves.\" \n Kintner, 56, was elected in 2012 to represent a largely rural and suburban district south of Omaha. He was up for re-election in 2018. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nebraska lawmaker quits after unsavory Women's March retweet"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "A 65-year-old man killed in a two-car crash at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park has been identified as Paul Hernandez of New Jersey. \n Hernandez was traveling northbound on Highway 11 near the intersection of Namakanipaio Campground in a white Hyundai Elantra sedan Saturday afternoon. A witness said he attempted to make a U-turn when he was struck by a blue Toyota driven by a 33-year-old man traveling south on the highway, according to the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park news release. \n Hernandez was pronounced dead at the scene. The 33-year-old was taken to Hilo Medical Center. \n Rangers are seeking witnesses to the crash. Anyone with information is asked to call the park dispatch at 985-6170. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man killed in 2-car crash on Big Isle identified"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Actress Mary Tyler Moore died Wednesday, Jan. 25, 2017, at age 80. \n NEW YORK >> Mary Tyler Moore, the star of TV's beloved \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" whose comic realism helped revolutionize the depiction of women on the small screen, died today, said her publicist, Mara Buxbaum. She was 80. \n Moore gained fame in the 1960s as the frazzled wife Laura Petrie on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show.\" In the 1970s, she created one of TV's first career-woman sitcom heroines in \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show.\" \n \"She was an impressive person and a talented person and a beautiful person. A force of nature,\" said producer, creator and director Carl Reiner, who created the \"The Dick Van Dyke Show,\" told The Associated Press. \"She'll last forever, as long as there's television. Year after year, we'll see her face in front of us.\" \n Moore won seven Emmy awards over the years and was nominated for an Oscar for her 1980 portrayal of an affluent mother whose son is accidentally killed in \"Ordinary People.\" \n She had battled diabetes for many years. In 2011, she underwent surgery to remove a benign tumor on the lining of her brain. \n Moore's first major TV role was on the classic sitcom \"The Dick Van Dyke Show,\" in which she played the young homemaker wife of Van Dyke's character, comedy writer Rob Petrie, from 1961-66. \n With her unerring gift for comedy, Moore seemed perfectly fashioned to the smarter wit of the new, post-Eisenhower age. As Laura, she traded in the housedress of countless sitcom wives for Capri pants that were as fashionable as they were suited to a modern American woman. \n Laura was a dream wife and mother, but not perfect. Viewers identified with her flustered moments and her protracted, plaintive cry to her husband: \"Ohhhh, Robbbb!\" \n Moore's chemistry with Van Dyke was unmistakable. Decades later, he spoke warmly of the chaste but palpable off-screen crush they shared during the show's run. \n They also appeared together in several TV specials over the years and in 2003, co-starred in a PBS production of the play \"The Gin Game.\" \n But it was as Mary Richards, the plucky Minneapolis TV news producer on \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" (1970-77), that Moore truly made her mark. \n At a time when women's liberation was catching on worldwide, her character brought to TV audiences an independent, 1970s career woman. Other than Marlo Thomas' 1960s sitcom character \"That Girl,\" who at least had a steady boyfriend, there were few precedents. \n Mary Richards was comfortable being single in her 30s, and while she dated, she wasn't desperate to get married. She sparred affectionately with her gruff boss, Lou Grant, played by Ed Asner, and addressed him always as \"Mr. Grant.\" And millions agreed with the show's theme song that she could \"turn the world on with her smile.\" \n The show was filled with laughs. But no episode was more memorable than the bittersweet finale when new management fired the entire WJM News staff \u2014 everyone but the preening, clueless anchorman, Ted Baxter. Thus did the series dare to question whether Mary Richards actually did \"make it after all.\" \n The series ran seven seasons and won 29 Emmys, a record that stood for a quarter century until \"Frasier\" broke it in 2002. \n \"Everything I did was by the seat of the pants. I reacted to every written situation the way I would have in real life,\" Moore told The Associated Press in 1995. \"My life is inextricably intertwined with Mary Richards', and probably always will be.\" \n \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" spawned the spin-offs \"Rhoda,\" (1974-78), starring Valerie Harper; \"Phyllis\" (1975-77), starring Cloris Leachman; and \"Lou Grant\" (1977-82), starring Asner in a rare drama spun off from a comedy. \n \"Mary Tyler Moore\" was the first in a series of acclaimed, award-winning shows she produced with her second husband, Grant Tinker, who died in November 2016, through their MTM Enterprises. (The meowing kitten at the end of the shows was a parody of the MGM lion.) \"The Bob Newhart Show,\" \"Hill Street Blues,\" \"St. Elsewhere\" and \"WKRP in Cincinnati\" are among the MTM series that followed. \n Moore won her seventh Emmy in 1993, for supporting actress in a miniseries or special, for a Lifetime network movie, \"Stolen Babies.\" She had won two for \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" and the other four for \"Mary Tyler Moore.\" In 2012, Moore received the Screen Actors Guild's lifetime achievement award. \n On the big screen, Moore's appearances were less frequent. She was a 1920s flapper in the hit 1967 musical \"Thoroughly Modern Millie\" and a nun who falls for Elvis Presley in \"Change of Habit\" in 1969. \n She turned to serious drama in 1980's \"Ordinary People,\" playing an affluent, bitter mother who loses a son in an accident. The film won the Oscar for best picture and best director for Robert Redford, and it earned Moore an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe. \n \"I am deeply saddened by the news of Mary's passing. She was a truly amazing person, a great friend, and an inspiration to all,\" Timothy Hutton, her \"Ordinary People\" co-star, said in a statement. \"I will always be grateful for her kindness and thankful beyond words for knowing her. She will be missed greatly.\" \n In real life, Moore also endured personal tragedy. The same year \"Ordinary People\" came out, her only child, Richard, who'd had trouble in school and with drugs, accidentally shot himself at 24. Her younger sister, Elizabeth, died at 21 from a combination of a painkillers and alcohol. \n In her 1995 autobiography \"After All,\" Moore admitted she helped her terminally ill brother try to commit suicide by feeding him ice cream laced with a deadly overdose of drugs. The attempt failed, and her 47-year-old brother, John, died three months later in 1992 of kidney cancer. \n Moore herself lived with juvenile diabetes for some 40 years and told of her struggle in her 2009 book, \"Growing Up Again.\" She also spent five weeks at the Betty Ford Clinic in 1984 for alcohol abuse. \n She served as chairwoman of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, supported embryonic stem cell research and was active in animal rights causes. \n In 1983, Moore married cardiologist Robert Levine, who survives her. Her marriage to Tinker lasted from 1962 to 1981. Before that, she was married to Dick Meeker from 1955 to 1961. \n Moore was born in 1936 in Brooklyn; the family moved to California when she was around 8 years old. She began dance lessons as a child and launched her career while still in her teens, appearing in TV commercials. \n In 1992, Moore received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. A decade later, a life-size bronze statue went on display in Minneapolis, depicting her tossing her trademark tam into the air as she did in the opening credits of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Actress Mary Tyler Moore dead at age 80, publicist says"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "JOHN BURNETT / HAWAII TRIBUNE-HERALD \n Peter Kema Sr. \n COURTESY JAMES AND YOLANDA ACOL / MAY 2005 \n \"Peter Boy\" Kema Jr. \n A judge has delayed the trial of a Hawaii man charged with killing his son nearly 20 years after the boy disappeared. \n A Hilo Circuit Court judge granted a request from Kema's attorney to postpone the trial to allow them time to prepare for the testimony of Kema's wife, Jaylin, who has pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the case. As part of a plea deal, she agreed to testify against Kema at his trial. \n \"Right now we're ready for trial and we'd rather have it sooner than later. We'll take the date that we got and that's all I can say about that,\" said Hawaii County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Ricky Damerville. \n Damerville previously said Jaylin Kema agreed in court to facts he laid out about abuse the boy suffered, her failure to get him medical treatment and his eventual death. \n Jaylin Kema's plea agreement in December confirmed Peter Boy's death nearly two decades after the child went missing. \n His body still has not been found. \n \"I'm always hopeful we're going to find Peter Jr.,\" Damerville said. \"Personally, I don't think this is the kind of case where we're never going to find the boy. I hope not.\" \n Peter Kema told investigators in 1997 he took his son to Oahu and gave him to an \"Aunty Rose Makuakane\" in an informal adoption. Police could not find a woman as described by Kema or airline records indicating he had flown there from the Big Island. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Murder trial for father of 'Peter Boy' Kema postponed"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "HPD \n Brian W. Schacher has been charged with first-degree assault and second degree assault. \n A man has been charged for allegedly assaulting a hotel employee with a ninja-like sword in Waikiki. \n Brian W. Schacher has been charged with first-degree assault and second degree assault. His preliminary hearing at District Court is set for Thursday. He is being held in lieu of $500,000 bail. \n Shortly after 12 p.m. Saturday, police said a woman at the Ewa Hotel located at 2355 Cartwright Road reported a male was swinging a two-foot \"ninja sword\" in the lobby area and arguing with front desk employees, according to a court document. \n Clad in a white robe, blue top and black backpack, Schacher swung the sword toward them, striking a female employee three times. Police said she suffered injuries to the lower part of her body. \n A witness fled to a room with five other people. \n Police located Schacher on the fifth floor of the hotel and arrested him. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Man charged for alleged assault with sword"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel answers questions during a news conference in Chicago after the the U.S. Justice Department issued a report on civil rights abuses by the Chicago Police Department. \n CHICAGO >> President Donald Trump says he's ready to \"send in the Feds\" if Chicago can't reduce its homicide problem, and the city's police superintendent says he is \"more than willing\" to work with the federal government to combat the violence. \n Trump tweeted Tuesday night: \"If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible 'carnage' going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds!\" \n In response to the president's tweet, Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson reiterated that the city is receptive to assistance from the Department of Justice, the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms. He also repeated that city officials have sought a \"boost\" in federal prosecution rates for gun crimes in Chicago since homicide figures spiked. \n Trump offered no details on what federal intervention would look like, though many of the conceivable options would pose practical and constitutional obstacles. \n The most direct \u2014 and most extreme \u2014 intervention would be sending National Guard troops. But a federal statute dating to 1878 prohibits the deployment of federal troops to do the jobs of domestic police, with some narrow, rarely invoked exceptions. \n Mayor Rahm Emanuel, in an interview with WTTW's \"Chicago Tonight\" on Tuesday, said he welcomed government help in the form of more money to hire officers and more resources to track the flow of illegal guns into Chicago. \n Emanuel, a Democrat who once worked as former President Barack Obama's White House chief of staff, also mentioned support for after-school and other social programs. \n \"The federal government can be a partner, and to be honest they haven't been for decades,\" he said. \n Trump's tweet came a day after Emanuel criticized Trump for worrying about the size of the crowd at his inauguration. Emanuel has acknowledged his own frustration with Chicago's crime rate. \n The figures cited by Trump are the same as those published Monday in the Chicago Tribune. The tweet was posted about the time Tuesday evening that the figures were cited on Fox television's \"O'Reilly Factor.\" \n The numbers were slightly different from the latest tally by the Chicago Police Department. As of Tuesday, police said, 234 people have been shot in 2017, including 38 who died. At this point last year, 227 people had been shot, including 33 deaths. \n Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi explained that the department's numbers are slightly different because they do not include officer-involved shootings, shootings that were considered \"justified,\" such as those that were in self-defense, and shootings that were investigated by state police because they occurred on expressways. \n It appears that the president's numbers for homicides came from the county's medical examiner's office, Guglielmi said. \n Earlier this month, before he took office, Trump tweeted that Emanuel should ask for federal help if he isn't able to bring down the number of homicides. Last year, the death toll soared to 762 \u2014 the most killings in the city in nearly two decades and more than New York and Los Angeles combined. \n In Tuesday's tweet, Trump did not offer specifics about how the federal government could help. The White House website says: \"Our country needs more law enforcement, more community engagement and more effective policing.\" \n Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a Chicago Democrat, criticized Trump, suggesting in a statement that the president, whom he called the \"tweeter-in-chief,\" would \"rather spend his time on Twitter\" than look for ways to reduce gun violence. \n \"The president wants publicity and to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters,\" Gutierrez said, adding that he does not believe the president \"will do anything constructive to get cheap handguns off the streets of American cities.\" \n Another Chicago Democrat, Rep. Mike Quigley, called Trump's threat \"reckless and misguided\" and a \"gross overreach of federal power.\" He called on the president to increase funding for federal programs that he said were cut by Republicans but would help local law enforcement. He also called on Trump to support \"commonsense, pragmatic gun laws.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press Writer Michael Tarm contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump warns he's ready to 'send in the Feds' to Chicago"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Grand Master of the Knights of Malta Matthew Festing waited for the start of a Mass, in Feb. 2013, celebrated by Cardinal Tacisio Bertone, not pictured, to mark the 900th anniversary of the Order of the Knights of Malta, at the Vatican. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis delivered his blessing during his June 2016 meeting with Grand Master of the Knights of Malta Matthew Festing, left, at the Vatican. The Vatican today said Pope Francis will name a pontifical delegate to run the embattled Knights of Malta, effectively taking over the sovereign lay Catholic order after its leader Festing resigned in a bitter dispute with the pontiff over condoms. \n VATICAN CITY >> The Vatican announced today it was taking over the embattled Knights of Malta in an extraordinary display of papal power after the leader of the sovereign lay Catholic order publicly defied Pope Francis in a dispute over condoms. \n The move is remarkable \u2014 and controversial \u2014 because it marks the intervention of one sovereign state, the Holy See, into the internal governing affairs of another, the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, an ancient aristocratic order that runs a vast charity operation around the globe. \n The Vatican said Matthew Festing, 67, offered to resign as the Knights' grand master on Tuesday during an audience with the pope, and that Francis had accepted it today. A Vatican statement said the Knights' governance would shift temporarily to the order's No. 2 \"pending the appointment of the papal delegate.\" \n Festing had refused to cooperate with a papal commission investigating his decision to oust the order's grand chancellor, Albrecht von Boeselager, over revelations that the Knights' charity branch had distributed condoms under Boeselager's watch. \n Festing had cited the Knights' status as a sovereign entity in refusing to cooperate with the pope's investigation. Many canon lawyers had backed him up, questioning the pope's right to intervene in what was essentially an act of internal governance. \n The naming of a papal delegate signals a Vatican takeover, harking back to the Vatican's previous takeovers of the Legion of Christ and Jesuit religious orders when they were undergoing periods of scandal or turmoil. \n But those are religious orders that report directly to the Holy See. The Knights of Malta is a sovereign entity under international law, making the Vatican intervention all the more remarkable. \n The Order of Malta has many trappings of a sovereign state, issuing its own stamps, passports and license plates and holding diplomatic relations with 106 states, the Holy See included. \n As a result, even the Vatican's statement announcing the takeover was problematic: According to the Knights' own laws, the grand master is elected by the order's top leadership and submits his resignation to the order's top leadership. The pope is only informed of the decisions. \n \"It's not for the Holy Father to accept the resignation of the Grand Master, it's for the sovereign council to accept it,\" noted Kurt Martens, a professor of canon law at the Catholic University of America. \n As if to drive home that point, the Knights issued a statement today saying the sovereign council had been convened for Jan. 28 to formally accept his resignation. \n Martens said the Vatican intervention was \"dangerous\" as a result, because it set a precedent that could eventually be used against the Holy See, which has a similarly unique status as a tiny sovereign entity that nevertheless enjoys international recognition at the United Nations and elsewhere. \n \"You are giving ammunition to those who are opposed to an international status for the Holy See,\" Martens said, noting some groups have challenged the Vatican's status at the U.N. \n The spat unfolded against the backdrop of Francis' increasing clashes with more conservative elements in the church, especially those for whom sexual ethics and doctrinal orthodoxy are paramount. The dispute had once again pit Francis against Cardinal Raymond Burke, a leading conservative and Francis critic who also happens to be the pope's envoy to the order. \n Burke had been by Festing's side on Dec. 6 when Festing first asked, then demanded Boeselager's resignation. Boeselager refused, but was ousted two days later under a disciplinary procedure he contends violated the order's own rules. \n Boeselager had been the Knights' health minister when its charity branch Malteser International was found to have been involved in programs that distributed thousands of condoms to poor people in Myanmar. \n Church teaching forbids artificial contraception. Boeselager has said he stopped the programs when he learned of them. The order's leadership has said the scandal was grave, that Boeselager had hidden the revelations of the programs, and called it \"disgraceful\" that he had refused an order to obey Festing and resign. \n Boeselager has challenged his removal, appealing to the Knights' internal tribunal. \n Many of the order's members had lamented how the confrontation with the Holy See had drawn unwanted negative attention to the order, which relies on donations to fund its charity works around the globe. \n Francis appointed a commission to investigate after Boeselager said he had been told by Festing, in Burke's presence, that the Holy See wanted him to resign over the scandal. The Vatican secretary of state has said the pope wanted nothing of the sort and wanted the dispute to be resolved through dialogue. \n There is also something personal at stake: The pope is said to have had fraught relations with the Knights of Malta in his native Argentina. And stylistically they couldn't be more different: The pope is known for his simple style and refusal of the trappings of the papal office. The knights are known for the noble lineage of their members, their fancy fringed uniforms and the grand palazzi where they live. \n The knights trace their history to the 11th-century Crusades with the establishment of an infirmary in Jerusalem that cared for people of all faiths. It now counts 13,500 members and 100,000 staff and volunteers who provide health care in hospitals and clinics around the world. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope takes over Knights of Malta after condom dispute"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "The Kauai County Council unanimously voted to \"clear the books\" of an invalidated county law the courts had struck down requiring biotech companies to disclose pesticide use and regulate the growth of genetically modified organisms. \n The council voted 6-0 Wednesday on a measure to repeal Ordinance 960 (Bill 2491) from the county code after the federal district and appellate courts had ruled the measure was preempted by state law. Councilman Arthur Brun, an employee of Syngenta Seeds on Kauai, recused himself from the vote. \n The measure will be sent to the mayor's office for approval. Mayor Bernard Carvalho had supported the intent of the ordinance but vetoed the bill in 2013 because it was \"legally flawed.\" The county council voted 5-2 to override the veto. \n In an e-mailed statement Wednesday, Carvalho said, \"I remain committed to supporting the state Good Neighbor Program and working with the governor's office and the Dept. of Agriculture in finding solutions to this issue.\" \n The state recently announced plans to expand its voluntary Kauai Good Neighbor Program across the state, inviting biotech companies to provide monthly pesticide use reports. \n Council Chairman Mel Rapozo described Wednesday's action to repeal the invalidated law as a housekeeping measure. \"I don't think we should keep invalidated laws in the county code.\" \n In 2013, Rapozo was one of two councilmembers who voted against the passage of Ordinance 960 (Bill 2491) contending state law preempts county law on regulating pesticides. The 2013 ordinance mandated biotech companies to establish buffer zones and required companies to disclose the type of pesticides used in fields. The county law also regulated the use of GMOs. \n The issue divided the community, Rapozo said, more than any other community issue he has seen. \"It was time to close this chapter and move on.\" \n Former Kauai Councilman Gary Hooser, who co-introduced Bill 2491 with the late Councilman Tim Bynum, said though the courts invalidated the law, it has sparked more public discussions on pesticide use and exposure. \n In 2014, a federal district court judge ruled in favor of Syngenta, DuPont Pioneer, Dow AgroSciences and BASF, declaring the measure was invalid because state law preempts county law. The companies filed a lawsuit against the county to block the implementation of Ordinance 960. \n In November, the 9th U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the lower courts' ruling, asserting federal and state laws preempt counties' authority on Kauai as well as Hawaii and Maui to regulate pesticide use and genetically modified crops. \n Hawaii County had passed a law prohibiting biotech companies from operating on the island and banning the growth of GMOs. The GMO papaya industry was exempted. \n Hawaii County Clerk Stewart Maeda said no bill has been introduced by a councilmember to repeal the measure. \"It's still in the books even though it was \u2026 invalidated,\" Maeda said. \n Maui county voters had passed an ordinance when they approved a ballot initiative to impose a moratorium on growing and testing GMOs. \n Maui County Clerk Danny Mateo said the issue remains \"in limbo.\" \n \"For us, there's no action because we're waiting for a final directive from the courts,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kauai Council removes invalid law regulating pesticides, GMOs"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump spoke during his meeting with automobile leaders in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington on Tuesday. Trump, despite occupying the most powerful office in the world, remains fixated on a belief that the legitimacy of his election is being challenged. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump tweeted early today that he is ordering a \"major investigation\" into voter fraud, revisiting unsubstantiated claims he's made repeatedly about a rigged voting system. \n The investigation, he said, will look at those registered to vote in more than one state, \"those who are illegal and \u2026 even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time).\" \n Depending on results, Trump tweeted, \"we will strengthen up voting procedures!\" \n Trump has been fixated on his loss of the popular vote in the election and a concern that the legitimacy of his presidency is being challenged by Democrats and the media, aides and associates say. \n Trump's own attorneys dismissed claims of voter fraud in a legal filing responding to Green Party candidate Jill Stein's demand for a recount in Michigan late last year. \n \"On what basis does Stein seek to disenfranchise Michigan citizens? None really, save for speculation,\" the attorneys wrote. \"All available evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted by fraud or mistake.\" \n Secretaries of state across the country have dismissed Trump's voter fraud claims as baseless. After the president's morning tweets, Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted wrote on Twitter, \"We conducted a review 4 years ago in Ohio & already have a statewide review of 2016 election underway. Easy to vote, hard to cheat.\" \n Trump's exaggerations about inauguration crowds and assertions about illegal balloting have been distractions as advisers' have tried to launch his presidency with a flurry of actions on the economy. \n His spokesman, Sean Spicer, has twice stepped into the fray himself, including on Tuesday, when he doubled down on Trump's false claim that he lost the popular vote because 3 million to 5 million people living in the U.S. illegally cast ballots. \n All 50 states and the District of Columbia have finalized their election results with no reports of the kind of widespread fraud that Trump is alleging. \n \"He believes what he believes based on the information he was provided,\" said Spicer, who provided no evidence to back up the president's statements. \n If the president's claim were true it would mark the most significant election fraud in U.S. history \u2014 and ironically, would raise the same questions about Trump's legitimacy that he's trying to avoid. No details have been released about the possible probe. \n Rep. Elijah Cummings, ranking Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said today his panel has already sent letters to the attorneys general in all 50 states asking for reports of any election irregularities. \n \"The president can join me and my staff,\" Cummings said on MSNBC. He also said he wants Congress to restore voting protections, citing a Supreme Court ruling that \"gutted\" key sections of the Voting Rights Act, particularly the provision requiring southern states to get clearance in advance from the Justice Department before legislating changes in voting laws and procedures. \n Some Trump allies say he is justified in using his platform to defend his standing. They point to Georgia Democratic Rep. John Lewis' pre-inauguration statement that he did not see Trump as a legitimate president, as well as U.S. intelligence agencies' assessment that Russia meddled in the election in order to help Trump win. \n \"Segments of his own government keep driving this narrative,\" said Roger Stone, a longtime confidant. \"I don't think it hurts to point it out.\" \n Key advisers in Trump's inner circle concede the focus on crowd claims and alleged voter fraud have been a distraction. \n After Friday's inaugural festivities, the new president grew increasingly upset the next day by what he felt was \"biased\" media coverage of women's marches across the globe protesting his election, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Trump was particularly enraged with CNN, which he thought was \"gloating\" by continually running photos of the women's march alongside the smaller crowds that attended his inauguration the day before, according to this person, one of several White House aides and associates who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. \n Tuesday night on Twitter, Trump slammed CNN again, referring to the network as \"FAKE NEWS CNN\" while praising rival Fox News Channel. \n Trump has had a tumultuous relationship with the press, frequently calling the media dishonest and insulting individual reporters by name at his rallies and on Twitter. Still, two people close to Trump said he expected his coverage to turn more favorable once he took office. Instead, he's told people he believes it's gotten worse. \n Those around Trump are trying to get the cable news consumer-in-chief to be near a television less often, according to one person who has spoken with him. The bad press over the weekend has not allowed Trump to \"enjoy\" the White House as he feels he deserves, according to one person who has spoken with him. \n The result has been a full display of Trump's propensity for exaggeration and more. During an appearance at the CIA Saturday, he wrongly said the inaugural crowds gathered on the National Mall stretched to the Washington Monument, despite clear photo evidence to the contrary. And during a reception with lawmakers from both parties Monday night, he repeated his false assertion that millions of illegal immigrants provided Hillary Clinton's margin in the popular vote. \n AP writers Stephen Ohlemacher and Vivian Salama contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump announces 'major' voter fraud investigation"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Traffic flowed freely onto Kalanianole Hwy this morning after eastbound lanes were reopened following a large water main break. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Traffic flowed freely onto Kalanianole Hwy this morning after eastbound lanes were reopened following a large water main break. \n JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Eastbound traffic along Kalanianaole Highway was heavy and slow-going late into Monday evening in east Honolulu. All eastbound lanes at Kalanianaole Highway where it meets the H-1 freeway are now open. \n All eastbound lanes of Kalanianaole Highway where it meets the H-1 freeway are now open after Honolulu Board of Water Supply crews completed repairs to a broken water main. \n Honolulu police issued a bulletin shortly after 4:20 a.m. today notifying the public of the reopening of all lanes, four days after a 24-inch water main ruptured just before the intersection of the highway and Waikui Street. \n The broken transmission line caused gridlock as crews worked around the clock to repair it. \n Officials opened one lane Saturday night and two narrow lanes by Monday afternoon to ease congestion during peak afternoon traffic. Measures were put in place to alleviate congestion that includes adjustments to traffic lights and installing message boards to alert the public of the road work. \n Crews backfilled the gaping trench and repaved the area after completing repairs early Tuesday to the water main located 20 feet below the roadway's surface. \n The water main made of cast iron pipe encased in a \"concrete jacket\" was installed in 1969. Crews used a ductile iron pipe to replace the broken section of the water main. \n The Board of Water Supply faced an obstacle during repairs after encountering an abandoned line that was located almost on top of the transmission line. Crews cut a section of the abandoned line to access the broken water main. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "All eastbound highway lanes in Kahala reopen"}

{"date": "January 25, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Firefighters extinguished a house fire on Liona Street in Volcano today. \n A house in Volcano on Hawaii island was heavily damaged by fire Wednesday morning. \n Twenty Hawaii County firefighters responded to the 9:36 a.m. alarm. \n The first unit was on scene at 9:50 a.m. and found the back of the 1,800-square-foot, single-story wooden house with metal roof actively burning. \n Gray smoke was spewing from broken windows and the roof line, the Fire Department said in a news release. The back of the house was charred and heavily damaged. The remaining interior of the house received heavy smoke and heat damage. \n The fire was brought under control at 10:10 a.m. and extinguished at 11:15 a.m. \n No one was home at the time of the fire. \n Damage to the house, which was valued at $272,000, was estimated at $180,000. \n A late model Nissan pickup truck also was damaged by the fire. \n The cause is unknown and remains under investigation. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Fire causes $180,000 in damage to Big Island house"}

