{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "COURTESY KAUAI COUNTY \n Kauai Police discovered two abandonded cars off Kuhio Highway in Waikoko this morning. \n COURTESY KAUAI COUNTY \n Kauai Police discovered two abandonded cars off Kuhio Highway in Waikoko this morning. \n Kauai police found themselves with a mystery on their hands today. \n At around 9 a.m., officers on patrol found two cars that had run off Kuhio Highway, both onto rocks near the ocean. \n They were about 200 yards from each other, in Waikoko, near the western side of Hanalei Bay, according to Kauai County spokeswoman Sarah Blane. But it was unknown if the crashes were related. \n Both cars were empty. \n Police closed the road in both directions while they investigated. \n One of the vehicles, red, downed a utility pole. Crews from Kauai Island Utility Cooperative and Hawaiian Telcom responded to the scene and completed repairs by 10 a.m. \n The highway reopened at 10:40 a.m. after the second vehicle was towed away. \n The exact cause and timing of the crashes were unknown, Blane said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai Police investigating crashes in Waikoko"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hopena Pokipala carried a surfboard while discussing wave conditions with Kaipo Guerreo at Makapuu Beach today. \n A hurricane watch was canceled as Hurricane Lester tracked north of the Hawaiian islands and residents flocked to beaches Saturday morning to marvel at the big waves the storm created. \n Lester was expected to generate large and dangerous surf across exposed shorelines of the Hawaiian islands over the weekend, the National Weather Service reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "People marvel at surf after Hawaii hurricane watch canceled"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Phone volunteer James McMillian of Newark, Ohio, makes a call seeking support for Hillary Clinton at the Ohio Together Hillary Clinton campaign office in Newark, Ohio. \n COLUMBUS, Ohio >> Two months from Election Day, Hillary Clinton has a clear edge over Donald Trump in nearly every measure traditionally used to gauge success in presidential races. \n She's raising huge sums of money and flooding airwaves with television advertisements. A sophisticated data team with a history of winning White House contests is meticulously tracking voters in key battleground states. Clinton also has multiple paths to the 270 electoral votes needed to win in November \u2014 so many that she could lose Ohio and Florida and still become America's first female president. \n But Trump's campaign believes there are pockets of voters eager to be persuaded not to back Clinton. While Trump squandered a summer's worth of opportunities to court those voters, his campaign heads into the fall suddenly confident in its ability to make up lost ground. \n Trump aides were gleeful Friday over the release of FBI notes regarding Clinton's controversial email practices while secretary of state. His campaign plans to come out of the Labor Day weekend wielding the report as a warning about the Democrat's judgment. \n Getting Trump to make that kind of consistent case against Clinton has been a herculean task for much of the campaign. But advisers say he's more receptive to his new leadership team's more scripted approach, mostly because it's coincided with a tightening in the public polls he monitors obsessively. \n \"There's a renewed focus on Hillary Clinton and her problems, which I think has been beneficial,\" said Matt Borges, the chairman of Ohio's Republican Party. \"He's got to sustain this for another couple weeks.\" \n Still, Trump aides acknowledge that the brash businessman needs to more to address his own shaky standing with voters. \n Trump's campaign has spent no general election money on positive, biographical ads, despite having plenty of cash to do so. Efforts to highlight a warmer side of the New York real estate developer at the GOP convention were quickly overshadowed by flaps of his own making. He's also angered anew Hispanics voters, a fast-growing segment of the electorate that Republicans are desperate to draw from, by holding fast to his tough immigration policies. \n \"He's running up against a population trend and a demographic reality,\" said Steve Schale, a Florida-based Democratic strategist. \n If Trump can reshape the race, he'll need to do so quickly. Early voting begins in some states this month. North Carolinians can start submitting absentee ballots Friday. In Ohio \u2014 a state no Republican has won the White House without \u2014 people can start voting on Oct. 12, a week before the last of three presidential debates. \n Both campaigns expect enormous audiences for the debates. Clinton, who has been in intensive study sessions with her debate team in recent days, is sure to face higher expectations from voters. Trump's political inexperience leaves him with a lower bar to clear. \n Privately, Republican leaders say it will take more than strong debates for their nominee to alter a race that appears to be leaning in Clinton's favor. While Trump publicly maintains support from numerous high-ranking GOP officials, a striking number of discussions among Republicans in Washington often begin with an assumption that Clinton will be president come January. \n Trump advisers vigorously dispute that the race has slipped from their grasp. They contend most Americans are just now tuning into the presidential campaign in a serious way. \n \"We're very much on schedule to do what we need to do to turn out the vote for Mr. Trump,\" said Bob Paduchik, Trump's Ohio state director and one of the most experienced operatives on the Republican's staff. Paduchik said Trump's efforts heading into the fall are focused primarily on rallying \"disaffected Democrats and independents.\" \n Clinton's campaign has long argued that Trump is overestimating the number of voters willing to switch from voting Democratic in presidential election to Republican. But Clinton aides are monitoring movement toward a pair of third party candidates, Libertarian Gary Johnson and the Green Party's Jill Stein. \n \"There's no question you've got two candidates who are both underwater on their favorables right now,\" Joel Benenson, Clinton's chief strategist and pollster, said by way of explaining the appeal of Johnson and Stein. \"I think it's important as this gets closer that people understand the stakes and the importance of their vote.\" \n Clinton and running mate Tim Kaine will have an all-star stable of Democrats making that case on their behalf through the fall. \n President Barack Obama is expected to spend much of October campaigning for Clinton, focusing in particular on increasing turnout among young people, blacks and college-educated whites. Vice President Joe Biden will camp out in working class areas of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, Clinton's vanquished primary rival, will be rallying the young voters and liberals who backed his campaign. \n Trump will be largely on his own, with the exception of running mate Mike Pence and a few loyal supporters such as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. In the battle for control of the Senate, most Republicans in competitive races have stayed away from Trump. \n Democrats now see a clear path to taking back control of the Senate, with party leaders identifying Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania as favorable opportunities to pick up seats. Democrats are also confident that if Clinton wins in some of the most contested state such as New Hampshire, North Carolina and Nevada, she'll bring along the party's Senate candidates. \n There are bright spots for Republicans in the Senate contests. Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio is running a campaign that mirrors Clinton's more than Trump's \u2014 disciplined, well-funded, and heavily centered on data \u2014 and appears on track to hold his seat, even if Clinton carries the state in the presidential race. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton enters fall with key advantages in White House race"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A new case of hepatitis A has been confirmed in an employee at Zippy's in Kapolei. \n A new case of hepatitis A has been confirmed in an employee at a Zippy's in Kapolei. \n The state Department of Health said today the latest hepatitis A victim worked at the Zippy's located in Kapolei at 950 Kamokila Boulevard. The employee worked evenings and nights at the sit-down dining section and bakery of the restaurant (and did not work at the fast-food window) on Aug. 14, 18\u201319, 21, 23, and 25\u201326, 2016, according to officials. \n \"This case is a reminder that even though contaminated scallops have been removed from the market, the long hepatitis A incubation period means we must continue to remain vigilant for new cases,\" said State Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Park. \"DOH will continue to work with the public and businesses to prevent further illness.\" \n An outbreak of hepatitis A on Oahu has sickened more than 241 people. \n The likelihood that customers of the business will become infected is very low, according to the department. Most people do not get sick when an employee at a restaurant has Hepatitis A. However, if an infected food handler is infectious and has poor hygiene, the risk goes up for patrons of that restaurant. \n Symptoms of hepatitis A infection include fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, abdominal discomfort, dark urine, diarrhea, and yellow skin and eyes. \n While vaccination provides the best protection, frequent handwashing with soap and warm water after using the bathroom, changing a diaper, and before preparing food can help prevent the spread of hepatitis A. Appropriately cooking foods can also help prevent infection, according to the health department. \n Unvaccinated individuals should contact their healthcare providers about the possibility of receiving hepatitis A vaccine or immune globulin, which may provide some protection against the disease if administered within the first two weeks after exposure. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kapolei Zippy's employee confirmed with hepatitis A"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "BATON ROUGE, La. >> Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards says his state had more than $8.7 billion in damage from catastrophic flooding in August, and the figure will increase as officials finish assessing damage to roads and other public infrastructure. \n The governor's office Saturday released a letter Edwards sent Friday to President Barack Obama. \n In it, the Democratic governor asked that Congress this month approve $2 billion in federal aid for Louisiana for housing, economic development and infrastructure. He said it's a \"very reasonable request,\" adding to other programs assisting in Louisiana's flood recovery, such as aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. \n \"While short-term relief for immediate needs available through FEMA for items such as temporary rental assistance, essential home repairs and other disaster-related needs are greatly needed and greatly appreciated, our full recovery will not be realized without additional help,\" Edwards wrote. \n A storm that started Aug. 12 dumped as much as 2 feet of rain in some parts of Louisiana over two days, and the flooding has been described as the worst disaster in the U.S. since Superstorm Sandy struck the East Coast in 2012. \n Edwards said flood damage has been documented to more than 55,000 houses in Louisiana, and that could double as aid applications and inspections continue. More than 80 percent of damaged homes lacked flood insurance because most were outside the 100-year flood plain. He said initial evaluations show the majority of flooded households were for people with low to moderate incomes, and 20 percent were renters. \n More than 6,000 businesses flooded, with more than $2.2 billion in damages to buildings, equipment and inventory, Edwards said. He also said there are \"conservative estimates\" of more than $110 million in damage to agriculture. \n Estimates are that about 30 state roads washed out and 1,400 bridges will need to be inspected, the governor said. \n Edwards said he has asked all members of Louisiana's congressional delegation to support the request for $2 billion in Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery money, and to ask their colleagues to approve it. \n \"The majority of these citizens did not carry flood insurance, and I impress upon you that they will not be able to make critical decisions on rebuilding their homes and their lives without the availability of CDBG-DR funds,\" Edwards wrote to the president. \"This additional assistance is critical to Louisiana's full recovery from these floods.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Louisiana flood damage at least $8.7 billion, governor says"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis hugs a girl on his pope mobile upon his arrival in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican for a jubilee audience for workers and volunteers of mercy. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis on Saturday denounced what he called the modern-day sin of indifference to hunger, exploitation and other suffering, while commending the example of Mother Teresa on the eve of a sainthood ceremony for the nun who cared for India's destitute. \n \"Tomorrow, we'll have the joy of seeing Mother Teresa proclaimed a saint,\" Francis told thousands of lay volunteers in St. Peter's Square at a special gathering to stress the need for more mercy and caring in the world. \"She deserves it!\" \n Francis will lead a Sunday morning canonization ceremony in the square which is expected to draw huge crowds of faithful and other admirers of Mother Teresa, who founded an order of nuns devoted like her to giving tenderness and assistance to the poor who were sick and dying in the streets of Kolkata. \n Cheering the pontiff in Saturday's crowd were many nuns from her Missionaries of Charity order, each wearing the characteristic white sari trimmed in blue that makes them easily identifiable worldwide where they care for the needy. Francis greeted a group of these nuns as he was driven through the square in his popemobile, and one of the nuns put a blue-and-white garland around his neck. \n In his speech to the volunteers, including some who helped rescue survivors of the Aug. 24 earthquake in central Italy, Francis decried those who \"turn the other way not to see the many forms of poverty that begs out for mercy.\" \n Choosing \"to not see hunger, disease, exploited persons, this is a grave sin. It's also a modern sin, a sin of today,\" he said. \n Francis hailed volunteers as \"artisans of mercy,\" whose hands, voices, closeness and caresses help people who suffer feel loved. While in the square, he petted Leo, the Labrador which pinpointed a 4-year-old child who had survived in a pile of quake rubble. The dog raised a paw, which Francis grasped. \n Since becoming pope in 2013, Francis has been encouraging Catholic faithful and institutions to tend to the needs of marginalized people. \n \"The credibility of the church lies, in convincing part,\" on the service of Catholics to the poor, the homeless, prisoners, immigrants, refugees and others in need, Francis said. \"The world needs concrete signs of solidarity, above all when faced with the temptation toward indifference.\" \n In a shop in Kolkata which sells snacks and rosaries, Muslim shopkeeper Tanveer Ahmed recalled seeing Mother Teresa and other nuns take in a leprosy patient who lay bleeding in the street while others passed by, unmoved. \n \"We are fighting with each other. We are killing each other. But, if you want to see love, please look at Mother Teresa,\" Ahmed said. He added: \"I believe Mother is next to God.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope hails volunteers on eve of Mother Teresa sainthood"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Turkey's state-run news agency says Turkish tanks have entered Syria's Cobanbey district northeast of Aleppo in a \"new phase\" of the Euphrates Shield operation. Turkish tanks crossed into Syria Saturday to support Syrian rebels against the Islamic State group, according to the Anadolu news agency. \n ISTANBUL >> Turkish tanks have crossed into Syria to the west of a frontier town seized from the Islamic State group last week, in a \"new phase\" of an operation aimed at sealing off the last stretch of border controlled by the extremists. \n The private Dogan news agency reported at least 20 tanks and five armored personnel carriers crossed at the Turkish border town of Elbeyli, across from the Syrian town of al-Rai. The new incursion is unfolding about 55 kilometers (34 miles) west of Jarablus, where Turkish forces first crossed into Syria ten days ago. \n The tanks entered from the Turkish border village of Elbeyli and linked up with Turkish-backed Syrian rebels at al-Rai, who are participating in the operation, dubbed Euphrates Shield. \n The official Anadolu News Agency said that \"with this new phase of the operation, the Azaz-Jarablus line is expected to be cleared of terror elements.\" \n Turkish-backed Syrian rebels meanwhile said they had captured three more villages to the west of Jarablus from the Islamic State group, bringing them to 13 miles from those positioned at al-Rai. The gap is the last remaining stretch of the Syrian border under IS control. \n Three rockets fired from IS-held territory in Syria meanwhile struck the Turkish border town of Kilis, some 19 miles from Elbeyli, according to the Turkish governor's office, which said one person was lightly wounded. \n The governor's office said five others were wounded last Monday when three rockets hit Kilis. Anadolu said the wounded were children. Dogan says rockets have killed 21 Kilis residents and wounded scores since January. \n The Turkish Armed Forces responded to the rockets with howitzers, striking two weapons pits and bunkers, and \"destroying the locations and the Daesh terrorists there,\" Anadolu said, referring to IS by an Arabic acronym. \n Turkey's military says its right to self-defense as well as U.N. resolutions to combat the IS group justify its Syria incursions. \n Turkey and allied Syrian rebels have also fought U.S.-backed Kurdish forces known as the People's Protection Units, or YPG, around Jarablus. Turkey views the YPG as an extension of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or the PKK, which Turkey and its allies consider a terrorist organization. \n The U.S. has provided extensive aid and airstrikes to the YPG-led Syria Democratic Forces, which have proven to be highly effective against IS. The Syria Democratic Forces, which also includes Arab fighters, has taking a large swath of territory from the extremists along the border with Turkey and closed in on Raqqa, the de facto capital of the extremist group's self-styled caliphate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Turkish tanks cross into Syria in 'new phase' against IS"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An emergency polio vaccination campaign aimed at reaching 25 million children this year has begun in parts of Nigeria newly freed from Boko Haram Islamic extremists, with fears that many more cases of the crippling disease are likely to be found. \n MAIDUGURI, Nigeria >> An emergency polio vaccination campaign aimed at reaching 25 million children this year has begun in parts of Nigeria newly freed from Boko Haram Islamic extremists, with fears that many more cases of the crippling disease will likely be found. \n Two toddlers discovered last month were Nigeria's first reported polio cases in more than two years, putting the world on alert just months after the African continent was declared free of the disease. \n One member of the Rotary Club's \"End Polio Now\" drive said he almost cried when he got the news. It was a major blow to global efforts to stamp out polio, which persists in only two other countries, Pakistan and Afghanistan. \n The Associated Press joined the vaccination drive in northeastern Nigeria, a campaign going to extraordinary lengths to fight the disease in areas still threatened by Boko Haram extremists who violently oppose Western medicine. \n Health workers using military helicopters, all-terrain vehicles and even tricycle taxis vaccinated about 1.5 million children in the past week alone, starting in the refugee camps where the new cases surfaced. \n The World Health Organization has said the two new cases indicate the wild polio virus has been circulating for five years in northeastern Borno state, where Boko Haram began its uprising in 2009. \n More cases are expected to surface as Nigeria's military forces Boko Haram out of more towns and villages, said Dr. Tunji Funsho, head of Rotary's polio eradication drive. \n Just 20 years ago, this West African nation was considered the world's epicenter of polio, recording 1,000 cases a year. Men and women with twisted limbs crawling along the roadside to beg are still a common sight. A global drive to end polio began in 1988, when the highly contagious disease was endemic in 125 countries. \n Though progress has been made, wiping out polio probably will not be possible without ending the unrest tied to Islamic extremism that prevents vaccination in the three countries where the virus still is endemic, according to a new report from U.S.-based risk analysis group Stratfor. \n \"Boko Haram is largely responsible for the insecurity that has hamstrung vaccination efforts in Nigeria,\" the report said. \"Though the group has weakened since the start of 2015 \u2026 as long as this security risk remains, so, too, will the risk that Nigeria's latest run-in with polio will not be its last.\" \n Boko Haram is in retreat but remains deadly. In July, militants attacked a humanitarian convoy near Maiduguri, the region's largest city, leading the United Nations to suspend aid to newly liberated areas where it says half a million people are starving. \n Boko Haram's opposition to all things Western reached new heights in 2013 when militants shot and killed nine women vaccinating children against polio in northern Kano, Nigeria's second largest city. \n Over the years, the vaccination campaign has had to fight rumors that the vaccine was a plot to sterilize Muslims, which it overcame by winning over religious and traditional leaders and grassroots women's groups. \n \"Yes, it's a major setback, but we are not defeatist,\" Funsho declared of the latest cases. He looked over a map of Borno state that showed only a small southern section as \"accessible,\" most of the sprawling state \"partially accessible\" and a band in the north bordering Niger, Cameroon and Chad as \"inaccessible\" because of Boko Haram fighters. \n Over the past week, hundreds of health workers from the government, the United Nations and aid organizations spread out across Borno state, delivering the vaccinations through drops on the tongue. \n Military armored cars and truckloads of soldiers guarded trips into precarious areas. They included the town of Chibok, where nearly 300 schoolgirls were kidnapped in April 2014, shocking the world. More than 200 remain missing. Boko Haram extremists attacked a village near Chibok last week, killing 11 people. \n For areas too dangerous to reach by road, helicopters delivered vaccines to already trained people on the ground, to avoid suspicion of strangers, said Rotary field coordinator Aminu Muhammad. \n \"We've even been able to reach a couple of areas that we had been told by the military were inaccessible, after community leaders informed us we could get through,\" Muhammad said proudly. \n \"Still, there were some major communities outside the metropolitan areas that we were unable to reach,\" Muhammad said. \n He could not estimate costs for the massive campaign because organizations like the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, the U.N. children's agency and London-based Save the Children all are participating with their own budgets. \n Most vaccinators are women because men traditionally are not allowed into the home of a Muslim woman if her husband is absent. \n One campaign member, Maryam Kawule of the Core Group, led green-veiled young women ticking off family names handwritten in an exercise book. \"We do the preliminary work of counting the children, and we're here now to ensure every kid under 5 gets his or her vaccination,\" she said. \n It doesn't end there. The polio vaccine has to be administered at least three times to each child, and up to five times in endemic areas, so more rounds are planned next year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nigeria's urgent polio vaccination drive targets 25 million"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump gives a thumbs up during a church service at Great Faith Ministries. \n DETROIT >> Donald Trump said Saturday he wanted to help rebuild Detroit and told members of a black church that \"there are many wrongs that should be made right\" as the GOP presidential nominee tried to woo African-Americans two months before the election. \n \"I am here to listen to you,\" Trump told the congregation at the Great Faith Ministries International in remarks that included references to some of his campaign plans. \"As I prepare to campaign all across the nation, I will have the chance to lay out my economic plans which will be so good for Detroit.\" \n Seated in the front row was Omarosa Manigault, a former contestant on Trump's reality television series who has been helping guide his outreach to the black community. Also in the audience was Detroit native Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran against Trump in the primaries and is now advising the campaign. \n While protesters were a vocal presence outside, Trump made a pitch inside for support from an electorate strongly aligned with Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n \"I want to help you build and rebuild Detroit,\" he said. \"I fully understand that the African-American community has suffered from discrimination and there are many wrongs that should be made right.\" \n He also said the nation needs \"a civil rights agenda of our time,\" with better education and good jobs. \n Unlike his usual campaign stops where he confidently has addressed mostly white crowds that supported him and his plans for the country, Trump's visit to Detroit on Saturday was intended to be more intimate. \n Some protesters tried to push through a barrier to the parking lot but were stopped by church security and police. \n Rev. Horace Sheffield who led a march from his church blocks away said: \"I walked up to the gate and said I was going to church. I was immediately confronted and was told I needed a ticket. You need a ticket to get in church? Anybody who is in this church should be appalled. I love Bishop Wayne T, but to not let the public in?\" \n Ahead of his trip, Toni McIlwain said she believes that as a candidate, Trump has a right to go anywhere he wants. But, she said, it takes a lot of nerve for him to visit Detroit. \n Many black people in the city, she said, are still stung by his stop in Michigan last month, when he went before a mostly white audience and declared, \"You live in your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed.\" He asked, rhetorically, what blacks had to lose by voting for him instead of Clinton. \n \"People picked up on\" Trump saying \"you're all just crap,\" said McIlwain, who for years ran a community center that offered education and drug prevention programs in one of Detroit's most distressed neighborhoods. \n \"He generalized the total black community. How dare you talk to us like that and talk about us like that?\" she said. \n Carson told The Associated Press before Trump's trip that it would serve as an opportunity for the GOP nominee to see the challenges residents face as he refines his policy plans. \n \"It always makes much more of an impression, I think, when you see things firsthand,\" he said. \n But the risky nature of the visit was underscored by what appeared to be unusually cautious planning by the Trump campaign. \n On Thursday, The New York Times published what it said was a script of pre-approved questions Trump would be asked in his interview with Jackson, along with prepared answers. \n Jackson told CNN on Friday that he \"didn't see anything wrong\" with clearing his questions with the campaign and hadn't offered softballs. Trump's intention was to meet and speak with local residents while he's in town \"because he's been criticized,\" Jackson said, \"for preaching to African-Americans from a backdrop of white people.\" \n Among the members of the clergy denouncing Trump's visit was the Rev. Lawrence Glass, who said Trump's heart was not into helping blacks. \n Glass said Trump represents \"politics of fear and hate\" and that \"minorities of all kinds have much to lose taking a chance on someone like\" Trump. \n For Trump, courting black voters is a challenge. Most polls show his support among black voters is in the low single digits. Many blacks view some of his campaign rhetoric as insulting, and racist. \n Detroit is about 80 percent black, and many are struggling. Nearly 40 percent of residents are impoverished, compared with about 15 percent of Americans overall. Detroit's median household income is just over $26,000 \u2014 not even half the median for the nation, according to the census. \n The city's unemployment rate has dropped, but is still among the highest in the nation. And public school students have lagged behind their peers on statewide standardized tests. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Donald Trump tries to woo black voters in visit to Detroit"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Water from Roanoke Sound pounded the Virginia Dare Trail in Manteo, N.C., today as Tropical Storm Hermine passed the Outer Banks. \n The once-and-future Hurricane Hermine regained strength today as it moved slowly up the Eastern Seaboard and made a mess of the holiday weekend. \n Hermine (her-MEEN) already caused two deaths, damaged properties and left hundreds of thousands without electricity from Florida to Virginia. It spawned a tornado in North Carolina and closed beaches as far north as New York. \n \"This is not a beach weekend for anyone in the Mid-Atlantic to the northeast,\" said Eric Blake, a hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami. \n Hermine rose up over the Gulf of Mexico and hit Florida on Friday as a Category 1 hurricane before weakening to a tropical storm across Georgia. \n By 8 p.m. EST today, Hermine's top sustained winds remained at 70 mph as it moved east-northeast at 12 mph. The storm was centered about 195 miles southeast of Ocean City, Maryland. \n Forecasters expected Hermine to regain hurricane force on Sunday as it travels up the coast before weakening again to a tropical storm by Tuesday. \n Governors all along the coast announced emergency preparations. Tropical storm warnings were in effect as far north as Connecticut. \n And since sea levels have risen up to a foot due to global warming, the storm surges pushed by Hermine could be even more damaging, climate scientists say. \n Michael Mann at Pennsylvania State University noted that this century's one-foot sea-level rise in New York City meant 25 more square miles flooded during Superstorm Sandy, causing billions more in damage. \n \"We are already experiencing more and more flooding due to climate change in every storm,\" said Michael Oppenheimer, a geosciences professor at Princeton University. \"And it's only the beginning.\" \n The winds and rain were so strong today in North Carolina that all bridges to the Outer Banks were closed for several hours following a deadly accident over the intracoastal waterway. \n Tyrrell County Sheriff Darryl Liverman told the Virginian-Pilot that high winds tipped over an 18-wheeler, killing its driver and shutting down the U.S. 64 bridge. \n And on Hatteras Island in the Outer Banks, a small tornado spawned by Hermine knocked over two trailers and injured four people, authorities said. \n Earlier in Florida, a homeless man died from a falling tree. \n Hermine's timing couldn't be worse for coastal communities hoping for revenue from Labor Day events. \n \"This weekend would normally be a parking lot,\" said Jim Derrick. His family businesses include a mini golf course, sea shell store, indoor bounce house and ice cream shop in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where the beach was closed to foot traffic and swimming was prohibited today. \n He called the weekend \"definitely disappointing,\" although his bounce house was packed. \n Elsewhere along Hermine's path, people were having decidedly less fun. \n In Savannah, Georgia, Bacon Fest was canceled Friday and today's Craft Brew Fest was moved indoors. \n In Virginia Beach, the storm forced Bruce Springsteen to move a Saturday night concert to Monday. Swimmers were ordered out of the surf in New York and New Jersey. And Amtrak cancelled or altered some service as the storm approached. \n Joyce Harper and her husband, of Berkeley Township, N.J., canceled Monday's family barbecue and took their three young daughters to the Seaside Heights boardwalk to \"burn off some energy\" ahead of the storm. \n \"If it's as bad as they expect, then we're all going to be indoors for a couple days. I love my kids, but two days is a long time to be together in close spaces,\" she said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hermine regains strength as it moves up East Coast"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama, left, and Chinese President Xi Jinping pose for photographers as they shake hands before their meeting at the West Lake State Guest House in Hangzhou in eastern China's Zhejiang province Saturday. \n HANGZHOU, China >> Setting aside their cyber and maritime disputes, President Barack Obama and China's President Xi Jinping on Saturday sealed their nations' participation in last year's Paris climate change agreement. They hailed their new era of climate cooperation as the best chance for saving the planet. \n At a ceremony on the sidelines of a global economic summit, Obama and Xi, representing the world's two biggest carbon emitters, delivered a series of documents to U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The papers certified the U.S. and China have taken the necessary steps to join the Paris accord that set nation-by-nation targets for cutting carbon emissions. \n \"This is not a fight that any one country, no matter how powerful, can take alone,\" Obama said of the pact. \"Some day we may see this as the moment that we finally decided to save our planet.\" \n Xi, speaking through a translator, said he hoped other countries would follow suit and advance new technologies to help them meet their targets. \"When the old path no longer takes us far, we should turn to innovation,\" he said. \n The formal U.S.-Chinese announcement means the accord could enter force by the end of the year, faster than anticipated. Fifty-five nations must join for the agreement to take effect. The nations that have joined must also produce at least 55 percent of global emissions. \n The U.S. and China together produce 38 percent of the world's man-made carbon dioxide emissions. \n The White House has attributed the accelerated pace to an unlikely partnership between Washington and Beijing. To build momentum for a deal, they set a 2030 deadline for China's emissions to stop rising and announced their \"shared conviction that climate change is one of the greatest threats facing humanity.\" The U.S. has pledged to cut its emissions by at least 26 percent over the next 15 years, compared to 2005 levels. \n The meeting of the minds on climate change, however, hasn't smoothed the path for other areas of tension. The U.S. has criticized China over cyberhacking and human rights and voiced increased exasperation with Beijing's growing assertiveness in key waterways in the region. Most recently, the U.S. has urged China to accept an international arbitration panel's ruling that sided with the Philippines in a dispute over claims in the South China Sea. \n China views the South China Sea as an integral part of its national territory. The U.S. doesn't take positions in the various disputes between China and its Asian neighbors, but is concerned about freedom of navigation and wants conflicts resolved peacefully and lawfully. \n Meeting with Xi after the announcement, Obama said thornier matters would be discussed. He specifically cited maritime disputes, cybersecurity and human rights, though the president didn't elaborate during brief remarks in front of reporters at the start of the meeting. \n After several hours of talks, the White House said Obama told Xi the U.S. would keep monitoring China's commitments on cybersecurity. The leaders also had a \"candid exchange\" over the arbitration case between China and the Philippines, the White House said. \n The ceremony opened what is likely Obama's valedictory tour in Asia. The president stepped off Air Force One onto a red carpet, where an honor guard dressed in white and carrying bayonets lined his path. A girl presented Obama with flowers and he shook hands with officials before entering his motorcade. \n But the welcome didn't go smoothly. A Chinese official kept reporters and some top White House aides away from the president, prompting a U.S. official to intervene. The Chinese official then yelled: \"This is our country. This is our airport.\" \n Throughout his tenure, Obama has sought to check China's influence in Asia by shifting U.S. military resources and diplomatic attention from the Middle East. The results have been mixed. \n The Trans-Pacific Partnership, a massive trade deal the White House calls a cornerstone of the policy, is stuck in Congress. Obama planned to use the trip to make the case for approval of the deal before he leaves office in January. \n Climate represents a more certain piece of his legacy. \n Under the Paris agreement, countries are required to set national targets for reducing or reining in their greenhouse gas emissions. Those targets aren't legally binding, but countries must report on their progress and update their targets every five years. \n Xi said he acted after China's legislature voted Saturday to formally enter the agreement. In the U.S., Senate ratification is not required because the agreement is not considered a formal treaty. \n Li Shuo, Greenpeace's senior climate policy adviser, called Saturday's declarations \"a very important next step.\" \n If the deal clears the final hurdles, he said, \"we'll have a truly global climate agreement that will bind the two biggest emitters in the world.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China, U.S. join climate deal; Obama hails work to save planet"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sandstone bricks from the side of the historic Pawnee County Bank litter the sidewalk after an early morning earthquake in Pawnee, Oka., on Saturday, Sept. 3, 2016. The United States Geological Survey said a 5.6 magnitude earthquake happened Saturday morning in north-central Oklahoma, on the fringe of an area where regulators had stepped in to limit wastewater disposal. That temblor matches a November 2011 quake in the same region. \n OKLAHOMA CITY >> A record-tying earthquake in the edge of Oklahoma's key energy-producing areas rattled the Midwest from Nebraska to North Texas on Saturday, and likely will bring fresh attention to the practice of disposing oil and gas field wastewater deep underground. \n The United States Geological Survey said a 5.6 magnitude earthquake happened at 7:02 a.m. Saturday in north-central Oklahoma, on the fringe of an area where regulators had stepped in to limit wastewater disposal. That temblor matches a November 2011 quake in the same region. \n An increase in magnitude 3.0 or greater earthquakes in Oklahoma has been linked to underground disposal of wastewater from oil and natural gas production. \n The Oklahoma Corporation Commission, which since 2013 has asked wastewater-well owners to reduce disposal volumes in parts of the state, directed about 35 wells within an approximately 500-square-mile area around the epicenter to shut down within seven to 10 days because of previous connections between the injection of wastewater and earthquakes. \n \"All of our actions have been based on the link that researchers have drawn between the Arbuckle disposal well operations and earthquakes in Oklahoma,\" spokesman Matt Skinner said Saturday. \"We're trying to do this as quickly as possible, but we have to follow the recommendations of the seismologists, who tell us everything going off at once can cause an (earthquake).\" \n People in Kansas City and St. Louis, Missouri; Chicago; Gilbert, Arizona; Fayetteville and Little Rock, Arkansas; Des Moines, Iowa; Memphis, Tennessee; and Big Lake in southwest Texas, all reported feeling the earthquake. Dallas TV station WFAA tweeted that the quake shook their studios, too. \n Pawnee County Emergency Management Director Mark Randell said no buildings collapsed in the town of 2,200 about nine miles southeast of the epicenter. \"We've got buildings cracked,\" Randell said. \"Most of it's brick and mortar, old buildings from the early 1900s.\" \n Randell also said a man suffered a minor head injury when part of a fireplace fell on him as he protected a child. The man was treated and released. \n The office of Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin tweeted that state highway crews were checking for bridge damage and the state Department of Emergency Management would assess damage and determine how to address it. \n The damage is not as severe as the 2011 quake near Prague, Oklahoma, about 60 miles south of Pawnee, despite being the same magnitude and approximately the same depth below the surface. Saturday's was 3.7 miles deep, compared to 3.1 miles in 2011. Both are shallow quakes, during which shaking is more intense, like setting off \"a bomb directly under a city,\" USGS seismologist Susan Hough has said. \n However, hard bedrock beneath the surface in north-central Oklahoma is likely the reason for less damage, Oklahoma Geological Survey geophysicist Jefferson Chang said, adding that the subsurface around Prague is softer. \n \"It's pretty much comparable to the Prague event,\" Chang said. \"But in harder rock, it won't shake as much.\" \n Pawnee furniture store owner Lee Wills told The Associated Press that he first thought it was a thunderstorm. \n \"Then it just \u2026 Everything went crazy after that. It just started shaking,\" said Wills, who lives about 2\u00bd miles outside of town. \"It rocked my house like a rubber band. Threw stuff off cabinets and out of cabinets, broke glasses.\" \n Some parts of Oklahoma now match northern California for the nation's most shake-prone, and one Oklahoma region has a 1 in 8 chance of a damaging quake in 2016. The area where the quake was centered is on the edge of a region covered by a \"regional earthquake response plan\" issued in March by the commission, whose goal was to cut the number of earthquakes by reducing wastewater injection volume by 40 percent from 2014 levels. \n Oklahoma and Kansas both had an uptick in quakes in the first half of this decade. Kansas moved quickly to limit volume, while Oklahoma concentrated on the depth of the disposal. Kansas saw a 60 percent drop while the frequency of quakes in Oklahoma continued to climb. \n Sean Weide in Omaha, Nebraska, told the AP that he'd never been in an earthquake before and thought he was getting dizzy. Weide said he and one of his daughters \"heard the building start creaking\" and said it \"was surreal.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strong Oklahoma earthquake felt from Nebraska to Texas"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A 160-foot spire is seen atop the Wilshire Grand Tower building after a crane hoisted it into place early today in downtown Los Angeles. The 10-ton spire makes the building the tallest building west of the Mississippi River at 1,099 feet high. \n LOS ANGELES >> A new skyscraper in downtown Los Angeles has become the tallest building west of the Mississippi River. \n Construction workers on Saturday placed a 10-ton spire atop the Wilshire Grand Tower. The spire adds 160 feet to the 73-story building. That makes it 1,099 feet high. \n That's 81 feet higher than nearby U.S. Bank Tower, which held the tallest building record since 1989. \n The Wilshire Grand still has some construction work scheduled. The $1 billion hotel and office complex is scheduled to open next March. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Los Angeles skyscraper tops out as tallest Western building"}

{"date": "September 3, 2016", "text": "NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This map shows Tropical Storm Lester's projected path as of 11 p.m. HST on Saturday. \n Update 11 p.m. \n Lester was downgraded from a hurricane to a tropical storm tonight as it continued on a west-northwest path that's taking it away from the Hawaiian islands. \n Just before 11 p.m., the Central Pacific Hurricane Center showed Tropical Storm Lester 140 miles north of Honolulu and 125 miles northeast of Lihue, moving west-northwest at 15 mph. \n Maximum sustained winds decreased to 65 mph, with tropical storm-force winds extending outward 115 miles from the center of the storm. \n Forecasters warn that the storm will continue to bring dangerous surf to the islands through Sunday morning, and a high surf warning is still in effect for Oahu, Maui, Kauai and Molokai until 6 a.m. Sunday. A high surf advisory for the Big Island was extended until 6 a.m. Surf is expected to reach 10-20 feet through the night along east- and northeast-facing shores. \n Update 8 p.m.  \n High surf warnings remain in effect for the east-facing shores of Oahu, Maui, Molokai and Kaui as Hurricane Lester continues to send dangerous surf to the islands. Forecasters at the National Weather Service in Honolulu said surf ranging from 10 to 20 feet is possible through the night. \n A flash flood warning for the Big Island expired at 8 p.m. today. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Lester downgraded to tropical storm"}

