{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hawaii attorney general Douglas Chin worked in his office in Honolulu. \n Growing up in Washington state, Douglas Chin says he was the stereotypical \"smart Chinese kid that got straight As.\" His parents taught him not to stick out too much and used to say \"don't poke the lion.\" \n But the Stanford University-educated lawyer stepped into the spotlight, making Hawaii the first state to challenge President Trump's revised travel ban \u2014 and convince a federal judge to temporarily block it before it took effect. \n His motivation was personal, he said. Chin said he felt as if he was invisible during his time in an overwhelmingly white suburban Seattle high school, and wanted to fight for an invisible minority in Hawaii: Muslims. \n \"It really hits home with me,\" he said. \"It worries about me about this society and what's happening.\" \n Before his appointment as attorney general, Chin, 50, was Honolulu's managing director (who would serve as acting mayor when the mayor was out of town) and a prosecutor. People who know and worked with him say he is nice, smart and a fast walker. \n Some, however, criticized him for challenging the travel ban. \n \"Let's allow the big states with more resources to fight this issue,\" Republican state Rep. Gene Ward said in a statement. \"My sense is that the people of Hawaii would rather see potholes fixed rather than trying to lead the nation against an executive order.\" \n Those who have worked with Chin say the reason he is fighting the ban is simple: He's kind. \n Jean Ireton was a fellow Honolulu prosecutor with Chin, who started out in traffic court. He had \"some of the toughest, most god-awful trials that we had there,\" she said. \n Those kinds of cases showed her the worst in humanity, she said, but Chin didn't see them that way: \"He's just a kinder person than I am. I don't have as much faith in people as he does.\" \n Ireton and Chin have differing views on the travel ban. \"I do have a problem with the amount of vetting they're able to do in those countries,\" she said. \"Doug sees it from a people perspective. He sees it from people who are suffering.\" \n U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson on Wednesday blocked the federal government from enforcing its ban on travel from six mostly Muslim countries and its suspension of the nation's refugee program. \n The judge agreed with Hawaii that the travel ban amounts to discrimination based on nationality and religion. \n Trump called the ruling an example of \"unprecedented judicial overreach\" and called his new travel ban a watered-down version of the first one. He said the order was a necessary measure to prevent terrorists from entering the country. \n For Chin, the issue of immigration is a personal one. He is named after the Christian missionary doctor who sponsored his Chinese parents' immigration to Washington state, where Chin was born. \n His middle name Shih-Ging means \"scholarly gentleman, which is weird,\" Chin said. \n \"I think that's where you probably can catch a spark of a personal sense of duty about this whole travel ban,\" he said, describing his parents emigrating in 1957 at a time when U.S. immigration policy still imposed nation-based quotas. \n Chin eventually moved to Honolulu in 1989 as part of a job transfer with IBM, and was exposed to Hawaii's diversity. \"All of a sudden I wasn't in this place where I felt invisible anymore so that was really empowering,\" he said. \n Chin's career after IBM took him to the University of Hawaii law school and then various stints in the Honolulu prosecutor's office and private practice. \n On a bookshelf in Chin's office is a newspaper front page from a murder conviction he won in 2010. A 15-year-old boy who was tried as an adult and convicted of murdering his 51-year-old neighbor is one of Chin's most memorable cases. \n Near the shelf are portraits of Chin's children and wife, who is white and from New York. He describes his daughter, 18, and son, 16, as hapa. \n Former Honolulu prosecutor and former mayor Peter Carlisle recalled first meeting him at Chin's church while Carlisle was campaigning. Carlisle said he was so impressed with Chin's public speaking, he told him to look him up if he ever needed a job. \n Chin attends Oahu Church of Christ, a nondenominational Christian church that meets in rented spaces at the university or an elementary school. At church, Chin arranges music and sings acapella \u2014 he has perfect pitch, he notes sheepishly. \n He found the time to go to Sunday services the week of the Honolulu hearing. After the hearing, Chin stopped at his office and then to Waikiki where he was hosting a meeting of the Conference of Western Attorneys General because he's the group's chairman. \n Chin has also spent a lot of time giving interviews to news organizations nationwide about his lawsuit. Part of the reason he does that is to educate \u2014 even those who live in Hawaii. \n \"It's a no-brainer why we have to object to this. I totally know how there's another segment of the population that to them it just doesn't connect,\" he said. \"What does the Middle East have to do with Hawaii?\" \n The answer, he said, is Hawaii's some 5,000 Muslims are the invisible minority and Chin knows first-hand what that feels like. \n \"People in Hawaii don't know how to process a Muslim other than what they see on TV,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Travel ban fight personal for attorney general Chin"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lawmakers in the Hawaii House voted on hundreds of bills on March 7. The House and Senate both passed separate bills to require presidential candidates to release copies of federal tax returns. But some experts are concerned the bills might face legal challenges. \n Dozens of bills were introduced around the country to require presidential candidates to reveal their tax returns to get on the states' ballots. But some experts are concerned the bills might face legal challenges, and states such as Hawaii are responding and changing their bills. \n WHAT WAS THE CONCERN EXPRESSED BY THE HAWAII ATTORNEY GENERAL? \n Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin questioned whether the bills would survive a constitutional challenge. He cited previous cases concluding that states cannot set additional qualifications for congressional office. Chin said the bills should focus on the state's electors, suggesting states have more leeway there because the U.S. Constitution gives states power to determine how electors are chosen. \n HOW DID THE HAWAII LEGISLATURE RESPOND TO THE AG'S CONCERNS? \n Following the caution raised by the state attorney general, Hawaii lawmakers altered their bills to put the focus on members of the Electoral College rather than on the presidential candidates. In addition to requiring candidates to disclose tax returns to get on the ballot, Hawaii lawmakers added language to their bills saying electors can't vote for candidates that refuse to release their tax returns. They also inserted a clause saying if either part of the bill \u2014 the requirement that candidates release returns, or the part barring electors from voting for those who don't \u2014 is struck down in court, the other part still stands. Other states have made similar changes. \n WHAT DO REPUBLICANS SAY ABOUT THE LEGISLATION? \n Fritz Rohlfing, chairman of the Republican Party of Hawaii, called the proposals \"over the top\" and said it was hypocritical for lawmakers to support the legislation without saying it should apply across the board for all candidates. \n Republican Rep. Gene Ward warned about possible repercussions, such as losing federal funding. \"We have to respect our president,\" Ward said. \"We have to work with our president.\" \n WERE REPUBLICANS ALONE IN VOTING AGAINST HAWAII'S BILL? \n No, nearly a dozen Democrats voted against the Hawaii House bill. Democratic Rep. Della Au Bellati said the state should be strategic in how it interacts with the administration and \"should pick our battles wisely.\" But Democratic Rep. Matt Lopresti, who supported the bill, said, \"I'm just dismayed that suddenly the tenor of the conversation is, 'Let's give in to fear.'\" \n IN HAWAII'S BILL, WHAT HAPPENS IF ELECTORS DON'T FOLLOW THE PROPOSED RULE? \n If the bills eventually are signed into law by Hawaii's Democratic governor, it's unclear how they will be enforced. The bills do not create a penalty for electors who vote for candidates who fail to reveal their tax returns. After last year's election, one Hawaii elector broke ranks and cast a vote for Bernie Sanders, yet has not been punished for doing so. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii tackles legal concern over candidate tax return bills"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "STATESMAN JOURNAL VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS \n John Rideout testified at the Marion County Courthouse in Salem, Ore. on Thursday. Rideout, who was arrested in July of 2016 on two counts of first-degree rape, was found guilty of rape and sodomy, the Statesman Journal reported. \n SALEM, Ore. >> An Oregon man convicted of raping two women was sentenced to more than 16 years in prison Friday, almost 40 years after he was acquitted of raping his then-wife in a trial that drew national attention. \n Judge Tom Hart sentenced John Rideout to two 100-month sentences, to be served consecutively. He was then led out of the courtroom by a sheriff's deputy, his hands cuffed to a chain around his waist. On Thursday, a jury found Rideout guilty of rape and sodomy. \n Both victims spoke before sentencing in the Marion County Courthouse, the same one where Rideout stood trial in 1978. \n The Statesman Journal reports that he was the first U.S. man to be tried for raping his wife. The case became a TV movie starring Mickey Rourke and Linda Hamilton. \n On Friday, one of the women said, \"I am a victim no longer. I am a survivor. \n The other victim said she wanted Rideout to \"get help\" and said she held no malice toward him. \n Rideout insisted on his innocence as he stood and addressed the court before sentencing. \n \"I am not perfect, but I did not do those things,\" he said. He pointed out that he had been the subject of a TV movie and had appeared on television talk shows, then complimented his two accusers. \n \"I'm proud of these two ladies,\" he said, facing them. \"They stood up to me.\" \n He thanked Hart for allowing him to speak. Hart said it was his constitutional right. \n Then, after Rideout was done, Hart spoke before pronouncing sentence. Rideout began interjecting but Hart told him to be quiet, saying he was not having a conversation. The judge then sentenced Rideout to 100 months for each conviction, the mandatory minimum required by a ballot measure approved by Oregon voters in 1994. \n In 1978, Rideout was tried for allegedly raping his wife at their Salem apartment in front of their 2-year-old daughter. Rideout was unanimously acquitted in that case. The Oregon Legislature had earlier passed a law eliminating marital privilege as a rape defense. \n Rideout and his wife briefly reunited after the trial, but she filed for divorce in March 1979. Rideout said he moved to Northern California and returned to Oregon five years ago to find a wife. \n The church acquaintance testified at the trial that she hired Rideout to fix a piece of furniture and help with yard work. She said she thought he was intoxicated and invited him to sleep on her couch instead of bicycling home in the dark. She said goodnight, took her medication and went to bed. \n \"The next thing I knew, he was in my bed,\" she said. \"I kept telling him to stop, but he wouldn't.\" \n Rideout maintained the sex was consensual. \n The ex-girlfriend testified that Rideout sexually assaulted her three times. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man gets 16 years for rape, 4 decades after wife-rape case"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nidhi Chaphekar, a Jet Airways flight attendant and a victim of the Brussels airport terror attack, painted at her residence in Mumbai, India. \n NEW DELHI >> An Indian flight attendant who was injured in the Brussels airport blasts last year said she has recovered 70 percent of her previous fitness level and would like to resume her passion, flying. \n Nidhi Chaphekar suffered burns and a broken foot in the explosions. She said she is looking forward to visiting Brussels next week to take part in the anniversary commemoration and meet the doctors and others who helped her. \n The March 22 bombing in the Brussels airport and subway killed 31 people and wounded 270. \n A photograph of Chaphekar, a flight attendant with India's Jet Airways, became an iconic image of the attacks. It showed the 40-year-old mother of two sitting dazed and bloodied, with her bright yellow uniform ripped. \n In an interview in Mumbai today, Chaphekar said the picture gave her family in India hope that she was alive. \n \"I appeared to be in a state of shock. It was a compelling picture as it depicted everything \u2014 shock and trauma,\" she said. \n In the past year, Chaphekar's life has changed. \n \"From a very independent female, I became dependent on others as I recovered from injuries. I used to run a lot. I can't run now,\" she said. \n \"I am 70 percent fine now. A bone has to be put in my injured right foot. Physically, there are challenges,\" Chaphekar said. \n \"I have not yet started flying. My dream is to fly back,\" she said, adding that she would be flying to Brussels on Sunday for a 10-day visit. \n Chaphekar said she is writing a book and has been asked to give motivational speeches. She wants to inspire people and tell them that everything is possible in life. \n \"I used to be a very difficult person, but the love and affection of people after the Brussels experience has changed me,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Injured Indian flight attendant keen to resume flying"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marine Corps Commandant Gen. Robert B. Neller spoke on Capitol Hill in Washington on Tuesday, while testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the investigation of nude photographs of female Marines and other women that were shared on the Facebook page \"Marines United.\" \n WASHINGTON >> At least 20 victims have now come forward to complain that explicit photos of them are being shared online by active duty and retired members of the Marine Corps and others, a leading Navy investigator said Friday. \n Curtis Evans, the division chief for criminal investigations for the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, told reporters that he expects more victims will come forward as the probe continues. \n Former and current female Marines say their photographs and those of women in other services have been shared without their consent on social media, including on a private, men-only Facebook page called Marines United and a Google Drive linked to that page. That Facebook page has been taken down, but officials say the photos may have simply migrated to another private site. \n Evans said the investigation has expanded into many more sites online. Officials said that earlier this week at least 17 new sites were being reviewed and that as many as 30,000 images were catalogued on the sites, although many were duplicates. A majority of the photos, officials said, were selfies and did not appear to have been taken surreptitiously, although it's not clear under what conditions they were shared. \n The officials weren't authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. \n So far, the victims who have come forward are not men, and the investigation has not expanded to gay pornography sites. But, Evans said NCIS will look into every complaint. He said NCIS is working with the other military investigative services and with federal and local law enforcement, including the FBI. \n Facebook and Google have been cooperating with the investigation, he added. \n There have been about 1,200 screen names identified on the Facebook site, and of those, 725 were active duty Marines, 150 were in the Marine Reserves, 15 were in the active duty Navy and the rest were unidentifiable. Those people were only on the main Facebook page, which involved other issues. It is not known who may have accessed or commented on the Google Drive linked to the Facebook page where the explicit photos were stored. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More victims come forward in Marine nude photo scandal"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was greeted by officials as he arrived at Beijing Capital International Airport on Saturday. \n BEIJING >> U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrived in Beijing on Saturday for his first face-to-face talks with Chinese leaders expected to focus on North Korea's nuclear program, trade and South China Sea territorial disputes. \n Tillerson's visit followed his remarks in South Korea today in which he warned that pre-emptive military action against North Korea might be necessary if the threat from their weapons program reaches a level \"that we believe requires action.\" \n China, the North's biggest source of diplomatic support and economic assistance, has yet to respond to his remarks, although Beijing has called repeatedly for steps to reduce tensions. \n Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, with whom Tillerson was due to meet on Saturday afternoon, warned last week that the North and Washington and Seoul were like \"two accelerating trains\" headed at each other, with neither side willing to give way. \n \"The question is: Are the two sides really ready for a head-on collision?\" Wang told reporters. \"Our priority now is to flash the red light and apply the brakes on both trains.\" \n Wang said North Korea could suspend its nuclear and missile activities in exchange for a halt in joint U.S.-South Korea military drills, a proposal swiftly shot down by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, who said Washington has to see \"some sort of positive action\" from North Korea before it can take leader Kim Jong Un seriously. \n Tillerson's comments in Seoul that \"all of the options are on the table,\" including possible military action, are likely to be deeply disconcerting to Beijing, which fears that a collapse of Kim's regime would send waves of refugees into northeastern China and land South Korean and American forces on its border. \n China has agreed reluctantly to U.N. Security Council resolutions sanctioning North Korea, while calling for renewed dialogue under the Beijing-sponsored six-nation format that broke down in 2009. \n In a further sign of its frustration with Pyongyang, China last month banned imports of North Korean coal for the rest of the year, potentially depriving Kim's regime of a key source of foreign currency. \n Past U.S. administrations have considered military force because of North Korea's development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile to deliver them, but rarely has that option been expressed so explicitly as by Tillerson. \n North Korea has accelerated its weapons development, violating multiple Security Council resolutions without being deterred by sanctions. The North conducted two nuclear test explosions and 24 ballistic missile tests last year. Experts say it could have a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the U.S. within a few years. \n China has stridently opposed the deployment of a U.S. missile defense system to South Korea, saying its X-band radar can peer deep into China to monitor flights and rocket launches. The U.S. says it's a system focused on North Korea. China sees it as a threat to its own security. \n Tillerson's visit to Beijing is the final stop on his three-nation swing through Northeast Asia, which began in Japan. State Department officials have described it as a \"listening tour\" as the administration seeks a coherent North Korea policy, well-coordinated with its Asian partners. \n In Beijing, he is also expected to discuss China's claim to virtually the entire South China Sea, including its building of islands atop coral reefs, complete with airstrips and military installations. \n During his confirmation hearings in January, Tillerson compared China's island-building and deployment of military assets to Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea, and suggesting China's access to the island should not be allowed. \n While President Donald Trump during his campaign pledged to slap 45 percent tariffs on imports from China and label the country a currency manipulator, there has been little sign of his doing either. His pick for U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has said he would use a \"multi-faceted approach\" to cracking down on Chinese trade abuses. \n Tillerson's trip is also expected to highlight the Trump administration's lack of concern with human rights abroad, formerly a key element of U.S. policy toward China and a major irritant for Beijing. \n In a departure from past practice, Tillerson skipped the launch of an annual report on human rights last week that cited numerous abuses by China. He has also said the U.S. would not continue participating in the U.N. Human Rights Council unless it undergoes \"considerable reform.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea, South China Sea on Tillerson's agenda in Beijing"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton speaks at the Society of Irish Women's annual dinner on St. Patrick's Day in her late father's hometown in Scranton, Pa. \n SCRANTON, Pa. >> Hillary Clinton said Friday she's \"ready to come out of the woods\" and help Americans find common ground. \n Clinton's gradual return to the public spotlight following her presidential election loss continued with a St. Patrick's Day speech in her late father's Pennsylvania hometown of Scranton. \n \"I'm like a lot of my friends right now, I have a hard time watching the news,\" Clinton told an Irish women's group. \n But she urged a divided country to work together to solve problems, recalling how, as first lady, she met with female leaders working to bring peace to Northern Ireland. \n \"I do not believe that we can let political divides harden into personal divides. And we can't just ignore, or turn a cold shoulder to someone because they disagree with us politically,\" she said. \n Friday night's speech was one of several she is to deliver in the coming months, including a May 26 commencement address at her alma mater, Wellesley College in Massachusetts. The Democrat also is working on a book of personal essays that will include some reflections on her loss to Donald Trump. \n Clinton, who was spotted taking a walk in the woods around her hometown of Chappaqua, New York, two days after losing the election to Donald Trump, quipped she had wanted to stay in the woods, \"but you can only do so much of that.\" \n She told the Society of Irish Women that it'll be up to citizens, not a deeply polarized Washington, to bridge the political divide. \n \"I am ready to come out of the woods and to help shine a light on what is already happening around kitchen tables, at dinners like this, to help draw strength that will enable everybody to keep going,\" said Clinton. \n Clinton was received warmly in Scranton, where her grandfather worked in a lace mill. Her father left Scranton for Chicago in search of work during the Great Depression, but returned often. Hillary Clinton spent summers at the family's cottage on nearby Lake Winola. \n She fondly recalled watching movies stretched across a bedsheet in a neighbor's yard, and told of how the cottage had a toilet but no shower or tub. \n \"Don't tell anybody this, but we'd go down to the lake,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hillary Clinton says she's 'ready to come out of the woods'"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HPD \n Christian Gutierrez pleaded no contest to one of 15 counts of misdemeanor animal cruelty against him, misdemeanor theft, petty misdemeanor criminal property damage and two counts of prohibited activities regarding wildlife and in a natural area reserve. \n Christian Gutierrez, a 2015 Punahou School graduate, pleaded no contest to one of 15 counts of misdemeanor animal cruelty against him, misdemeanor theft, petty misdemeanor criminal property damage and two counts of prohibited activities regarding wildlife and in a natural area reserve. \n \"This crime is absolutely heinous,\" said Case, in a statement released on Friday. \"It combines appalling animal cruelty with long-lasting devastation of a breeding population of vulnerable and protected majestic seabirds. Unfortunately, DLNR was not consulted with respect to the plea bargain in this case. \n \"Our wildlife managers and enforcement officers work very hard to protect the Ka\u02bfena albatross colony,\" she said. \"We take great responsibility for the welfare of these Laysan albatross and to the public who cares about them deeply. DLNR is watching this case very closely to see if justice will be met.\" \n As part of his plea deal, Gutierrez agreed to cooperate in the investigation and prosecution of others. \n Gutierrez faces maximum one-year jail terms for the misdemeanors, 30 days for the petty misdemeanors, and fines. \n His lawyer, Myles Breiner, has asked the court to defer the pleas, thereby allowing Gutierrez the opportunity to avoid conviction. Circuit Judge Jeannette Castagnetti will decide whether to defer the pleas or sentence Gutierrez in June. \n The Laysan albatross population at Kaena Point suffered losses that went far beyond the death of the 15 adult birds, Case said. She noted that 17 nests were also destroyed in December 2015, resulting in the direct destruction of 11 albatross eggs and the loss of six others that no longer had a parent to incubate them. \n \"With 32 live albatrosses lost, and a proven reproductive potential of each adult bird that can live for 60-plus years and rear a chick every other year, the combined effect on the population has been calculated in the hundreds for these large, protected birds,\" Case said. \n The case is being tried in one of Hawaii's newly established environmental courts. The courts were created in 2014 under Act 218 and began operation in July 2015. According to a Hawaii State Judiciary profile, the courts have broad jurisdiction over cases involving water, forests, streams, beaches, air, and mountains, along with terrestrial and marine life. \n \"The tone this case sets can have far reaching impacts on the security of our wildlife and natural resources,\" Case said in the statement. \"It is critical that the outcome of this case sends a strong message to the public, that violations of laws protecting our vulnerable native wildlife and acts of illegal take and destruction will not be tolerated.\" \n ", "author": "By Michael Tsai mtsai@staradvertiser.com", "title": "DLNR not happy with albatross killer's plea deal"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Steve Stockman, R-Texas, right, participates in a mock swearing-in ceremony in Washington. \n HOUSTON >> Former Texas Rep. Steve Stockman, who invited rocker Ted Nugent to President Barack Obama's 2013 State of the Union address, is accused of spending money meant for charity on himself and contributions to his campaign. \n Stockman, a Republican who served two non-consecutive terms in the U.S. House, is charged with conspiracy to make conduit contributions and false statements. He was released from custody after a hearing Friday in Houston federal court. \n The Houston Chronicle reports that Stockman on Friday blamed his arrest on a \"deep state\" shadow government, which is a theory that has taken hold among some conservatives that there is a shadowy network of powerful entrenched federal and military interests working to undermine President Donald Trump. \n In an affidavit, FBI Agent Vanessa Walther wrote that in January 2013, shortly after starting his second House term, Stockman solicited $350,000 in charitable donations from an unidentified wealthy businessman on behalf of a Nevada-based nonprofit, Life Without Limits, which had been set up to help people through traumatic events. \n The donation was solicited for the purpose of renovating a house in Washington, D.C., called the Freedom House. But the check was deposited at a bank branch in Webster, Texas, into an account set up by Stockman doing business as Life Without Limits, according to the affidavit. Financial records show that Stockman made no significant expenditures toward the purchase, renovation or operation of Freedom House, which never opened. \n Rather than spending the money on Freedom House, Stockman secretly diverted the money to pay for a variety of personal expenses and to funnel contributions to his campaign under the guise that they were from other people, the affidavit states. \n \"It is a crime for a campaign contribution to be made by one person in the name of another. It is also a crime to make a false statement\" to the Federal Elections Commission, according to Walther's sworn statement, which was unsealed Friday. \n Stockman served a term in the U.S. House from 1995 until 1997 and another from 2013 until 2015. He ran for the U.S. Senate in 2014 but lost in the Republican primary to incumbent John Cornyn, who won re-election. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former Texas congressman accused of taking charity's money"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christine Mackinday, also known as Christy Mack, points toward Jonathan Paul Koppenhaver, also known as War Machine, during a preliminary hearing for Koppenhaver in Las Vegas, Nev. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n former mixed martial arts fighter War Machine, also known as Jonathan Koppenhaver, left, listens to testimony during his sexual assault and attempted murder trial at the Regional Justice Center in Las Vegas. \n LAS VEGAS >> A jury in Las Vegas spent a full day deliberating today whether the former mixed martial arts fighter named War Machine is guilty of charges that could get him life in prison in an attack on his porn star ex-girlfriend and her male friend in August 2014. \n Jonathan Paul Koppenhaver could face life in prison if he's found guilty of the top charges of attempted murder, kidnapping and sexual assault in the violence that jurors were told left Christy Mack and Corey Thomas bloodied and injured. \n But those are just some of the 34 charges the state court jury is considering. \n Koppenhaver's defense attorney took the unusual step yesterday of conceding Koppenhaver's guilt on eight domestic battery charges for punching and injuring Mack and using a knife. \n The Associated Press doesn't usually identify alleged victims of sexual assault, but Mack gave AP permission to use her name. Her legal name is Christine Mackinday. \n Attorney Jay Leiderman told the jury that Koppenhaver also is guilty of threatening Mack's boyfriend at the time, Corey Thomas, to dissuade him from going to police. \n Convictions on those nine felony counts alone could get Koppenhaver decades in state prison. Other charges include coercion and burglary. \n Koppenhaver, 35, legally changed his name to War Machine during his 19-fight MMA career that ended in 2013. He has gone by his birth name since his arrest a week after the alleged attack. \n He did not testify during his two-week trial. \n Mack, 24, spent eight hours on the witness stand, telling the jury she was beaten and raped by Koppenhaver in the months before his confrontation with her and Thomas. \n Thomas testified that he suffered a broken nose, dislocated shoulder, scrapes, bruises and bite marks in a bedroom brawl with Koppenhaver. \n The jury saw photos of Mack with a broken nose, missing teeth, fractured eye socket and leg injuries, and she testified that she also suffered a lacerated liver. \n Deliberations resume Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jury ends day mulling MMA fighter-porn star case in Vegas"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Kevin Brown of the Service Employees International Union, Kelly McDonald and Jessica Sporn, both of Montclair, N.J., chant in protest of the travel ban before the start of a press conference, Thursday at Newark Airport, in Newark, N.J. (Photo by Chris Pedota/The Record via AP) \n President Donald Trump is moving his travel ban fight to Virginia. \n His administration said today it will ask a Richmond-based federal appeals court to overrule the Maryland judge who blocked his executive order imposing restrictions on immigrants from six predominantly Muslim countries. \n Trump may have a better chance of winning in Richmond than in the San Francisco-based appeals court that would consider an attempt to undo a Hawaii judge's ruling that also halted enforcement of his directive. \n The Richmond-based court isn't considered to be as liberal as the San Francisco court, which upheld the order blocking Trump's first travel ban. The Virginia court isn't as conservative as it used to be, though, following a half-dozen appointments to the court by President Barrack Obama, said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond in Virginia. \n \"It used to be the most conservative court in the country. That is no longer true,\" Tobias said. Nevertheless, he said of Trump, \"I do think he'll get a fair shot there.\" \n The president issued his revised order March 6 to try to fix practical and legal problems with the original that resulted in chaos and protests at U.S. airports and ended in court decisions preventing its implementation. \n Both U.S. District Judge Derrick K. Watson in Hawaii and U.S. District Judge Theodore Chuang in Maryland issued their rulings on Wednesday, just before the new directive was to take effect on Thursday. Both pointed to remarks by Trump and his advisers suggesting the real motive behind the order was anti-Muslim bias. \n Chuang's ruling put on hold Trump's 90-day ban on visas for people from Syria, Iran, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Sudan. Watson's ruling was broader, as it also blocked a 120-day hold on admitting refugees from all countries. \n The administration's notice of appeal filed today with the federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland, and was signed by Acting Solicitor General Jeffrey Wall. \n A new challenge to the travel ban was filed today in San Francisco federal court by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a U.S. citizen married to a Syrian man and a graduate student who says he needs to collaborate with an Iranian physicist. \n In the Maryland case, brought by refugee rights groups and the ACLU, Judge Chuang issued a preliminary injunction, an order that can be immediately appealed. \n \"President Trump's Muslim ban has fared miserably in the courts, and for good reason \u2014 it violates fundamental provisions of our Constitution,\" ACLU lawyer Omar Jadwat said in a statement. \"We look forward to defending this careful and well-reasoned decision in the appeals court.\" \n Lawyers in the Hawaii case are preparing for a hearing to determine whether Judge Watson will extend his temporary order into a longer-lasting preliminary injunction. Temporary orders can't normally be appealed, which means the government may have to wait before trying to undo the Hawaii ruling. \n Trump's latest executive order replaced one he issued Jan. 27, which was blocked nationwide days later by a Seattle judge. On Friday, that judge put on hold a request to bar enforcement of the revised policy, citing the Hawaii ruling. \n A three-judge panel of the San Francisco appeals court in February refused to reactivate the original ban. Because both the Hawaii and Maryland judges blocked the revised travel ban nationwide, the government would have to overturn both before the full order can take effect. \n The San Francisco appeals court has authority over federal courts in nine western states, including Hawaii and California, the most populous state. The Maryland court answers to the appeals court in Richmond, raising the possibility of differing decisions. A split would set the stage for U.S. Supreme Court to make a final decision. \n The cases are State of Hawaii v. Trump, 17-cv-00050, U.S. District Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu), and International Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump, 17-0361, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt). \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Trump files notice of appeal on Maryland ruling on travel ban"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Left to right, Israel Chapson, Chevy Iaukea and Joseph Soares. \n Three people on the Big Island have been charged after they allegedly kidnapped a 25-year-old woman and her three young children and held them captive in a shed for days. \n One of the alleged kidnappers is the victim's estranged boyfriend and father of their children, Hawaii County police said. \n Israel Allen Chapson, 30, of Mountain View, was charged Thursday with four counts of kidnapping, two counts of felony abuse of a family or household member, one count of prohibited acts related to drug paraphernalia and two other drug-related offenses, according to police. His bail was set at $251,000. \n Chevy Iaukea and Joseph Soares, both 29, also of Mountain View, were each charged with four counts of kidnapping. Police said both are being held in lieu of $200,000 bail. \n All were scheduled to appear at Hilo District Court today. \n On Monday, patrol officers responded to the Hilo Medical Center where a woman reported she and her children, ages 4, 6 and 8, were held captive in a shed for several days in Mountain View, according to the Hawaii Police Department. Police said the victims were treated and released for minor injuries they sustained in the kidnapping. \n At about 2:30 p.m. Thursday, detectives of the Criminal Investigations Division's Juvenile Aid Section arrested Chapson, Iaukea and Soares. \n Anyone with information on the kidnapping is asked to call police department's non-emergency line at 935-3311 or CrimeStoppers at 961-8300. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle police nab 3 in alleged kidnapping of woman, keiki"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Margarito Castro, father of Manuel \"Manny\" Castro Garcia, 19, pauses for a moment as he visits his son's grave at a cemetery in Phoenix, Ariz. \n PHOENIX >> One year after a suspected serial killer set off on a wave of shooting attacks in Phoenix that killed seven people and wounded two, police say they have experienced a significant slowdown of information provided by the public that could help detectives solve the case. \n The high volume of tips that police received last year during the four-month period that the killer was active in two neighborhoods has dropped dramatically and no new physical evidence has turned up since the last known attack eight months ago, said police spokesman Sgt. John Howard. \n Despite the lack of new information that could lead to an arrest, police remain committed to finding the killer dubbed the Serial Street Shooter suspect and believe that the case will be cracked by a tip from someone who knows the attacker, he said. \n \"Many of the investigators have told me this is one of the most difficult cases they have investigated,\" said Phoenix police spokesman Sgt. Jonathan Howard. \n Friday marked the one-year anniversary since the first attack linked to a single suspect. \n The first shooting happened on March 17, 2016, when a Nissan drove past two teenagers, pulled a U-turn and a man inside the vehicle opened fire, hitting a 16-year-old boy in the arm, abdomen and hip. The teen survived the attack. In the most recent attack, on July 11, a 21-year-old man and his 4-year-old nephew escaped injury after the gunman shot at a vehicle they were sitting in. \n Police have the victims were attacked as they stood outside their homes or sat in vehicles after dark. They were fired upon by someone who was sitting in a car or had just stepped out of a vehicle. All but one of the killings took place in the city's Maryvale section, a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood Phoenix's west side. \n Investigators believe the crimes were carried out by a lanky Hispanic man in his early 20s, but they are leaving open the possibility that someone else may have participated in the attacks. They don't believe the attacks are racially motivated, though no motive has been established. \n The victims include a 21-year-old man whose girlfriend was pregnant with their son and a 12-year-girl who was shot to death along with her mother and a friend of the woman. \n It's not unusual for investigations into serial killers to stall, experts said. \n \"Sometimes these dry spells go on for years, but people shouldn't mistake that for cases being dormant,\" said Mary Ellen O'Toole, a former FBI profiler who directs George Mason University's forensic science program. \n Serial killers typically get caught through a tip from a member of the public or through the re-examination of evidence that had been looked at earlier, she said. \n Investigators in the Phoenix case believe the case will be solved by a tip from a person who knows about the killer's activities, perhaps a friend or relative who feels guilty about knowing about the attacks. \n \"The problem is that most family members and friends will not snitch unless they are absolutely sure as to the identity of the killer,\" said Jack Levin, a professor emeritus of sociology and criminology at Northeastern University in Boston and author of several books on serial killings. \n And it's not unusual for serial killers to disappear for a period after they kill, said Mike Rustigan, a professor emeritus of criminal justice at San Jose State University who has studied serial killers. \n The killer may have gone \"into a cooling-off period to lay low because he doesn't want to get caught,\" Rustigan said \n Investigators in Phoenix have continued to analyze physical evidence recovered from the shooting scenes, sought out neighbors who might have security camera footage of the shootings and worked with community groups to encourage tipsters to come forward. \n After the number of tips about the killer dropped sharply \n Once the number of tips declined sharply, tips that had already been examined were handed off to other investigators to be re-examined in hopes that a fresh set of eyes might turn up something new. Police also released reports and 911 recordings from the attacks to news organizations to try to keep the public aware of the case. \n \"If someone has information, they can share that with us today, and it can make a difference in the case this afternoon,\" Howard said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Phoenix serial killer probe slows a year after 1st shooting"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "WASHINGTON >> The government is appealing a ruling from a federal judge in Maryland that blocked President Donald Trump's revised travel ban from taking effect. \n The government filed a brief notice today saying that it would appeal the Maryland ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit. \n The ruling in Maryland and another in Hawaii earlier this week were victories for civil liberties groups and advocates for immigrants and refugees. They argued that a temporary ban on travel from six predominantly Muslim countries violated the First Amendment. The Trump administration argued the ban was intended to protect the United States from terrorism. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump administration to appeal travel ban ruling"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, joined by, from left, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., chair of the Republican Conference, Rep. Phil Roe, R-Tenn., and Rep. Pat Tiberi, R-Ohio, speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump agreed to add fresh Medicaid curbs to the House Republican health care bill today, bolstering the measure with support from some conservative lawmakers but leaving its prospects wobbly. House leaders discussed other amendments calibrated to round up votes and scheduled a showdown vote Thursday. \n \"I just want to let the world know I am 100 percent in favor\" of the measure, Trump said at the White House after meeting around a dozen House lawmakers and shaking hands on revisions. \"We're going to have a health care plan that's going to be second to none.\" \n While the rapid-fire events seemed to build momentum for the pivotal GOP legislation, its fate remained clouded. One leading House conservative said the alterations were insufficient and claimed enough allies to sink the measure, and support among moderates remained uncertain. \n \"My whip count indicates that there are 40 no's,\" enough to defeat the bill, said Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., who leads the hard-line House Freedom Caucus. He said the change \"doesn't move the ball more than a couple yards on a very long playing field.\" \n Across the Capitol, Sen. Dean Heller, R-Nev., facing re-election next year, became the fourth Republican senator to announce his opposition. That left Senate GOP leaders at least two votes shy of what they'd need to prevail. \n Congressional Democrats remain solidly opposed to the GOP effort. \n Thursday will mark the seventh anniversary of when Obama signed his health overhaul into law, one of his milestone domestic achievements enacted over unanimous GOP opposition. Beyond that symbolism, Republican leaders hope to allow time for Congress to complete the measure before an early April recess exposes lawmakers to two weeks of lobbying and town hall pressure tactics by activists, doctors, hospitals and other opponents. \n The Republican bill would kill much of former President Barack Obama's health care law, including tax penalties for people who don't buy insurance and its expansion of Medicaid, the federal-state health program for the poor. It would create new tax credits that would be less generous than current federal subsidies for many consumers, and repeal levies on the wealthy and medical firms that helped finance Obama's expansion of coverage to 20 million Americans. \n Trump's deal with lawmakers would let states impose work requirements on some of Medicaid's roughly 60 million recipients. The condition would apply to healthy people with no dependents, a White House official said. \n The agreement would let states accept lump-sum federal payments for Medicaid, instead of an amount that would grow with the number of beneficiaries. The program currently costs the federal government around $370 billion annually and covers costs no matter the amounts. \n Also, any additional states that expand Medicaid would not receive the additional federal money Obama's law provided them for doing so. Thirty-one states have enlarged their Medicaid rolls under the law. \n \"These changes definitely strengthen our numbers,\" said the House GOP's top vote counter, Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, among Trump's guests. \"But they also show that President Trump is all-in now\" to help win converts. \n Those accepting the agreement included Rep. Mark Walker, R-N.C., leader of the Republican Study Committee, a large group of House conservatives. \n It seemed clear that GOP leaders remained short of the 216 votes they'll need, and additional changes were in the works. \n Rep. Tom McClintock, R-Calif., said he'd been assured by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., that the bill's tax credit would be adjusted to focus more benefits on lower-income people. Rep. Robert Aderholt, R-Ala., among those who met with Trump, said the president \"told his people\" to work on changes making the measure more generous for lower-earning and older Americans. \n \"Everything has to be a change that would increase the vote count,\" Scalise said. \n Conservatives seemed unlikely to achieve their demands that the GOP bill's phase-out of Obama's Medicaid expansion \u2014 now 2020 \u2014 be accelerated to next year and that the credit be denied people with little or no tax liability. Centrists remained wary of yanking constituents from coverage. Many represent states where voters have gained Medicaid and other insurance under the 2010 statute. \n \"We'll see what changes they're going to make,\" said Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Pa. \n In a report this week that prompted many GOP lawmakers to emerge as opponents, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the legislation would leave 24 million people uninsured in a decade, including 14 million next year, and boost out-of-pocket costs for many. \n Heller joined three fellow GOP senators in opposing the bill: Susan Collins of Maine, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mike Lee of Utah. Republican Sens. Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ted Cruz of Texas have voiced strong objections, and Senate moderates don't want to boot constituents off coverage. \n Republicans have a 52-48 Senate majority. \n Nevada has expanded Medicaid and GOP Gov. Brian Sandoval has expressed opposition to the Republican legislation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump OKs changes in GOP health care bill, winning support"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price spoke outside the West Wing of the White House in Washington, Monday, after Congress' nonpartisan budget analysts reported that 14 million people would lose coverage next year under the House bill dismantling former President Barack Obama's health care law. \n Former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, who was removed from his post by the Trump administration last week, was overseeing an investigation into stock trades made by the president's health secretary, according to a person familiar with the office. \n Tom Price, head of the Department of Health and Human Services, came under scrutiny during his confirmation hearings for investments he made while serving in Congress. The Georgia lawmaker traded hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of shares in health-related companies, even as he voted on and sponsored legislation affecting the industry. \n Price testified at the time that his trades were lawful and transparent. Democrats accused him of potentially using his office to enrich himself. One lawmaker called for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, citing concerns Price could have violated the STOCK Act, a 2012 law signed by President Obama that clarified that members of Congress cannot use nonpublic information for profit and requires them to promptly disclose their trades. \n The investigation of Price's trades by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York, which hasn't been previously disclosed, was underway at the time of Bharara's dismissal, said the person. \n Bharara was one of 46 U.S. attorneys asked to resign after Trump took office. It is standard for new presidents to replace those officials with their own appointees. But Bharara's firing came as a surprise because the president had met with him at Trump Tower soon after the election. As he left that meeting, Bharara told reporters Trump asked if he would be prepared to remain in his post, and said that he had agreed to stay on. \n When the Trump administration instead asked for Bharara's resignation, the prosecutor refused, and he said he was then fired. Trump has not explained the reversal, but Bharara fanned suspicions that his dismissal was politically motivated via his personal Twitter account. \n \"I did not resign,\" he wrote in one tweet over the weekend. \"Moments ago I was fired.\" \n Bharara was referring to a commission that was launched by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo in 2013 to investigate state government corruption, only to be disbanded by the governor the next year as its work grew close to his office. In that case, Bharara vowed to continue the commission's work, and eventually charged Cuomo associates and won convictions of several prominent lawmakers. \n A White House spokesperson didn't respond to questions about whether Trump or anyone in his cabinet was aware of the inquiry into Price's trades. \n Innate Immunotherapeutics' CEO Simon Wilkinson told ProPublica that he and his company have not had any contact with American law enforcement agencies and have no knowledge of authorities looking at Price's stock trades. \n Price has said that trade was made without his knowledge by his broker. \n What federal authorities are looking at, including whether they are examining any of those transactions, is not known. \n Along with the Price matter, Bharara's former office is investigating allegations relating to Fox News, and has been urged by watchdog groups to look into payments Trump has received from foreign governments through his Manhattan-based business. Bharara's former deputy, Joon Kim, is now in charge of the office, but Trump is expected to nominate his replacement within weeks. \n ProPublica reporters Jesse Eisinger and Justin Elliott and research editor Derek Kravitz contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Robert Faturechi, ProPublica", "title": "Fired U.S. attorney said to have been investigating U.S. health secretary"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington's famed cherry blossoms are covered in ice during a late winter storm in Washington, looking toward the Washington Monument. \n WASHINGTON >> Cold weather has killed half of the blossoms on Washington's famous cherry trees just as they were reaching peak bloom, park service officials said today. \n The blooming of the trees is a big tourist draw and is closely watched as a sign of spring in the nation's capital \u2014 so much so that National Park Service officials held a news conference today to discuss the weather's impact. \n Gay Vietzke, superintendent of the National Mall and Memorial Parks, said there will still be a \"brilliant display of the white and pink blooms,\" and that the Yoshino cherry trees will be just as \"spectacular as ever.\" \n That said, visitors who come every year will notice a slight difference after the \"wild weather roller coaster\" of the past few weeks, which delivered snow after several warm days, Vietzke said. \n \"We do anticipate that there will be some fewer blossoms than normal and the color, therefore, may not be quite as dense as we've seen in past years around the Tidal Basin,\" Vietzke said, describing the area where the Yoshino cherry trees are clustered. \n It wasn't the snow early in the week that really impacted the trees, but the cold. Park Service spokesman Mike Litterst had previously said that if the temperature got down to 24 degrees there could be a 90 percent loss of the blossoms that were expected to be at their peak between March 19 and 22. \n Peak bloom is defined as the day when 70 percent of the Yoshino cherry trees around the Tidal Basin are blossoming. But that won't happen this year because half of those blossoms are already gone as a result of the cold. \n National Weather Service meteorologist Kevin Witt says area temperatures dropped to 26 on Tuesday, 22 on Wednesday and 24 on Thursday. \n The cold weather did not do any long-term damage to the Yoshino trees, but Litterst said today that it killed blooms at the fifth of six stages of blooming \u2014 the so-called \"puffy white\" stage. Blooms in earlier stages survived, Litterst said, and should reach their own more modest peak sometime next weekend. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cold weather kills many cherry blossom blooms in D.C."}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "A 41-year-old man has been charged after he allegedly choked a 60-year-old man in Kalihi. \n Tyrone J. Knox was charged Thursday with abuse of a family or household member. His bail was set at $25,000. \n At about 5 p.m. Sunday, police said Knox and the victim, who live in the same home, got into an argument before Knox choked him. Knox fled after police were called. \n Officers located Knox Tuesday at his Kalihi home and arrested him. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police charge Kalihi man after housemate choked"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "NEW YORK >> A U.S. Secret Service agent has had a laptop stolen from her car in New York City. \n The Secret Service said Friday that the laptop contains \"multiple layers of security,\" including disk encryption, and doesn't carry classified information. The agency wouldn't comment further. \n Police say the agent's car was parked near her Brooklyn home when someone broke in Thursday. Other items that were stolen were later recovered, including coins and a bag with the agency's insignia. \n The agency is asking anyone with information on the theft to contact the police or the Secret Service's New York field office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Secret Service agent's laptop stolen from her car in NYC"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "Police arrested early Thursday a 40-year-old Aiea woman who allegedly assaulted a 21-year-old woman using an unnamed \"dangerous instrument\" in Aiea. \n Police said that the older woman struck the younger woman at about 5 p.m. Wednesday, then allegedly threatened her with the dangerous instrument. \n The 40-year-old was arrested at 1:33 a.m. Thursday on suspicion of second-degree assault, first-degree terroristic threatening and carrying a dangerous weapon. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest Aiea woman in assault case"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATE PRESS \n A harem of Stellar sea lions with one large male, several females and their pups on Gillon Point at Agattu Island, Alaska. The NOAA Fisheries scientists are using crowdsourcing volunteers to help study why the population of sea lions in the Aleutian Islands has not recovered. \n ANCHORAGE, Alaska >> A federal wildlife agency studying the Steller sea lion decline in Alaska's Aleutian Islands is looking for help from citizen scientists. Volunteers don't need raincoats or rubber boots to pitch in, just eyeballs and a computer screen. \n Fisheries researchers at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration want them to sort through 500,000 images captured by 20 cameras at six remote sites. The job is simple: Flag photos that show sea lions. \n NOAA Fisheries biologist Katie Sweeney is specifically looking for 256 Steller sea lions captured starting in 2011 that were permanently marked by branding, allowing them to track movement patterns. The image sorting tells researchers which photos are most important to review. \n \"If we see these animals over time, we can estimate their survival,\" Sweeney said from her office at the Alaska Fisheries Science Center in Seattle. \n Steller sea lions are the largest members of the eared seal family. An average adult male grows to nearly 11 feet and more than 1,200 pounds. Adult females average almost nine feet long and weigh about 580 pounds, according to the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. \n They are found in the North Pacific from Japan and Russia to Alaska and as far south as the Channel Islands off the coast of Southern California. \n The western population, from Prince William Sound to the Aleutians, was listed as endangered in 1997. They fell to their lowest numbers in 2003 and the population since then has increased just 2.7 percent annually. Sea lions in the far western Aleutians were especially hard hit, declining by 94 percent over the last 30 years. \n No one knows why. Tracking marked sea lions has indicated they are not simply moving east to other parts of Alaska or west to Russia. Contaminants and poor nutrition are among the possibilities, but answers don't come easy because of the expense and time needed to reach the remote locations where they live. NOAA in 2012 turned to remote cameras to gather more information. \n The 20 cameras work year-round, snapping a digital photograph every 10 to 30 minutes during daylight. \n \"We get on a research vessel and we are out 1,200 miles in the Aleutian Islands,\" Sweeney said. \"We go to each site and have to pull out the SD cards and download them.\" \n A handful of people who volunteered to check the images could not keep up with the volume. \n Computer analysis was not an option because creating an automated process would have been expensive and time consuming, Sweeney said. \n \"We kind of need the human eye for it,\" she said. \n Researchers turned to crowdsourcing. Working with the Zooniverse platform, about 2,200 volunteers starting Wednesday took a short tutorial on how to help sort the first 30,000 images. \n Sweeney hoped volunteers would finish that first batch by June, when she leaves for the Aleutians to count sea lions and brand more of them. Instead, the citizen scientists surprised her and zipped through the first batch in a day and a half. Researchers have uploaded more images. \n When the backlog is reduced, they will start a second project: Asking volunteers to look at the photos with sea lions to see if any of the animals are carrying the permanent marks that reveal where the sea lions were born, their age and their gender. \n The sorting will help researchers focus on the most important images. \n \"Of these 10,000 images, these 100 are the good ones you want to look at,\" Sweeney said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alaska sea lion study gets help from crowdsource volunteers"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2015 \n Environmental Services Collection System Maintenance personnel worked to clean up nearly 500,000 gallons of wastewater and storm runoff Ala Moana Beach Park in 2015. \n The city will pay a $100,000 fine and make a series of improvements as a result of the August 2015 discharge of storm water and raw sewage at Ala Moana and other south shore areas and two city facilities, under an agreement reached with the state Department of Health that was announced today. \n It was not immediately clear how much the city will need to spend to make the improvements. \n An consent order signed by the city and Health Department cites three unauthorized discharges of pollutants that contaminated and shut down state waters from Waikiki beach to Kakaako following a major storm. City officials at the time blamed the inability of a pump station to process the sewage and storm water. Only one of two pumps at the Keawe Street Wastewater Pumping Station was operating during the deluge because the other was undergoing refurbishment, city officials said. \n Much of the backflow spilled out of manholes at Atkinson Drive and Ala Moana Boulevard, and then entered storm drains leading into the ocean, city officials said. One witness reported a small geyser shooting out of Ala Moana Boulevard near Fisherman's Wharf resulting in \"a sea of gray water\" spilled that smelled like a toilet and left behind undissolved hygiene items. \n According to the order, an estimated 462,050 gallons were spilled into the Ala Moana-Kakaako area, 125,000 gallons at the Kailua Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant and 4,950 gallons at the Kaneohe Treatment Facility. Oahu rainfall totaled more than 3 inches during a 24-hour period, setting a record for that date. \n City officials insisted that Waikiki beaches were closed \"out of an abundance of caution\" the day of the spill as the result of a brown water advisory issued by the Health Department. Ala Moana was closed off for several days due to contaminants found in water samples. \n Under the voluntary agreement, the city is required to revise its sewage spill volume estimate procedures, revise its standard procedures to improve response time to spill prevention alarms, upgrade its sewage system supervisory control and date acquisition system, and develop a high-density urban area storm-water inflow detection, identification and quantification study. An estimate on how much that will cost was not immediately available from city officials. \n The $100,000 penalty is to be paid to the state within 90 days. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "State fines city $100k for 2015 sewage spills"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Paresse K. Lai, 21, of Nanakuli was indicted by an Oahu grand jury after she allegedly drove her car into a couple at a gas station in Nanakuli. \n An Oahu grand jury has indicted a 21-year-old woman who allegedly yelled a racial slur at a 28-year-old woman before driving her car into the victim and her boyfriend at a gas station in Nanakuli. \n Paresse K. Lai of Nanakuli was indicted Thursday on two counts of first-degree terroristic threatening and one count of accidents involving substantial injury in connection with the attack. A 73-year-old woman who was exiting her car as Lai attempted to flee also suffered injuries, according to court documents. \n Lai's arraignment has yet to be scheduled. A District Court judge confirmed her bail at $25,000. \n Police said Lai and her passenger yelled and cursed at the 28-year-old African-American woman at Hele gas station Sunday afternoon. Police said Lai also yelled a derogatory term at the woman and told her \"you don't belong on this island\" before she drove her sedan into the victim and her boyfriend, according to a court document. \n The 28-year-old woman suffered pain to her chest and stomach. The car also struck her boyfriend's leg. \n As Lai attempted to leave the scene, police said she reversed her car into a parked vehicle. A 73-year-old woman was stepping out of the vehicle at the time. The impact pushed the elderly woman's vehicle several feet, pinning her legs between the curb and her vehicle. \n Police said Lai fled the scene. About two hours after the attack, she turned herself in at the Waianae police station. \n The 28-year-old woman and 73-year-old woman were taken to Pali Momi Medical Center where they were treated for their injuries and released. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Oahu grand jury indicts Nanakuli woman in gas station attack"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fox News Channel's Sean Hannity denied a CNN report on March 16, 2017, that he pointed a gun at Fox News colleague Juan Williams on the network's set following an on-air argument between the pair. \n NEW YORK >> Sean Hannity says he never pointed a gun at Fox News colleague Juan Williams, despite a CNN report to the contrary. \n CNN reported Thursday that Hannity pointed a gun directly at Williams and turned on the laser sight off-air following a heated segment last year. \n In a statement, Hannity said he was showing \"my good friend Juan Williams my unloaded firearm in a professional and safe manner for educational purposes only.\" \n Williams said on Twitter that he and Hannity are \"great friends\" and the \"incident is being sensationalized.\" He says \"everything was under total control throughout and I never felt like I was put in harm's way.\" \n Fox News said in a statement that Hannity is well-trained in firearm safety and is licensed to carry a gun. \n \"The situation was thoroughly investigated and it was found that no one was put in any danger,\" Fox said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sean Hannity denies pointing gun at Juan Williams on Fox set"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark. One of President Donald Trump's strongest Senate allies during his campaign has displayed an uncanny knack for complicating his early weeks in office. Cotton has made waves and headlines knocking the health insurance overhaul being spearheaded by Speaker Paul Ryan and the president. \n WASHINGTON >> One of the loudest critics of GOP health legislation is not a Democrat or even a conservative rebel, but a Republican loyalist and staunch defender of President Donald Trump. \n Freshman Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas is not known for clashing with leadership or plotting with conservative trouble-makers in the House, as Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas are wont to do. Instead the 39-year-old Iraq and Afghanistan combat veteran, the nation's youngest senator, has carved out a hawkish and bold profile on foreign policy that many see as a platform for a future presidential run. \n And now Cotton, who won his seat in 2014 partly by lambasting his Democratic predecessor for supporting Barack Obama's health care bill, is very publicly on the attack against the House health legislation backed by Speaker Paul Ryan and the White House. \n Cotton is warning House Republicans against voting for the bill, cautioning that it could die in the Senate and cause political pain for all its supporters, and threatening to withhold his own vote unless it becomes more to his liking. \n \"There's a long history in modern politics of House members walking the plank for legislation that not only fails to become law but never even gets a vote in the Senate,\" Cotton, a one-term House member before coming to the Senate, said in an interview in his office Thursday. \"I don't want to see something like that happen to my old friends in the House of Representatives.\" \n He warned, \"The House majority could be at risk if we get health care reform wrong.\" \n The House GOP bill is the party's attempt, with control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, to finally make good on seven years' worth of promises to repeal and replace Obama's health care law. It eliminates the \"Obamacare\" mandate to buy health insurance, limits tax credits and unwinds a Medicaid expansion, but some conservatives say it doesn't go far enough. Cotton criticizes the legislation for failing to adequately keep down health care costs and premiums, arguing that the bill must do more to eliminate regulations from the Affordable Care Act. \n Cotton's opposition, which he's broadcast in multiple TV and radio interviews and over Twitter, has raised eyebrows in the Capitol where a number of GOP senators have misgivings about the bill, but many are more restrained in expressing them. Ryan and other GOP leaders have chafed at Cotton's repeated calls to slow down the health care bill, which leadership is eager to get through Congress quickly. \n \"We've been working at this literally for seven years,\" said the No. 2 Senate Republican, John Cornyn. \"This isn't going to get any easier the longer we leave it hanging out there.\" \n Asked on Hugh Hewitt's radio show about Cotton's opposition, Ryan replied, \"I love this, because we've gotten criticized by other folks in the conservative movement for waiting too long.\" \n Cotton's making trouble for Ryan on another issue, too, taking an outspoken stance against a proposed \"border-adjustment tax.\" House leaders want to levy the tax on imports to pay for lowering corporate rates in a planned tax overhaul. The border-adjustment tax is opposed by large retailers including WalMart, which is headquartered in Arkansas, and Cotton slammed it on the Senate floor and published an opinion piece in USA Today this week denouncing it as \"a theory wrapped in a speculation inside a guess.\" \n Cotton's stance on the health legislation also reflects realities on the ground in his state, where health advocates credit the Affordable Care Act with cutting how much hospitals are spending on care for uninsured patients and for a dramatic drop in the state's uninsured rate. The percentage of Arkansans uninsured dropped from 22.5 percent in 2013 to 10.2 percent in 2016, according to the Gallup-Healthways survey. \n Cotton disputes the suggestion that Obamacare is working well in Arkansas or enjoys much popularity, but acknowledges high anxiety among his constituents about what happens next. And though he's been one of Trump's unwavering supporters, including using his position on the Armed Services Committee to defend the president over Russia, he's not ready to fall in line yet, especially given the mixed signals Trump has sent on whether he actually supports the bill as-is. \n \"President Trump has repeatedly said that this bill is not his bill, it is a preliminary first step and open for negotiations,\" Cotton said. \"That's what we should have done from the very beginning.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP senator complicates Trump, Ryan efforts on health care"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "Prosecutors charged today a 26-year-old man, of no local address, for robbing a Kalihi store earlier this month. \n Charles C. Rego was charged with second-degree robbery. His bail was set at $30,000. \n Rego allegedly entered a Kalihi store on March 4 at 11:25 a.m., grabbed some items and fled using force when the store owners, a 65-year-old woman and a 71-year-old man, tried to stop him. \n Police arrested him Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged in Kalihi store robbery"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel held a joint news conference in the East Room of the White House in Washington today. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump defiantly refused to back down from his explosive claim that Barack Obama wiretapped his phones, and sidestepped any blame for the White House decision to highlight an unverified report that Britain helped carry out the alleged surveillance. \n In brushing off the diplomatic row with perhaps America's closest ally, Trump also revived another: the Obama administration's monitoring of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's calls. \n \"At least we have something in common, perhaps,\" Trump quipped today during a joint news conference with Merkel. \n Merkel, who was making her first visit to the White House since Trump took office, looked surprised by the president's comment, which he appeared primed to deliver. The Obama administration's spying infuriated Germany at the time and risked damaging the U.S. relationship with one of its most important European partners. \n Trump's unproven recent allegations against his predecessor have left him increasingly isolated, with fellow Republican as well as Democratic lawmakers saying they've seen nothing from intelligence agencies to support his claim. But Trump, who rarely admits he's wrong, has been unmoved, leaving his advisers in the untenable position of defending the president without any credible evidence. \n On Thursday, spokesman Sean Spicer turned to a Fox News analyst's contention that GCHQ, the British electronic intelligence agency, had helped Obama wiretap Trump. Fox News anchor Shepard Smith said today that the network could not independently verify the reports from Andrew Napolitano, a former judge and commentator who has met with Trump. \n The GCHQ vigorously denied the charges in a rare public statement, saying the report was \"utterly ridiculous and should be ignored.\" \n According to a Western diplomat, Britain's ambassador to Washington, Kim Darroch, had told the White House Tuesday that Napolitano's assertions were not true. Still, it was among several news reports Spicer referenced in his briefing Thursday as part of an angry defense of the president's claims. \n Darroch and other British officials complained directly to White House officials after the episode, Prime Minister Theresa May's office said it had been assured the White House would not repeat the allegations. Spicer was very apologetic when confronted by Darroch at a White House dinner on Thursday, the Western diplomat said. \n But Trump himself offered no public apologies and suggested there was nothing wrong with the White House repeating what it had heard. \n \"All we did was quote a certain very talented legal mind who was the one responsible for saying that on television,\" Trump said during today's news conference. \"You shouldn't be talking to me, you should be talking to Fox.\" \n Spicer was also defiant today, telling reporters, \"I don't think we regret anything.\" \n A White House official confirmed that Darroch and the British prime minister's national security adviser, Mark Lyall Grant, expressed concerns to both Spicer and Trump's national security adviser, H.R. McMaster. Spicer and McMaster said that the press secretary was simply pointing to public reports and not endorsing any specific story, the official said. \n The U.S. and United Kingdom are members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance, which prohibits members from spying on each other. Australia, Canada and New Zealand are the other members. \n The diplomat and White House official both spoke only on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. \n The president is a voracious consumer of news and frequently repeats information he reads or hears on television, often without verifying it first. It was a story in Breitbart \u2014 the far-right website once run by his senior adviser Steve Bannon \u2014 that appeared to spark Trump's March 4 tweets accusing Obama of wiretapping the New York skyscraper where he lived and ran his presidential campaign. \n The White House has asked the House and Senate intelligence committees to investigate the matter as part of their inquiries into Russia's hacking of the presidential election and possible contacts between Trump associates and Russian officials. But the top lawmakers on both committees have said they have seen no indications that Trump Tower was wiretapped. \n The Justice Department said today that it had complied with congressional requests for information related to any surveillance during the 2016 election. The department would not comment further on what information, if any, was provided. \n The chairman of the House intelligence committee, Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., confirmed today that the Justice Department had \"fully complied\" with the committee's request. He, too, declined to provide details. \n Republicans in Congress also said Trump should retract his claims. Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Pa., called the accusation against Britain \"inexplicable\" and the Trump's accusation against Obama unfounded. \n \"A president only has so much political capital to expend and so much moral authority as well, and so any time your credibility takes a hit, I think in many ways it weakens the officeholder,\" Dent said. \n FBI Director James Comey is sure to be asked about the wiretapping allegations when he testifies on Capitol Hill Monday. The public hearing is the first of several that the intelligence committees are expected to hold on Russia's interference in the election. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump doubles down on wiretapping claims"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Capitol as seen at dawn today, in Washington. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla. listened on Capitol Hill, in Jan. 2015, in Washington. Cole said President Donald Trump should apologize to Barack Obama for his unproven claim that his Democratic predecessor wiretapped his New York skyscraper. \n LONDON >> The Latest on President Donald Trump's claims that he was wiretapped (all times local): \n 12:20 p.m. \n A House Republican says President Donald Trump should apologize to Barack Obama for his unproven claim that his Democratic predecessor wiretapped his New York skyscraper. \n Oklahoma Rep. Tom Cole says he's seen nothing to back up Trump's unproven claim, and added: \"I think the president, President Obama, is owed an apology in that regard, because if he didn't do it we shouldn't be reckless in accusations that he did.\" \n Republican Rep. Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania said there is no evidence or proof of Trump's claim and \"he should simply retract it and move on.\" \n On Thursday, leaders of the Senate Intelligence committee said in a statement there is no indication that Trump Tower was \"the subject of surveillance\" by the U.S. government before or after the 2016 election. \n 9 a.m. \n A spokesman for Britain's prime minister says the White House has promised that it won't repeat a claim that U.K. spies snooped on U.S. President Donald Trump. \n Prime Minister Theresa May's spokesman, James Slack, says the British government has made it clear to the U.S. that the \"ridiculous\" claims should be ignored. He said today that Washington has assured Britain they will not be repeated. \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer on Thursday cited Fox News analyst Andrew Napolitano, who suggested that the British electronic surveillance agency GCHQ had helped former President Barack Obama spy on Trump before last year's presidential election. \n GCHQ took the unusual step of releasing a statement calling the claims \"nonsense.\" \n It said \"they are utterly ridiculous and should be ignored.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP congressman says Trump should apologize to Obama"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Travelers wait outside the Orly airport , south of Paris, Saturday, March, 18, 2017. A man was shot dead after wrestling a soldier to the ground at Paris' Orly Airport and trying to take her rifle, officials said. No one else in the busy terminal was hurt, but thousands of travelers were evacuated and flights were diverted to the city's other airport. \n ORLY, France >> Yelling that he wanted to kill and die for Allah, a suspected Islamic extremist attacked a French soldier Saturday morning at Paris' Orly Airport and wrested away her assault rifle, a French prosecutor said. Two colleagues on her patrol shot and killed the man before he could fire the military-grade weapon in the busy airport terminal. \n The attack forced the airport's terminals to shut down and evacuate, sent passengers and workers fleeing in panic and trapped hundreds of others aboard flights that had just landed. It was the violent climax of what authorities described as a 90-minute spree of destructive criminality across the French capital by the suspect, identified as Ziyed Ben Belgacem. \n The attack further rattled France, which remains under a state of emergency after attacks over the past two years that have killed 235 people. \n Orly, Paris' second-biggest airport behind Charles de Gaulle, has both domestic and international flights and the 8:30 a.m. (0730 GMT; 4:30 a.m. EDT) assault brought its operations to a screeching halt. \n Stopped first by police in Paris' northern suburbs early Saturday morning for driving too fast and without lights in a small Renault, the 39-year-old Frenchman opened fire with a revolver loaded with bird shot, injuring an officer in the face, authorities said. \n He then fled by car to a bar that he frequented regularly and where he had already stopped a few hours earlier and again opened fire. No one was injured. \n Finally, in another car stolen at gunpoint, he parked at Orly. A few minutes later, he hurled himself at three soldiers on patrol in its South Terminal, throwing a bag with a gas can at the floor and wielding his 9 mm revolver, said Paris prosecutor Francois Molins. \n \"With a pistol in his right hand and a bag over his shoulder, he grabbed (the soldier) with his left arm, made her move backward by three to four meters (yards), positioning her as a shield, and pointed his revolver at her forehead,\" Molins said. \n According to soldiers, the attacker yelled: \"Put down your weapons! Put your hands on your head! I am here to die for Allah. Whatever happens, there will be deaths,\" Molins said. \n In a struggle, the attacker managed to wrest free the captive soldier's Famas assault rifle and sling it over his shoulder. Molins said video surveillance footage appeared to show that Belgacem was \"determined to see the process through to the end.\" \n \"Everything suggests that he wanted to take the Famas so there would be deaths and to shoot people,\" he said. \n In between the moments when he ducked behind his hostage, the two other soldiers fired three bursts, eight rounds in all, that killed the attacker, Molins said. \n \"Her two comrades thought it was necessary \u2014 and they were right \u2014 to open fire to protect her and especially to protect all the people who were around,\" said French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian. \n Le Drian had said the soldier kept hold of her weapon. Molins said while she did wrestle it back from Belgacem at one point, he managed to snatch it off her in the end. \n Witnesses described panicked bystanders fleeing, flights halting, traffic chaos and planes under lockdowns. Traffic was jammed near the airport and people wheeled suitcases down the road. \n \"We'd already registered our bags when we saw a soldier pointing his gun at the attacker who was holding another soldier hostage,\" said Pascal Menniti, who was flying to the Dominican Republic. \n Authorities said at least 3,000 people were evacuated from the airport. Hundreds of passengers also were confined for several hours aboard 13 flights that were blocked in landing areas, and 15 other flights were diverted to Charles de Gaulle Airport. \n Passengers were allowed off their blocked planes around noon, once a search of the airport was complete, but the airport's South Terminal did not reopen until late afternoon, authorities said. \n Despite the transportation chaos, French authorities stressed that security planning \u2014 reinforced across the country in the wake of repeated attacks \u2014 worked well. \n The soldier was \"psychologically shocked\" but unhurt by the \"rapid and violent\" assault, said Col. Benoit Brulon, a spokesman for the military force that patrols public sites in France. \n The attacker's motives were unknown but the anti-terror section of the Paris prosecutors' office immediately took over the investigation. \n His father and brother were detained by police for questioning later Saturday, which is standard operating procedure. Molins said a cousin of Belgacem's also turned himself in for questioning, having spent time with the attacker in the bar the previous night. \n A search of Belgacem's residence found cocaine and a machete, Molins said. The father and brother told police that Belgacem phoned them Saturday morning, minutes after shooting at the police traffic patrol, to say that he'd \"made a mistake,\" Molins said. \n The prosecutors' office said the attacker had a record of robbery and drug offenses. Molins said he was out on bail, banned from leaving France and obliged to report regularly to police, having been handed preliminary charges for robberies in 2016. \n Molins said Belgacem was flagged as having been radicalized during a spell in detention from 2011-2012. His house was among scores searched in November 2015 in the immediate aftermath of suicide bomb-and-gun attacks that killed 130 people in Paris. \n French President Francois Hollande said investigators will determine whether the attacker \"had a terrorist plot behind him.\" But he ruled out any link between the attack and the two-round French presidential election in April and May, noting that France has been battling extremist threats for years. \n At a Saturday evening news conference, Molins gave reporters a timeline for Belgacem's last hours. \n He said about 90 minutes before the airport attack, Belgacem was stopped by a police traffic patrol at Garges-les-Gonesse in northern Paris. As he showed his ID papers, he pulled out a gun and fired bird shot, injuring an officer in the face. \n Police fired back. He fled in his car. \n He then drove to the bar in Vitry, south of Paris, and opened fire. He abandoned his Renault and stole another car at gunpoint. That car was later found at Orly Airport, and Molins said video surveillance showed Belgacem was alone when he parked it. \n The military patrol at Orly was part of the Sentinelle force installed around France to protect sensitive sites after a string of deadly Islamic extremist attacks. Saturday was at least the fourth time that Sentinelle soldiers have been targeted since the force, which includes 7,500 soldiers, was created in 2015. \n Saturday's attack comes after a similar incident last month at the Louvre Museum in Paris in which an Egyptian man attacked soldiers guarding the site. He was shot and wounded and taken into custody. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Paris Orly Airport attacker wanted to kill, die for Allah"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An Israeli Air Force F-15 fighter jet in flight during a Dec. 29 graduation ceremony for new pilots in the Hatzerim air force base near the city of Beersheba, Israel. Anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria into Israeli-controlled territory early today following a series of Israeli airstrikes inside Syria, the Israeli military said. \n JERUSALEM >> Syria fired missiles at Israeli warplanes on a mission to destroy a weapons convoy destined for the Iranian-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah prompting it to deploy its missile defense system, Israeli officials said today, in a rare military exchange between the two hostile neighbors. \n The Israeli military said its aircraft struck several targets in Syria and were back in Israeli-controlled airspace when several anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria toward the Israeli jets. \n Israeli aerial defense systems intercepted one of the missiles, the army said, without elaborating. It would not say whether any other missiles struck Israeli-held territory, but said the safety of Israeli civilians and Israeli aircraft was \"not compromised.\" \n Israel is widely believed to have carried out several airstrikes in recent years on advanced weapons systems in Syria \u2014 including Russian-made anti-aircraft missiles and Iranian-made missiles \u2014 as well as Hezbollah positions. It rarely comments on such operations and the military statement detailing the raid and comments confirming the operation by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu were highly unusual. \n \"Our policy is very consistent. When we identify attempts to transfer advanced weapons to the Hezbollah, and we have the intelligence and the operational capability, we act to prevent that. That is what was and that is what will be,\" Netanyahu said. \n Hezbollah is fighting alongside President Bashar Assad in the brutal Syrian civil war. The Iran-backed group is sworn to Israel's destruction and fought a month-long war with the Jewish state in 2006. \n The firing of missiles from Syria toward Israeli aircraft is rare, though Israeli military officials reported a shoulder-fired missile attack a few months ago. \n Israeli Channel 10 TV reported that Israel deployed its Arrow defense system for the first time against a real threat and hit an incoming missile, intercepting it before it exploded in Israel. \n However, Arrow is designed to intercept long-range ballistic missiles high in the stratosphere, so it remained unclear why the system would have been used in this particular incident. \n The Israeli military would not comment on the type of system used. \n Israel's powerful transportation and intelligence minister Yisrael Katz told the station \"our message is clear, we will not be complacent with a Syrian policy that arms Hezbollah.\" Katz said \"the fact that the incident developed into a situation where Israel claimed responsibility and the Syrians responded is significant.\" \n A Syrian military statement said four Israeli warplanes violated Syrian airspace \u2014 flying into Syria through Lebanese territory \u2014 and targeted a military position in central Syria. \n Damascus said Syrian anti-aircraft systems confronted the planes and claimed one of the jets was shot down in Israeli- controlled territory and that another was hit. The Israeli military denied the claim, saying none of the jets had been hit. \n There was no immediate comment from Hezbollah. \n The pan-Arab Al-Mayadeen TV, which has good sources within the militant group, dismissed reports by other Arab media outlets that a Hezbollah commander, Badee Hamiyeh, was killed in one of the airstrikes. It said Hamiyeh was killed Thursday in the southern Syrian region of Quneitra, near the Israeli-held Golan Heights. \n Jordan, which borders both Israel and Syria, said parts of the missiles fell in its rural northern areas, including the Irbid district. The Jordanian military said the debris came from the Israeli interception of missiles fired from Syria. \n Radwan Otoum, the Irbid governor, told the state news agency Petra that the missile parts caused only minor damage. \n A chunk of missile crashed into the courtyard of a home in the community of Inbeh in northern Jordan, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) from the Syrian border. \n Umm Bilal al-Khatib, a local resident, said she heard a blast at around 3 a.m. and initially thought a gas cylinder had exploded. When she went outside she found a small crater and a 3-meter-long (10-foot) cylinder. \n Israeli media said the interception by the Arrow system took place north of Jerusalem. \n Arrow is part of what Israel calls its \"multilayer missile defense,\" comprised of different systems meant to protect against short and long range threats, including the thousands of missiles possessed by Hezbollah in Lebanon and rockets used by Hamas and other Islamic militant groups in Gaza. \n Israel has been largely unaffected by the Syrian civil war raging next door, suffering mostly sporadic incidents of spillover fire that Israel has generally dismissed as tactical errors by Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces. Israel has responded to the errant fire with limited reprisals on Syrian positions. \n The Syrian conflict, which began in March 2011 as a popular uprising against Assad, eventually descended into a full-blown civil war, with Syrian government forces fighting an array of rebel groups. The chaos has allowed al-Qaida's affiliate in Syria and the Islamic State group to expand their reach. \n The skies over Syria are now crowded, with Russian and Syrian aircraft backing Assad's forces and a U.S.-led coalition striking Islamic State and al-Qaida targets. \n Associated Press writers Zeina Karam and Bassem Mroue in Beirut, and Omar Akour in Amman, Jordan, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syria fires missiles at Israeli jets after airstrikes"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "Hawaii island police alerted the public to avoid a section of Puainako Street in Hilo due to a crash that occurred on the roadway early today. \n Maj. Sam Thomas of the Hawaii Police Department said a vehicle struck a traffic signal pole along the roadway. The driver attempted to flee after the crash but police detained him shortly after. He was taken to a hospital to be treated for a head injury. \n Thomas said the vehicle was involved in a police pursuit in Puna Thursday night. \n Additional details are pending. \n Police said motorists should avoid Puanaiko Street between Kawili Street/Iwalani Street and Kanoelani Street for the next few hours. \n Motorists heading to Waiakea Elementary School or Waiakea Intermediate School are advised to use Kinoole Street onto Puainako Street. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Traffic accident closes section of Hilo street"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, center, visited with U.S. Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, commander of the United Nations Command, Combined Forces Command and United States Forces Korea, right, at the border village of Panmunjom, South Korea, which has separated the two Koreas since the Korean War, on Friday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, left, looked on South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se during a press conference in Seoul on Friday. Tillerson visited the world's most heavily armed border, greeting U.S. soldiers on guard near the tense buffer zone between rivals North and South Korea. \n SEOUL >> The United States signaled a tougher strategy toward North Korea today that leaves open the possibility of pre-emptive military action and rejects talks with the communist nation until it gives up its weapons of mass destruction. \n \"Let me be very clear: the policy of strategic patience has ended,\" said Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. \"We are exploring a new range of diplomatic, security and economic measures. All options are on the table.\" \n Tillerson was speaking after visiting the heavily militarized border between the rival Koreas. His comments are likely to displease Beijing, where he travels this weekend. China has been advocating diplomacy to avoid a conflict on the divided peninsula. \n Also today, President Donald Trump tweeted: \"North Korea is behaving very badly. They have been 'playing' the United States for years. China has done little to help!\" \n Past U.S. administrations have considered military options against North Korea and have publicly said that an attack on the U.S. or its allies would prompt a devastating response. \n Tillerson's comments were unusual, however, as he appeared to be implying, in public, that the U.S. would consider military force as a way of preventing an attack by Pyongyang, and not just as a means of retaliation. It also comes amid a greater sense of urgency about the threat because of North Korea's rapid progress toward developing the means to strike the U.S. with a nuclear-tipped missile. Risks of military action are high as North Korea could unleash a massive artillery barrage on Seoul in retaliation. \n The Trump administration says it is conducting a review of North Korea policy. At a news conference in Seoul, alongside his South Korean counterpart Yun Byung-se, Tillerson said U.S was exploring the new range of diplomatic, security and economic measures and emphasized that Obama administration's policy of \"strategic patience\"\u2014 that saw tightening of sanctions to try and get North Korea back to negotiations aimed at denuclearization \u2014 had ended. \n Asked about the possibility of using military force against North Korea, he said, \"all of the options are on the table.\" \n Tillerson said the U.S. does not want a military conflict, \"but obviously if North Korea takes actions that threaten South Korean forces or our own forces that would be met with (an) appropriate response. If they elevate the threat of their weapons program to a level that we believe requires action that option is on the table.\" \n Former members of the Clinton administration have said that the U.S. considered a strike on a North Korean nuclear facility in 1994 when it appeared on the brink of producing weapons-grade fissile material and refused U.N. inspections. A diplomatic deal was struck to avert conflict. \n Since then, North Korea has violated multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions and has been undeterred by tough international sanctions. The North conducted two nuclear test explosions and 24 ballistic missile tests last year. Last week, after the U.S. and South Korea began annual military drills that the North views as rehearsal for invasion, it test-fired four missiles into seas off Japan. \n Central to the U.S. review is China and its role in any bid to persuade Pyongyang to change course. China remains North Korea's most powerful ally and dominant trading partner. China recently announced it was suspending coal imports that are an important source of revenue for North Korea for the rest of the year in adherence with U.N. sanctions. \n Tillerson urged China and other countries to fully implement the sanctions. He criticized China's opposition to a U.S. missile defense system being deployed in South Korea and accused it of waging \"inappropriate and troubling\" economic retaliation against the South. China sees the system as a threat to its own security although the U.S. says it is only targeted against North Korea. Tillerson said China should focus on the North Korean threat that makes the deployment necessary. \n Tillerson also rejected Beijing's proposal of halting the U.S.-South Korean military drills in exchange for a nuclear freeze by North Korea. He said the allies had no intention to stand down the exercises that are defensive in nature and conducted transparently, unlike North Korean missile launches. He further sounded skeptical about the idea of negotiating a freeze that would leave the North with \"significant capabilities\" that could threaten the region and U.S. forces. \n The U.S. retains nearly 30,000 troops in South Korea, and nearly 50,000 in neighboring Japan. \n More broadly, Tillerson poured cold water on the idea of resuming negotiations with Pyongyang, saying, \"20 years of talks with North Korea have brought us to where we are today.\" \n \"It's important that the leadership of North Korea realize that their current pathway of nuclear weapons and escalating threats will not lead to their objective of security and economic development. That pathway can only be achieved by denuclearizing, giving up their weapons of mass destruction, and only then will we be prepared to engage with them in talks,\" he said. \n Six-nation aid-for-disarmament talks with North Korea, which were hosted by China, have in fact been stalled since 2009. The Obama administration refused to resume them unless the North re-committed to the goal of denuclearization, something it has shown little interest in doing. \n Earlier today, Tillerson touched down by helicopter at Camp Bonifas, U.S.-led U.N. base about 438 yards from the Demilitarized Zone, a Cold War vestige created after the Korean War ended in 1953. He then moved to the truce village of Panmunjom inside the DMZ, a cluster of blue huts where the Korean War armistice was signed. He is flying this week without the usual contingent of journalists who normally cover the secretary of state. \n Tillerson is the latest in a parade of senior U.S. officials to have their photos taken at the border. But it was the first trip by the new Trump administration's senior diplomat. \n The DMZ, which is both a tourist trap and a potential flashpoint, is guarded on both sides with land mines, razor wire fence, tank traps and hundreds of thousands of combat-ready troops. More than a million mines are believed to be buried inside the DMZ. The Korean War ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty, which means the Korean Peninsula remains in a technical state of war. \n Associated Press photographer Lee Jin-man at Camp Bonifas, South Korea, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tillerson: Pre-emptive force an option with N.Korea"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An artistic team from the Irish county of Wexford carried a massive rainbow tapestry in the St. Patrick's Day parade in Dublin, Ireland today. An estimated half million tourists and Dubliners watched the parade, the focal point for a four-day festival that marks the start of Ireland's tourist season. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Participants took part in the St Patrick's Day parade on the streets of Dublin today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Participants took part in the St Patrick's Day parade on the streets of Dublin today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Participants took part in the St Patrick's Day parade on the streets of Dublin today. \n DUBLIN >> Performers dressed as colorful creatures from Irish myth and legend danced today down the chilly streets of Dublin as Ireland commemorated its national saint in a St. Patrick's Day parade witnessed by hundreds of thousands. \n Before the parade, Higgins took part in a Roman Catholic service during which sprigs of shamrock were blessed. In his holiday address, the president noted that St. Patrick's Day was celebrated worldwide because the Irish have been emigrating in great volumes for centuries. \n This globe-trotting tradition represented \"a constant feature of the Irish experience, defining us as a people,\" he said. \n On Thursday, Kenny met U.S. President Donald Trump at the White House, continuing a holiday tradition that dates back to the Eisenhower administration. \n Since 2010, Ireland tourism boosters have worked with governments worldwide to floodlight famous landmarks in green each March 17. The Tourism Ireland agency said today that this year's \"Global Greening\" program transformed a record 275 sites in 44 countries, including Niagara Falls, the Great Wall of China, the Colosseum in Rome, the Manneken Pis statue in Brussels, and the Christ the Redeemer statue overlooking Rio de Janeiro. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mythic creatures dance through Dublin on St. Patrick's Day"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shemar Moore is set to return to \"Criminal Minds\" for the May 10 season finale of the drama, a year after leaving the series. \n LOS ANGELES >> Shemar Moore is set to return to \"Criminal Minds\" for the season finale of the CBS drama, a year after leaving the series. \n Moore starred as FBI agent Derek Morgan for 11 seasons before stepping away last year. \n CBS announced Thursday that Moore will reprise his role in the May 10 finale of the 12th season. The network says Moore will help the show's criminal behavioral analysis team with a lead in a case. \n Moore posted an enthusiastic message on social media to share the news, writing, \"My secret is out !!!! I'm excited to say your Baby Boy will be back to play with my Criminal Minds family for the season 12 Finale!!\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Moore returns to 'Criminal Minds' for season finale"}

{"date": "March 17, 2017", "text": "AVIATION SECURITY SERVICE OF NEW ZEALAND \n This undated photo shows Grizz, a 10-month-old trainee security dog. Police shot dead a trainee security dog after it escaped its handler and ran onto the tarmac at Auckland, New Zealand, airport early today, according to local media reports. \n WELLINGTON, New Zealand >> New Zealand police shot and killed a young security dog at the Auckland Airport on Friday after it escaped its handler and ran loose for more than three hours on the tarmac, disrupting at least 16 flights. \n Many people in New Zealand were upset that the dog was killed and some questioned why it couldn't have been tranquilized instead. \n Named Grizz, the dog was being trained to detect explosives by New Zealand's Aviation Security Service and was about six months from graduating. \n Police Inspector Tracy Phillips said in a statement that the security service and airport staff had made considerable efforts over several hours to recapture the dog and had called in police as a last resort. \n \"This is not an outcome which anyone wanted,\" Phillips said. \n Radio New Zealand said the 10-month-old bearded collie and German short-haired pointer cross had run from its handler when it was being loaded into a van and slipped through a security gate when it was opened to let a truck through. \n Airport staff unsuccessfully used toys, other dogs, food and a range of handlers to try to coax the dog away from the tarmac, the radio station reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "New Zealand police fatally shoot airport security dog"}

