{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "HOUSTON \u00bb Two children were found dead under a neighbor's house today after their mother matter-of-factly told someone helping her move that she had drowned them in a bathtub, authorities said.  \n Sheborah Thomas, 30, was charged with capital murder and \"all indications are she is the one who acted alone\" in the deaths of her 7-year-old son and 5-year-old daughter, Houston police spokesman Kese Smith told The Associated Press. Authorities have not yet confirmed a cause of death but said the woman allegedly told an acquaintance that she had drowned the children. \n Smith said investigators were still interviewing the woman and had not determined a motive. She was turned in to police by the acquaintance, who came upon her throwing away trash in a field, where she allegedly told him she needed help moving right away. \n When the man asked about her kids, she calmly said she had killed them, Smith said. \n \"She was so matter of fact about it he didn't think she was serious. He thought she was joking,\" Smith said. \"He continued to help her pack.\" \n Smith said the man eventually realized something was wrong when he asked again and got the same answer. He then drove the woman toward a nearby police precinct and flagged down an officer, Smith said. \n The mother apparently tried burying the children at first but put them under a neighbor's house when that proved too difficult, Smith said. \n Authorities were not immediately aware of the woman having any history of mental health problems, Smith said. He said police had been to the home before but for \"nothing major.\" \n State child welfare officials had previously visited with the family, said Tejal Patel, a spokeswoman for the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services. She said she could not disclose the nature of those visits but said a \"top to bottom review\" of the family will be done. \n Neighbors told the Houston Chronicle that the family had moved in just a few months earlier. \n \"She would just take her kids to the park; that's all everyone saw of them,\" neighbor Mike Polk told the newspaper. \n In 2001, Houston mother Andrea Yates drowned her five children ranging in age from 7 years to 6 months in the bathtub of her family's home. She was eventually found not guilty by reason of insanity in July 2006 and sent to a state mental hospital. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: 2 Houston kids found dead under home; mother charged"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "EXPLORE.ORG VIA AP \n This July photo provided by Explore.org shows the view of a beluga whale from a webcam gathered in the Churchill River in the Hudson Bay in Manitoba, Canada. \n EXPLORE.ORG VIA AP \n This July photo provided by Explore.org shows the view of a beluga whale from a webcam gathered in the Churchill River in the Hudson Bay in Manitoba, Canada. \n HELENA, Mont. \u00bb The underwater webcam attached to Hayley Shephard's boat captures what at first appear to be green glowing orbs as she motors through an estuary in remote Canada. Then the orbs come into focus, revealing some of the more than 3,000 beluga whales that gather in the waters in and around Hudson Bay each summer. \n The white whales, which resemble oversized dolphins, nuzzle and clown for the camera. They feel the lens with their teeth and blow bubbles at it. Sometimes they swim upside down for a better view. \n That's what Stephen Petersen, head of conservation and research for Winnipeg's Assiniboine Park Zoo, and his wife, biologist Meg Hainstock, are looking for. Only when the whales turn upside down can the researchers determine their sex, which they need as they study the animals' social structure and behavior. \n The webcam's viewers across the globe are helping, too. \n Its creators \u2014 Bozeman, Montana-based Polar Bears International and Explore.org, a project of the Annenberg Foundation \u2014 included a \"snapshot\" feature that allows viewers to take still shots of the feed. Petersen and Hainstock hope the result will be a trove of photographs of individual whales that will help them catalog the population as they try to answer questions about the animals' behavior. \n For example, why do certain whales of a similar age and sex consistently gather at certain times or locations? What function do Hudson Bay's estuaries serve for these animals? Do beluga whales have a matriarchal social structure? Do certain whale groups' low numbers have a long-term effect on the rest of the population, such as the case with the population in Alaska's Cook Inlet, which is struggling as compared to the healthy Hudson Bay population? \n \"As far as I know, there's no other investigation of beluga from under the water on this scale,\" Petersen said. \"A lot of the stuff that's been done before is from observers on top of the water. It doesn't really give us a good sense \u2014 belugas don't spend a lot of time on top of the water.\" \n Explore.org and Polar Bears International have used similar crowdsourcing technology to monitor polar bears' annual migration in Hudson Bay. Researchers hope years of viewers taking snapshots will provide them with images that can help assess the bears' health and reproductive rates. \n Other scientists are increasingly using crowdsourcing to raise money for research or perform tasks that would be too costly or time-consuming to be performed by a team of researchers. One of the most well-known projects is by the SETI Institute in Mountain View, California, whose software has been downloaded by millions of users and allows researchers to use the data-processing power of those computers in the institute's search for alien life in space. \n \"In general, there is a growing interest in using citizen science projects to raise awareness and support scientific research,\" said Krista Wright, executive director of Polar Bears International. \n For the beluga whale project, Petersen said viewers are instructed on how to identify males from females, and are then asked to take snapshots when the whales flip over and their sex is in view of the camera. The photographs are tagged male or female and uploaded to a database that will help identify individual whales and their locations. \n Operators switched on the cameras July 15 and have since averaged about 2,500 viewers a day, according to Explore.org spokesman Mike Gasbara. \n The researchers hope that after this season ends in August, they will have a catalog of individual whales that can be tracked in subsequent years, along with the locations where different groups are gathering to find if any patterns emerge. \n Understanding the beluga whales is important because their ecosystem soon may be altered with the effects of climate change, Gasbara said. Less Arctic ice could bring threats to the beluga in the form of killer whales and increased boat traffic and pollution, he said. \n \"I think because we're right at the beginning of this, any information that we get on social structure is going to be informative for other locations,\" Petersen said. \n Back on the surface in Canada's Hudson Bay, ghostlike humps emerge as more whales are drawn to Shepherd's 10-foot inflatable boat. She pilots the vessel slowly around the estuary for four hours a day over the short northern summer, sometimes narrating her observations to web viewers. \n \"It's important to know that we ultimately are visitors and we are in their territory,\" Shepherd said. \"Them approaching the boat, following the boat \u2014 it's all their doing. We don't need to run up to them and ride along.\" \n Occasionally, one of the whales will slap the water with its tail and soak her. \n \"Sometimes I feel like they've adopted me into their pod,\" Shephard said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Webcam whale research buoyed by viewers around the world"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sandals lay on a street corner at the crime scene on Saturday not far from the Al-Furqan Jame Masjid Mosque in the Ozone Park neighborhood of Queens, New York, where the leader of a New York City mosque has been fatally shot and an associate has been wounded in a brazen daylight attack. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gather near a crime scene for a demonstration after the leader of a New York City mosque and an associate were fatally shot in a brazen daylight attack as they left afternoon prayers Saturday. \n NEW YORK \u00bb As the families of a slain New York City mosque leader and his associate make funeral arraignments and continue their quest for answers in the shooting, a Muslim advocacy group is set to announce a reward for information leading to an arrest.  \n Imam Maulama Akonjee, 55, and Thara Uddin, 64, were both shot in the head near the Al-Furqan Jame Masjid mosque in the Ozone Park neighborhood of Queens as they left afternoon prayers on Saturday in their traditional religious attire, according to police. \n \"He always wants peace,\" Akonjee's son, Naim Akonjee, 21, said of his father through tears. \"Why did they kill my father?\" \n The Council on American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR, is set to announce on Monday a $10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the shooter. \n Police said they have not yet determined a motive for the killings, but some in the Bangladeshi Muslim community served by the mosque worry it could be a hate crime. \n Monir Chowdhury, who worshipped daily with the two men, said he had moved to the community because of its large Bangladeshi immigrant population, but in recent months has been harassed by people shouting anti-Muslim epithets. \n In one incident, a man called him \"Osama\" as he walked to the mosque with his 3-year-old son. With the killer still on the loose, Chowdhury decided it would be best to drive to prayer services. \n \"A lot of neighbors said, 'Hey, don't take your kid with you,'\" he said. \"People, they just hate us.\" \n Police on Sunday released a sketch of the suspected gunman, a dark-haired, bearded man wearing glasses. He was described by witnesses as a man with a medium complexion. A person who lives near the shooting scene shared with The Associated Press and other media organizations surveillance video that showed a man walking up behind the imam and his associate, shooting them and then walking off. Police said they were reviewing the video. \n In a statement on Sunday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, said the slayings were felt by all of New York City. \n \"While we do not yet know the motivation for the murders of Maulama Akonjee and Thara Uddin, we do know that our Muslim communities are in the perpetual crosshairs of bigotry,\" the mayor said. \"It remains critical that we work to bridge the divides that threaten to undermine the greatness of our city and country.\" \n An official with the government in Bangladesh condemned the killings on Twitter. The country's State Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mohammed Shahriar Alam, called the shooting a \"cowardly act on peace-loving people.\" \n The U.S. Ambassador to Bangladesh, Marcia Bernicat, also decried the violence, saying Imam Maulama Akonjee \"stood for peace.\" \n Several police officers were stationed outside the mosque on Sunday as worshippers remembered the victims and remarked on their devotion to their families and faith. \n On Monday, Muslim community members will gather in Brooklyn to hold Islamic funeral prayers for the two men. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reward offered in NYC imam slaying as families seek answers"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "WASHINGTON \u00bb Sharp differences along lines of race and politics shape American attitudes toward the poor and poverty, according to a new survey of public opinion, which finds empathy toward the poor and deep skepticism about government antipoverty efforts. \n The differences illuminate some of the passions that have driven this year's presidential campaign. \n But the poll, which updates a survey the Los Angeles Times conducted three decades ago, also illustrates how attitudes about poverty have remained largely consistent over time despite dramatic economic and social change. \n Criticism of the poor \u2014 a belief that there are \"plenty of jobs available for poor people,\" that government programs breed dependency and that most poor people would \"prefer to stay on welfare\" \u2014 is especially common among the blue-collar, white Americans who have given the strongest support to Donald Trump. \n The opposite view \u2014 that jobs for the poor are hard to find, that government programs help people get back on their feet and that most of the poor would rather earn their own way \u2014 is most widely held among blacks and other minorities, who have provided the strongest backing to Hillary Clinton. \n Roughly a third of self-described conservatives say that the poor do not work very hard, a view at odds with big majorities of moderates and liberals. \n But while Americans disagree in how they view the poor, they're more united in their skepticism of government programs. \n That skepticism has held true for decades. The first Times poll of American attitudes toward poverty, in 1985, broke ground by surveying enough poor people to compare their views with those of people in the middle class. \n The new survey, which was conducted by The Times and the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington think tank that is generally conservative, asked similar questions but with some updating. \n Much has changed since the 1980s. Welfare got a major overhaul in the 1990s. The number of poor Americans dropped sharply in that decade, only to partially rise again, particularly during the deep recession that began in 2007. \n But many attitudes have held steady, the new poll found, particularly doubts about the federal government's ability to run its antipoverty programs, as well as their justification. \n Most Americans do not believe that the government bears the main burden of taking care of the poor. Asked who has the \"greatest responsibility for helping the poor,\" just over one-third said that the government does. That figure has not budged in three decades. \n Those who did not think the government has the main responsibility were split about who does. Just under 1 in 5 Americans said that the poor themselves bear the greatest responsibility. Family, churches and charities each got mentioned by 10 percent-15 percent. \n Among Latinos, family came in second behind government; among blacks, churches took second place; Republicans were most likely to put responsibility on the poor themselves. \n White Americans were less likely to call government responsible than were minorities, but the difference lay almost entirely with blue-collar whites \u2014 those without college degrees. White Americans who graduated from college were as likely to say government has the prime responsibility as were nonwhites. \n Attitudes toward antipoverty programs also have not changed much since the 1980s. \n In the original poll, 58 percent of Americans said that such efforts had \"seldom\" worked, while 32 percent said they \"often\" had. In the new survey, with a differently worded question, 13 percent of Americans said such programs have had \"no impact\" on reducing poverty, and 43 percent said they have had \"some impact.\" Only 5 percent said they have had a \"big impact.\" \n Those living below the poverty line and those above it had largely similar views on that issue now and three decades ago. \n College-educated minorities were most likely in the current poll to say that government programs have had a positive effect on poverty, with more than 7 in 10 taking that view. \n At the other end of the scale, about one-third of Americans said that government programs had made poverty worse, a view that was particularly common among conservatives, 47 percent, and blue-collar whites, 43 percent. \n In both surveys, about 7 in 10 Americans said that even if the government were \"willing to spend whatever is necessary to eliminate poverty,\" officials do not know enough to accomplish that goal. \n Blacks and Latinos were somewhat more likely to express confidence about the government's ability to end poverty. Even among those groups, however \u2014 and among self-described liberals \u2014 majorities said the government does not know enough to eradicate poverty. \n Asked why antipoverty efforts have failed, more than half of Americans said the main problem was that programs were poorly designed. Among poor people, however, about 3 in 10 said the problem was that programs had not been given enough money to succeed. \n On attitudes toward the poor, divides are sharper than on opinions about government. \n Blue-collar whites were much more likely than nonwhites to view the poor as a class set apart from the rest of society \u2014 trapped in poverty as a more or less permanent condition. Minority Americans, particularly blacks, tended to say that \"for most poor people, poverty is a temporary condition\" \n A majority of whites see government antipoverty efforts contributing to poverty's permanence, saying that benefit programs \"make poor people dependent and encourage them to stay poor.\" \n Blacks disagreed, saying that the government help mostly allows poor people to \"stand on their own two feet and get started again.\" The poor themselves divided evenly on the question. Latinos leaned closer to the skeptical view about government programs expressed by white Americans. \n Asked whether poor people \"prefer to stay on welfare\" or would \"rather earn their own living,\" Americans by a large majority, 61 percent-36 percent, said they believed the poor would rather earn their own way. Blue-collar whites were more closely divided on the question, 52 percent-44 percent. \n That was one of several questions on which the views of minorities and college-educated whites were close to each other, while whites without a college degree stood out as different. \n Nearly two-thirds of whites without college degrees, for example, said that benefits encourage poor people to remain in poverty. Among college-educated whites, about half took that view. \n Blue-collar whites also took a dimmer view of President Barack Obama's handling of poverty than did other Americans. Majorities of blacks, Latinos and other minorities, as well as whites with college degrees, approved of Obama's handling of poverty. But among blue-collar whites, fewer than one-third approved, and nearly two-thirds disapproved. \n Not only are Americans skeptical about whether antipoverty programs work, nearly 6 in 10 said that the percentage of people in poverty has been increasing from year to year. About 1 in 4 say poverty has stayed the same, and 1 in 8 say it has gone down. \n Whether the public view of poverty getting worse is accurate or not is a tough question. A lot depends on the time frame. \n Measured by the government's official poverty line, the percentage of Americans who were poor declined during the 1960s, plateaued during the 1970s, rose during much of the 1980s, then declined again during the boom years of the 1990s, only to rise again since 2000, especially during the recession. In the last few years, the poverty rate has leveled off at about 15 percent. \n The official poverty measure, however, does not include the value of government benefits designed to help the poor. Including those payments, the share of people who are impoverished is now considerably lower than it was in the 1960s, although slightly higher than it was at the end of the 1990s. \n One question on which views have changed somewhat since the 1980s is whether poverty is a temporary or a permanent condition. \n In the 1985 survey, Americans by a very large majority, 71 percent-21 percent, said that most poor people would probably remain poor. Today, that remains the majority view, but the gap has narrowed somewhat, with 60 percent seeing poverty as mostly permanent and 33 percent saying it is a temporary condition that people can move into and out of again. \n The poor divide closely on that question. So do minorities.  \n A correct answer to that question is complex. Census figures show that in recent years, people who fell below the poverty line typically stayed poor for about six months. A lot of people, however, cycle in and out of poverty, rising only slightly above the official poverty line, then falling back. \n One recent census study found that about one-quarter of poor people were in poverty only briefly \u2014 the result of a job loss or other crisis. About 1 in 7 were chronically poor, spending much of their lives impoverished. In between are many who churn in and out of poverty. \n Across the board, Americans overestimate how high the government's poverty line is and how many people live below it. Asked to estimate the poverty line for a family of four, those polled, on average, put it at slightly more tha $32,000, which is about a third higher than the actual figure of slightly more than $24,000. The public's figure may be more realistic, however; many poverty experts think the official level is far too low.  \n Those polled also estimated that about 40 percent of Americans live below the poverty line \u2014 far more than the actual figure of 15 percent. Again, though, the public may have the clearer view. Many experts on poverty say that in addition to the roughly 45 million Americans who live below the official poverty line, roughly an equal number are \"near poor.\" \n Many federal benefit programs, including health care subsidies, food stamps and Medicaid in many states, are open to people earning significantly more than the official poverty threshold. \n The survey was conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates, one of the country's largest nonpartisan polling organizations. The survey was conducted June 20-July 7 among 1,202 adults aged 18 and older, including 235 who live below the poverty line. The survey has a margin of error of 4 percentage points in either direction for the full sample. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Tribune Co.  \n ", "author": "By David Lauter Tribune Washington Bureau", "title": "Racial, partisan divides shape American views of poverty, poor"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "A 35-year-old pedestrian was hit by a car on Hehe Lane in Hanamaulu, Kauai, late Saturday night. \n The Hanamaulu man was walking west at about 6:08 p.m. when he was struck by a Nissan sedan, police said. \n The sedan was driven by a 27-year-old woman, also from Hanamaulu. \n He was medevaced with head injuries to the Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu. His condition wasn't disclosed. \n The driver and her passenger were not injured. \n The road was closed for an investigation and was reopened at about 10:26 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pedestrian hit by car on Kauai, medevaced with head injuries"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "MALCOLM DENEMARK/FLORIDA TODAY VIA AP \n A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launches from Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida early today with a Japanese communications satellite. \n SpaceX launched a Japanese commercial communications satellite early Sunday morning and then landed the first stage of its rocket on a drone ship. \n The Falcon 9 rocket lifted off at 1:26 a.m. EDT from Cape Canaveral, Fla., carrying the JCSAT-16 satellite into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. At 1:40 a.m., the first stage landed on a platform floating several hundred miles off the Florida coast. \n The secondary objective of landing the first stage of Falcon 9 on the drone ship \u2014 named Of Course I Still Love You \u2014 is key to the SpaceX mission of reusing rockets. \n The satellite, operated by SKY Perfect JSAT Corp., will serve as a backup transmitter for the rest of the communications company's satellite fleet. \n In May, SpaceX successfully launched the JCSAT-14 satellite into orbit. It replaced another of the Japanese company's satellites and provided coverage to Asia, Oceania, Russia and the Pacific Islands. \n At the time, the Hawthorne company repeated the successful landing of its first-stage rocket booster on a drone ship. \n The first open-ocean booster landing was in April, giving more credence to Chief Executive Elon Musk's plans to reduce launch costs by reusing rockets. \n SpaceX has landed two first-stage rocket boosters on land, in July and December. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Helen Zhao Los Angeles Times", "title": "SpaceX launches Japanese satellite; booster lands on drone ship"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "MILITANT VIDEO / SITE INSTITUTE VIA AP \n This undated image taken from video distributed today shows an alleged Boko Haram soldier standing in front of a group of girls alleged to be some of the 276 abducted Chibok schoolgirls held since April 2014, in an unknown location. The video posted on Twitter appears to come from the Boko Haram islamic extremists making threats about the safety of the captive girls if the government battles against the group. \n JOHANNESBURG \u00bb Some of the 276 Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram have been killed in Nigerian air force bombings, the group said in a video released today.  \n The video appeared to be the first proof in months that dozens of the girls are still alive, more than two years after they were captured from the town of Chibok. \n Their faces bleak, the group of several dozen girls could be seen wearing long Islamic gowns, guarded by a masked man in camouflage. Some fought back tears. Many held babies, likely the product of rape after the girls were forcibly married to fighters. About 40 of the girls have been married off, the masked man said. \n \"No one cares for us,\" one girl, identified as Maida Yakubu, said in the video. \n \"We are suffering here. The aircraft has come to bombard us and killed many of us. Some are wounded,\" Yakubu said, according to an Associated Press translation. \"Every day we are in pains and suffering. So are our babies. Some of our husbands that we married also are injured, some dead. \n \"Please go and beg the government of Nigeria to release the members of our abductors so that they too can free us to let us come home,\" she said. \"We are really suffering, there is no food to eat, no good water to drink here.\" \n The masked fighter, who seemed to represent the Boko Haram faction led by Abubakar Shekau, demanded the release of prisoners in return for releasing the girls. \n The group split recently, after an Islamic State-run magazine named Abu Musab Barnawi as the new leader of Boko Haram, angering Shekau and his followers. Both factions have since released video and audio statements attacking one another. \n The spokesman warned in the video that no one would see the girls again unless the government stopped fighting the group and released Boko Haram prisoners. \n \"Presently, some of the girls are crippled, some are terribly sick and some of them, as I had said, died during bombardment by the Nigerian military,\" the spokesman said. The video showed what the fighter said were the bodies of girls killed by airstrikes. \n \"Let me say again, release our people and we release your girls. Otherwise, they will never be released. If you think you have the power to come and rescue them, go ahead and try,\" the spokesman said, according a translation by a Nigerian newspaper, the Premium Times. \n The video was posted on Twitter on Sunday by a Nigerian journalist, Ahmed Salkida, who has Boko Haram contacts. The Nigerian army said it was seeking to question Salkida. \n Boko Haram controlled a vast swath of territory in the northeast of the country until last year, when a coalition of armies from Nigeria and neighboring countries drove the Islamist terrorist group out of all the major towns that it controlled. \n The Nigerian air force has been bombing Boko Haram's stronghold in the Sambisa forest, in the northeast, near the Cameroonian border. \n Boko Haram's scorched-earth policies have forced farmers off their land, stopped fishermen from fishing in Lake Chad and prevented the transport of food across the region, leaving a large area facing starvation. The policy appears to have hurt Boko Haram as much as it hurt surrounding communities, with many fighters surrendering to Nigeria's military because of hunger. \n The girls were kidnapped in April 2014 from their boarding school, where they had gathered for examinations. Boko Haram fighters stormed the school late at night, loaded the girls into trucks and took them away. Several dozen of the girls managed to escape by jumping from the trucks and running into the bush. One, Amina Ali, was recovered in May, married to a Boko Haram fighter, with a baby. But 218 are still missing. \n A few weeks after they were kidnapped, about 100 of the girls were shown on video dressed in Islamic clothing. Some 15 were shown in a video released in May this year. \n The Nigerian government, then under former President Goodluck Jonathan, was harshly criticized for failing to act swiftly to locate and recover the schoolgirls. \n After the kidnapping, Shekau appeared in a video, grinning and laughing, calling the girls \"slaves\" and saying he planned to sell them in the market. \n Activists in Nigeria initiated daily protests and the Twitter hashtag #BringBackOurGirls, triggering peaceful protests and garnering support from people around the world. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Robyn Dixon Los Angeles Times", "title": "Boko Haram releases new video of abducted Chibok girls"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK \u00bb Two terminals at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport are resuming normal operations Monday morning after reports of shots fired prompted evacuations and grounded and diverted flights. \n The reports, which led to some frightening moments for fliers tonight, were later determined to be unfounded and the airport was given the all-clear. \n \"At this time, no firearm, rounds or shell casings or other evidence of shots fired has been found,\" said Joe Pentangelo, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Police Department. \n Police evacuated Terminal 8 around 9:30 p.m. today as a precaution after receiving 911 calls about shots fired near the departures area. \n Port Authority police called in officers from the New York Police Department to assist with the investigation. \n A short time later, police closed Terminal 1 after they said they received additional reports of shots fired in that terminal. A highway approaching the airport also was shut down. \n Passengers posted pictures and videos on Twitter that showed crowds of people gathered outside of the terminals. \n Demetrius Pipkin told WPIX-TV that he was in Terminal 1 waiting for his Norwegian Airlines flight when the reports of shots fired came in. \n \"We were previously told to get on the floor and take cover behind any and everything we could find,\" said Pipkin, who described the terminal as a \"madhouse\" with panicky passengers eventually bolting for the nearest exists. \n According to the flight tracking company, FlightAware, all inbound flights were held at their origin until 11:30 p.m. \"due to security.\" Port Authority police said travelers should contact their carriers. They also warned of a \"substantial PAPD and NYPD presence\" at JFK and LaGuardia due to the investigation. \n There were no injuries reported. It was not immediately clear what led to the airport scare. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 terminals at JFK airport resuming operations after scare"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a coal mining roundtable at Fitzgerald Peterbilt in Glade Spring, Va. on Wednesday. \n JERSEY CITY, N.J. \u00bb Donald Trump will declare an end to nation building if elected president, replacing it with what aides described as \"foreign policy realism\" focused on destroying the Islamic State group and other terrorist organizations. \n In a speech the Republican presidential nominee will deliver on Monday in Ohio, Trump will argue that the country needs to work with anyone that shares that mission, regardless of other ideological and strategic disagreements. Any country that wants to work with the U.S. to defeat \"radical Islamic terrorism\" will be a U.S. ally, he is expected to say. \n \"Mr. Trump's speech will explain that while we can't choose our friends, we must always recognize our enemies,\" Trump senior policy adviser Stephen Miller said Sunday. \n On the eve of the speech, the Clinton campaign slammed Trump's campaign manager for ties to Russia and pro-Kremlin interests, an apparent reference to a New York Times story published Sunday night. The story alleges Paul Manafort received $12.7 million from Ukraine's former pro-Russia president and his political party for consultant work over a five-year period. The newspaper says Manafort's lawyer denied his client received any such payments. \n Trump on Monday is also expected to outline a new immigration policy proposal under which the U.S. would stop issuing visas in any case where it cannot perform adequate screenings. \n It will be the latest version of a policy that began with Trump's unprecedented call to temporarily bar foreign Muslims from entering the country \u2014 a religious test that was criticized across party lines as un-American. Following a massacre at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, in June, Trump introduced a new standard. \n \"As he laid out in his Orlando remarks, Mr. Trump will describe the need to temporarily suspend visa issuances to geographic regions with a history of exporting terrorism and where adequate checks and background vetting cannot occur,\" Miller said. \n Trump is also expected to propose creating a new, ideological test for admission to the country that would assess a candidate's stances on issues like religious freedom, gender equality and gay rights. Through questionnaires, searching social media, interviewing friends and family or other means, applicants would be vetted to see whether they support American values like tolerance and pluralism. \n The candidate is also expected to call in the speech for declaring in explicit terms that, like during the Cold War, the nation is in an ideological conflict with radical Islam. \n Trump's Democratic rival Hillary Clinton and top U.S. government officials have warned of the dangers of using that kind of language to describe the conflict, arguing that it plays into militants' hands. \n While Trump has been criticized in the past for failing to lay out specific policy solutions, aides say that Monday's speech will again focus on his broader vision. Additional speeches with more details are expected in the weeks ahead, they said. \n Trump is also expected to spend significant time going after President Barack Obama and Clinton, the former secretary of state, blaming them for enacting policies he argues allowed the Islamic State group to spread. Obama has made ending nation building a central part of his foreign policy argument for years. \n \"Mr. Trump will outline his vision for defeating radical Islamic terrorism, and explain how the policies of Obama-Clinton are responsible for the rise of ISIS and the spread of barbarism that has taken the lives of so many,\" Miller said Sunday in an email, using an alternative acronym for the Islamic State group. \n The speech comes as Trump has struggled to stay on message. Last week, an economic policy speech he delivered calling for lower corporate taxes and rolling back federal regulations was overshadowed by a series of provocative statements, including falsely declaring that Obama was the \"founder\" of the Islamic State group. \n Trump's allies said Sunday they're confident that this time, the billionaire developer will stay on track. \n \"Stay tuned, it's very early in this campaign. This coming Monday, you're going to see a vision for confronting radical Islamic terrorism,\" his vice presidential running mate, Mike Pence, said on Fox News today. \n Trump and his top advisers, meanwhile, have blamed the media for failing to focus on his proposals. \n \"If the disgusting and corrupt media covered me honestly and didn't put false meaning into the words I say, I would be beating Hillary by 20 percent,\" he tweeted today. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump to propose political tests for immigrants"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "COURTESY OF THE GEORGIA BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shows Royheem Delshawn Deeds in connection with the shooting death of Eastman, Ga. Patrol Officer Tim Smith. Smith was fatally shot about 9:30 p.m. Saturday in a residential area of the city located about 60 miles southeast of Macon, Ga. \n COURTESY OF THE GEORGIA BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shows Eastman, Ga. Patrol Officer Tim Smith. Smith was fatally shot about 9:30 p.m. Saturday in a residential area of the city located about 60 miles southeast of Macon, Ga. \n ATLANTA \u00bb A police officer in a small, central Georgia city has been shot and killed by a suspect who remains on the loose, authorities said today. \n Eastman Patrol Officer Tim Smith was fatally shot about 9:30 p.m. Saturday in a residential area of the city located about 60 miles southeast of Macon, Georgia Bureau of Investigations spokesman Scott Dutton said. \n Smith, 31, was responding to a suspicious person call when he encountered Royheem Delshawn Deeds, exited his patrol car and was shot, Dutton said. \n Dutton said Deeds, 24, then fled the scene. He is being sought by police. \n The Georgia Bureau of Investigations said in a news release today that it is offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to Deeds' whereabouts. \n Smith was not wearing a body camera. \n Smith had been with the Eastman Police Department since 2011. He is survived by three children. \n Smith's death came just hours before two 15-year-old suspects were arrested after exchanging gunfire with officers in the suburban Atlanta city of Marietta. \n Officer Scott Davis was shot in the leg early Sunday, Marietta police spokeswoman Kelah Wallace said. Davis, a 10-year veteran, was taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries and is recovering after surgery. \n The shooting occurred outside the Gallery Apartments when three officers responded to a call about people breaking into cars, Wallace said. \n The officers approached two suspects who were inside a vehicle, Wallace said. One of the suspects from the vehicle started shooting at the officers, striking one of them. \n Three officers returned fire, hitting one of the suspects. Both suspects were eventually arrested, Wallace said. The wounded suspect was taken to the hospital with injuries that were not life-threatening. \n Davis and the two other officers will be placed on administrative leave as per policy standards. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Georgia officer fatally shot, suspect remains on the loose"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "INVISION VIA AP / FEB. 24 \n This file photo shows Adele onstage at the Brit Awards 2016 at the 02 Arena in London. The multiple Grammy Award-winning singer says she turned down an offer to perform at the 2017 Super Bowl halftime show. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Multiple Grammy Award-winning singer Adele says she turned down an offer to perform at the 2017 Super Bowl halftime show.  \n The British singer told an audience Saturday at her Los Angeles concert that she was asked to perform at the event. \n \"First of all, I'm not doing the Super Bowl,\" Adele says from the stage in a video posted on Twitter. \"I mean, come on, that show is not about music. And I don't really \u2014 I can't dance or anything like that. They were very kind, they did ask me, but I did say no.\" \n She adds: \"I'm sorry, but maybe next time.\" \n Performers at previous halftime shows have included Beyonce, Madonna, the Rolling Stones and Prince. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Adele turns down offer to sing at Super Bowl; show 'not about music'"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for a male who robbed a 16-year-old boy Saturday night during an act of theft in the Aiea area. \n During the 6:20 p.m. theft the suspect brandished a dangerous instrument at the victim, according to a police report. \n The suspect fled the scene after taking the teen-ager's property, police said. \n The case has been classified as a first-degree robbery. \n ", "author": "By Timothy Hurley thurley@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police looking for man who robbed teen in Aiea"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for some male suspects in connection with the assault of a 17-year-old boy and his father in the Kunia area. \n According to police, the teen was assaulted by the suspects Saturday at 4:15 p.m. while he was seated in a vehicle. Afterward, the victim went home and told his parents about the incident. \n The father then ran after the suspects and he ended up being assaulted, police said. Another suspect fired several rounds in the air before the suspects fled in a vehicle. \n The case has been classified as a first-degree reckless endangering and third-degree assault. \n Police did not release a description of the suspects or the vehicle. \n ", "author": "Timothy Hurley", "title": "Police looking for suspects who allegedly assaulted boy and his father"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Armed police officers transport an injured man in an armored vehicle to a hospital Milwaukee tonight. Shots rang out during unrest after a police shooting that killed a man Saturday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Family members of Sylville Smith gather where he was shot and killed by Milwaukee police in Milwaukee today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gather at the place where Milwaukee police shot and killed Sylville Smith in Milwaukee today. \n MILWAUKEE COUNTY SHERIFF VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Milwaukee County Sheriff shows Sylville K. Smith. Smith, whose killing by police touched off rioting in Milwaukee, was shot by a black officer after turning toward him with a gun in his hand, the police chief said today, as Wisconsin's governor put the National Guard on standby against any further violence on the city's mostly black north side. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People gather at the place where Milwaukee police shot and killed Sylville Smith in Milwaukee today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A car burns as a crowd of more than 100 people gathers following the fatal shooting of a man in Milwaukee on Saturday. \n MILWAUKEE \u00bb Police said one person was shot at a Milwaukee protest this evening and officers used an armored vehicle to retrieve the injured victim during a second night of unrest over the police shooting of a black man, but there was no repeat of widespread destruction of property. \n Some two dozen officers in riot gear confronted a group who were throwing rocks and other objects at police near where the black man was fatally shot a day earlier. Police moved in to try to disperse the crowd and warned of arrests. \n Local television showed police forming a line and using shields to deflect the objects. One police officer fell to the ground after apparently being hit by one of the objects and was moved away by fellow officers. Police also said an injured officer was taken to hospital after a rock broke the windshield of a squad car. \n Earlier, video taken from a media helicopter showed a small group of protesters running through the streets, picking up orange construction barriers and hurling them out of the way. Police posted on Twitter three locations where they said shots were fired. There were no other reports of injuries and no major destruction of property after six businesses were burned in the unrest Saturday. \n Police Chief Edward Flynn said the man whose death touched off Saturday night's rioting was shot after he turned toward an officer with a gun in his hand. \n Flynn cautioned that the shooting was still under investigation and authorities were awaiting autopsy results, but that based on the silent video from the unidentified officer's body camera, he \"certainly appeared to be within lawful bounds.\" \n At the same news conference, Mayor Tom Barrett said a still image pulled from the footage clearly showed a gun in 23-year-old Sylville K. Smith's hand as he fled a traffic stop Saturday. \n \"I want our community to know that,\" Barrett said. But he also called for understanding for Smith's family. \n \"A young man lost his life yesterday afternoon,\" the mayor said. \"And no matter what the circumstances are, his family has to be hurting.\" \n Flynn declined to identify the officer who shot Smith but said he is black. The police chief said he wasn't sure what prompted the stop but described Smith's car as \"behaving suspiciously.\" \n After watching the officer's body camera footage, Flynn said the entire episode took about 25 seconds, from the start of the traffic stop until shots were fired. He said Smith ran \"a few dozen feet\" and turned toward the officer while holding a gun. \n \"It was in his hand. He was raising up with it,\" the chief said. He said the officer had told Smith to drop the gun and he did not do so. It was unclear how many rounds the officer fired. Smith was hit in the chest and arm, Flynn said. \n Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker put Wisconsin's National Guard on standby, and 125 Guard members reported to local armories to prepare for further instructions. But Milwaukee said late Sunday that the National Guard had not been deployed. \n In addition to the businesses damaged, 17 people were arrested and four police injured, although all had been released from hospital, Flynn said. \n Milwaukee Alderman Khalif Rainey, who represents the neighborhood that erupted, said the city's black residents are \"tired of living under this oppression.\" \n \"Now this is a warning cry. Where do we go from here? Where do we go as a community from here?\" he asked. \n Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke said Smith had been arrested 13 times. Online court records showed a range of charges against Smith, many of them misdemeanors. \n The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported that Smith was also charged in a shooting and was later charged with pressuring the victim to withdraw testimony that identified Smith as the gunman. The charges were dropped because the victim recanted the identification and failed to appear in court, Chief Deputy District Attorney Kent Lovern told the newspaper. \n Smith's sister told The Associated Press that the family wants prosecutors to charge the officer who shot him. \n Kimberly Neal, 24, spoke as supporters surrounded her at the vigil as she held a bouquet of blue balloons. \n She asked people for donations for his burial. \n Asked about the violence, Neal said: \"People stuck together and they are trying to stand up,\" for their rights. \n The anger at Milwaukee police is not new and comes as tension between black communities and law enforcement has ramped up across the nation, resulting in protests and the recent ambush killings of eight officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Dallas. \n Nearly 40 percent of Milwaukee's 600,000 residents are black, and they are heavily concentrated on the north side. \n Milwaukee was beset by protests and calls for police reform after an officer shot and killed Dontre Hamilton, a mentally ill black man, in 2014. \n In December, the U.S. Justice Department announced it would work with Milwaukee police on changes. \n Critics said the police department should have been subjected to a full Justice Department investigation like the one done in Ferguson, Missouri, after the killing of black 18-year-old Michael Brown in 2014 touched off violence there. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "One person shot in Milwaukee protest but no repeat of riots"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Motorists on Highway 190 drive through deep water through Holden, La., after heavy rains inundated the region, Sunday, Aug. 14, 2016. Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said Sunday that at least 7,000 people have been rescued so far. \n LIVINGSTON, La. >> Robert and Gwen Arceneaux endured a sleepless night Sunday after noticing floodwater creeping into their home \u2014 in a neighborhood that had never seen water before. \n They gathered up their dogs and a few bags of belongings and fled out the back door, eventually wading through waist-deep water to a passing National Guard truck. Now safe at a movie studio-lot-turned-shelter their worries weren't over, as they tried to get medication for Robert, who suffers from lung cancer. \n \"We need to get somewhere safer,\" Gwen said, as her dogs panted heavily under the hot sun. \n Across southern Louisiana Sunday, residents scrambled to get to safety as rivers and creeks burst their banks, swollen from days of heavy rain that in some areas came close to two feet over a 48-hour period. \n In high-water vehicles, boats and helicopters, emergency crews hurried to rescue scores of south Louisiana residents as the governor warned that it was not over. \n From the air homes in southwest Louisiana looked more like little islands surrounded by flooded fields. Farmland was covered, streets descended into impassable pools of water, shopping centers were inundated with only roofs of cars peeking above the water. \n From the ground it was just as catastrophic. \n Drivers tried to navigate treacherous roads where the water lapped at the side or covered the asphalt in a running stream. Abandoned cars were pushed to the side of the road, lawn furniture and children's toys floating through the waters. \n The low pressure system that wreaked such havoc moved into Texas, but the National Weather Service warned that there's still danger of fresh floods, as swollen rivers drain toward the Gulf of Mexico. \n Most of the rivers have crested, but several are still rising. \n Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said Sunday morning that at least 7,000 people have been rescued so far. Edwards called on people to refrain from going out to \"sightsee\" even as the weather gets better. \n \"This is a serious event. It is ongoing. It is not over,\" said the governor. \n Three people have been reported dead and one person is unaccounted for. \n Mike Steele, spokesman for the Governor's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, said there was an overnight spike in flood rescues in the eastern part of Baton Rouge. Two nursing homes were being evacuated. \n Police rescued people from cars stranded on a miles-long stretch of Interstate 12. \n One of those stranded motorists was Alex Cobb of Baton Rouge, who spent the night on the interstate before being rescued by a National Guard truck. \n She was on her way to a bridal shower she was supposed to host Saturday when flooding closed off the highway. \n She said she had food intended for the bridal shower and a produce truck about a \u00bc mile up the road shared its stock with drivers \u2014 giving out fruits and vegetables to people. \n Hundreds of people were gathered at Celtic Media Centre in Baton Rouge, some coming in by bus and others by helicopter. \n Matthew and Rachel Fitzpatrick, from Brandon, Mississippi, hopped off one of the choppers with her grandparents. The couple had been visiting family in Baton Rouge when the flooding started. They found temporary refuge at Hebron Baptist Church but became trapped by floodwaters Saturday night. \n People at the church used boats and big trucks to rescue others and bring them to the church, where helicopters started picking them up and flying them to safety Sunday. \n Matthew, 29, said between 250 and 300 people were still at the church as of late afternoon Sunday. Water was creeping up to the back of the sanctuary, and they didn't have any food or water there. \n \"Everybody is just tired and nervous and wanting to see what kind of damage they have to their home,\" Rachel said. \n Steele said the flooding that started Friday has damaged more than 1,000 homes in East Baton Rouge Parish, more than 1,000 homes in Livingston Parish, and hundreds more in other areas, including St. Helena and Tangipahoa parishes. \n Gov. Edwards declared a state of emergency Saturday, calling the floods \"unprecedented\" and \"historic.\" He and his family were even forced to leave the Governor's Mansion when chest-high water filled the basement and electricity was shut off. \n In one dramatic rescue Saturday, two men on a boat pulled a woman from a car almost completely underwater, according to video by WAFB. The woman, who's not initially visible on camera, yells from inside the car: \"Oh my god, I'm drowning.\" \n One of the rescuers, David Phung, jumps into the brown water and pulls the woman to safety. She pleads with Phung to get her dog, but he can't find it. After several seconds, Phung takes a deep breath, goes underwater and resurfaces \u2014 with the small dog. \n As of Sunday morning, some 5,050 people were staying in parish and Red Cross shelters, said Department of Children & Family Services Secretary Marketa Garner Walters. Even more people were staying in private shelters like churches. \n Other effects from the flooding: \n \u2014 A hospital in Baton Rouge \u2014 Ochsner Medical Center in Baton Rouge's O'Neal campus \u2014 has evacuated about 40 patients and is expected to evacuate another 10-15. \n \u2014 Severe weather damaged AT&T Wireless's equipment and halted service for some customers in the Baton Rouge area. \n \u2014 Amtrak is busing customers from Jackson, Mississippi to New Orleans instead of using the train. \n \u2014 Rescuers have taken out hundreds of pets as they go door-to-door searching for people. Lt. Davis Madere from the Louisiana Dept. of Wildlife and Fisheries said he and his teams have rescued at least 100 pets since they started working Friday. \n Around Baton Rouge, worried family members tried to locate relatives. Wayne Muse, 68, ran into a police roadblock on Sunday morning in east Baton Rouge, where rapidly rising water is flooding neighborhoods near the juncture of the swollen Amite and Comite rivers. \n Muse said he has been trying in vain to reach or contact his 86-year-old mother since Saturday night, when she told him by phone that she had two inches of water inside her retirement home apartment. \n \"She said they were going to evacuate them but no one could get to them,\" Muse said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rising floodwaters leaves thousands homeless in Louisiana"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n German automaker Volkswagen says it's received approval from the country's motor vehicle authority for technical fixes for another 460,000 cars equipped with software to help them cheat emissions tests. \n BERLIN >> German automaker Volkswagen says it's received approval from the country's motor vehicle authority for technical fixes for another 460,000 cars equipped with software to help them cheat emissions tests. \n Volkswagen said in a statement Sunday that the Federal Motor Transport Authority had approved the fix for vehicles with the 1.2-liter EA189 TDI diesel engine, including the smaller Polo and SEAT Ibiza models. VW says owners will be informed individually and given appointments at authorized workshops. \n VW's fix for larger 2.0-liter TDI engines has already been approved and the company has been working on implementing that since the start of the year. \n In all, some 11 million cars were sold with the software worldwide. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "VW: Fix gets OK for 460,000 more cars with cheating software"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United States' Ryan Lochte competes in the men's 200-meter individual medley final during the swimming competitions at the 2016 Summer Olympics. \n RIO DE JANEIRO >> Ryan Lochte and three other American swimmers were robbed at gunpoint early Sunday by thieves posing as police officers who stopped their taxi and took their money and belongings. \n In the latest security incident to hit the Rio de Janeiro Games, Lochte told NBC that one of the robbers put a gun to his forehead before taking his wallet. No one was injured. \n \"While it is true that my teammates and I were the victims of a robbery early Sunday morning, what is most important is that we are safe and unharmed,\" Lochte said in a message posted on Instagram. \"I look forward to getting home so that I can begin to map out the plans for my future with an eye on representing #TeamUSA at the #2020 Tokyo Olympics.\" \n Lochte and his teammates were returning to the athletes' village by taxi after a night out at the French Olympic team's hospitality house in the Rodrigo de Freitas area in the upscale south zone of the city. The outing was several hours after Olympic swimming ended Saturday night at the Rio Games. \n \"Their taxi was stopped by individuals posing as armed police officers who demanded the athletes' money and other personal belongings,\" U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman Patrick Sandusky said in a statement. \"All four athletes are safe and cooperating with authorities.\" \n Sandusky told The Associated Press the robbers took cash and credit cards only, and that no Olympic medals were lost. \n Traveling with Lochte were Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger and Jimmy Feigen. Lochte swam in two events at the Rio Games, winning gold in the 4\u00d7200-meter freestyle relay. He is a 12-time Olympic medalist. \n Bentz and Conger were also part of that relay, their only event in Rio. Feigen was on the 4\u00d7100-meter freestyle relay, another gold winner for the U.S. in Rio. \n \"And then the guy pulled out his gun, he cocked it, put it to my forehead and he said, 'Get down,' and I put my hands up, I was like 'whatever.' He took our money, he took my wallet \u2014 he left my cellphone, he left my credentials.\" \n USA Today and Fox Sports Australia first reported the news, citing Lochte's mother, Ileana Lochte. \n \"We are all safe,\" Bentz tweeted. \"Thank you for your love and support. P.S. the gold medal is safe.\" \n Word of the robbery touched off a chain of confusion between Olympic and U.S. officials. An International Olympic Committee spokesman said reports of the robbery were \"absolutely not true,\" then reversed himself, apologized and said he was relying on initial information from the USOC that was wrong. \n \"I couldn't believe it,\" said Michael Phelps, a good friend of Lochte's and one of his roommates in the athletes village. \n Phelps spent the evening with his family and wasn't out with his teammates. \n Brazil's sports minister, Leonardo Picciani, said that the swimmers were \"outside their places of competition and outside the appropriate time.\" He said no athlete had run into problems at the venues or in the athletes village. \n Street crime was a major concern of Olympic organizers going into the games. Brazil deployed 85,000 soldiers and police to secure the games, twice as many as Britain used during the 2012 London Olympics. \n Last week, a Brazilian security officer was fatally shot after taking a wrong turn into a dangerous favela, or slum. Two Australian rowing coaches were attacked and robbed by two assailants in Ipanema, and Portugal's education minister was held up at knifepoint on a busy street. \n In addition, stray bullets have twice landed in the equestrian venue, and two windows were shattered on a bus carrying journalists in an attack that Rio organizers blamed on rocks and others claimed was gunfire. \n American swimmer Nathan Adrian said he's not concerned about his safety. \n \"Rio is an amazing city,\" he said. \"There's going to be problems anywhere you go. We have been briefed on how to mitigate those risks as well as possible.\" \n Now that swimming is over, Adrian added, the athletes want to see the sights and sounds of Rio. \n \"We just came off an amazing performance,\" he said. \"All of us are ready to enjoy that a little bit after a long time working really hard.\" \n Phelps hires his own security when he travels outside the United States. \n \"Every time we travel internationally, we always make sure that everything's very secure. No matter where I'm going,\" he said. \"I have a team, personally, that is always looking out for everything.\" \n Phelps said he's never had any trouble during numerous trips to Brazil in the lead-up to the games, many of them tied to his sponsorship deals. \n \"I've felt safe every time I came here,\" he said. \"I've never had an issue.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lochte: U.S. swimmers are 'safe and unharmed' after robbery"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A firefighter douses flames as flames envelope a home off of Bonham Road near Lower Lake, Calif. today. Flames continue to burn out of control in the area. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A propane tank sits near flames as a home burns near the town of Lower Lake, Calif. today. Flames continue to burn out of control in the area. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A truck burns on Main Street in the town of Lower Lake, Calif. today. Flames continue to burn out of control in the area. Cal Fire spokeswoman Suzie Blankenship said the fire was creating its own weather pattern and shifted direction this afternoon into populated areas. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A firefighter rescues a goat from a burning house as flames envelope a property off of Bonham Road near Lower Lake, Calif. today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Residents watch as a wildfire burns near their homes off Morgan Valley Road in Lower Lake, Calif., \n LOWER LAKE, Calif. \u00bb A wildfire destroyed at least 10 homes and forced some 4,000 of people to flee their homes in two Northern California towns Sunday as flames jumped a road and moved into populated areas. \n The fire reached Main Street in Lower Lake, a town of about 1,200 about 90 miles north of San Francisco, and burned the post office, a winery, a Habitat for Humanity office and several businesses as thick, black smoke loomed over the four-block strip. \n Staff at a hospital in Clearlake, a neighboring town of about 15,000, rushed to transfer 16 patients to another hospital 25 miles away while firefighters carried goats and other animals to safety as homes burned around them. \n Officials confirmed 10 homes were burned, although eyewitnesses could see many more. Ironically, the Habitat for Humanity office was working to raise money to help rebuild homes destroyed by a devastating wildfire nearly a year ago. \n \"Emotions are still incredibly raw from the Valley Fire,\" said state Sen. Mike McGuire about last year's wildfire. \n \"I don't think any of us thought we'd be back where we are tonight,\" he said. \n The fire broke out Saturday afternoon and grew to nearly 5 square miles as firefighters struggled to get a handle on the largely out-of-control blaze amid triple-digit temperatures and windy conditions. \n The fire was creating its own weather pattern and shifted northward into Lower Lake in the afternoon, said Suzie Blankenship, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. \n The fire was throwing embers and spreading rapidly because of parched conditions brought on by the state's historic drought, officials said. Large, explosive fires have torn through dried-out or hard-to-reach areas across California this summer, including a stubborn blaze near the picturesque Big Sur coastline that has burned 113 square miles since late July and destroyed nearly 60 homes. \n Lower Lake residents evacuated last year because of a wildfire that killed four people and destroyed more than 1,300 homes. \n It was considered California's third-most-destructive wildfire after ravaging most of rural Lake County and parts of Napa County. A report issued this week concluded that faulty wiring in a hot tub ignited the 120-square-mile fire. \n Lt. Doug Pittman, a Marin County sheriff's spokesman who was working on behalf of Cal Fire, said residents fled their homes very quickly this weekend. \n \"They've seen it before,\" Pittman told the San Francisco Chronicle. \n Another blaze that broke out Saturday afternoon burned 12 homes in central California and threatened 150 more. \n Spot fires caused the blaze near Lake Nacimiento, about 180 miles northwest of Los Angeles, to grow from 2 to 6 square miles on Sunday, said Cal Fire spokesman Bennet Milloy. \n The blaze shifted north toward the lake, prompting authorities to evacuate residents by boat. \n In Southern California, forecasters warned of high fire danger due to a heat wave and gusty winds. Temperatures reached triple digits in numerous places, stoking an increased risk of wildfires across the mountains of Ventura and Los Angeles counties through at least Wednesday, the National Weather Service said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Northern California wildfire forces 4,000 to evacuate"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Eric Marques paddles to catch a wave during his surfing class off Sao Conrado beach in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. \n RIO DE JANEIRO >> Eric Marques walks down a steep labyrinth of dark alleyways on this hillside slum long controlled by drug gangs and off-limits to outsiders. \n The scrawny 13-year-old with sun-streaked blond hair dodges fast-moving motorcycles in busy, narrow streets lined with mazes of tangled electrical wire, chicken coops and fish stands until he reaches a building on the foothill where he picks up a surfboard. \n The wide-open sea is just steps away. \n The children in Rio de Janeiro's biggest slum, Rocinha, have little. But they border the water. And so while some of the world's top Olympic athletes compete in nearby Guanabara Bay, they attend a surfing school in the heavily polluted waves and dream that maybe, they'll be good enough to compete on their sport's biggest stage one day. \n \"I love surfing. I love being in the water,\" said Marques, a 13-year-old who came out of the blue-green sea with a yellow and pink surfboard underneath his arm. He lives with his grandmother in a shack on the hillside next to a fetid cascade of raw sewage. \"There's not much for us to do at home. We have a lot of gunfights. It's hard to live there. It's too crowded, so I prefer to hit the beach.\" \n Long frowned upon as a counterculture movement or a mere pastime \u2014 and for decades invisible outside California and Hawaii \u2014 surfing has spread around the world as a professional sport and multi-billion dollar industry. This month, the IOC included surfing in its Olympic program for the Tokyo Games in 2020. It's inspired the children who have heard about the athletes competing not far away from their beach. \n \"Surfing is not just a sport. It's a way of life,\" said Mateus Martins, 17, another student at the Rocinha Surf School. \"Having the athletes here in Brazil is an inspiration for all of us. It motivates us to continue practicing the sport.\" \n The school was founded two decades ago by surfer Ricardo Ramos, better known by the kids as \"Bocao,\" or \"Big Mouth,\" because he loves to chat. He used to sell hot-air balloons filled with fireworks to neighborhood drug dealers who used them to celebrate birthdays or when one of their own was released from jail. Then, he began surfing and decided that he wanted to give back to his community. \n His idea: to teach impoverished children and adults with disabilities to surf to keep them away from drugs and violence. Ramos says the school is funded by donations, including from Hawaiian musician and former pro surfer Jack Johnson, who visited in 2014. The school also offers mountain hiking, English lessons and music classes. \n \"Their communities have been abandoned for decades,\" Ramos said. \"When they go home, they face the troubles of their lives.\" \n Rocinha has been part of a pacification program aimed at making Rio safer ahead of the 2014 World Cup and the Olympic Games. But heavily-armed drug dealers still plague its alleys and deadly gun battles often break out in the slum, known here as a favela. A police car with a busted window partly covered with plastic was parked outside the school on a recent day. Military police with assault weapons patrolled the main street leading to the slum. \n Although it's known as a top surfing spot, the Sao Conrado beach was removed from the list of venues from a surfing competition earlier this year due to pollution. Jammed between the high-rent Barra da Tijuca and Leblon neighborhoods and the Rocinha slum, it is among Rio's dirtiest beaches. Most of Rocinha's sewage flows untreated directly into the water. Last year, a ruptured pipe unleashed a putrid fountain of untreated waste that gushed down a rocky outcropping and into the water, creating a giant brown stain. \n \"The kids often get mycosis, white spots on their skins,\" Ramos said about his students, who surf without a bodysuit and just wear board shorts. \"But there's nothing we can do about it \u2026 favela surf has no luxuries.\" \n The lack of basic sanitation in this city of 12 million people is mainly due to bad infrastructure and chaotic urban planning going back decades. A massive cleanup of all Olympic aquatic events was marketed as one of the main legacies of the Games, but testing by The Associated Press found widespread contamination remains. The lack of progress and the dismissive attitude of local authorities shocked many and grabbed the spotlight because Olympic athletes compete in the polluted waters. \n In slums like Rocinha, contact with untreated waste is an everyday reality for the more than 70,000 residents. \n The teens at the surf school spend much of their time picking up garbage on the beach. It's their contribution to clean the polluted waters swarming with dangerous viruses and bacteria. \n \"We know that our country's politics are not very good, so if we all do our part, it helps us all,\" Martins said. \"The cleanup is a form of education. Not throwing your garbage on the floor is way of being a true citizen.\" \n Their cleanup work done, a group of barefooted teens hustle from the concrete streets outside their surfing school to the wet, soft sand. They strap leashes from their surfboards to their ankles before they paddle out to the blue swell. Brimming with joy on the water, they wait for the break. \n They think about their heroes. A wave of Brazilian surfers has been riding high to the top of the global surfing elite. Gabriel Medina became the first Brazilian to win a World Surf League Championship title in 2014. A year later, Adriano de Souza beat him to keep the world surfing title at home. \n One day, they hope, they will be that good, too. \n \"The surfers of Rocinha are really good,\" Martins said, beaming with pride. \"They have a great chance to make the Olympic Games of 2020. If everyone believes, and trains hard, a champion can come from Rocinha.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "At a school in Rio's slums, kids surf in toxic waters"}

{"date": "August 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This Aug. 12, 2016 photo shows the 2017 editions of New Hampshire's Old Farmer's Almanac, left, and Maine's Farmers' Almanac photographed in Concord, N.H. The two publications, which will be released soon, are both celebrating milestones. Maine's 200 edition, and New Hampshire's 225. \n LEWISTON, Maine >> Hundreds of almanacs served a nation of farmers over two centuries ago. These days, only a handful of them remain. \n One of them, the Farmers' Almanac based in Maine, is celebrating its 200th edition this month with traditional gardening tips, home-spun humor and life hacks. In New Hampshire, The Old Farmer's Almanac marks its 225th anniversary with tributes from President Barack Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, among articles on mangrove forests and presidential beer preferences. Both have special anniversary sections with articles from the past. \n In Maine, the long-term weather forecast calls for a teeth-chattering winter for the eastern two-thirds of the nation. \"We're calling it the return of the old-fashioned winter. The ice cold winter is back,\" said Sandi Duncan, managing editor. \n Janice Stillman, editor of the New Hampshire publication, said the coldest, snowiest conditions will be along the Canadian border, down through southern New England and the Appalachians. \n \"The irony to me is that the 'mitten' of Michigan will probably not need mittens this winter,\" she said. \"They're the one spot along the border, really, that is predicted to be relatively mild.\" Cold temperatures also are expected for the rest of the country, but not as cold as the norm, with wet weather in California and Florida. \n Modern scientists don't put much stock in the almanacs' unconventional weather formulas based on sunspots, tidal action, and other factors, but they are part of their tradition. \n In Maine, Editor Peter Geiger blames an El Nino dubbed Godzilla by NASA for wrecking last year's prediction with unexpected warmth. This winter, he says, there's no El Nino to foul up the weather prognostication. The Old Farmer's Almanac also acknowledged an incorrect interpretation of El Nino. \n Geiger said his almanac circulation is declining, but he's getting more eyeballs online, thanks to a new generation of backyard farmers interested in locally sourced produce, meat and eggs. The almanac has 1.1 million Facebook followers and sends an email blast to 250,000 readers each week. But it still publishes about 3 million printed editions, including retail and promotional versions. \n \"It's full of good advice that's still relevant in a digital age,\" said 24-year-old reader Chris McKellar, who manages a 180-acre ornamental plant farm in addition to growing produce for himself in southeastern Wisconsin. \n The Farmers' Almanac was founded by David Young in New Jersey, and it never missed a beat when it moved to Maine in 1955. The Old Farmer's Almanac, believed to be the oldest continually published periodical in North America, was founded by Robert B. Thomas. It also publishes an average of 3 million copies a year and has over 1.3 million Facebook followers. \n Among Maine's articles from the past is one urging folks to remember \"old-fashioned neighborhoodliness\" in the face of newfangled technology like cars, daily mail and telephones in 1923. Editors urged readers in 1834 to abandon tobacco and in 1850 promoted the common bean leaf to combat bed bugs, a pest that's making a comeback. \n Some suggestions seem offbeat these days, like advocating the use of fireplace bellows to resuscitate drowning victims in 1855. \n The Maine almanac had some forward-thinking advice for women in 1876, telling them to learn skills to avoid being dependent on finding a husband. \"It is better to be a woman than a wife, and do not degrade your sex by making your whole existence turn on the pivot of matrimony,\" it counseled. \n This year, the Old Farmer's Almanac included \"candid\" commentaries from celebrities on their favorite, most useful, and least favorite parts. Lots liked the ads and puzzles. \n \"Um, I'm a big eater. I like the recipes,\" said Bill McKibben, a writer and environmentalist in Vermont. \n Former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Bill Richardson said he enjoyed the \"Anecdotes & Pleasantries\" section. The most useless? \"The jokes. They're lame.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Test of time: 2 almanacs celebrate milestone anniversaries"}

