{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "The flood advisory for the island of Hawaii has expired. \n Radar at 10:23 p.m. indicated heavy rain falling at a rate of up to 2 inches per hour near Honaunau but the isolated shower that's causing the heavy rainfall seems to be nearly stationary, officials said. \n Locations of the advisory included but weren't limited to Captain Cook, Kainaliu, Honaunau, Kealakekua, Honalo and Kahaluu-Keauhou. \n The heavy rainfall and runoff will also cause hazardous driving conditions due to ponding including reduced visibility and poor braking action. \n The public is urged to take precautionary measures and stay away from streams, drainage ditches and low lying areas prone to flooding. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flood advisory expired for Big Island"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "Police are investigating a shooting in the parking lot of the Turtle Bay Resort that left two people in critical condition tonight. \n According to an Emergency Medical Services report, the victims were a 17-year-old girl and a 19-year-old man. Both apparently were shot in the head. \n Both were treated and transported to a hospital. \n The incident was reported at 8:30 p.m. \n No further details are yet available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "2 people in critical condition after shootings at Turtle Bay parking lot"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis arrives to celebrate a Mass at the Meskhi stadium in Tbilisi, Georgia, on Saturday, Oct. 1, 2016. The pontiff is traveling to Georgia and Azerbaijan for a three-day visit. \n TBILISI, Georgia >> Pope Francis celebrated Mass on Saturday for Georgia's tiny Catholic community and pressed his mission to improve ties with the Georgian Orthodox Church, but only a few thousand Catholics turned out and an expected delegation from the Orthodox church stayed away altogether. \n In the run-up to Francis' Caucasus visit, the Vatican spokesman had said the Orthodox Patriarchate would send a delegation to his Mass \"in a sign of the rapport between the two churches\" \u2014 suggesting that the chill that had clouded St. John Paul II's 1999 visit had warmed slightly. \n But Orthodox patriarchate spokeswoman Nato Asatiani said Saturday that the delegation had stayed away \"by mutual agreement.\" There was no immediate comment from the Vatican, but Francis' arrival had been met with protests by hardline Orthodox opposed to any ecumenical initiatives by their church. \n Organizers had said they expected the Meshki sports stadium, capacity 27,000, to be full for the Mass, but only a few thousand people took their seats in the stands by the time Francis entered on his popemobile and began the celebration. There was no immediate explanation for the low turnout on the brilliantly sunny day. \n Georgia is overwhelmingly Orthodox, with less than 3 percent of the population \u2014 or about 112,000 people \u2014 Catholic, according to Vatican statistics. \n In his homily, Francis urged his faithful to find consolation in God and not be \"saddened by the lack of harmony around us.\" \n \"It is when we are united, in communion, that God's consolation works in us,\" he said. \n Francis had received a surprisingly warm welcome from the Orthodox leader upon his arrival Friday for the three-day visit that also includes a stop in Muslim-majority Azerbaijan. \n Patriarch Ilia welcomed Francis as my \"dear brother\" and toasted him saying: \"May the Lord bless the Catholic Church of Rome.\" \n It was a different tone compared to the chill that characterized John Paul II's 1999 visit. Then, Catholic-Orthodox tensions were so high that the Georgian Orthodox Church urged its faithful to stay away from his Mass. \n The last-minute decision not to send an Orthodox delegation this time around suggested a \"one step forward, two steps back\" progress that often characterizes the Vatican's ecumenical efforts. \n Other than Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili, there were no prominent Georgian politicians on hand for the Mass. That suggested that with parliamentary elections planned for next week, politicians might have been reluctant to alienate any hardline Orthodox voters with their presence. \n Francis' visit has been met with some protests by hardline Orthodox, who demonstrated outside the airport and Chaldean church holding signs saying \"The Vatican is a spiritual aggressor,\" and \"Death of papism.\" \n The Orthodox patriarchate, though, had criticized the protests, indicating something of an institutional shift that has accompanied Georgia's geopolitical aspirations. Georgia is anxious to join NATO and is pursuing an eventual membership in the 28-nation European Union. The papal visit is being seen in Georgia as the government's attempt to win allies among Europe's Catholic nations. \n Francis' main ecumenical event of the day was an evening visit to the seat of the Orthodox church, where he was expected to press his call for improved Catholic-Orthodox ties. \n The Orthodox cathedral is located in Mtskheta, the spiritual capital of Georgia and where Christianity took root in the 4th century. The 11th-century Svetitskhoveli cathedral, one of three Mtskheta monuments on the UNESCO world heritage list, is said to have housed Christ's tunic. \n \"For the Christian world and not only, the visit of the pope is very significant,\" said Amiran Tsiklauri, an Orthodox resident of Tbilisi. \"The pope is not only spiritual leader for Catholics but also the person who calls and urges for peace around the world.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Orthodox delegation stays away from pope's Mass"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte addresses Philippine Marines in suburban Taguig city east of Manila, Philippines. \n WASHINGTON >> As the body count mounts in the Philippines' deadly war on drugs, and its combative president's rhetoric plumbs new depths, the mood in Washington toward a key Asian ally is hardening. \n Influential U.S. lawmakers are warning that the extra-judicial killings in the drug war \u2014 President Rodrigo Duterte on Friday compared it to the Holocaust \u2014 could affect American aid. \n And while the Obama administration maintains that its 65-year-old alliance with the Philippines remains \"ironclad,\" a senior U.S. diplomat is cautioning Duterte against more anti-U.S. posturing. \n \"I think it would be a serious mistake in a democratic country like the Philippines to underestimate the power of the public's affinity for the U.S. That's people power,\" Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Russel told The Associated Press. \n Russel did not draw a direct comparison, but past Philippine presidents have been toppled by popular protests dubbed \"people power,\" including former dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who was ousted in 1986. \n Duterte has bristled at U.S. criticism of the drug war and repeatedly spoken about dialing back security cooperation \u2014 although he says he will maintain the alliance. This week he said that joint military exercises of Filipino and American troops scheduled for next week in the Philippines will be the last such drills. \n His foreign secretary quickly said the decision was not final. Such a step would impede Washington's plans to expand the footprint of U.S. forces in Southeast Asia to counter China. \n The previous Philippine government signed an agreement to give the U.S. forces access to five Philippine military bases. That reflected Manila's anxiety over the territorial ambitions of China with which it has competing claims in the disputed South China Sea. \n \"If he followed through on this pledge it would be devastating to alliance management,\" said Gregory Poling, a fellow with the Southeast Asia program at the Center for Strategic Studies. \"How does one sustain a military alliance if your militaries don't exercise together?\" \n The Obama administration has consistently played down the significance of such pronouncements from Duterte, which have typically been walked back by other Philippines officials. On Friday, the Philippine leader said that Adolf Hitler had killed 3 million Jews and that he himself would be \"happy to slaughter\" 3 million addicts. More than 3,000 people have died in the crackdown on drug pushers and users since Duterte took office three months ago. \n In Hawaii to meet with Southeast Asian defense ministers, Defense Secretary Ash Carter hinted at U.S. impatience with the Philippine government over Duterte's remarks. \"Just speaking personally for myself, I find these comments deeply troubling,\" Carter said. A day earlier, he had described the U.S. relationship with the Philippines as \"ironclad.\" \n The State Department has tended to parry questions about Duterte's outbursts. Spokesman Mark Toner also described the Holocaust reference as \"troubling.\" However, Sen. Ben Cardin, top-ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, pulled no punches. \n \"It is reprehensible and, frankly, disgusting that a democratically elected leader is talking about the mass murder of his own people, with Hitler's Holocaust as his inspiration, no less,\" he said. \n Cardin and Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy, author of a law that prohibits U.S. assistance to foreign security forces that commit gross human rights abuses, took to the Senate floor this week to decry the drug war. They accused Duterte of terrorizing Filipinos through his drug war and endorsing \"mass murder.\" \n Leahy, a senior figure on the Senate Appropriations Committee, said because of the \"systemic challenges\" in the Philippines it may be necessary to consider further conditions on aid until the Duterte government \"demonstrates a commitment to the rule of law.\" \n The aid Manila gets from Washington is substantial \u2014 although it may pale next to the investment that could potentially flow from regional economic powerhouse China, where Duterte is expected to visit in October in a bid to improve ties with Beijing. \n The Philippines received about $175 million in U.S. development assistance in fiscal 2015 and $50 million in foreign military financing. In 2016, it has gotten $75 million for counterterrorism and maritime security. Since 2011, it has received three decommissioned U.S. Coast Guard cutters to bolster its meager navy. \n Russel said Thursday it was no surprise that senior lawmakers were looking to monitor where U.S. assistance funds were going, given the \"collateral damage\" from the drug war. But he added it's premature to impose restrictions on aid. \n He stressed Washington's desire to work with Duterte. He said the U.S-Philippine relationship \u2014 rooted in a 1951 mutual defense treaty \u2014 remains very popular in the Southeast Asian country, notwithstanding Duterte's repeated references to rights abuses committed a century ago under American colonial rule. \n \"All politicians have to be responsive to both the mainstream public attitude and the national security and economic interests of their country. All of that leads to continued close ties between our two countries,\" Russel said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AP National Security Writer Robert Burns in Hawaii contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. mood hardens as leader of ally Philippines stokes outrage"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "COURTESY NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n As of 11 p.m. EDT, Hurricane Matthew was centered about 440 miles southeast of Kingston. It was moving west at 7 mph. \n KINGSTON, Jamaica \u00bb Hurricane Matthew is roaring across the Caribbean Sea as a monster Category 5 storm on a course that puts Jamaica, as well as parts of Haiti and Cuba, in the path of its potentially devastating winds and rain. \n The U.S. National Hurricane Center called it the strongest Atlantic hurricane since Felix in 2007, and said Matthew will be approaching Jamaica late Sunday night. It is expected to reach the eastern part of the island on Monday. \n Jamaicans began clearing out store shelves as they stocked up emergency supplies and Prime Minister Andrew Holness on Friday called an urgent meeting of Parliament to discuss preparations for the storm. \n \"I left work to pick up a few items, candles, tin stuff, bread,\" 41-year-old Angella Wage said at a crowded store in the Half Way Tree area of the capital, Kingston. \"We can never be too careful.\" \n Evan Thompson, director of Jamaica's National Meteorological Service, said the first effects of the storm may be felt as early as Saturday. \n \"We do consider it serious,\" Thompson said. \"We are all on high alert.\" \n Jamaicans are accustomed to intense tropical weather but Hurricane Matthew looked particularly threatening. With wind speeds of 160 mph, it was more powerful than Hurricane Gilbert, which made landfall on the island in September 1988 and was the most destructive storm in the country's modern history. \n \"Hurricane Matthew could rival or possibly exceed Gilbert if the core of the strongest winds does actually move over Jamaica,\" said Dennis Feltgen, a meteorologist and spokesman for the hurricane center in Miami. \"There is no certainty of that at this point.\" \n Matthew was expected to bring heavy rainfall especially to the eastern tip and higher elevations, which could trigger flooding and landslides, Thompson said. \n Forecasters said rainfall totals could reach 10 to 15 inches with isolated maximum amounts of 25 inches in Jamaica and southwestern Haiti. \n Kingston is in the southeastern corner of Jamaica and is expected to experience flooding. The government issued a hurricane watch on Friday, and a tropical storm watch was issued for Haiti's southwest coast form the southern border it shares with the Dominican Republic to the capital of Port-au-Prince. \n As of 11 p.m. EDT (0300 GMT), the storm was centered about 440 miles southeast of Kingston. It was moving west at 7 mph. \n Hurricane-force winds extended outward up to 35 miles from the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 195 miles. \n It brought extremely high tides, storm surge and heavy rain to Colombia, prompting authorities to declare an alert as local TV broadcast images of cars and tree trunks surging though flooded streets in coastal areas. Local media in La Guajira province reported that one person died in flooding. \n Matthew caused at least one death when it entered the Caribbean on Wednesday, with officials in St. Vincent reporting a 16-year-old boy was crushed by a boulder as he tried to clear a blocked drain. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mega-Hurricane Matthew threatens Jamaica, Haiti, Cuba"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Singapore's Dr. Ng Eng Hen, Minister for Defense, speaks at a press conference at Joint Base Pearl Harbor Hickam, Friday, Sept. 30, 2016 in Honolulu. \n Singapore's defense minister said Friday that countries need to look for practical ways to defuse incidents in the South China Sea, where China is pitted against smaller neighbors in multiple disputes over islands. \n Singapore Defense Minister Ng Eng Hen told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting in Hawaii that incidents may not necessarily involve military ships. He noted navies have established protocols for when they encounter each other at sea. \n Instead, confrontations may develop between fishing vessels or other civilian ships, Ng said. Defense ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter talked at their Hawaii meeting about ways to prevent such incidents from escalating, Ng said. \n Singapore doesn't have any claims to disputed islands, but Ng said it's interested in the issue because the South China Sea is a major shipping route and many economies depend on it. \n China claims virtually the entire South China Sea as its own, citing historical reasons. That has pitted it against the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia and Brunei, all members of ASEAN. \n China has recently developed shoals and coral reefs into seven islands with massive land-reclamation work. Some of the islands have airstrips capable of handling military aircraft. \n In July, an international arbitration tribunal ruled against China's claims, saying they were illegal. Beijing has rejected the ruling and continued its activities. \n Ng said the tribunal's ruling is law, but there are \"practical concerns\" to consider. \n \"For Singapore, a non-claimant sate, our main interest is, either with or without a ruling, how do you make sure the region is still stable and to make sure you actually have mechanisms to prevent any escalations?\" he said. \n Carter told reporters he and his counterparts discussed improving coordination and cooperation between their militaries to keep the region's waterways open. He said he asked the heads of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard to hold a meeting with ASEAN partners next year to share their best practices for maritime security. \n Ng said the terror threat posed by the Islamic State group was uppermost on the minds of the ministers at the meeting. \"Compared to a year or even two years ago, they are more organized, they are more networked, they are more clear in their articulation of what they want to achieve,\" he said. \n The group has over 1,000 fighters from Southeast Asia, aims to establish an Islamic caliphate in the region and has networks to move money and weapons, he said. \n But ASEAN nations would suffer in the short term if the group were defeated or diminished in Iraq and Syria because the Southeast Asian fighters there would return home, potentially re-energized and trained, he said. \"It's certainly very much a core concern,\" Ng said. \n The ministers recognized there was a lot they could do to address the situation by sharing information and technology, he said. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Defense ministers discuss defusing South China Sea incidents"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Aedes Aegypti mosquito larvae swim in a container at the Florida Mosquito Control District Office in Marathon, Fla. on Aug. 24. A first look at U.S. children who were infected with Zika virus suggests the germ typically causes \u2014 at worst \u2014 only a mild illness in children, according to a report released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention today. \n NEW YORK \u00bb A first look at U.S. teens and young children who were infected with Zika suggests the virus typically causes at worst only a mild illness.  \n Zika infection during pregnancy can cause severe brain-related birth defects. But the report seems to confirm health officials' belief that infections after birth in children are similar to infections in adults\u2014 most people don't feel sick, and some develop only mild symptoms like fever, rash, joint pain and red eyes. \n Some experts say there's not enough data to answer questions about the virus's potential impact on the developing brains of infants and small children, however. \n The report, released today by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is based on 158 infections from earlier this year in kids ages 1 month to 17 years. \n All the children picked up the virus while traveling abroad, and the bulk of them were older kids in their teens. Only 16 were age 4 or younger and only four were under a year old. Experts are worried about very young children because they can be more severely affected by infections in general, and because their brains are developing rapidly. \n \"I'm really concerned about birth through the first birthday,\" said Dr. Carrie Byington, a University of Utah researcher who focuses on infections in children. \n None of the children studied died, and none developed a paralyzing condition seen in some infected adults called Guillain-Barre syndrome. \n But Guillain-Barre is rare, seen only once in every several thousand Zika illnesses in adults. It may be that kids can still get it, but there weren't enough cases for it to surface, said Dr. Ganeshwaran Mochida, a pediatric neurologist at Boston Children's Hospital. \n Zika outbreaks have swept through Latin America and the Caribbean in the last year, but data on infections in children are limited. Experts have based conclusions about how infections progress in kids partly on what was seen in 10 children in a Zika outbreak on a South Pacific island in 2007. \n Zika is mainly spread a tropical mosquito called Aedes aegypti, though it can also be spread through sex. Mosquitoes have been spreading the virus in Florida's Miami-Dade County, as well as in Puerto Rico and some other U.S. territories. \n Most of the more than 3,600 reported infections in the 50 states, including about 800 pregnant women, have been seen in people who traveled to and were infected in Zika outbreak countries. \n Also today, the CDC updated its advice to U.S. couples who may have been infected with Zika and are thinking of having a baby. They recommend men use condoms or refrain from sex for at least six months after returning from a Zika-hit area. That's longer than the eight weeks previously recommended because researchers have found that the virus can linger in semen for months. The recommendation for women to use protection remains eight weeks from possible Zika exposure. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Zika illnesses are mild at worst in U.S. teens, young children"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell and challenger Charles Djou squared off in a debate sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce Hawaii at the Plaza Club in downtown Honolulu on Thursday. \n AARP Hawaii is inviting the public to ask questions of Honolulu's two mayoral candidates at a live electronic \"tele-town hall forum\" that will run from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. Saturday, Oct. 1. \n Both Mayor Kirk Caldwell and former U.S. Rep. Charles Djou are scheduled to appear at the virtual town hall meeting. The public can listen by telephone or via live stream on a dedicated web site. \n The forum is being hosted by Barbara Kim Stanton, AARP state director. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Register by midnight for virtual town hall forum between Caldwell, Djou"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This image made from video provided by the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department on Saturday, Sept. 24, 2016 shows Keith Scott on the ground as police approach him in Charlotte, N.C., on Sept. 20. \n CHARLOTTE, N.C. \u00bb Police in Charlotte say they will release all of the dashcam and body camera video from the fatal shooting of a black man that sparked in riots in the city.  \n The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department issued a news release this evening saying the department has made arrangements with the family of Keith Lamont Scott to review all the video. \n It said the family requested that the video be released earlier Friday and the department will do so once family members view it next week. \n Protesters have been demanding that Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts and Police Chief Kerr Putney release all the video of the Sept. 21 shooting. \n The announcement came after an attorney for a coalition of 10 media organizations organized by The Charlotte Observer and including The Associated Press, sent a letter to city officials on Friday requesting again that the video be released. \n Media lawyer Jonathan Buchan had said earlier that he had discussed the contents of the police videos with Judy Emken, a police department attorney. Buchan quoted Emken as saying that the only police body camera video of the fatal shooting of Keith Lamont Scott lasts about 16 minutes. \n About two minutes of the video has been released, including the shooting itself. According to Buchan, Emken said the remaining 14 minutes is very bloody and includes the sounds of Scott groaning as he dies. \n \"The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department has made arrangements for members of Mr. Scott's family to review the remaining body-worn camera and dash cam video of events following the shooting in its entirety,\" the statement released by the department said. \"Mr. Scott's family has since requested in writing at 4:49 p.m. today that the video footage be released publicly.\" \n On Wednesday Charlotte and Mecklenburg County terminated the state of emergency placed into effect after protests over the shooting death. \n The shooting led to two nights of violent protests, including unrest hours after the shooting Sept. 20 and more violence in downtown Charlotte the next night. The city lifted a curfew that went into effect after the shooting last Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Charlotte police to release full video in black man's death"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "FRIENDS OF MOKUULA \n The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is working with a nonprofit group and Maui County to help to restore the wetlands of Mokuula islet and Mokuhinia Pond on Maui, home of the first three Kamehameha kings. This is a rendering of how the Friends of Mokuula envision the restored site. \n WAILUKU \u00bb Archaeologists have uncovered several sections of rock walls that are helping define the perimeter of the buried island of Mokuula, where Hawaiian royalty once lived. \n Members of the community in Lahaina say they hope the discoveries will lead to restoration of the island. \n The nonprofit Friends of Mokuula says the island was a 1-acre sandbar island within a freshwater pond that served as the home of the high chiefs of Piilani in the 16th century. The group says King Kamehameha III ruled there between 1830 and 1845. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Century-old map helps reveal border of buried island"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ALEPPO MEDIA CENTER VIA AP \n In this file frame grab taken from video on Aug. 17, which was provided by the Syrian anti-government activist group Aleppo Media Center, 5-year-old Omran Daqneesh sits in an ambulance after being pulled out or a building hit by an airstirke, in Aleppo, Syria. \n SYRIAN CIVIL DEFENSE WHITE HELMETS VIA AP \n In this Wednesday photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, shows survived child Ghazal Akhtarini, carried by Civil Defense workers from under the rubles after airstrikes hit al-Shaar neighborhood in Aleppo, Syria. Nearly 100 children were killed in a single week in Aleppo as Syrian and Russian warplanes sought to bombard into submission the rebel eastern districts of the city that have held out against Syrian government forces for five years. \n SYRIAN CIVIL DEFENSE WHITE HELMETS VIA AP \n In this Wednesday photo provided by the Syrian Civil Defense group known as the White Helmets, shows a Civil Defense worker carrying the survived child Ghazal Akhtarini, from under the rubles after airstrikes hit al-Shaar neighborhood in Aleppo, Syria. Nearly 100 children were killed in a single week in Aleppo as Syrian and Russian warplanes sought to bombard into submission the rebel eastern districts of the city that have held out against Syrian government forces for five years. \n BEIRUT \u00bb The 6-year-old girl was found trapped under the rubble of her home, destroyed by an airstrike in Syria's rebel-held city of Aleppo. \"Dust!\" she wailed as rescue workers pried away the stones and debris on top of her, finally freeing her and placing her on a stretcher as she screamed for her father. \n \"Forget the dust. I'll wash your face and give you water. Come on, sweetheart,\" one rescuer said. \n Bruised and battered but alive, Ghazl Qassem was among the lucky survivors of the attack earlier this week. Four days later, rescue workers were still digging Friday through the rubble of the apartment building after pulling out the bodies of 20 people, including nine children, most from Ghazl's family. They were searching for at least three others believed inside. \n At least 96 children are among the 320 people killed in Aleppo since a cease-fire collapsed on Sept. 19, according to UNICEF, as Syrian and Russian warplanes barrage the city's eastern opposition neighborhoods, trying to crush more than five years of resistance there. Almost a third of the 840 people wounded over the same period are children, according to the World Health Organization. \n \"Aleppo is one of the most dangerous places in the world, and in the last week it has become perhaps the most dangerous place in the world for children.\" Juliette Touma, regional chief of communications for the U.N children's agency told The Associated Press. \n Nearly 300,000 people \u2014 including 100,000 children \u2014 are trapped in Aleppo's rebel-held eastern districts, a pocket of resistance some eight miles long and three miles wide that civil defense workers say has been hit by 1,900 bombs in the past week. The campaign has wreaked destruction on hospitals, clinics, residential buildings, water stations and electric generators. \n Parents desperately struggling to keep their families safe fear the threat of an imminent ground offensive. They hold little hope for the future, with no regular schooling and little access to nutritious food. Images of wounded and screaming children, covered in dust or being pulled out of rubble, have become a daily reality in Aleppo. \n \"We are totally resigned to God's will,\" said Khaled Sakka, a father of 10 children, all under the age of 14. He, his three wives and the children all sleep in one room in the middle of the house, the only safety measure they have against the nightly airstrikes. \n \"The bombs are bringing down five-story buildings. They are even reaching bunkers,\" he said. \n Wounded children are often left untreated, sometimes to die, in Aleppo's overwhelmed hospitals. Only 30 doctors remain in opposition-held neighborhoods: One physician for every 10,000 people, compared to a peacetime standard of one for every 1,000, Touma said. \n \"It is very difficult to know how many (children) are traumatized, but one would imagine every single one is impacted by the horrors, especially with the intensification of the violence in the past week,\" she said. \n So-called bunker-busting bombs, designed to target underground structures, have been widely used, possibly to crush tunnels or bunkers used as refuge by the thousands of rebel fighters defending the districts. \n But the powerful bombs also threaten the underground shelters where civilians take refuge and where children go to school. For the past several years, most classes have been held in basements because of the constant fighting and threat of airstrikes. \n \"The use of bunker-busting bombs means there is literally nowhere we can keep children safe, \" said Nick Finney of Save the Children, which runs 13 schools in eastern Aleppo, eight of them held underground. \"We're now more likely to see children being pulled from the rubble or treated on the floor of a hospital than sitting at a school desk.\" \n When schools opened across the country this month, they remained closed in eastern Aleppo because of the danger, said Brita Haj, the head of the local council in the rebel-held part of the city. \n Medics say the death toll among children and other residents may be far higher than reported, since some families bury their dead without taking them to hospitals or morgues, and many victims remain buried in the rubble. \n Dr. Hatem, a pediatrician, said women and children make up a large percentage of the victims because they are the ones who stay at home. As one of two pediatricians in besieged Aleppo, Hatem said he had an enormous load even before the last week's intensification of fighting, treating 80 to 120 children a day. \n Now he's seeing a spike in wounded children in intensive care, from four or five a month to four or five a day. There is also a rise in aggressive behavior among children and various signs of trauma such as bed-wetting or losing the ability to walk or talk, said Hatem, who gave only his last name out of security fears. \n Ghazl Qassem was at home with her four siblings, her pregnant mother, cousins and grandmother when the bomb struck Tuesday around midday. Their apartment building is adjacent to a hospital in a neighborhood with a number of specialized clinics; hospitals and clinics have been frequent targets in the recent campaign. \n The children's father, Hussein, was not home at the time. \n Since Tuesday's attack he has not moved from the rubble as the bodies of his family members have been pulled out one after the other, including his wife and three other children, said a neighbor, Tamim Selim. \n Ghazl is staying with an aunt. \"She is having nightmares. She is still in shock. She sleeps and wakes up, reaches for her mother's phone and watches photos there and cries,\" Selim said. \n Abdul-Majid Malah, a father of three who lives nearby, rushed to the scene after the bomb. \n \"I only saw the dust. When it settled, the building was all on the ground. It was like dominos,\" he said. \n His children, ages 2, 3 and 4, rush into his arms every time they hear a bomb, he said. Then a minute later, they go back to playing. \n There is no adequate underground shelter in his building for Malah, his pregnant wife and children to take refuge. \n \"We can only pray that the bombs don't hit us at home,\" he said, adding that he stays up all night tracking where the missiles are hitting. \"I won't be able to change fate, but I am too stressed out to fall asleep.\" \n The park next to their house was bombed last month, so the children have not been allowed to venture outside. On Friday, incendiary bombs hit outside their building, but no one was hurt. \n \"We only survive on hope,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In Syria's Aleppo, children bear brunt of violent onslaught"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton meets with attendees during a campaign stop in Fort Pierce, Fla., today. \n NEW YORK \u00bb \"A clear and present danger to our country.\" \"Xenophobia, racism and misogyny.\" \"Beneath our national dignity.\" \n Those aren't excerpts from attack ads by Hillary Clinton's campaign. Those are longtime Republican newspapers disavowing Donald Trump. \n If newspaper endorsements equaled victory, Clinton would be in line for a historic landslide. She has been endorsed by dozens of papers ranging from such expected backers as The New York Times to such once-certain GOP advocates as The Dallas Morning News, the Arizona Republic and the Cincinnati Enquirer, which on Sept. 23 called for \"a leader who will bring out the best in Americans, not the worst.\" \n Today, USA Today ended its tradition of not taking sides and published an anti-endorsement, contending that Trump \"lacks the temperament, knowledge, steadiness and honesty that America needs from its presidents.\" The paper didn't back Clinton but advised readers to \"Stay true to your convictions.\" The same day, The San Diego Union-Tribune endorsed Clinton \u2014 the first Democrat it has endorsed in its history. \n Trump, meanwhile, is supported by far fewer publications. They include a paper owned by son-in-law Jared Kushner (the New York Observer) and the National Enquirer, a tabloid whose parent company is run by Trump friend David Pecker and whose content usually focuses on celebrity scandal. \n Trump scorned the negative editorials today, tweeting that \"The people are really smart in cancelling subscriptions to the Dallas & Arizona papers & now USA Today will lose readers! The people get it!\" \n \"I don't read USA Today,\" he said later to WZZM13 in Grand Rapids, Michigan, \"It's not much of a newspaper as far as I'm concerned.\" \n If Clinton's overwhelming advantage among editorial boards mirrors the revulsion Trump has inspired from officials in both parties, the endorsements may also illustrate the decline in newspapers' power to shape opinions and the strength of Trump's anti-establishment appeal. Polls show Clinton trailing in Texas, Arizona and Ohio despite the unexpected support of GOP papers. During the primaries, the venerable conservative paper the New Hampshire Union Leader endorsed Chris Christie, only to have the New Jersey governor lose the state decisively, drop out and back Trump. The Arizona Republic favored John Kasich in the state's GOP primary, but Trump won easily, and the Ohio governor finished fourth. \n \"Newspaper endorsements don't have nearly the impact they used to,\" says Mark McKinnon, co-host of Showtime's political show \"The Circus\" and a longtime adviser who has worked with former President George W. Bush and Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the GOP's 2008 presidential candidate. \"There are just way too many other sources of information for voters today.\" \n \"They are just part of the wave,\" says political historian Rick Perlstein, who is in the midst of a multivolume series on the rise of the conservative movement and has written in depth about elections of the 1960s, '70s and beyond. \"They don't start anything, and probably didn't determine much \u2014 but betoken a widespread disgust in the air.\" \n Readers may not let editorials tell them how to vote, but they care enough to respond. Dallas Morning News editor Mike Wilson recalls a group of about a dozen people demonstrated against the endorsement across the street from the paper. Wilson went down to talk with them. In a series of tweets, he described a discussion that began angrily but settled into a serious dialogue. \"I got a few words in and persuaded zero people,\" he tweeted. \n Wilson said he's received some messages from Clinton supporters thanking the newspaper for the editorial, but hasn't heard that it changed anyone's mind. \"They're not really meant to end arguments, they're mean to start discussions, and this one certainly did that,\" he said. \n \"One of the reasons we exist is to take editorial positions on things that can improve lives in our community,\" he said. \"That is one of the core functions of a newspaper.\" \n Peter Bhatia, editor and vice president of audience engagement at the Cincinnati Enquirer, said he knows that the impact of editorial endorsements has lessened. \"The days of people taking the endorsements of an editorial board and going into the polling place with them are pretty much long gone,\" he said. But he still considers it an important obligation. The newspaper's editorial board came to consensus pretty quickly so they decided to get it out. \n As anticipated, some readers lashed out. Bhatia said he received some 150 angry emails and there were some canceled subscriptions. \"I am impressed by how thoroughly rehearsed some of the attacks on Hillary Clinton are,\" he said. \"They have a very familiar bent to them.\" \n He also cites their incivility, but doesn't find that unusual in the internet age. He said there also have been a few dozen positive notes. He said he gave an interview to CBC radio in Canada and got a long email from someone who found his arguments convincing. \n Just one problem: The person lives in Canada and can't vote. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton in a landslide \u2014 in endorsements: Do they matter?"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n El Cajon Police Department Capt. Jeffery Davis, center, speaks at a news conference today in El Cajon, Calif, held to address the killing of Alfred Olango, a Ugandan refugee shot by an El Cajon police officer on Tuesday. The El Cajon police department released video footage of the shooting at the news conference. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n El Cajon Police Department Capt. Jeffery Davis holds up a vape device similar to the one that they claim that Alfred Olango was holding when he was shot during at a news conference held today in El Cajon, Calif. The El Cajon police department released video footage of the shooting at the news conference. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Authorities watch a video of the shooting scene at a news conference today in El Cajon, Calif, held to address the killing of Alfred Olango, a Ugandan refugee shot by an El Cajon police officer on Tuesday. The El Cajon police department released video footage of the shooting at the news conference. \n EL CAJON, Calif. \u00bb Police released two videos today showing an officer fatally shooting an unarmed black man in a San Diego suburb and said they hoped showing the footage would ease escalating tensions. \n The videos show the officer fired four times at close range almost immediately after Alfred Olango, 38, suddenly raised both hands to chest level and took what was described as a shooting stance. \n The shots came less than a minute after police arrived at the scene in response to Olango's sister calling 911 and reporting he was acting erratically. \n The videos were released after three nights of unruly and, at times, violent protests in El Cajon, and on the eve of a large demonstration organized by clergy and supporters of Olango's family, who had pressured authorities to show the footage of the fatal encounter. On Thursday night, an officer was struck in the head by a brick hurled by a protester. \n \"Our only concern at this point was community safety,\" El Cajon Police Chief Jeff Davis said. \"We felt that the aggression of some \u2014 some \u2014 of the protesters was escalating to the point where it was necessary to release some information and truly, it was my hope to relieve some of that concern.\" \n In addition to the videos, police showed the 4-inch electronic cigarette device Olango had in his hands when he was shot. \n A lawyer for the family said they welcomed the release of the videos, but questioned the tactics used by Officer Richard Gonsalves. Olango had been reported to be mentally disturbed and unarmed and yet Gonsalves approached with his weapon out, Dan Gilleon said. \n \"It shows a cowboy with his gun drawn provoking a mentally disturbed person,\" Gilleon said. \n The incident is the latest in a series of fatal shootings of black men that have roiled communities across the U.S. It came weeks after fatal shootings by police in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Charlotte, North Carolina. \n Olango, a Ugandan refugee who arrived in the U.S. as a boy, had a criminal record that included drug and weapon charges but no violence. His family described him as a loving father and a joyful, happy person. \n His mother said he suffered a mental breakdown recently after the death of his best friend. On Tuesday, his sister called 911 and reported he was acting strangely and walking into traffic by a strip mall. \n The longer of the two videos released by police came from a surveillance camera in the drive-thru of a restaurant. It is roughly a minute, has no sound and police blurred out the heads of everyone in it. \n Olango is seen walking through the parking lot and then stopping suddenly as Gonsalves approached, his weapon drawn at his side. \n Olango, his right hand in his pants pocket, moved side to side and backed up toward a white pickup truck. \n As Gonsalves moved in from the front, a second officer, Josh McDaniel, got out of a cruiser and approached from the side. \n In the second video, taken on a cellphone by a witness in the drive-thru, Olango's sister is seen approaching Gonsalves from behind and a woman can be heard screaming at Olango to put up his hands and telling police not to shoot. \n Olango then bent over and assumed the shooting stance and Gonsalves quickly fired four shots at close-range. A woman shrieked loudly as Olango fell forward. \n That night, as an angry crowd protested outside police headquarters, Davis released a single image from the video showing Olango with his hands clasped in front and in the shooting stance. Police said he had ignored repeated orders to show his hands. \n Davis defended the release and said it was intended to de-escalate tensions and correct what he felt was \"false narrative\" that was developing. Some witnesses said Olango had his hands in the air and was begging not to be shot. \n Olango's family and demonstrators demanded to see the full video, saying the single frame was selectively misleading to support the police version of events. They also questioned why it took them more than an hour to respond to three calls for help and then less than a minute to use deadly force. \n Davis said the investigation was ongoing and he did not address whether officers acted appropriately in how they responded to the incident. \n Andre Branch, president of NAACP Sam Diego, commended the city for releasing video. \n \"Full disclosure to the public builds trust and it demonstrates respect,\" Branch said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California police show videos of fatal shooting of black man"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "BAY AREA NEWS GROUP VIA TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Brock Turner leaves the Santa Clara County Main Jail today in San Jose, Calif. California Gov. Jerry Brown has signed legislation expanding the legal definition of rape and imposing new mandatory minimum sentences on some sexual assault offenders \u2014 measures inspired by outcry over Turner's sexual assault case. \n GREENE COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE VIA AP \n This Sept. 6 photo released by the Greene County Sheriff's Office, shows Brock Turner at the Greene County Sheriff's Office in Xenia, Ohio, where he officially registered as a sex offender. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. \u00bb Months after outrage over the six-month sentence for sexual assault given to former Stanford swimmer Brock Turner, California Gov. Jerry Brown today broadened the power of judges to treat sex crimes as rape at sentencing and agreed that the crime's punishment must include time in state prison. \n The governor's decision to sign the two bills, AB 701 and AB 2888, comes as heated debate raged this year over what's been called the mishandling of sexual assault investigations on U.S. college campuses and by police agencies and courts. But strengthening punishment for sex offenders posed a challenge for Brown, as the state undertakes a broader effort to move away from a focus on prison sentences. \n Brown released a message with the bill that provides mandatory minimum sentences for a broader range of sex crimes, saying he was generally opposed to such a proposal. \n \"Nevertheless, I am signing AB 2888, because I believe it brings a measure of parity to sentencing for criminal acts that are substantially similar,\" he said. \n The bills' supporters lauded Brown's approval, saying the harsher consequences for sex crimes help strengthen a criminal justice system that often fails and places blame on victims. At a news conference at the Santa Clara County district attorney's office, state and local leaders said the bills' passage was an example of government working. \n \"The national awakening about campus sexual assaults started by Emily Doe's powerful letter continues to grow, changing our minds and our laws,\" Santa Clara District Attorney Jeff Rosen said in remarks released later, referring to the victim-impact statement in the Turner case. \"While prisons are not appropriate for every person convicted of a crime, rapists belong in prison.\" \n But some say the new laws will disproportionately affect poor and minority defendants who receive little or no legal representation. \n Natasha Minsker, director of the ACLU of California Center for Advocacy and Policy, called the sentencing bill a well-intentioned measure but said it would only create more injustices within a flawed criminal justice system. \n \"Those who will bear the brunt of this law will be defendants whose parents can't afford to hire the best attorneys money can buy, defendants who take plea deals for a lesser sentence even if they are innocent because they know judges won't have any discretion during sentencing, and defendants who are mentally ill or who themselves suffered from severe sexual abuse,\" Minsker said in a statement. \n Political observers had questioned what action Brown would take. As governor in 1977, he signed into law a strict sentencing system. But he has since said he regrets those policies and has spoken out against implementing other tough-on-crime measures in recent years. \n On Wednesday, Brown signed a bill by state Sen. Connie Leyva, a Democrat, that was filed in the wake of sexual assault allegations against comedian Bill Cosby, which removes the statutes of limitations for specified sex crimes. But he rejected another proposal this week that would have imposed minimum fines and mandatory-minimum county jail terms for people convicted of buying sex. \n Debate is now likely to turn to the governor's closely watched November ballot measure that would allow some inmates serving time for nonviolent crimes to more quickly become eligible for parole. \n Both proposals signed Friday will go into effect Jan. 1. They were filed after Turner was sentenced to six months in jail and three months of probation for sexually assaulting an unconscious woman. He was released after three months of incarceration. \n The light punishment provoked outrage nationwide and sparked a campaign to recall Santa Clara Judge Aaron Persky, who presided over the case. \n Assembly Bill 2888 will prohibit a judge from sentencing a convicted offender to probation in certain sex crimes such as rape, sodomy and forced oral copulation when the victim is unconscious or prevented from resisting by any intoxicating, anesthetic or controlled substance. \n Assemblymen Evan Low and Bill Dodd both Democrats who coauthored the bill, have said the legislation closed a loophole in sentencing guidelines. \n \"This sends the strongest possible message that rape is rape, and in California, if you do the crime, you're going to do the time,\" Low said in a statement Friday. \"Judge Persky's ruling was unjustifiable and morally wrong, however under current state law it was within his discretion. While we can't go back and change what happened, we have made sure it never happens again.\" \n Under current law, those convicted of rape using physical force must serve prison time. But offenders like Turner who are convicted of sexually assaulting someone who is unconscious or incapable of giving consent because they are intoxicated, can receive a lesser sentence based on a judge's discretion. \n The other bill, Assembly Bill 701 by Democratic Assemblywomen Cristina Garcia and Susan Talamantes Eggman, will expand the legal definition of rape so it includes all forms of nonconsensual sexual assault when a judge is deciding the sentence of a defendant and connecting victims with services. \n Rape has previously been defined as \"an act of sexual intercourse\" under certain conditions of force, duress or lack of consent. Other types of sexual assault, such as penetration by a foreign object, were categorized as separate offenses. \n Garcia said she was moved to file the bill when reading the statement written by the victim in the Turner case. The victim was not allowed to call the crimes committed against her \"rape\" under California's laws. \n \"I wanted to make sure that one piece was righted,\" Garcia said. \"There is a lot of work we still have to do to end rape culture in our country. But calling rape what it is, is a great first step.\" \n In Santa Clara, Alaleh Kianerci, who prosecuted the Turner case, told reporters that when she asked Emily Doe if she would share her letter with the community, she did not know \"it would be the world.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times \n ", "author": "By Jazmine Ulloa Los Angeles Times", "title": "Calif. governor signs bills inspired by Brock Turner case"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this June 26, 2013 photo, a Bangkok Metropolitan Administration worker fogs a home with mosquito repellent. \n BANGKOK >> Authorities in Thailand have confirmed that two cases of babies with microcephaly, or abnormally small heads, were caused by the Zika virus, the first such cases found in Southeast Asia. \n Dr. Prasert Thongcharoen, a senior Health Ministry official, said in a statement Friday that the linkage to Zika was confirmed by laboratory tests in two of three cases of babies afflicted with microcephaly. The results were inconclusive in the third case. \n The World Health Organization urged countries in the region to take stronger measures to contain the virus. The U.N. agency said the cases are the first of Zika-associated microcephaly in Southeast Asia. \n \"Zika virus infection is a serious threat to the health and wellbeing of a pregnant woman and her unborn child. Countries across the region must continue to strengthen measures aimed at preventing, detecting and responding to Zika virus transmission,\" WHO Southeast Asia regional director Dr. Poonam Khetrapal Singh said in a statement. \n Zika generally causes a mild flu-like illness, but a major outbreak in Brazil last year revealed that it can result in severe birth defects when pregnant women are infected. \n The disease is spread primarily by mosquitoes, and WHO urged private citizens as well as governments to take strict mosquito control measures. \n Mosquitoes are a constant concern in Thailand because they also transmit malaria, dengue fever and chikungunya. \n Statistics issued by Thai health officials show more than 300 confirmed Zika cases since the start of the year. \n On Thursday, U.S. health officials advised pregnant women to postpone travel to 11 countries in Southeast Asia because of Zika outbreaks. The advisory covered Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Maldives, Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. \n The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Zika has existed in some areas of Southeast Asia for years, and some residents may be immune. But it said a number of U.S. travelers have become infected in the region in the last year. \n WHO said travelers to areas with Zika virus outbreaks \"should seek up-to-date advice on potential risks and appropriate measures to reduce the possibility of exposure to mosquito bites and sexual transmission of Zika.\" But it advised pregnant women \"not to travel to areas of ongoing Zika virus transmission.\" \n \"Pregnant women's sexual partners living in or returning from areas with Zika virus outbreaks should ensure safer sex or abstain from sex for the duration of their partner's pregnancy,\" it said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Thailand confirms Southeast Asia's first Zika-linked birth defects"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this undated photo provided by John Kaia, a yellow-faced bee is shown in Hawaii. \n Federal authorities added seven yellow-faced bee species, Hawaii's only native bees, for protection under the Endangered Species Act today, a first for any bees in the United States. \n The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced the listing after years of study by the conservation group Xerces Society. \n The group says their goal is to protect nature's pollinators and invertebrates, which play a vital role in the health of the overall ecosystem. \n The Xerces Society was involved in the initial petitions to protect the bee species, said Sarina Jepson, director of endangered species and aquatic programs for the Portland, Oregon-based group. Jepson said yellow-faced bees can be found elsewhere in the world, but these species are native only to Hawaii and pollinate only plant species indigenous to the islands. \n The bees can be found in a wide variety of habitats in Hawaii, from coastal environments to high-elevation shrub lands, she said. \n The bees are critical for maintaining the health of plants and other animals across the islands, said Fish and Wildlife spokesman Brent Lawrence. \n \"Pollinators play such an important role,\" he said. \"Listing these species as endangered will certainly help draw attention to the threats that have brought them close to extinction and it also allows us to begin the process of bringing about recovery.\" \n Lawrence said there are a number of threats including non-native species that are having a \"devastating\" effect on the ecosystem. \n There is no critical habitat attached to the listing, but the protection will allow authorities to do more than previously allowed under the law. \n Today's listing finalized the protection of 10 animal species in Hawaii, the seven bees along with the band-rumped storm-petrel, the orangeblack Hawaiian damselfly and the anchialine pool shrimp. It also added 39 species of plants native to Hawaii. \n The rusty-patched bumble bee, found widely across the continental United States, is also being considered for protection. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Feds list 7 Hawaii bee species as endangered"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "CRAIG GIMA / CGIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police and firefighters responded to an accident in Kakaako that broke a fire hydrant, sending water gushing more than 30 feet in the air this morning. \n An accident knocked over a fire hydrant in Kakaako this morning, creating a geyser that sent water shooting more than 30 feet in the air. \n The accident happened at Cooke and Pohukaina streets at about 10:11 a.m. \n Police and firefighters responded to the scene and shut off the broken hydrant. \n There were no serious injuries and no immediate word on water damage to businesses. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Broken hydrant spawns large geyser in Kakaako"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter arrives at a press conference during a defense ministers meeting of ASEAN today at Ko Olina. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, seated at table background center right, gives his opening remarks for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations defense ministers meeting at Ko Olina today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n With the US and Hawaii flags fluttering in the background, U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter speaks at a press conference during a defense ministers meeting of ASEAN today at Ko Olina. \n DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Defense ministers from the Association of South East Asian Nations countries meet with U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter (center) at the Aulani at Ko Olina today. On the left is U.S. Ambassador David Shear and on the right is Lieutenant General Chansamone Chanyalath, the minister of national defense in Laos. \n Defense Secretary Ash Carter hinted at U.S. impatience with the Philippine government over inflammatory comments by President Rodrigo Duterte. \n At a news conference, Carter was asked his view on pursuing greater military collaboration with the Philippines in light of Duterte's latest remarks. Earlier today the Philippine leader compared his bloody anti-crime war to Adolf Hitler and the Holocaust and said he would be \"happy to slaughter\" 3 million drug addicts. \n Carter said he had not discussed Duterte's comments with his Philippine counterpart, Delfin Lorenzana, who attended a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations hosted by Carter at an Oahu resort. \n \"Just speaking personally for myself, I find these comments deeply troubling,\" Carter said. \n The Pentagon chief noted that the Philippines is a longtime U.S. treaty ally. \n \"Like all alliances, it depends on the continuation of a sense of shared interests,\" he added. \"So far in U.S.-Philippine history we have had that. We look forward to continuing that. But that's something that we continue to discuss with the Philippine government.\" \n When Carter visited the Philippines in April, he praised the strength of the partnership. Earlier this week in San Diego, he called U.S.-Philippine defense relations \"ironclad.\" \n That seeming closeness took a sharp downturn when Duterte was elected president in June. In early September, President Barack Obama canceled a meeting with Duterte after the Philippine leader publicly called him a \"son of a bitch.\" Later, Duterte said he regretted the comment. \n Earlier this week, Duterte said joint military exercises of Filipino and American troops scheduled for next week will be the last such drills, although his foreign secretary quickly said the decision was not final. Duterte said the Philippines will maintain its military alliance with the United States because they share a 65-year-old mutual defense treaty. \n Aides to Carter said he likely would seek clarification in Hawaii from Lorenzana regarding the future of U.S.-Philippine military exercises. Lorenzana is well-known to U.S. officials after serving for more than a decade at the Philippine Embassy in Washington prior to taking the defense portfolio after Duterte was elected. \n Earlier today, Carter he wants to encourage more regional cooperation in Asia and the Pacific on key issues like maritime security and combatting terrorism. \n As part of a broader Obama administration push to \"rebalance\" its security interests by paying greater attention to Asia and the Pacific after 15 years focused mainly on the Middle East, Carter is pitching the idea of an Asian security \"network.\" \n \"The network will help us uphold important principles like resolving disputes peacefully; ensuring countries can make their own choices free from foreign coercion and intimidation; and preserving the freedom of overflight and navigation guaranteed by international law,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pentagon chief troubled by Philippine president's comments"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "HAWAII COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Gary Simpkins, 22, of Puna. \n A 22-year-old Puna man, who was charged with robbery earlier this week, was arrested again Thursday on unrelated charges of violence within 48 hours after he was released from police custody. \n Gary Simpkins, of the Hawaiian Beaches subdivision of Puna, was being sought on a robbery charge when he turned himself in to police on Monday. He was charged with the felony Tuesday, and after posting a $5,000 bond later that day, he was released from police custody. \n At 8:50 p.m. Thursday, Simpkins was arrested for terroristic threatening, criminal property damage and unauthorized entry into a motor vehicle after he allegedly used a bat to smash four windows on a vehicle occupied by a 21-year-old woman and her 3-year-old son in Hawaiian Beaches. He was later charged, and bail was set at $12,000 and he remains in police custody. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police arrest Puna man twice in 2 days"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK \u00bb A woman has filed a lawsuit against JetBlue Airways for mixing up her 5-year-old son with another boy and flying him to the wrong city. \n Maribel Martinez charged in the lawsuit that she suffered \"great emotional distress, extreme fear, horror, mental shock, mental anguish and psychological trauma\" when she went to meet her son's Aug. 17 flight at John F. Kennedy International Airport and he wasn't on it. \n The little boy, Andy Martinez, had been mistakenly put on a flight to Boston's Logan Airport instead of the flight to Kennedy. \n According to the court papers, JetBlue staffers at Logan escorted Andy to a woman he had never seen before and told him he was being reunited with his mother. Meanwhile, a boy who was supposed to be on the flight to Boston had been put on Andy's New York-bound flight and was presented to Martinez. \n It took three hours for JetBlue to sort out what had happened and put the mother and son on the phone with each other, the lawsuit charges. \n Both boys had flown out of Cibao International Airport in the Dominican Republic. The boy who was flown to New York instead of Boston has not been publicly identified. \n The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages. Martinez's attorney, Sanford Rubenstein, said she also hopes to shine a light on JetBlue's practices and prevent such a mix-up from happening again. \n JetBlue Airways Corp., which is based in New York, doesn't comment on pending litigation, a spokesman said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mother sues airline for flying 5-year-old son to wrong city"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "The remains of two sailors killed at Pearl Harbor during the Japanese attack on the Pacific Fleet in 1941 on the battleship USS Oklahoma have been identified and will be returned for burial, according to the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency. \n They are Seaman 2nd Class Lewis L. Wagoner, 20, of Douglass County, Mo., who will be buried Oct 8 in Whitewater, Kan.; and Lt. j.g. Aloysius H. Schmitt, 32, of St. Louis. Mo., who be buried Oct. 8 in Dubuque, Iowa. \n Both sailors were assigned to the Oklahoma on Dec. 7, 1941, which was moored at Ford Island when it was attacked by Japanese aircraft. \n The battleship was hit by seven to nine Japanese torpedoes and rolled in the harbor, trapping hundreds of men inside, according to the National Park Service. \n They were buried in 46 plots at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in unmarked grave sites after military officials were only able to identify 35 men in 1947. \n The attack on the ship resulted in 429 casualties. \n In April 2015, the deputy secretary of defense issued a policy memorandum directing the disinterment of unknowns associated with the USS Oklahoma. On June 15, 2015, DPAA personnel began exhuming the remains from Punchbowl for analysis. \n The Pentagon news release said to identify Schmitt's remains, scientists used mitochondrial DNA analysis, which matched a grandnephew; as well as circumstantial evidence and laboratory analysis, to include dental comparisons, which matched Schmitt's records. \n Scientists used the same tests to identify Wagoner's remains, matching two brothers as well as his records. \n In 2015, the last of the remaining sailors and Marines from the Oklahoma were disinterred and identifications continue to be made. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "DOD identifies remains of sailors killed in Pearl Harbor attack"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, left, and Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., right, departed the White House, in Washington on March 16. Schumer and Leahy said multiple states are violating federal law with their mail-in voter registration deadlines for the November election, blocking applications as many as three days earlier than other states and potentially disenfranchising thousands of people. \n Two Democratic senators say Hawaii is among nine states that are violating federal law with their mail-in voter registration deadlines for the November election, potentially disenfranchising thousands of people by blocking applications as many as three days earlier than other states. \n U.S. Sens. Charles Schumer of New York and Patrick Leahy of Vermont asked the U.S. Election Assistance Commission to intervene and work with election officials in nine states to ensure compliance with the National Voting Rights Act. The states cited in their letter Thursday are Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Hawaii, Mississippi, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Utah and Washington. \n \"The right to vote is too precious to have something so simple to fix potentially prevent so many Americans from participating in the upcoming Election,\" the senators wrote. \n The calendar appears to be the culprit. \n The deadline for registering by mail under federal law \u2014 30 days before the election \u2014 falls on a Sunday this year. The next day happens to be Columbus Day, when there will be no postal service, preventing registrations from being postmarked. All other states have adjusted their deadlines to account for the long holiday weekend, accepting registration applications postmarked by Tuesday, Oct. 11. \n Utah is among them, despite being cited in the senators' letter, said Mark Thomas, the state's director of elections. State law says nearly all registration deadlines must be moved forward if the deadline falls on a Sunday or holiday, and that's what Utah has done for this fall's general election, he said. \n Election Assistance Commission spokesman Bryan Whitener said the agency is reviewing the senators' request. \n This year is the first presidential election in which a key enforcement provision of the Voting Rights Act is no longer in effect, and voting rights groups have been aggressively calling attention to any potential for disenfranchisement. \n Four of the nine states with the earlier registration deadlines were previously required by a section of the Voting Rights Act to obtain U.S. Justice Department approval before changing voting procedures. \n A 2013 ruling by U.S. Supreme Court set aside the preclearance requirement, opening the way for a wave of new voting laws. Fourteen states have new restrictions on voting or registration in place this year. Experts say the potential for voter confusion is high as courts block or strike down some provisions while upholding others. \n The voter registration deadlines cited by the senators apply only to applications that are mailed in. All these states also offer in-person registration, although their rules vary and may require more effort or limit the voter's choices. Rhode Island offers same-day registration on Election Day, but limits these voters to ballots only for president and vice president. \n Still, the number of people mailing in applications can be significant. During the 2012 presidential election, at least 55,000 people in New York state were registered to vote after applying on the last possible day, according to data collected by the state Board of Elections and provided by Schumer's staff. \n Rhode Island officials said they were surprised to hear about the senators' letter; they thought they were meeting the 30-day requirement by requiring postmarks no later than Sunday the 9th. Officials there and in Alaska said the deadline would not be changed. Carol Thompson with Alaska's Division of Elections noted that Columbus Day is not a state holiday and state offices would be open. \n In Washington state, Secretary of State Kim Wyman emailed local election officials earlier this week recommending they honor an Oct. 11 postmark for applications, noting the federal holiday. Arkansas election officials said despite the state's Oct. 10 deadline, applications postmarked Oct. 11 would be accepted. \n The issue has been contentious in Arizona, a state previously covered under the Voting Rights Act. Democrats asked the secretary of state to change its deadline of Monday, Oct. 10. \n So far, Secretary of State Michele Reagan, a Republican, has refused. \n She says people can still register online and that most county registrar's offices will be open on the holiday. Attorney General Mark Brnovich, also a Republican, has said he will not intervene. \n Arizona had one of the biggest voting debacles of this year's presidential primaries. During the state's March primary, voters in Phoenix had to wait hours to cast ballots after Maricopa County election officials opened just 60 polling stations \u2014 fewer than half of what is typical. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writers Josh Hoffner in Phoenix; Michelle L. Price in Salt Lake City; Rachel La Corte in Olympia, Washington; Becky Bohrer in Juneau, Alaska; Claudia Lauer in Little Rock, Arkansas; and Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island, contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Christina Almeida Cassidy at http://twitter.com/AP\u2014Christina. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. senators say Hawaii among 9 states violating voter law"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Homeland Security Department headquarters in northwest Washington, as seen in June 2015. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Hackers have targeted the voter registration systems of more than 20 states in recent months, a Homeland Security Department official said today. \n The disclosure comes amid heightened concerns that foreign hackers might undermine voter confidence in the integrity of U.S. elections. Federal officials and many cybersecurity experts have said it would be nearly impossible for hackers to alter an election's outcome because election systems are very decentralized and generally not connected to the internet. \n The official who described detecting the hacker activity was not authorized to speak publicly on the subject and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. It was unclear, the official said, whether the hackers were foreign or domestic, or what their motives might be. ABC News earlier reported that more than 20 states were targeted. \n The FBI last month warned state officials of the need to improve their election security after hackers targeted systems in Illinois and Arizona. FBI Director James Comey told lawmakers this week that the agency is looking \"very, very hard\" at Russian hackers who may try to disrupt the U.S. election. \n Last month, Donald Trump, the GOP nominee for president, suggested that he feared the general election \"is going to be rigged.\" \n The Homeland Security Department has stepped up its outreach to states and localities, but it is up to them to ask for help. So far, 19 states have expressed interest in a general \"cyber hygiene\" scan of key websites \u2014 akin to ensuring that windows in a home are properly closed, according to another Homeland Security official directly involved in securing local elections who also was not authorized to speak publicly about ongoing efforts. \n The FBI has detected a variety of \"scanning activities\" that are early indications of hacking, Comey told the House Judiciary Committee this week. \n Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson spoke to state election officials by phone last month, encouraging them to implement existing technical recommendations to secure their election systems and ensure that electronic voting machines are not connected to the internet. \n DHS is offering states more comprehensive, on-site risk and vulnerability checks. Only four states have expressed interest in the assessment, and because the election is only weeks away, the department will likely only be able to conduct an assessment of one state before Election Day on Nov. 8, the official said. \n Two of the hacking attempts involved efforts to mine data from the Arizona and Illinois voter registration systems, according to Kay Stimson, a spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State. She said in Arizona a hacker tried to probe voter registration data, but never infiltrated the system, while in Illinois hackers got into the system, but didn't manipulate any data. \n These systems have \"nothing to do with vote casting or counting,\" Stimson said in an email. \"While it is theoretically possible to disrupt an election by infiltrating a voter registration system, their compromise would not affect election results\" and there are system controls in place to catch any fraud. \n Rep. Henry Johnson, D-Ga., introduced two bills earlier this month that would require voting systems be designated as critical infrastructure and limit purchases of new voting systems that don't provide paper ballots, among other measures. It's unlikely the bills will be passed before the election. \n The Homeland Security Department is already considering designating voting systems as critical infrastructure in the future, though it is unlikely to happen before the election, the second official said. \n A presidential directive released in 2013 details 16 sectors that are considered critical infrastructure, including energy, financial services, healthcare, transportation, food and agriculture, and communications. The designation places responsibilities on the Homeland Security secretary to identify and prioritize those sectors, considering physical and cyber threats. The secretary is also required to conduct security checks and provide information about emerging and imminent threats. \n AP writer Deb Riechmann contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hackers targeted election systems of 20 states, official says"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "MINNEAPOLIS \u00bb One man and two teenagers were found dead today and a woman was critically injured after a shooting in a south Minneapolis apartment, police said. \n The shooting happened around 7 a.m. in the 5400 block of S. 34th Avenue, which is near Lake Nokomis. Police say they arrived to find a man, and a boy and girl in their early teens had been shot and killed. The woman was wounded and taken to Hennepin County Medical Center. Her condition was unknown. \n The relationships of the victims weren't immediately released. \n Officer Corey Schmidt said authorities are not searching for suspects and there is no public threat. However, he did not say who fired the shots or provide details about what happened. \n The Star Tribune reported that the area rarely sees violent crime, and police department records show the neighborhood's last homicide happened in 2012. \n Police chaplains went to the apartment building to help residents and first responders deal with what happened. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police say 1 man, 2 teens dead in Minneapolis shooting"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Waiawa inmate Kurt Lopes \n Waiawa Correctional Facility officials are trying to determine how inmate Kurt Lopes escaped from the minimum security facility Thursday night. \n Lopes, 30, who was serving time for first-degree burglary and breaking into a vehicle, missed the 9 p.m. head count. \n He is 5 feet 7 inches tall, weighs 195 pounds and has brown hair and brown eyes. Lopes has tattoos around his neck and on his face. The tattoo on the right side of his face says \"Kudin\" and on the left it says \"Rosalia.\" His neck tattoo says \"Khloe-Raine.\" \n His next parole hearing was scheduled for May 2017. \n If you see Lopes, call 911, or the State Sheriffs at 586-1352. \n Waiawa Correctional Facility consists of dorm-style housing for minimum custody male inmates. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Inmate escapes from Waiawa prison"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Townville Elementary student looked out of the window of a school bus as she and her classmates were transported to Oakdale Baptist Church, following a shooting at Townville Elementary in Townville on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fire Chief Billy McAdams, center, spoke with reporters about a school shooting during a news conference in Townville, S.C. on Thursday. \n ANDERSON, S.C. \u00bb A 14-year-old South Carolina boy was charged as a juvenile today with murder and three counts of attempted murder after authorities say he killed his father and opened fire on students at a school playground, wounding three people. \n The boy did not show any emotion as he walked into the courtroom wearing a yellow jumpsuit. He was unrestrained, not wearing handcuffs or leg shackles, as required by state law in most juvenile cases. \n As the hearing unfolded, one of the wounded students, 6-year-old Jacob Hall, was on life support and fighting for his life at a hospital about 30 miles away. His family said they were praying for a miracle. \n Inside the courtroom, the boy's lawyer, Frank Epps, noted that the teen has given a statement to law enforcement and asked that investigators not question him again without his lawyer present. The judge agreed to that, and ordered the teen to be held in jail. \n The boy's mother sat on the front row during the brief hearing and left the courtroom sobbing and leaning on another woman. \n The Associated Press typically does not identify juveniles charged with crimes. \n Authorities say the teen shot his 47-year-old father Jeffrey Osborne at their home on Wednesday afternoon before driving a pickup truck 3 miles down a country road to Townville Elementary. The teen \u2014 who is not old enough to have a driver's license \u2014 had to make only two turns to arrive at the red brick school, where he crashed the truck, got out and started firing during recess. \n Bullets struck two students and a first-grade teacher. The building was immediately placed on lock down. \n Authorities have not released a motive for the killing or the school shooting. They have said the boy was being homeschooled, but have not explained why. \n Prosecutors haven't given any indication about whether they will ask to try the teen as an adult. When juveniles accused of violent crimes are 14 or 15, a prosecutor has 30 days to ask a family court judge to try the teen as an adult. If denied, the prosecutor can appeal to the circuit court, which can order the transfer. Sixteen-year-olds accused of murder are automatically tried as an adult in South Carolina. \n Anderson 4 Superintendent Joanne Avery said staff saved lives by flawlessly implementing active-shooter training drills conducted with students at Townville Elementary, most recently as last week. \n A teacher, though shot in the shoulder, \"was with-it enough\" to close the door, lock it and barricade the students, Avery said. \n \"If he'd gotten in the school, it would've been a different scenario,\" she said. \n The shooter then fired toward students on the playground but missed. A teacher who heard the first gunshot was able to get those students safely inside, Avery said. \n The teacher who was shot and another student who was hit in the foot were treated and released from a hospital, officials said. \n Relatives of Jacob issued a statement late Thursday saying the boy sustained a major brain injury due to the amount of blood he lost after being shot in the leg. \n Jacob has been unconscious since arriving at the hospital, his great-aunt Rebecca Hunnicutt told WYFF. \n \"As long as his heart's beating, we've got hope,\" she said. \"We are hoping for a miracle. We're praying for a miracle, and we're expecting a miracle.\" \n Hunnicutt said Jacob has seven siblings, and his parents haven't left his hospital room. \n She described Jacob as \"one of these kids that you'd swear was carved out of cream cheese. He is as beautiful on the inside as he is on the out.\" \n Classes are scheduled to resume at the school Monday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "14-year-old boy charged in father's killing, South Carolina school shooting"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People examined the wreckage of a New Jersey Transit commuter train that crashed into the train station during the morning rush hour in Hoboken,, N.J. on Thursday. \n HOBOKEN, N.J. \u00bb Federal investigators pulled one of the black box recorders from the wrecked commuter train at the Hoboken station and struggled to extract the second one today as they tried to figure out what caused the crash that killed one person and injured more than 100 others. \n The two event recorders could contain information on speed, braking and other conditions that can help investigators determine whether the tragedy resulted from an equipment malfunction or a distracted or incapacitated engineer. \n Investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board will be looking to determine how fast the train was going when it crashed at the busy station Thursday morning. They hope to speak to the train's injured engineer today, NTSB Vice Chairman T. Bella Dinh-Zarr said. State officials say he has been cooperating. \n The investigation will seek to answer many questions, including whether a system designed to prevent accidents by overriding the engineer and automatically slowing or stopping trains that are going too fast could have helped if it had been installed on the line. \n Investigators recovered an event recorder from the locomotive Thursday night and will be examining it today, Dinh-Zarr said today on ABC's \"Good Morning America.\" The device contains information on the train's speed and braking. \n But investigators are struggling to extract a recorder from the forward-facing camera on the train without damaging it, the NTSB said today. That recorder should show what was ahead of the train before it crashed. \n More than 100,000 people use New Jersey Transit to commute from New Jersey to New York City each day. The NJ Transit portion of the Hoboken station remained closed today, slowing the morning commute for those making connections there. \n As investigators began their probe, the family of Fabiola Bittar de Kroon, the crash's sole fatality, was in mourning. De Kroon had recently moved to New Jersey from Brazil after her husband got a job with an international liquor company. \n She had just dropped her toddler daughter off at day care before rushing to catch a train, according to day care director Karlos Magner. \n \"We had a good talk for like a minute,\" he said. \"She said she was in a rush.\" \n Shortly after, the NJ Transit train ran off the end of the track as it was pulling in around 8:45 a.m., smashing through a concrete-and-steel bumper. As it ground to a halt in the waiting area, it knocked out pillars, collapsing a section of the roof. \n De Kroon was killed by debris, and 108 others were injured, mostly on the train, Gov. Chris Christie said. Scores were hospitalized, some with serious injuries including broken bones. \n The engineer, Thomas Gallagher, was pulled from the mangled first car and was treated at a hospital and released. Gallagher has worked for NJ Transit for 29 years, and a union roster shows he started as an engineer about 18 years ago. \n Some witnesses said they didn't hear or feel the brakes being applied. Authorities would not estimate how fast the train was going. But the speed limit heading into the station is 10 mph. \n \"The train came in at much too high rate of speed, and the question is: 'Why is that?'\" Christie said. \n New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, and Christie, a Republican, cautioned against jumping to conclusions about the role that the lack of positive train control played or didn't play in the tragedy. \n The NTSB has been pressing for some version of the technology for at least 40 years, and the industry is under government orders to install it, but regulators have repeatedly extended the deadline at railroads' request. The target date is now the end of 2018. \n Over the past 20 years, the NTSB has listed the lack of positive train control as a contributing factor in 25 crashes. Those include the Amtrak wreck last year in Philadelphia in which a speeding train ran off the rails along a curve. Eight people were killed. \n In 2011, a Port Authority Trans-Hudson, or PATH, commuter train crash in a separate section of the Hoboken station injured more than 30 people. The NTSB found the engineer failed to control the speed of the train as it entered the station and investigators also determined a contributing factor was the absence of positive train control. \n \"They'll have to answer for themselves, but at the end of the day if safety is job one \u2026 then you have to have a better record than New Jersey Transit has right now,\" said U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., noting that the transit agency said in a 2016 report with the Federal Railroad Administration that it didn't have positive train control on any locomotive or segment of track. \n \"That means zero across the board,\" he said. \"They need to do better than zero across the board.\" \n A spokeswoman for NJ Transit referred all questions about the investigation, including questions about positive train control, to the NTSB. \n Even without positive train control, there are still safeguards in place in Hoboken. \n NJ Transit trains have an in-cab system that is designed to alert engineers and stop locomotives when they go over 20 mph, according to an NJ Transit engineer who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the accident. \n Trains like the one in Thursday's crash also are equipped with a system that sounds a loud alarm and eventually stops the train if the engineer goes 15 to 20 seconds without touching the controls. \n But it was unclear whether those mechanisms kicked in or whether they would have slowed the train enough in the short time it takes to traverse the station. \n Tom Spina, a maintenance supervisor for a private company who was in the terminal at the time, said it was chaotic and there was a lot of yelling and screaming. \n \"It was chaotic. There was yelling and screaming, a lot of people in shock,\" Spina said. \n \"Things like this we see in movies,\" he said. \"You don't think you're going to see it in real life.\" \n Associated Press writers David Porter, Dake Kang and Josh Cornfield in Hoboken; Deepti Hajela in Morris Plains, New Jersey; Megan Trimble in Philadelphia; Jennifer Peltz and Verena Dobnik in New York; and Joan Lowy in Washington contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Black box recorder recovered from wreckage of train crash"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump signs a hat after a rally today in Novi, Mich. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke at a campaign rally, Thursday, in Bedford, N.H. \n GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. \u00bb Plunging deeper into campaign controversy, Donald Trump publicly shamed a former beauty queen today for her \"disgusting\" sexual past and then \u2014 in one of presidential history's more bizarre moments \u2014 encouraged Americans to watch a \"sex tape\" he said would support his case. \n The tweet-storm that Trump launched into at 3:20 a.m. started a day of did-that-just-happen moments that ended with Clinton's campaign calling Trump an adult film star. Even many of Trump's supporters shook their heads at their candidate's latest outburst, worried it could further hurt him among the nation's women, many of them already skeptical, whose votes he'll badly need to win election. \n \"Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. citizen so she could use her in the debate?\" read a missive from Trump posted on Twitter at 5:30 a.m. That referred to 1996 Miss Universe Alicia Machado, a Venezuela-born woman whose weight gain he has said created terrible problems for the pageant he formerly owned. \n Unsurprisingly, Trump's pre-dawn Twitter tirade ricocheted across the campaign trail. \n Trump's campaign accused the media and Hillary Clinton of colluding to set him up for fresh condemnation, to which Clinton retorted, \"His latest twitter meltdown is unhinged, even for him.\" \n Machado took to Facebook to say his tweets were part of a pattern of \"demoralizing women,\" calling them \"cheap lies with bad intentions.\" Planned Parenthood said it showed that Trump's \"misogyny knows no bounds.\" And Clinton said they showed anew why someone with Trump's temperament \"should not be anywhere near the nuclear codes.\" \n With less than 40 days left in the election, Trump's broadside threw his campaign into a fresh round of second-guessing the candidate's instincts and confusion about what to do next. To believers in traditional political norms, it seemed like the opposite of what was needed to win over females, Hispanics and young Americans whose support could well determine the election. \n Shaming Machado over intimate details from her past could be particularly risky as Trump tries to win over more female voters, many of whom are turned away by such personal attacks. It also risks calling further attention to the thrice-married Trump's own history with women. \n What kind of a man, Clinton asked, \"stays up all night to smear a woman with lies and conspiracy theories?\" \n Even Trump's most vocal allies seemed at a loss for words. \n \"He's being Trump. I don't have any comment beyond that,\" said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a top supporter. Generally chatty and occasionally critical of Trump, Gingrich said tersely that Trump sometimes does \"strange things,\" but that Clinton lies. \"I'll let you decide which is worse for America.\" \n But Trump's inner circle followed his lead by refusing to concede any missteps. Trump didn't mention the tweets this evening as he rallied supporters in Michigan. Instead, he returned to Twitter to invoke Clinton's famous ad from her 2008 campaign portraying her as the best candidate to pick up an urgent call at the White House at 3 a.m. \n \"For those few people knocking me for tweeting at three o'clock in the morning, at least you know I will be there, awake, to answer the call!\" Trump wrote. \n Machado has been thrust to center stage in the campaign since Clinton noted Monday in the first debate that Trump had mocked her publicly for gaining weight after she won Miss Universe. If that was a trap laid by Clinton, the irrepressible Trump dug himself deeper the next day by saying Machado's \"massive\" weight gain had been \"a real problem.\" \n That gave Clinton's campaign the opening it wanted. Her team circulated videos featuring Machado accusing Trump of destroying her self-confidence and arranged for reporters to interview her, just as many voters were starting to cast early ballots. Clinton's spokesman said she called Machado Friday to thank her for her courage. \n Said Trump spokeswoman Jessica Ditto, \"This is the single biggest coordinated media attack in history.\" \n His Twitter taunts referred to footage from a Spanish reality show in 2005 in which Machado was a contestant and appeared on camera in bed with a male contestant. The images are grainy and do not include nudity, though Machado later acknowledged in the Hispanic media that she was having sex in the video. \n Muddying the waters: an explicit 2000 Playboy video with a cameo by Trump. In a short clip posted on the website BuzzFeed, Trump pours a bottle of champagne on a Playboy-branded limo on a New York street, surrounded by a gaggle of women. \n \"There's been a lot of talk about sex tapes today and in a strange turn of events only one adult film has emerged today, and its star is Donald Trump,\" said Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill, adding he hadn't seen the film. \n Clinton's campaign has highlighted Machado's status as a new U.S. citizen and her plans to cast her first vote for the former secretary of state. But spokeswoman Jennifer Palmieri said Clinton did not help Machado become a citizen. \n For Republicans, the outburst seemed to foreclose any possibility that Trump, in the campaign's final weeks, might reinvent himself as someone with the discipline and restraint that many voters want in their commander in chief. Trump's allies have implored him to stick to attacks on Clinton's family foundation, her emails or her long history as a political insider, critiques that fall further out of view whenever he sparks a new controversy. \n In another risky move, Trump warned voters this week that a Clinton victory would bring former President Bill Clinton's sex scandal back to the White House. The fresh rehash of the 1990s Monica Lewisnky scandal came despite Trump's insistence that he's been courageously restrained in not bringing it up. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Twitter, 'lies' and videotape: Trump shames beauty queen"}

{"date": "September 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike, center, speaks during a expert panel at the Tokyo Metropolitan government office in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> An expert panel set up by Tokyo's newly elected governor says the price tag of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics could exceed $30 billion unless drastic cost-cutting measures are taken. That's more than a four-fold increase from the initial estimate at the time Tokyo was awarded the games in 2013. \n Following is a breakdown of the panel's projected costs by category. Original bid estimates have been included when available. \n NATIONAL STADIUM \n The building of the new national stadium, which will host the opening and closing ceremonies and track and field, has been plagued by a series of problems. An earlier design by the late Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid had risen to $2.65 billion, more than twice the original forecast. The Japanese government decided to scrap that plan and, on Friday, approved a new stadium project totaling nearly $1.5 billion. Officials say construction will begin in December and be completed by November 2019. \n OLYMPIC VILLAGE \n Located on reclaimed land in Tokyo Bay, the panel estimates the cost at $954 million. The village is being built by a private consortium and will be rented during the games. The plan is to transform the village into a residential area after the games. \n TEMPORARY VENUES \n Organizers plan to build seven temporary venues for sports such as beach volleyball, triathlon and gymnastics. In July, the organizing committee acknowledged the cost of building those venues had surged to an estimated $2.6 billion, up from an initial estimate of $800 million. \n PERMANENT VENUES \n Tokyo plans to build seven new permanent venues to go along with 19 existing venues. The panel estimates the cost of the seven new permanent facilities at $2.24 billion. However, it has proposed using existing facilities for three sports \u2014 volleyball, swimming, rowing and canoe sprint \u2014 instead of building new permanent venues. The canoeing venue could move to Tome City in Miyagi prefecture, about 440 kilometers (270 miles) northeast of Tokyo. \n \"SOFT\" COSTS (security, transportation, operating fees, etc.) \n Based on estimates from the 2012 London Olympics, the panel suggests these costs could be as much as $16 billion, including $2 billion for transportation, $3 billion for security, $6 billion for energy and technology, and $5 billion for operating costs. \n OTHER \n The breakdown does not take into consideration unforeseen costs. The panel said these could arise from earthquake prevention measures and the possibility that additional venues may be moved outside of Tokyo, increasing transportation and security costs. Tokyo organizers are also looking at measures to counter the extreme heat in Tokyo and the panel took those potential costs into consideration when it came up with the estimate of $30 billion. \n TOTAL COST: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at rising costs for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics"}

