{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The LG V20 is demonstrated in New York. The most visible changes include the ability to run two apps side-by-side. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> LG is unveiling the first phone to ship with Google's new Android Nougat software, in hopes of appealing to people who like to take and share photos and video. \n The new V20 phone comes on the eve of a San Francisco event where Apple is expected to launch new iPhones. \n Nougat is already available as a free upgrade on some Google phones under the Nexus brand. The V20 would be the first with Nougat already installed. Other phones aren't likely to get Nougat for a while because individual phone makers and wireless carriers have to tweak and test the new software first. \n Many of the Android improvements in Nougat are \"under the hood\" and thus largely invisible, such as tweaks to reduce battery consumption and cellular data use. \n The most obvious changes include the ability to run two apps side by side, something Samsung and LG have offered on their phones on a limited basis. Nougat will also let people reply to messages within notifications, something Apple already offers on iPhones. \n Meanwhile, the V20 promises higher-quality audio playback and recording, with reduced background noise, according to LG. The company also says it also improved image stabilization when recording video. LG spokesman Frank Lee described the V20's target audience as \"storytellers.\" \n Like LG's G5 phone, which it released in April, the V20 will have two lenses on the main camera \u2014 one for regular pictures and one with a wide angle to capture more of the scene. Unlike many other top-line phones, the V20 features a replaceable battery. \n The V20 is expected in South Korea this month, with other markets, including the U.S., to follow. LG didn't immediately announce prices. \n Apple also plans to update its phone software this month. The update, iOS 10, will come with new messanging and photo features and more detailed notifications on the lock screen. Existing iPhone users will be encouraged to upgrade for the software for free. New iPhones expected to be unveiled Wednesday will come with iOS 10. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "LG unveils the first phone to ship with Google's new Android"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sean Ragan, FBI special agent in charge of criminal investigation, addresses the media during a press conference at Cal Poly to inform the public of a renewed search for the remains of Kristin Smart at sites on the Cal Poly campus in San Luis Obispo, Calif., Tuesday afternoon, Sept. 6, 2016. \n An FBI team prepared to excavate a site on the edge of California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, in hope of finding the remains of a student who vanished more than 20 years ago. \n Kristin Smart, 19, of Stockton, was last seen in the early morning of May 25, 1996, while returning to her dorm after a party near the campus in the Central Coast region midway between San Francisco and Los Angeles. \n At the time, another student told authorities he left Smart near her dormitory after they and another female student walked back. \n \"We're not sure where this is going to take us,\" San Luis Obispo County Sheriff Ian Parkinson told a press conference near the excavation site. \"Obviously, we want to be optimistic as possible and we hope that this leads us to either Kristin or evidence of Kristin.\" \n The site in hilly terrain next to a campus parking lot was one of several identified in January by dogs specially trained in detecting the scent of very old human remains, the sheriff said Tuesday. \n The location was disclosed because of its high visibility but the other sites were being kept secret because \"we do not want to tip our hat to the possible suspect or suspects out there,\" Parkinson said. \n \"We have developed this lead over the past couple of years and have been working on it,\" Parkinson said. \"This lead was determined, or developed, after a comprehensive review of the entire case.\" \n The dig, expected to begin in earnest Wednesday and last about four days, was timed to occur while classes were not in session at Cal Poly. The excavation was to go 3 feet deep and extend outward 90 feet, involving 25 FBI agents and unspecified special equipment. \n The area was searched at the time of the disappearance, along with most of the rest of the campus, the sheriff said. \n \"The Smart family, who I have communicated with for the past six years and specifically today, know we're here,\" Parkinson said. \"They fully support our efforts.\" \n According to reports at the time, a neighbor in Smart's dorm called university police the next morning and reported that she hadn't returned. But other students said they thought she had gone camping, so officers didn't declare her missing for three days. \n The student who told of leaving Smart near her dorm was questioned by authorities and his home was searched but he was not arrested or charged in the case. Asked if that man is a suspect, Parkinson said, \"I would say it's safe to say he's a person of interest in the case.\" \n The sheriff also said it was \"probably accurate\" that authorities were now no closer to making any arrest than they were previously. \n A California law, the Kristin Smart Campus Safety Act of 1998, now requires campus police to spell out exactly when they will call in outside authorities to investigate a violent crime. \n Cal Poly San Luis Obispo is part of the 23-campus California State University system. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI renews search for California student missing 20 years"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars are spent each year on the country's public schools. The U.S. has record-high graduation rates, 82 percent, but also stubborn achievement gaps and dismally lagging math and reading scores compared with other countries. And university degrees are leaving millions mired in debt. Few issues touch the lives of families like the state of education. \n WASHINGTON >> Hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars are spent each year on the country's public schools. The U.S. has record-high graduation rates, 82 percent, but also stubborn achievement gaps and dismally lagging math and reading scores compared with other countries. And university degrees are leaving millions mired in debt. Few issues touch the lives of families like the state of education. \n WHERE THEY STAND \n Hillary Clinton has made the soaring costs of college her primary education focus. She has proposed free tuition at in-state public colleges and universities for working families with incomes up to $125,000. Of course, that's only free for student and families, not for taxpayers. To counter the crush of student debt, she also wants to implement a three-month moratorium on loan payments for all federal borrowers. During that time, borrowers would be able to consolidate their loans or enroll in other plans that could help cut costs. \n Donald Trump has railed against the Common Core academic standards that have been adopted in more than 40 states, calling them a \"total disaster.\" He's pledged to do away with them if elected, even though the standards were created and adopted by states, not the federal government. Trump says he wants to see more local control of education. He's vowed to give students choice, let charter schools thrive and end tenure policies \"that reward bad teachers.\" \n WHY IT MATTERS \n Just look at the numbers. \n About 100,000 public schools opened their doors to some 50 million students in kindergarten through high school in the new school year. \n The Obama administration and others before it \u2014 both Republican and Democratic \u2014 have preached the importance of a quality education that opens the door to opportunity and success. Yet the cost of college is rising, leaving students saddled with debt. And some who have attended for-profit schools have seen their degrees rendered virtually worthless, with the government picking up the tab for discharging their student loans. \n There's no doubt that better educated students more often get better paying jobs. The median annual earnings for someone age 25 to 34 with no high school diploma is $40,000. For those with a bachelor's degree or higher, it's $52,000. \n Globally, American schoolchildren trail their counterparts in Japan, Korea, Canada, Germany, France and more. \n Education remains primarily the responsibility of the states, even though the federal government can use its pocketbook to influence policies and practices. The Obama administration issued waivers and grants through programs like Race to the Top to get its say on academic standards and other issues. \n A law enacted last year with bipartisan support has vastly diminished the powers of the federal government in how the county's schools are run and their performance judged, but the Education Department still plays an oversight role. While the current administration has started putting the law into place, it will be up to the next president to finish the process. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Why the issue of education matters and where the presidential candidates stand"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Syrian refugee child walks at a refugee camp in Suruc, on the Turkey-Syria border. \n UNITED NATIONS >> Some 28 million children around the globe have been driven from their homes by violent conflict, with nearly as many abandoning their homes in search of a better life, according to a UNICEF report released Tuesday. \n The report found that while children make up about a third of the world's population as of 2015, they accounted for nearly half of all refugees, with the number of child refugees having doubled in the last decade. \n \"What's important is that these children on the move are children. And they should be treated as children,\" said Ted Chaiban, UNICEF Director of Programs in Geneva. \"They deserve to be protected. They need access to services, such as education.\" \n According to the report, there were 10 million child refugees and one million child asylum-seekers, whose status had not yet been determined. The remaining 17 million children displaced by conflict remained within their home countries' borders. \n The report said 45 percent of the children refugees came from just two countries: Syria and Afghanistan. \n Increasingly, these children are traveling alone, with 100,000 unaccompanied minors applying for asylum in 78 countries in 2015, three times the number in 2014, the report found. Because these children often lack documents, they are especially vulnerable. \n The report estimates another 20 million children are migrants, driven from their homes by poverty and gang violence among other things. \n Refugee and migrant children face a host of risks including drowning during sea crossings, malnourishment, dehydration, kidnapping, rape and murder. When they arrive in other countries they often face discriminations and xenophobia, the report stated. \n \"The world hears the stories of child refugees one child at a time and the world is able to bring support to that child, but when we talk about millions it provokes incredible outrage and underscores the need to address the growing problem,\" said Emily Garin, the report's author. \n Entitled, \"Uprooted: The growing crisis for refugee and migrant children,\" the report calls on the international community to provide protection, education and health services to these children and asks governments to address the root causes contributing to the large-scale movements of refugees and migrants. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UNICEF says 28 million children uprooted by global conflict"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Earphone jack and charging port on an Apple iPhone 6, in New York. Apple is getting ready to unveil new iPhones on Wednesday, Sept. 7. With experts predicting few big changes from last year's models, speculation has focused on Apple's rumored decision to eliminate the iPhone's traditional headphone jack. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> Apple is expected to show off new iPhones, an updated smartwatch \u2014 and maybe some new gear for listening to both \u2014 during its annual fall product launch event today. \n Hard-core Apple fans will be watching closely for details about the newest features coming to Apple's gadgets, from a widely anticipated dual-lens camera for the iPhone to a rumored GPS sensor in the Apple Watch. \n But even casual users of consumer technology may be interested to see if Apple follows through on reports that it's eliminating the iPhone's analog headphone jack, since that could pave the way for a big shift in the way people listen to digital music. \n Getting rid of the traditional analog jack means future iPhone owners will need earbuds or headphones that use a digital connection, either through a wireless signal like Bluetooth or a cord that fits in the same port used for recharging the device. \n Apple may ship the next iPhones with an adapter that lets older headsets plug into the charging port. Tech blogs and industry analysts say Apple is also working on new headsets that fit the iPhone's \"Lightning\" power port, and possibly new \"Air Buds\" that use a Bluetooth-like wireless signal. \n IPHONE 7: INCREMENTAL CHANGES \n Aside from some new colors, the new iPhones aren't expected to look much different from the models Apple has been selling since 2014, which include a standard model with a 4.7-inch screen and a \"Plus\" version with a 5.5-inch screen. \n Analysts say Apple is departing from its usual two-year development cycle and won't announce a major revamp of its signature smartphone this year. Despite a recent dip in iPhone sales, most Apple watchers don't expect a big overhaul until 2017, the 10th anniversary of the first iPhone's release. \n Even so, the new phones are expected to come with faster processors, more memory and better cameras \u2014 an upgraded lens for the standard iPhone and a new dual-lens system for the Plus model that promises better \"zoom\" capabilities and improved performance in low lighting. \n Analysts say the new Apple Watch will also have some new features, including a GPS sensor that can be used with exercise apps and other services. But despite reports that Apple has been working on giving the watch its own cellular capability \u2014 meaning it wouldn't need to be paired with an iPhone \u2014 analysts say that's unlikely to come this year. \n Apple is also expected to announce the dates when the new models will go on sale, along with its timetable for releasing the next major upgrades to the software for iPhones, iPads, the Apple Watch, Apple TV and Mac computers. \n HEADPHONE DILEMMA \n Though it might not seem dramatic, eliminating the 3.5 millimeter headphone jack would be controversial. On the plus side, it could let Apple make the iPhone slightly thinner and possibly waterproof; it might also free up space for other components. And some enthusiasts say a digital connection provides better audio quality. \n But critics are already complaining that the old analog headphones worked better than most wireless headsets, which can be clunky to set up and sometimes randomly drop their connections. \n Most existing headphones won't plug into the iPhone's charging port without an adapter. And it isn't clear how you'd plug in your headset if you're already charging your phone. \n For many people, listening to music and watching video \u2014 not to mention making the occasional phone call \u2014 constitutes one of the main uses for a smartphone. \n Along with the new iPhones, some analysts expect Apple use today's event to promote new gear from Beats Electronics, the high-end headphone maker that Apple acquired two years ago for $3 billion. \n APPLE VERSUS OLD TECH \n Apple has a history of preemptively doing away with older technologies, often prompting lamentations from users \u2014 at least until they got used to it. Co-founder Steve Jobs famously decided the first iMacs didn't need a floppy disk drive in 1998, years before Windows PCs followed suit. Later, he made waves by selling MacBooks without a CD drive or even a traditional hard drive. \n More recently, Apple made millions of old power cords incompatible by replacing the 30-pin charging port on older iPhones and iPads with the much smaller Lightning port in 2012. \n Some of Apple's rivals are also moving away from the headphone jack. Already this year, Lenovo's Motorola division and Chinese smartphone maker LeEco have released phones without analog audio jacks, relying instead on cords that plug into a new digital port known as USB-C. \n \"The market is changing,\" said Jim Thiede, head of global product marketing at Motorola, who expects to see a number of manufacturers producing \"USB-C headphones, earbuds and what have you\" over the next three to six months. \n OUR WIRELESS FUTURE \n Some believe Apple's real goal is to move people away from cords and plugs altogether. \n Apple has already cut the number of ports on its latest MacBooks, encouraging owners to use wireless features like Apple's AirDrop and AirPlay for sharing files or streaming music and video, he noted. \n If more iPhone owners use wireless headsets, they may also be likely to try streaming music or other services wirelessly from the Apple Watch, said Carolina Milanesi, a mobile tech analyst at the research firm Creative Strategies. \n That may be part of Apple's longer term plan, she added. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Apple to show off new iPhones and maybe new ways to listen"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "A 27-year-old man was charged Monday with assaulting two police officers and possessing illegal drugs in McCully, police said. \n Tavin Windward, of Hawaii Kai, was charged with first-degree assault on a law enforcement officer and a drug offense. His bail was set at $22,000. \n Police said Windward assaulted and hurt the officers on Wiliwili Street at about 7 p.m. Saturday. While investigating, officers discovered a firearm inside his vehicle and arrested Windward for investigation of being a felon in possession of a firearm. Police said illegal drugs were also discovered in Windward's possession. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged with assaulting 2 officers in McCully"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "A 18-year-old Palolo man was arrested today after he was identified as a suspect in a taxi robbery in July, police said. \n Three males robbed the taxi driver, a 27-year-old man, at about 3 a.m. July 20 in Kaimuki, police said. \n The driver told police one male choked the victim while a second male brandished a weapon and assaulted the driver. A third male searched the cab and took the driver's property, police said. \n The suspect was later identified and arrested near his home on Ahe Street at about 10:45 a.m. today. He was booked for investigation of first-degree robbery. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Palolo man arrested in robbery of taxicab driver in Kaimuki"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "A woman with a disability claiming she was discriminated against after she was forced to give up her front row seat at a Pro Bowl game at Aloha Stadium for a wheelchair-accessible seat lost her case today in federal court in Honolulu. \n The federal jury in Judge J. Michael Seabright's courtroom found no liability against the state or the NFL in a 2013 incident where Aloha Stadium staff stopped the woman from getting to her seat and instead provided her with wheelchair-accessible seating, Attorney General Doug Chin said today in a statement. \n Deb Ritchie filed her lawsuit in September 2013, saying she had a cervical neurological condition that made it difficult for her to walk. She was using a wheelchair, but could also move with special crutches and shoes, the lawsuit said. \n On the day of the game, staff prohibited Ritchie from using a \"sitting technique\" to climb down the steps and impeded her from descending the steps slowly with her crutches, the suit said. \n Ritchie claimed, among other counts, false imprisonment and a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act. \n Her lawsuit said the previous year she was transported on the field by golf cart to her seat and she requested the same accommodations for the Pro Bowl game in 2013, but was refused. \n Chin's statement said her request was denied for security and safety concerns. \n The day of the game, Aloha Stadium staff stopped her from descending 60 steps to her seat because she appeared unsteady, creating a danger to herself and to others in the event of an evacuation, the statement said. \n Ritchie watched the game from a wheelchair-accessible row. \n \"Today's verdict clears the state and NFL of all liability in this case,\" the statement said. \"A previous trial in 2015 ended in a mistrial after the jury could not reach a unanimous verdict.\" \n Ritchie said tonight that she plans to appeal. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman with disability loses discrimination suit over Pro Bowl seating"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Attorney Jan Hasselman, representing Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, speaks to members of the media outside U.S. District Court in Washington, DC. \n WASHINGTON >> An American Indian tribe succeeded Tuesday in getting a federal judge to temporarily stop construction on some, but not all, of a $3.8 billion four-state oil pipeline, but its broader request still hangs in the balance. \n U.S. District Judge James Boasberg said Tuesday that work will temporarily stop between North Dakota's State Highway 1806 and 20 miles east of Lake Oahe, but will continue west of the highway because he believes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers lacks jurisdiction on private land. \n He also said he will rule by the end of Friday on the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe's challenge of federal regulators' decision to grant permits to the Dallas, Texas-based operators of the Dakota Access Pipeline, which will cross North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa and Illinois. \n A weekend confrontation between protesters and construction workers near Lake Oahe prompted the tribe to ask Sunday for a temporary stop of construction. Four private security guards and two guard dogs received medical treatment, officials said, while a tribal spokesman noted that six people \u2014 including a child \u2014 were bitten by the dogs and at least 30 people were pepper-sprayed. \n Dakota Access attorney Bill Leone said during Tuesday's hearing that if it weren't for the stoppages, the section in question would be finished by the end of this week. \n Standing Rock Sioux tribal chairman Dave Archambault II issued a statement after the ruling, saying: \"Today's denial of a temporary restraining order \u2026 west of Lake Oahe puts my people's sacred places at further risk of ruin and desecration.\" Attorney Jan Hasselman with Earthjustice, who filed the broader lawsuit on behalf of the tribe, noted the tribe will \"know more by the end of the week about where we're heading.\" \n A spokeswoman for Energy Transfer Partners didn't immediately respond to telephone messages requesting comment. \n Leone also said in court that there were two more attacks on crews in North Dakota on Tuesday. Morton County Sheriff Kyle Kirchmeier said law enforcement officers pulled back from responding to a report of 150-200 protesters gathered at a construction area on private land because they determined it wasn't safe to respond. \n He said some protesters had hatchets and knives, and two secured themselves to heavy equipment. No pipeline workers were at the site, and no arrests have been made. \n Over the weekend, workers allegedly bulldozed sites on private land that Hasselman said in court documents was \"of great historic and cultural significance to the tribe.\" The tribe's cultural expert, Tim Mentz Sr., said in court documents that the tribe believes there are human remains in the area and that it wants \"an opportunity to rebury our relatives.\" \n \"The elders say that reburying can help deal with the loss and hurt of disturbing these graves,\" he said. \n Lawyers for Energy Transfer Partners filed court documents Tuesday morning denying that workers have destroyed any cultural sites and asking the judge to reject the tribes' request for a temporary work stoppage. The company said it \"has taken and continues to take every reasonable precaution\" to protect cultural sites. \n The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers didn't oppose the tribe's most recent request, with Assistant Attorney General John Cruden saying in court documents that \"the public interest would be served by preserving peace.\" \n The tribe's outstanding lawsuit attempts to halt construction of the pipeline, which is due to be finished this year. The suit says the project violates several federal laws, including the National Historic Preservation Act, will harm water supplies on the reservation and downstream and disturb ancient sacred sites. \n Hundreds of protesters have camped out near the reservation for weeks. Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein, who advocates for clean energy, spent Monday evening with them and used red spray paint to write \"I approve this message\" on the blade of a bulldozer, a spokeswoman said. \n Kirchmeier said authorities plan to pursue charges of trespassing and vandalism against Stein. State court records Tuesday evening didn't yet list any formal counts against her. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge grants partial stop on North Dakota pipeline work"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "At least half a dozen Hawaii nonprofit organizations are pressing the Honolulu City Council to hold off on giving the final OK for a 400-foot condo-hotel tower across from the Hawai'i Convention Center, arguing that the developer should be required to contribute more to alleviate Oahu's affordable housing crunch. \n Developers of the 36-floor Mana'olana Place Hotel and Resort Condominium is now being required to pay $2.4 million in \"in lieu\" fees that would go to the city's affordable housing trust fund as one of the conditions for obtaining an Interim Planned Development Transit permit. \n Gavin Thornton, co-executive director of Hawaii Appleseed Center for Law and Economic co-executive director, said he and others spoke with various Council members Monday in an effort to press the deferral to work on a heftier contribution. \n \"I think everybody understood that this may not be a great deal for the community,\" Thornton told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser today. \n Four other groups that advocate for more affordable housing options for the disadvantaged also are celling for the Council to defer the resolution: PHOCUSED, Partners In Care, the Housing Now Coalition and Faith Action for Community Equity. \n They join the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, which testified at a Council Zoning and Planning Committee meeting last month that the developer of the Mana'olana Place Hotel and Residential Condominium project should provide more to affordable housing than the $2.4 million that city officials are recommending they contribute. OHA said the developer should be required to contribute actual units, not just in-lieu fees. \n The Council is scheduled to hold a final vote Wednesday on Resolution 16-172, which would allow Mana'olana Partners to build the tower up to 400 feet, instead of the existing 350-foot limit. The Interim Planned-Development Transit permit would grant other variances, including relaxation of setback requirements, more floor space, half the required parking spaces, reduced landscaping and the ability to operate a full-service hotel where zoning allows a limited-service facility. \n Proposed is a 36-floor building with 109 residential units, 125 hotel rooms, and a public area in the lower levels that will have commercial operations, restaurants, a plaza and other open space. The 50,541-square-foot complex is on two parcels bounded by Kapiolani Boulevard, Atkinson Drive and Kona Street that are now home to five one- and two-story commercial buildings that house, among other things, a 7-Eleven and various bars and restaurants. \n Thornton said Tuesday, however, he's not as concerned what form the contribution would be made, only that the amount be equitable to the benefits Mana'olana get from the exemptions. \"In light of all the benefits that this developer is getting, it just seems like a bad deal.\" \n For instance, the agreement allows the developer to create 276 parking spaces instead of 546, Thornton said. That gives the developer a lot of savings because parking stalls typically cost between $30,000 and $50,000 each, he said. \n Scott Fuji, PHOCUSED executive director, said he wants Council members to step back and analyze for themselves whether the in-lieu fee makes sense. \"They should have more time to have a discussion about that,\" he said. \n Harrison Rue, the city's community building and transit oriented development administrator, said Mayor Kirk Caldwell's draft affordable housing strategy calls for requiring most developers to either provide affordable housing onsite, offsite or contribute an in-lieu fee based on $45 per square foot of residential space. \n \"The (Mana'olana) project includes 53,390 square feet of residential floor area over 350 feet,\" Rue said, in a statement. \"At $45/square feet, that is $2,402,550.\" \n The developer originally proposed $1.1 million for housing but DPP recommended a $2.4 million contribution, he said. \n The $2.4 million is part of an estimated $7 million community benefits package. The nonprofits want a breakdown of that package. \n The Interim Planned Development-Transit Permit would be the first ever granted by the city if the full Council approves it. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Nonprofits urge that developer contribute more to city's affordable housing"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "BATH, Maine >> The largest and most expensive destroyer ever built for the U.S. Navy once headed to sea in a snowstorm during builder trials. Now, it's heading into the remnants of a tropical storm as it leaves Maine for good. \n The skipper is watching the weather as the stealthy Zumwalt destroyer prepares to depart from Bath Iron Works on Wednesday en route to its commissioning in Baltimore, and then to its homeport in San Diego. \n Capt. James Kirk said what's left of former Hurricane Hermine was creating some strong waves in the North Atlantic, but he said it wouldn't prevent the ship from departing from the Navy shipbuilder. \n He said sailors enjoyed their time training while the ship was being built, but now it's time to get down to business. \n \"It's time for us to do our job at sea,\" he said. \n The 610-foot destroyer may have some port visits en route to its formal commissioning ceremony next month. \n The sleek warship looks like no other ship in the fleet. \n It features an angular shape to minimize its radar signature, an unconventional wave-piercing hull, electric propulsion and a composite deckhouse that hides the radar and sensors. It boasts a powerful new gun system that fires rocket-powered shells up to 63 nautical miles. \n There are inevitable lighthearted comparisons of the futuristic-looking ship to the Starship Enterprise and the skipper to the mythical Captain Kirk. \n The real Kirk, who was named for his grandfather, is used to the Starfleet jokes. \n \"Certainly I have been ribbed every now and then with someone saying, 'Yes, you're going where no man has gone before, on this class of ship,'\" Kirk joked, referring to the line from the \"Star Trek\" TV series. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Stealthy destroyer ready to set sail to join US Navy"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n From left, Tyrese Gibson as Roman, Michelle Rodriguez as Letty, Paul Walker as Brian, and Chris \"Ludacris\" Bridges as Tej, in the film, \"Furious 7,\" directed by James Wan. \n Despite widespread attention over diversity in the movie business, a new study finds that little is changing in Hollywood for women, minorities, LGBT people and others who continue to find themselves on the outside of an industry where researchers say inequality is \"the norm.\" \n A report to be released Wednesday by the Media, Diversity and Social Change Initiative at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism offers a stark portrait of Hollywood's feeble to nonexistent progress in eradicating what researchers call \"pervasive and systematic\" problems in inclusiveness in front of and behind the camera. \n Since 2007, USC has analyzed the demographic makeup of the actors, directors, writers and more from each year's 100 most popular films. Its latest addition adds data from 2015's top films, but finds little change. \n For example, 31.4 percent of speaking characters in the analyzed films were female in 2015 \u2014 roughly the same number as in 2007. That's a ratio of 2.2 men for every single woman. \n Characters identified as lesbian, gay or transgender accounted for less than 1 percent of all speaking parts, or 32 out of 4,370 characters studied. That was a slight increase from 19 portrayals in 2014. After finding zero transgender characters in 2014, researchers could pinpoint one in 2015. \n From 2007 to 2015, the study finds no significant change in the percentage of black (12.2 percent), Latino (5.3 percent) or Asian (3.9 percent) characters in the most popular films. \n Off screen, of the 107 directors of 2015 films, four were black or African American and six were Asian or Asian American. Just eight were women, still the most since 2008. \n \"We're seeing entrenched inequality,\" Stacy L. Smith, a USC professor and the study's lead author, said in an interview. \"Whether we're studying gender, race, ethnicity, LGBT or characters with disabilities, we're really seeing exclusionary forces leaving out anybody that's not a straight, white, able-bodied man. Despite all the chatter and all the activism and all the press attention, it's another year where the status quo has been maintained.\" \n USC researchers stressed that the study's results didn't just offer a portrait of inequality, but captured the invisibility of many from American popular cinema. Hollywood, the study concludes, is \"an epicenter of cultural inequality.\" \n Issues of exclusion and gender gaps have gained more attention in recent years following two straight seasons of all-white acting nominees at the Oscars and leaked studio emails from Sony Pictures that suggested evidence of disparity in salaries between male and female stars. \n The fallout has led the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences to diversity its membership. Some have individually taken action; TV producer Ryan Murphy in February launched a foundation to diversify the directors of his shows. Last month, even Michelle Obama spoke of the importance \"for the world to see different images of each other.\" \n But the USC researchers say not enough is being done by the upper echelons of the movie industry. Earlier this year, the researchers scored 10 major media companies on their diversity record across mediums. None passed. \n \"We've seen a lot of talk and little action,\" says Smith. \"What we need now is for companies to take the same leadership position, be transparent in their inclusion goals and be accountable to representing the actual world we live in when it comes to the demography of the U.S.\" \n Many of last year's most profitable movies, however, boasted diverse casts. The appeal of the \"Fast and Furious\" franchise, which released its seventh installment in 2015, has long been based on both high-octane races and a much varied cast. The year's top film, \"Star Wars: The Force Awakens,\" ushered in more diverse characters to George Lucas' galaxy. Female empowerment was also a big seller for \"Mad Max: Fury Road,\" \"The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2\" and \"Pitch Perfect 2.\" \n As a result, female lead or co-leads improved by 11 percent from 2014 to 2015, one of the rare signs of improved inclusivity in the study. But even such bright spots revealed other areas still wanting. There were still just three films featuring a female lead or co-lead from an underrepresented racial or ethnic group, and there wasn't one leading part for an Asian, man or woman. \n \"When we really drill down in the numbers, we see a perpetuation of the same groups getting access to the most visible roles, whether that's in the director's chair or on screen, and that continues to be the problem plaguing Hollywood's hiring practices,\" said Smith. \n Issues over the type of representation also still remain. Though LGBT characters increased in 2015, only two were depicted as parents. \"Film still has a way to go when it comes to representing all types of families in America,\" said Katherine Pieper, who co-authored the study with Smith and Marc Choueiti. \n Females also continue to be overwhelmingly more likely to be sexualized. Women are more than three times as likely as men to be shown in sexually revealing clothing or nude. \n \"When there are few women \u2014 less than 32 percent of characters are female \u2014 and they are more sexualized than their male counterparts, then females are really filling a particular role in film content and sending a particular message to audiences,\" said Pieper. \n The researchers added two new metrics to the study this year. They are now tracking characters with disabilities. They made up just 2.4 percent of all speaking roles in 2015's top films, even though 18.7 percent of the U.S. population reported having a disability in the 2010 census. \n To dovetail with an upcoming initiative on women in music, USC researchers also began studying the rate of female composers in film. They found 12 total in the 877 films studied over eight years, and only one in 2015. \n \"When a group clocks in at 1.4 percent,\" says Smith, \"I think it merits more investigation.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n This story corrects spelling of Pieper and Choueiti, the total number of speaking parts studied, and the number of LGBT portrayals in 2014. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow AP Film Writer Jake Coyle on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/jakecoyleAP \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Study finds inequality unchanged in Hollywood"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Origins Spectral Interpretation Resource Identification Security - Regolith Explorer (OSIRIS-REx) spacecraft contacting the asteroid Bennu with the Touch-And-Go Sample Arm Mechanism. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. >> NASA is going after an asteroid this week like never before. \n It's launching a spacecraft to the exotic black rock named Bennu, vacuuming up handfuls of gravel from the surface, and then in a grand finale, delivering the pay dirt all the way back to Earth. \n The mission will take seven years, from Thursday night's planned liftoff from Cape Canaveral to the return of the asteroid samples in 2023, and cover an incredible 4 billion miles (6 \u00bd billion kilometers) through space. \n It promises to be the biggest cosmic bounty since the Apollo moon rocks, hand-picked and delivered by astronauts in the late 1960s and early 1970s. \n NASA has already brought back comet dust and specks of solar wind. And Japan already did it at an asteroid a decade ago, and is en route to a second space rock encounter. But we're talking tiny grains in these cases. \n NASA's robotic asteroid hunter, Osiris-Rex, is designed to scoop up pebbles and rock the size of gravel \u2014 anywhere from one to four or five handfuls. \n \"We are going out to explore an unknown world,\" said principal scientist Dante Lauretta of the University of Arizona at Tucson. \"We're going to map it in great detail. It will be the most well characterized asteroid in our solar system by the time we're through with it.\" \n Thanks to observations from the Hubble and Spitzer space telescopes, scientists already know the roundish Bennu (BEN'-oo) is about 1,600 feet (487 meters) across at its bulging middle and the color of coal, indicative of carbon richness. It's believed to have formed 4.5 billion years ago, a remnant of the solar system's building blocks. As such, it may still hold clues as to the origin of life on Earth and, possibly, elsewhere in the solar system. \n The name Bennu comes from the heron of Egyptian mythology. Osiris was an Egyptian god; Osiris-Rex is an acronym for origins, spectral interpretation, resource identification, security-regolith explorer. \n There's also a practical side to the more than $800 million mission: planetary defense. \n Bennu is one of many near-Earth asteroids that occasionally cross paths with our planet. The more scientists know about these potentially hazardous rocks, the better the chance of tracking them and, worst comes to worst, bracing for them. \n Bennu wouldn't obliterate Earth or wipe out life, just carve out a huge crater. Lauretta said the odds of a direct hit by Bennu are low \u2014 less than one-tenth of 1 percent \u2014 and not until about 150 years from now. \n \"So I like to say, 'Don't run out and buy asteroid insurance tonight, you're not going to need it,' \" Lauretta said. \n You can, however, mark your calendars for the Osiris-Rex flight plan: \n \u2014Thursday: Launch of Osiris-Rex spacecraft atop an unmanned Atlas V rocket from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Forecasters on Tuesday said good weather was expected for Thursday's 7:05 p.m. EDT launch. NASA has until mid-October to send the SUV-size spacecraft on its way. With its twin solar wings, it resembles a boxy bird. \n \u2014Sept. 22, 2017: Osiris-Rex swings by Earth for a gravity assist toward Bennu, putting it in the same orbital plane. Onboard cameras will snap and send pictures of the home planet. The spacecraft will come within 10,000 miles (16,100 kilometers) to 17,000 miles (27,400 kilometers) of Earth. \n \u2014August 2018: Osiris-Rex arrives at Bennu. The spacecraft will fly in formation with the asteroid, as well as orbit it from an altitude of less than a half mile \u2014 roughly 700 meters \u2014 in search of the best real estate for the sample grab. Lauretta said it will be the smallest body ever orbited by a spacecraft. \n \u2014July 2020: Osiris-Rex goes for the cosmic gold, flying close to the surface and reaching out with its 10-foot (3-meter) robotic arm. It will fire nitrogen gas to stir up the surface, and like a vacuum, suck in the loosened dirt and gravel. Scientists want at least 2 ounces (60 grams). If they get less, they'll try again. In all, the spacecraft can try three times to gather samples before it runs out of nitrogen gas. Testing on Earth has yielded as much as 14 to 18 ounces (400 to 500 grams). \n \u2014March 2021: Osiris-Rex leaves Bennu and heads back to Earth. This is when the asteroid and our planet are best aligned in space for the trip home. The samples will come back in the same kind of container as the comet dust from NASA's Stardust mission in 2006. \"The big prize,\" as NASA program scientist Jeff Grossman calls it, will be free of contamination. Incoming chunks of asteroids are altered as they plunge through the atmosphere and smash into Earth, and it's impossible to know where these pieces come from. \n \u2014Sept. 24, 2023: Finally free of Osiris-Rex, which will continue to orbit the sun, the sample container re-enters the atmosphere at more than 27,000 mph (43,450 kph). Parachutes will slow the descent as the container comes in for a touchdown at Utah Test and Training Range, west of Salt Lake City. The container will end up at Johnson Space Center in Houston, its final destination. \n \"It really is a great adventure \u2026 we are bringing back scientific treasure,\" Lauretta said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA chasing down asteroid to scoop up, bring back samples"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Soyuz TMA-20M spacecraft as it lands with Expedition 48 crew members NASA astronaut Jeff Williams, Russian cosmonauts Alexey Ovchinin, and Oleg Skripochka of Roscosmos near the town of Zhezkazgan, Kazakhstan. \n After watching more than 2,750 sunrises from above the Earth, three crew members of the International Space Station returned to the planet for a sparkling sunrise back on Earth Wednesday. \n A record-setting American astronaut and his two Russian colleagues felt the sun beat down on them on a cloudless morning after a six-month trek in orbit. \n NASA's Jeff Williams returned as the U.S. record holder for time in orbit, logging 534 days in space over four missions. Williams, Alexey Ovchinin and Oleg Skripochka logged 72.8 million miles in space, circling the globe 2,752 times before landing on target in the south central steppes of Kazakhstan just 23 minutes after sunrise Wednesday, 7:13 a.m. local time (1:13 a.m. GMT). \n Stretched out in chairs placed in the brown wild grass, the three flyers were all smiles, giving thumbs up, chatting on cell phones. They were promptly pulled out of the Russian Soyuz capsule, which landed on its side, which is not unusual. Williams wore a black baseball cap while seated outside and talking on the phone. Ovchinin clutched a stuffed doll his daughter gave him as a mascot that went into space with him. \n They were then carried to a medical tent for routine tests to see how they adjust to gravity, including checking to see how they could stand. \n The trio undocked from the space station nearly three and a half hours before touchdown in hazy sunshine with a comfortable welcome home temperature around 66 degrees (19 degrees Celsius) about 90 miles (145 kilometers) southeast of Zhezkazgan in Kazakhstan. They landed thanks to a large orange and white parachute and last second engine firings. NASA spokesman Dan Huot called it a \"picturesque landing\" on a picture-perfect day. \n The three conducted experiments aboard the space station. Williams set the U.S. record last month for most time spent in space. He beat the previous record set by Scott Kelly during his year in orbit. The capsule contained air samples returned from the first inflatable module deployed in orbit. \n The world record is held by Russian Gennady Padalka at 879 days in space. Thirteen Russians have more time in space than Williams. \n \"Everything went very smoothly, very normally,\" NASA spokesman Rob Navias said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Happy landings: 3 space station crew members back on Earth"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. \n GREENVILLE, N.C. >> Donald Trump said Tuesday night that Hillary Clinton's handling of private emails disqualifies her to serve as president. His own temperament, Trump said, was his \"single greatest asset\" and not the national security danger that Clinton alleges. \n Trump's charge, delivered to a packed crowd in swing state North Carolina, marked a pointed escalation of the Republican White House hopeful's case against his Democratic challenger as both court military families in key Southern battlegrounds. Clinton, meanwhile, accused Trump of insulting America's veterans and pressing dangerous military plans around the globe. \n Clinton, addressing supporters in Florida, warned that Trump would lead the nation back to war in the Middle East. And to military vets and their families, she pointed anew to his summertime dust-up with the Muslim parents of a slain American soldier. \n \"His whole campaign has been one long insult to all those who have worn the uniform,\" the Democratic nominee said at the University of South Florida in Tampa. \n Trump, trying to emphasize his military support, released a letter from 88 retired generals and admirals citing an urgent need for a \"course correction\" in America's national security policy. It was aimed at rebutting Clinton's arguments that she would be best positioned to lead the military and reassuring Republicans who have openly worried that his provocative statements might undermine U.S. alliances. \n \"We believe that such a change can only be made by someone who has not been deeply involved with, and substantially responsible for, the hollowing out of our military and the burgeoning threats facing our country around the world,\" the military leaders wrote. \"For this reason, we support Donald Trump's candidacy to be our next commander in chief.\" \n Trump promoted the letter as he campaigned in Virginia and North Carolina on Tuesday, suggesting that he would rely on the generals to make up for his own lack of national security inexperience to take on the Islamic State group. He vowed to give military leaders a \"simple instruction\" soon after taking office: \"They will have 30 days to submit to the Oval Office a plan for soundly and quickly defeating ISIS.\" \n Clinton pushed back, saying Trump has lagged in securing key military supporters compared to past Republican nominees including John McCain and Mitt Romney. She pointed to her endorsements from retired Marine Gen. John Allen, who blasted Trump at the Democratic National Committee, and former CIA deputy director Mike Morell. \n \"They know they can count on me to be the kind of commander in chief who will protect our country and our troops, and they know they cannot count on Donald Trump,\" Clinton said en route to Florida. \"They view him as a danger and a risk.\" \n The conflicting messages came as the candidates prepared to appear at an MSNBC forum Wednesday night on national security. While they will appear separately and not be on stage at the same time, it could serve as a warm-up to their highly-anticipated first presidential debate on Sep. 26 in New York. \n Meanwhile, Clinton's campaign released a new television ad entitled \"Sacrifice,\" showing military veterans watching some of the New York businessman's more provocative statements. \n The spot includes clips of Trump claiming to know more about the Islamic State group than military generals, and his criticism of McCain, the Republican senator from Arizona and a former prisoner of war. The ad, which features former Georgia Sen. Max Cleland, a triple-amputee who served in Vietnam, also keys on Trump's assertion that he has sacrificed a lot compared to families who have lost loved ones in conflict. \n \"Our veterans deserve better,\" reads a line at the end of the ad, which is airing in Ohio, Florida, Iowa, Nevada and Pennsylvania. \n Separately, Trump continued to face questions about his immigration policy a day after refusing to rule out a pathway to legal status for immigrants in the country illegally. He focused on his proposed border wall plan in a Tuesday interview with ABC's \"Good Morning America.\" \n Last week in Phoenix, he told a raucous crowd of supporters that there was \"one way only\" for immigrants here illegally to become legal \u2014 to return home and get in line for official re-admittance. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton: He's a national security danger. Trump: No, she is"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fair-goers examine cannabis on display at the Oregon State Fair of plants that won ribbons at the inaugural Oregon Cannabis Growers' Fair Monday, Sept. 5, 2016, in Salem, Ore. \n SALEM, Ore. >> As Oregon officials struggle to license all sectors of the recreational marijuana industry before the end of the year, a top official of the agency that accredits pot-testing labs says it is overwhelmed \u2014 a potential blow to the rollout. \n Gary K. Ward, administrator of the Oregon Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program, known as ORELAP, emailed dozens of labs awaiting licenses, saying his agency's abilities to accredit them is \"on the precipice of collapse \u2026 because of the lack of resources and the last minute rush of cannabis labs with applications.\" \n Ward's complaints have drawn the attention of Gov. Kate Brown. Ward said in his Aug. 26 email that he had asked for three full-time employees to handle cannabis lab accreditation, and received none. Only three labs have been accredited, according to an official web site. A spokesman put the number at four. \n If more labs aren't accredited, marijuana producers will lack tested products to sell. Retailers will have bare shelves. \n \"This has been extremely worrisome for the industry,\" Donald Morse, director of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council, said in a phone interview with The Associated Press. \"I have spoken with people in all agencies \u2026 and we've warned them for months this bottleneck was coming because of their inability get these accreditations done.\" \n Steven Marks, executive director of the Oregon Liquor Control Commission which is in charge of regulating and licensing recreational marijuana, told AP that \"it's an absolute concern of ours\" that ORELAP is overburdened and attributed it to \"a bumpy transition\" in Oregon's marijuana industry, in which previously only medical marijuana was legal. \n But he said in a telephone interview that expects recreational retailers to be licensed and operating by the end of the year. They will be eligible to open after Oct. 1, when a new tax structure becomes effective. Marks expects three more labs to be accredited this month. \n \"That should be enough testing capacity to get this moving forward,\" he said. \n The state is racing to set up the recreational marijuana industry after voters legalized it in a 2014 ballot measure. \n Unless recreational retailers are in business and selling tested products by Jan. 1, when dispensaries will be allowed to sell only medical marijuana, tax revenues will drop. The state hauled in $25.5 million in marijuana tax payments through July 31 this year, the revenue office reported recently. \n \"The tax revenue will go from that to zero if we have no product to sell,\" Morse said. \n New rules require testing of marijuana by accredited labs, which look for pesticides, potency and solvents. \n Jeremy Sackett, co-founder of Cascadia Labs, said he is awaiting accreditation and that an inspection by ORELAP is scheduled for next week. The company has one lab in the Portland area and another in Bend. \n \"It would be unfortunate if the State were not able to support and effectively implement the well-developed regulations that have been enacted,\" Sackett told AP in an email. \n The Oregon Health Authority, which oversees ORELAP, said Tuesday it is committed to taking steps to ensure laboratory accreditation \"even with growing demand,\" and will find a solution. Spokesman Jonathan Modie said the authority hired a full-time assessor in October 2015, bringing the number to three, and a temporary assessor in July to assess cannabis labs. \n Morse said Ward's \"cry for help is a smart thing to do, because no one has been listening.\" He added that he hopes the governor's office will step in and ensure ORELAP gets more resources. \n Brown's office said the lab accreditation process is \"important to ensuring public health and safety as Oregon's new recreational marijuana laws are implemented.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon agency that accredits pot labs on verge of \"collapse\""}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "The city has lifted the parking ban at the Ala Wai Community Park and recreation center. \n However, the parking ban at Ala Moana Regional Park, including the closure of McCoy Pavilion and the \"Keyhole\" parking area, as well as the tennis courts and the Honolulu Lawn Bowls Green are still in place. \n Restrictions had been in place since the start of the World Conservation Congress on Thursday. \n The conference continues through Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City lifts Ala Wai parking restrictions"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this June 25, 2008 photo provided by Shui Meng Ng, Sombath Somphone poses for a photograph in an unknown location in Japan. The disappearance of Sombath Somphone nearly four years ago is a reminder of the dismal human rights record of the authoritarian government of Laos. \n VIENTIANE, Laos >> A top aide of President Barack Obama said he will meet with the wife of a missing Laotian activist and East-West Center graduate, whose case has been repeatedly highlighted by human rights groups as an example of authoritarian excesses of Laos' one-party Communist government. \n Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes told reporters today he will meet with Shui Meng Ng on Thursday while Obama is visiting Laos. The president arrived on Monday to attend a regional summit. \n Human rights activists were hoping that Obama would speak about Ng's husband, Sombath Somphone, who was picked up apparently by security forces on Dec. 15, 2012. He has not been seen since. \n Obama has not mentioned him so far in his public remarks, but Rhodes said that \"we care very deeply about her case and her husband, and we believe she deserves to know what happened to her husband.\" \n He said he also met Ng during a recent visit to Laos, and planned to stay in \"regular contact\" with her. Rhodes said the Laotian government has told the U.S. the same thing it tells Sombath's wife \u2014 that it's looking into his disappearance. \n \"Oftentimes, they indicate that they do not know, and that there's an ongoing investigation,\" Rhodes said. \n He said that typically, Obama addresses human rights issues with foreign leaders more broadly, and lets his staff raise specific cases with their counterparts. \n Sombath's disappearance was captured on a traffic video camera, in which he is seen being stopped at a police outpost in Vientiane and asked to step out of his Jeep, according to Amnesty International. Within a few minutes a man on a motorcycle arrives, drives away Sombath's vehicle, and a pickup truck takes Sombath away with armed people on a motorcycle leading the way. The passenger on the motorcycle fires a gunshot into the air, Amnesty International said. \n The human rights group said it believes the authorities are either directly responsible for his disappearance, or have simply failed to take steps to find out what happened to him. \n \"President Obama and world leaders gathering in Laos need to demand answers and accountability from their Lao government hosts on the case of disappeared NGO leader Sombath Somphone. The message has to be clear that the cover up has to end, Sombath needs to be found, and that no other outcome is acceptable,\" Phil Robertson, deputy director for Asia at Human Rights Watch, said today. \n The U.S.-educated Sombath mostly worked in rural development, showing farmers creative ways to raise fish and make handicrafts. But he was also vocal about land deals that left thousands of villagers homeless without compensation, sparking rare political protests. He also had international connections. \n Sombath graduated from the University of Hawaii through an East West Center program with degrees in education and agriculture before returning to Laos in 1980. He won one of Asia's top civil awards, the Magsaysay Award, sometimes called Asia's Nobel Prize, in 2005 for his work reducing poverty and promoting education at a training center he founded. \n Sombath is not the only possible victim of a government crackdown. \n In 2015, an ethnic Lao who is a Polish citizen disappeared while visiting Laos, according to his Polish wife, allegedly for posting critical comments on Facebook. He was subsequently sentenced to 4 years and 9 months in prison. \n In March this year, three young Laotian migrant workers who returned to Laos to renew their passports vanished and reappeared on state TV in prison uniforms to state that they had used the internet to \"defame the government.\" They have not been charged and their parents have not been allowed to visit them. Another dissident, Ka Yang, who fled to Thailand was deported to Laos in 2011 and imprisoned. \n Most Laotians are unaware of such events because of the government's tight control over the media, the security forces and the judiciary. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser Staff and Associated Press", "title": "Obama aide to meet with wife of missing UH-educated Laotian activist"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A humpback whale jumps out of the waters off Hawaii. \n Federal authorities took most humpback whales off the endangered species list today, saying their numbers have recovered through international efforts to protect the giant mammals. \n Humpback whale numbers have steadily grown since a global ban on commercial whaling started nearly 50 years ago. The whaling moratorium remains in effect, despite the new classification. \n The National Marine Fisheries Service said it first had evidence to indicate there were 14 distinct populations of humpback whales around the world. It then said nine of these populations have recovered to the point where they no longer need Endangered Species Act Protections. These include whales that winter in Hawaii, the West Indies and Australia. \n Before, the agency classified all humpback whales as one population. They had been listed as endangered since 1970. \n \"Today's news is a true ecological success story,\" Eileen Sobeck, assistant administrator for fisheries at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said in a statement. \n The whales will continue to be protected under other federal laws, including the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Vessels will continue to have to stay a specific distance away from humpback whales in Hawaii and Alaska waters. \n A Hawaii fishermen's group that petitioned for delisting three years ago said it was happy with the decision. \n \"We just saw a lot of whales. So we thought this is a success in ocean management and we wanted to point that out to the world \u2014 that things are good with whales in Hawaii,\" said Phil Fernandez, president of the Hawaii Fishermen's Alliance for Conservation and Tradition. \n An estimated 11,000 humpback whales breed in Hawaii waters each winter and migrate to Alaska to feed during the summer, the fisheries service said. \n But an environmentalist group said the protections should stay in place. \n \"These whales face several significant and growing threats, including entanglement in fishing gear, so ending protections now is a step in the wrong direction,\" Kristen Monsell, an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity, said in a statement. \n Humpbacks that breed in Central America in the winter and feed off California and the Pacific Northwest in the summer are among those that will remain on the endangered list. \n Marta Nammack, the fisheries service's Endangered Species Act listing coordinator, said that's because the population is estimated at only about 400 whales. These whales also face threats from vessel collisions and getting entangled in fishing gear, she said. \n Whales that breed off Mexico and feed off California, the Pacific Northwest and Alaska will be listed as threatened. There are about 3,200 of the whales in this group, which is only about half of what scientists previously thought, Nammack said. The whales also face fishing gear entanglement threats. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Feds take most humpback whales off endangered species list"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "NEW YORK STATE POLICE \n The New York State Police released this mugshot of Alexandria Duval, who was arrested on Aug. 15 for drunk driving in New York. \n STAMFORD, N.Y. \u00bb A woman who had been accused of killing her twin sister after their vehicle plunged off a Hawaii cliff has been released from a New York jail where she was being held on drunken driving charges. \n Delaware County authorities say 38-year-old Alexandria Duval was released Friday after posting bail. \n Duval was arrested Aug. 15 in Stamford. State police said her blood-alcohol content was more than three times the legal limit. \n Duval pleaded not guilty Aug. 23 to charges including aggravated driving while intoxicated. \n Messages left with her attorney weren't returned. \n Duval's sister, Anastasia, died in May when their SUV crashed on Maui and plunged 200 feet. \n Alexandria was jailed on a second-degree murder charge but later released when a judge determined there was no probable cause to support the charge. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maui woman accused in twin's death released from N.Y. jail"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte arrived at the National Convention Center for scheduled bilateral meetings with ASEAN leaders on the sidelines of the 28th and 29th ASEAN Summits and other related summits today, in Vientiane, Laos. \n VIENTIANE, Laos \u00bb Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte defiantly reaffirmed his controversial campaign against drugs today and called for a redoubling of crime-fighting efforts across Southeast Asia as he prepared to face two prominent critics of his policy: President Barack Obama and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. \n \"We shall not be cowed. We must press on,\" he declared in a speech at a business and investment conference on the sidelines of a summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which he is attending. He called for increased use of intelligence gathering and more arrests. \n The summit has been overshadowed by his use of profane language toward Obama. Duterte also threatened earlier to pull the Philippines out of the United Nations over criticism of his crackdown on illegal drug trade that has led to a wave of extrajudicial killings. More than 2,000 people have been killed since June 30, when he took office after winning election on a promise to fight crime and corruption. \n On Wednesday he is to attend a gala dinner with both Obama and Ban, as well as join a meeting that the two leaders will have with ASEAN heads of state and government. \n Earlier today, Duterte expressed regret over his \"son of a bitch\" remark while referring to Obama, in a rare display of contrition by a politician whose wide arc of profanities has unabashedly targeted world figures including the pope. \n In a statement read by his spokesman, Duterte said his \"strong comments\" in response to questions by a reporter \"elicited concern and distress, we also regret it came across as a personal attack on the U.S. president.\" \n Duterte made the intemperate remarks Monday before flying to Laos. He had been scheduled to meet Obama separately today, but the White House canceled the meeting. \n Even though Duterte's statement did not amount to an apology, the expression of regret is unusual for the tough-talking former mayor, who is unapologetic about his manner of speech and liberally peppers casual statements with profanities. \n Duterte's aides are likely to have realized there would be a price to pay for insulting the president of the United States. \n The U.S. is one of the Philippines' largest trading partners and a key security ally in its fight against Muslim militants in the country's south. Manila also needs Washington's help in dealing with a more assertive China in the disputed South China Sea. The U.S. provides hundreds of millions of dollars in annual assistance to the Philippine military. \n Duterte likely had realized his folly by the time he arrived in the Laotian capital of Vientiane on Monday night. \n Speaking to reporters here, he said, \"I do not want to quarrel with the most powerful country on the planet,\" but immediately returned to his typical combative approach, saying: \"Washington has been so liberal about criticizing human rights (abuses), human rights and human rights. How about you? I have so many questions also about human rights to ask you. So \u2026 people who live in glass houses should not\" throw stones. \n He said if the White House had problems with him, it could have sent him a diplomatic note and let him respond. \"There's a protocol for that,\" Duterte said. \"You just cannot shoot a statement against the president of any country.\" \n But by today, he had done a complete U-turn in the tone of his statement. \n \"We look forward to ironing out differences arising out of national priorities and perceptions, and working in mutually responsible ways for both countries,\" his statement said. \n The flap over Duterte's remarks started when a reporter asked him how he intended to explain the extrajudicial killings of drug dealers to Obama. Duterte responded: \"I am a president of a sovereign state and we have long ceased to be a colony. I do not have any master except the Filipino people, nobody but nobody. You must be respectful. Do not just throw questions. Putang ina, I will swear at you in that forum,\" he said, using the Tagalog phrase for \"son of a bitch.\" \n Duterte has previously cursed Pope Francis and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. \n \"Who is he (Obama) to confront me?\" Duterte said, adding that the Philippines had not received an apology from the United States for misdeeds committed during its colonization of the country. \n He pointed to the killing of Muslim Moros more than a century ago during a U.S. pacification campaign in the southern Philippines, blaming the wounds of the past as \"the reason why (the south) continues to boil\" with separatist insurgencies. \n Duterte has had a troubled relationship with the United States, criticizing its inability to stop violence in the Middle East and Africa, and citing U.S. police shootings of black Americans. \n He has also taken a more conciliatory position with U.S. rival China. Philippine-China ties were strained under Duterte's predecessors due to territorial conflicts in the South China Sea. Duterte proclaimed early in his presidency that he would pursue a foreign policy not dependent on the United States. \n Former Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario, under whose watch U.S.-Philippine relations blossomed, expressed disappointment over the canceled meeting with Obama. \n \"An invaluable occasion to have our leaders meet for the purpose of discussing how to strengthen our comprehensive areas of cooperation would have been a golden opportunity,\" del Rosario said. \n Associated Press journalists Jim Gomez and Tassanee Vejpongsa contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Philippine president reaffirms his deadly anti-drug campaign"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "NOAA \n Pete Basabe's butteflyfish (Prognathodes basabe at a depth of 180 feet off Pearl and Hermes Atoll, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. \n Scientists have named a new species of butterflyfish discovered in the deep reefs of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument after a Kona diver who has assisted in the collection of reef fishes for numerous scientific studies and educational displays in the remote Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. \n The new fish, Prognathodes basabei, is named after Pete Basabe, a veteran local diver from Kona who, over the years, has assisted with the collection of reef fishes for numerous scientific studies and educational displays, according to a news release from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Basabe, an experienced deep diver, was instrumental in providing support for the dives that produced the first specimen of the fish that now bears his name. \n Scientists from Bishop Museum and NOAA published a description of a new species of butterfly fish in a study published today in the scientific journal ZooKeys. \n \"Butterflyfish are the glamour fish of the coral reefs,\" said Richard Pyle, Bishop Museum scientist and lead author on the publication, in the NOAA news release. \"They are colorful, beautiful, and have been very well-studied worldwide. Finding a new species of butterflyfish is a rare event.\" \n \"Discoveries such as this underscore how poorly explored and how little we know about our deep coral reefs,\" said Randall Kosaki, NOAA scientist and co-author of the study. \"Virtually every deep dive we do takes place on a reef that no human being has ever seen.\" \n The NOAA news release said the butterflyfish was first seen in video taken from manned submersibles more than 20 years ago, at depths as great as 600 feet. \n Although Pyle and University of Hawaii marine biologist E.H. \"Deetsie\" Chave recognized this as a potential new species, it was many years before technical divers using advanced electronic closed-circuit rebreathers were able to collect and preserve specimens in a way that would allow proper scientific documentation as an undescribed species. \n The new butterflyfish has been encountered regularly on deep exploratory dives up to 330 feet on NOAA expeditions to Papahanaumokuakea. \n Deep coral reefs at depths of 150 to 500 feet, also known as mesophotic coral ecosystems or \"the coral-reef twilight zone,\" are among the most poorly explored of all marine ecosystems. Deeper than most scuba divers can venture, and shallower than most submersible-based exploration, these reefs represent a new frontier for coral reef research. \n The new butterflyfish was collected on a NOAA expedition to Papahanaumokuakea in June and is now on display at Bishop Museum and at the Mokupapapa Discovery Center in Hilo. An additional specimen is on display in the Deep Reef exhibit at the Waikiki Aquarium. \n Last month, President Obama announced the expansion of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument by from 139,797 square miles to 582,578 square miles, making it the largest marine protected area on Earth. \n \"This new discovery illustrates the conservation value of very large marine protected areas,\" said Kosaki. \"Not only do they protect the biodiversity that we already know about, they also protect the diversity we've yet to discover. And there's a lot left to discover.\" \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Scientists name new fish species found in Papahanaumokuakea"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "Big Island police have identified the 20-year-old Captain Cook woman who died Sunday from injuries she suffered when the car she was driving on Hawaii Belt Road crossed the centerline of the road and hit another car head-on as Breanna Fujimoto. \n Fujimoto was taken to Kona Community Hospital following the head-on collision at 1:27 p.m. on the Hawaii Belt Road (Route 11) just south of the Kamehameha III Highway intersection and died the following day. \n Kona patrol officers determined that a 2016 Honda sedan operated by Fujimoto had been traveling south on Hawaii Belt Road when it crossed the centerline of the roadway and was involved in a head-on collision with a 2015 Nissan SUV traveling north and operated by a 38-year-old Kealakekua woman. \n The driver of the SUV and her children, an 11-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl, were also taken to Kona Community Hospital. The woman and the girl were treated and released from the hospital. The boy was transferred to the Queen's Medical Center on Oahu and was listed in stable condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle woman who died in head-on crash in Kona identified"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "NASHVILLE, Tenn. \u00bb A United Airlines flight has made an emergency landing in Nashville, Tennessee, after an apparently intoxicated passenger caused a disturbance. \n An arrest affidavit from Metro Nashville Police says the passenger, Mohammed Nasser Aldoseri, told officers he had eight drinks before boarding Monday's flight from Cincinnati to Houston. The pilot diverted the flight after police say Aldoseri broke one of the plane's bathroom doors, threw up in a sink and then starting speaking loudly in Arabic. \n News outlets report the affidavit says officers found Aldoseri passed out in his seat when the plane landed. Police said he had slurred speech, red, glassy eyes and was unsteady on his feet. \n Police charged Aldoseri with public intoxication and disorderly conduct. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Unruly passenger causes United Airlines flight to make emergency landing"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "Big Island police have identified the victims of a pedestrian and motorcycle accident who died Saturday in Hilo. \n Rhonda Broad, 61, of Hilo, was killed while walking on the northbound lane of Railroad Avenue by a motorcycle ridden by Lionel Chartrand, 66, of Hilo. \n Both victims were taken to Hilo Medical Center where they died. \n The accident occurred at 7:25 p.m. Saturday on Railroad Avenue at Makalika Street in Hilo. \n Hilo patrol officers said Broad got out of car near the intersection of Railroad Avenue and Makalika Street. The vehicle left the area and Broad, who was walking in the northbound lane, was struck by a motorcycle traveling north on Railroad Avenue. \n Chartrand was not wearing a helmet and police believe that speed was a factor in this crash. \n The case has been classified as a negligent homicide investigation. \n Police are looking for the occupants of the car. \n These are the 18th and 19th traffic fatalities on Hawaii Island, compared with 15 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify motorcyclist, pedestrian who died in Hilo crash"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "The Medical Examiner's Office has identified the 58-year-old Missouri visitor, who died Friday after being pulled out of the water at Sandy Beach, as Mark Saffell. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine the cause of death. \n Police said bystanders and city lifeguards found the man unresponsive in the ocean at about 11:34 a.m. \n Paramedics treated and took Saffell, who is from St. Peters, Mo., in critical condition to the hospital where he died. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Visitor who died after being pulled from water at Sandy's identified"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man shoveled mud inside a restaurant damaged by Hurricane Newton in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, today. The U.S. National Hurricane Center said Newton's winds this morning were around 90 mph and the storm is expected to still be a hurricane when it makes its second landfall on the northwest coast of mainland Mexico early Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man took pictures of the damage caused by Hurricane Newton at El Medano Beach, in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico today. Newton slammed into the twin resorts of Los Cabos on the southern tip of Mexico's Baja California peninsula this morning, knocking out power in some places as stranded tourists huddled in their hotels. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A woman waded through a street flooded by the heavy rains brought on by Hurricane Newton in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico today. The U.S. National Hurricane Center said Newton's winds this morning were around 90 mph and the storm is expected to still be a hurricane when it makes its second landfall on the northwest coast of mainland Mexico early Wednesday. \n CABO SAN LUCAS, Mexico \u00bb Hurricane Newton slammed into the twin resorts of Los Cabos on the southern tip of Mexico's Baja California peninsula Tuesday morning, knocking out power in some places as stranded tourists huddled in their hotels. \n Newton made landfall as a Category 1 storm with winds of 90 mph, pelting the area near Cabo San Lucas with heavy rain and blowing down at least half a dozen palm trees along the coastal boulevard. Some windows were also shattered, but there was calm in the city as firefighters cleaned the streets of refuse. \n Roberto Dominguez, a customer relations worker at the Fairfield Marriot in Cabo San Lucas said guests hunkered down in their rooms overnight. He said the hotel's windows and balconies had been sufficiently protected from the storm and tourists were fine in the morning, although without cellphone or internet service. \n Los Cabos suffered heavy damage to homes, shops and hotels two years ago when it was hammered by Hurricane Odile, which hit land as a Category 3 storm. \n After making landfall Newton moved inland and its center was located about 50 miles west of La Paz, the capital of Baja California state. It was moving northeast at around 17 mph. Maximum sustained winds had decreased to 80 mph. \n Mexico extended hurricane warnings for the peninsula and also a stretch of the mainland coast across the Gulf of California, also called the Sea of Cortez. The U.S. National Hurricane Center predicted Newton could cross the peninsula as a hurricane and re-enter the gulf. \n Newton was forecast to dump 8 to 12 inches of rain on Baja California Sur state with isolated maximums up to 18 inches, and heavy rains were also expected for five other states. Newton could even reach the U.S. border at Arizona as a tropical storm, according to the latest forecasts. \n About 14,000 tourists had remained in Los Cabos as of Monday night as airlines cancelled flights out as the storm approached, said Genaro Ruiz, the state tourism secretary. Ruiz said tourists had been advised to remain in their hotels. \n \"The most important thing is to stay at home,\" said Carlos Godinez, a civil defense official for Baja California Sur. \"If there is nothing that requires you to be outside, take shelter with your family.\" \n Officials evacuated low-lying areas and opened 18 shelters at schools in the two resorts and 38 more in other parts of the state, while warning people against panic buying. \n \"There is no need for mass buying,\" Los Cabos Mayor Arturo de la Rosa Escalante said. \"There is enough food and fuel for the next 20 days.\" \n Los Cabos police were stationed at shopping malls to guard against the kind of looting that occurred after Hurricane Odile. \n On Monday, torrential rains from then-Tropical Storm Newton prompted some 100 people to evacuate their homes and damaged residences in Uruapan in the Pacific coast state of Michoacan, the city government reported. \n Some roads were blocked by flooding and mudslides in the neighboring state of Guerrero, where some people were evacuated by helicopter. No deaths were reported in either state. \n Newton was expected to move up the peninsula and enter the Gulf of California by Tuesday night. \n The hurricane center said the storm could dump 1 to 3 inches of rain over parts of Arizona and New Mexico through Thursday, threatening flash floods and landslides. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hurricane Newton slams into Mexico's Los Cabos resorts"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATEDP RESS \n Alonso Perez, 25. Police say Perez, who also uses the name Alfonso Perez, is a homicide suspect who escaped from custody at a police detective bureau while awaiting questioning about the Aug. 27, 2016, shooting death of a 31-year-old man at a McDonald's restaurant. \n NORTH LAS VEGAS, Nev.>> North Las Vegas police say a homicide suspect who has been on the loose since he escaped last week has been recaptured. \n Law officers apprehended 25-year-old Alonso Perez about 8 p.m. Tuesday. \n Police say in a statement that he was located in a residence and taken into custody without incident. \n No other details of the arrest were immediately available, including where it occurred. \n Perez had been on the loose since he broke free from handcuffs Friday and escaped from a Las Vegas-area police station. \n He has been identified by police as a suspect in an Aug. 27 shooting that left Mohammed Robinson, 31, dead outside a McDonald's restaurant. \n Perez was alone in an interview room when he broke the hinge of his handcuffs and escaped with one cuff still attached to his right wrist, Officer Aaron Patty said. \n \"He twisted them until they broke,\" Patty said of the wrist restraints. \"This is an extremely unfortunate circumstance. We're going to take a look at the details of how he escaped. But right now, we have a murder suspect on the loose and our focus is locating him.\" \n Perez was identified by police as a suspect in an Aug. 27 shooting that left Mohammed Robinson, 31, dead outside a McDonald's restaurant. \n Witnesses said the fatal argument began with angry words about Robinson not holding a door open for a woman. \n Perez, 25, who also uses the name Alfonso Perez, allegedly fled from the police office and stole a Ford F-250 work truck from a nearby parking lot. The vehicle was later found in a neighborhood east of downtown Las Vegas. \n Perez was described as 6-foot-3, with a goatee and a distinctive \"Air Jordan\" tattoo on his neck. \n The escape was believed to be the second this year from a police station in the Las Vegas area. \n The April escape of Ivan Mayoral-Lizarraga from a northeast Las Vegas police substation prompted a nearly five-hour lockdown of a surrounding neighborhood before the search was called off. Police said Mayoral-Lizarraga was being questioned in a stolen vehicle investigation when he fled. \n He was arrested about two weeks later, and pleaded guilty to felony home invasion, assault with a weapon and escape charges, according to court records. Mayoral-Lizarraga, now 40, was sentenced last month to 2-to-5 years in state prison. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Las Vegas police recapture escaped homicide suspect"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "Three people were taken to the hospital early this morning after the car they were passengers in collided with a dump truck on the H-2 freeway. \n The accident occurred at 3 a.m. on the H-2 freeway near the Ka Uka Boulevard onramp. \n Emergency Medical Services said a 25-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman were hospitalized with serious injuries. A 23-year-old man suffered minor injuries and was also taken to the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "2 people seriously injured in crash with dump truck on H-2"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n A light earthquake shook the Mauna Loa region of the Big Isle this morning. \n A light earthquake struck Hawaii island this morning in Mauna Loa, but does not pose a tsunami threat to the area or surrounding islands. \n The preliminary magnitude 4.0 quake struck at 4:25 a.m., 28.6 miles east-southeast of Kailua-Kona at a depth of 1.5 miles, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. No tsunami as a result of the quake was expected, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. \n No injuries were immediately reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Light earthquake hits Mauna Loa area; no tsunami threat"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "A 48-year-old man was in critical condition today with burns to about 45 percent of his upper body following an electrical accident in a Waikiki high-rise. \n The incident happened while the man was drilling a hole in a wall in a space for the trash chute and made contact with an electrical line, causing an electric shock or possibly a blast of heat, said Honolulu Fire Department Capt. David Jenkins. \n The accident caused the man's clothes to catch on fire, and the ensuing smoke and flames set off the building's fire alarm, Jenkins said. \n Firefighters responded at about 11:20 a.m. to the ninth floor of Waikiki Skytower, 2410 Cleghorn St., and found the man in a unit cooling off in the shower. \n A woman in her 50s was also looked at by paramedics for smoke inhalation and stress, but she declined transport to the hospital, Jenkins said. \n An Emergency Medical Services report said paramedics treated the man for burns to almost half of his upper body and took him to a hospital in critical condition. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man suffers severe burns in electrical mishap in Waikiki"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "An early morning fire destroyed the kitchen that serves patients and staff at Kalaupapa, Molokai, today but no one was hurt. \n \"There were no injuries,\" said Ken Seamon, administrator of Kalaupapa. \"There was a fire. It did destroy what we refer to as our kitchen or cafeteria. But all functions here are continuing and the patients will be taken care of.\" \n Janice Okubo, spokeswoman for the Department of Health, said the fire broke out between 2:30 a.m. and 3:30 a.m., when no one was in the building. Rangers from the Kalaupapa National Historical Park put out the fire with help from Health Department staff. \n \"The building with the kitchen we believe is a complete loss,\" Okubo said. \"We don't have any estimates on the cost at this point.\" \n There are currently seven patients at Kalaupapa, but the number fluctuates because they travel back and forth to Oahu, she said. The Health Department administers the remote settlement where people with Hansen's Disease were once sent. \n Okubo said a kitchen in the care home facility on Kalaupapa will be used temporarily to provide meals for patients. It is not yet clear how meals will be provided for the 44 Health Department employees and roughly 40 federal workers at the remote peninsula at the base of steep cliffs, she said. \n ", "author": "By Susan Essoyan sessoyan@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Kitchen at Kalaupapa destroyed by morning fire"}

{"date": "September 6, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 15, 2015, file photo, Ramaco, LLC, CEO Randall Atkins poses with a core sample from the planned site of a new coal mine near Sheridan in northern Wyo. Coal developers working against the trend of mine closures and bankruptcies say a $90 million investment announced Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2016, will enable them to open two new mines in West Virginia and Virginia over the next year. Atkins says the mines will directly create some 400 jobs in a region with unemployment far above the national average. Ramaco also has been seeking to open a mine in northern Wyoming that would supply coal to power plants for generating electricity. \n CHEYENNE, Wyo. \u00bb A $90 million investment that runs against the trend of coal bankruptcies and mine closures should enable two new coal mines and related facilities to open in West Virginia and Virginia next year, coal developer Ramaco Development and partners announced Tuesday. \n The mines would extract metallurgical coal, the type used for steel production. Most metallurgical coal mined in the U.S. is exported overseas. \n Kentucky-based Ramaco's partnership with two private equity firms will directly create some 400 jobs, Ramaco CEO Randall Atkins told The Associated Press. \n The Elk Creek Mine in southern West Virginia and the Berwind Mine spanning the boundary between southern West Virginia and Virginia will be operational for around 17 years. Test mining at both sites should begin by early next year and work on the Elk Creek Mine's coal preparation plant will start even sooner, according to Ramaco. \n \"We will start construction at the Elk Creek property just as soon as we get all the equipment lined up there,\" Atkins said. \n The company plans to begin talking with potential buyers in the next few weeks and could begin shipping coal under supply agreements in 2018, he said. \n Ramaco also has been seeking to open a mine in northern Wyoming that would supply coal to power plants for generating electricity. The Brook Mine proposal has been challenged in court by another company claiming surface ownership rights in the area but the mine faces no significant regulatory obstacles yet. \n Over the past year, bankruptcy reorganizations by major companies including Alpha Natural Resources, Arch Coal and Peabody Energy have roiled the U.S. coal industry. \n Low prices for natural gas and looming greenhouse-gas regulations are causing many utilities to turn away from coal as their fuel of choice for generating electricity. Coal-fired power capacity is down 15 percent nationwide since 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. \n Coal companies in Chapter 11 also mine much of the nation's metallurgical coal, which is baked into a substance called coke that plays an important role in steel production. While heavy debts have haunted those companies, Ramaco is debt-free and will strive to keep costs down, Atkins said. \n \"If we can control costs, the market will take care of itself. So even when you had a very low point in the market \u2014 which frankly we've had in the past 12 months \u2014 our cost is such that we would still be quite profitable,\" Atkins said. \n Very thick coal seams will help control costs at the mines, which will be mostly underground but will include some surface and longwall operations as well, he added. \n Longwall mining uses huge machines to shear blocks of coal hundreds of feet long from the coal seam while allowing the roof behind the machinery to collapse. In Wyoming, the top coal-producing state, nearly all coal comes from open-pit mines but Ramaco plans to employ longwall mining at the relatively small Brook Mine. \n Ramaco has been working on development, planning and permitting at Elk Creek since acquiring the property in 2012. The company acquired the Burwind property in 2015, Atkins said. \n Long-term, Ramaco seeks to produce up to 4 million tons from the two mines per year. \n Prices for high-quality U.S. metallurgical coal have fallen in recent years, from $300 per ton to below $100, but recently rebounded to around $140 amid production cuts in China, rising demand in India and supply interruptions in Australia, said James Stevenson, director of North American coal for analyst firm IHS. \n A metallurgical coal mine in Alabama formerly owned by bankrupt Walter Energy is set to reopen under new owner Warrior Met Coal, he pointed out. \n New life for metallurgical coal mining could become a trend if companies can lock in contracts at higher prices, he said. \n \"It's pretty slowly ramping up, but you're going to see that kind of effect, where strong prices bring production,\" Stevenson said. \n ___ \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "$90M investment for 2 new met coal mines"}

