{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hundreds of anxious parents staked out a Las Vegas middle school after mercury was found and federal officials kept more than a thousand students for up to 17 hours to screen them for exposure to the neurotoxin. \n LAS VEGAS >> Concerned parents directed sometimes angry questions at school and federal officials after the discovery of a small amount of mercury prompted officials to keep more than a thousand students for up to 17 hours at a Las Vegas middle school to screen them for exposure to the neurotoxin. \n The session with parents Thursday evening came as authorities investigated if a student brought the substance to Walter Johnson Junior High School on Wednesday, forcing 1,300 students, teachers and first responders to undergo testing by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, according to Clark County School District police Capt. Ken Young. \n It's too early to say what sort of charges or discipline could be imposed, he said. No mercury-related illnesses have been reported. \n Some parents criticized the lack of information they received and the intensity of the response, but officials said it was important to be sure no one went home contaminated. \n The Las Vegas Review-Journal reported that a town hall meeting, originally planned as a forum for parents to ask questions of district, police and EPA officials, instead prompted angry parents to expressed their frustration as they sometimes shouted questions. \n \"You say you want to address it, but you're not addressing it,\" parent Nicole Watson said. \"You're talking in circles.\" \n One of the most pressing answers parents sought was where, when and how much of the mercury was found. \n Randy Nattis, EPA federal on-site coordinator, said it's unknown how much spilled. \"A very little amount of mercury can go a long way in the way that it vaporizes and gets into the air.\" \n However, Las Vegas Fire Department spokesman Tim Szymanski said fire crews have described the amount to be about five to 10 drops. \n Parents also questioned why, if the mercury spill was small, the screening process took so long. \n The paper reported that a father in the crowd, Michael Durkin, shouted that his son came into contact with the mercury on Sept. 2. Durkin expressed concern that his son could have spread the substance through his house. \n High levels of exposure can cause mercury poisoning, which has symptoms including muscle weakness and speech, hearing and walking impairment, the EPA's website says. \n After screening, the last people were released at 5 a.m. Thursday, and school was canceled through Friday. When the mercury was discovered at noon Wednesday, automated messages alerted parents. \n Hundreds of anxious parents waited outside the school for their children, who slowly trickled out through Wednesday night and into Thursday morning. \n Students were quarantined in their classrooms until they were screened but were allowed to use the restroom. They received water, juice and food. First responders also coordinated with parents to deliver medicine to children as needed. \n \"They were laughing. They were talking. They were really, really upbeat,\" Szymanski said of students' morale. \"The kids didn't complain or seem out of it. I was there really, really late and I was really amazed at their attitude.\" \n The fire department helped EPA workers conduct the screenings, which took about five minutes per person, though some had to be cleaned and checked multiple times. By 11 p.m. Wednesday, a fourth mercury-sniffing machine was flown in from California to speed up the process, Szymanski said. \n It was the largest decontamination response the department has ever handled, he said. \n One by one, the 1,200 students were swiped with a wand that checked for mercury residue. They also threw their labeled shoes and backpacks into a garbage bag to be examined separately. \n Contaminated students had to be cleaned off, ranging from wipes for their hands, to dipping their feet into a tub of chemical soap, washing their hair and changing into a set of school-provided physical education uniforms. \n Everyone was eventually cleared of mercury residue. The level of exposure among the contaminated students was minimal because no one is believed to have ingested it, said Young, the school district police captain. \n A teacher initially reported the substance after seeing a group of boys and girls playing with it during a school assembly in the gym. The fire department confirmed the silvery liquid was mercury. \n The EPA said it's still evaluating how to decontaminate the school, which can take up to a week. The agency will check the entire property and screen all of the students' personal items before they are returned. A town hall meeting is set for Thursday evening to answer questions. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Sally Ho at twitter.com/\u2014sallyho. Her work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/journalist/sally-ho . \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Parents voice concerns after mercury found at Vegas school"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "A 19-year-old man allegedly sexually assaulted a 19-year-old woman in her Pearl City home this afternoon. \n Police said the victim reported the suspect allegedly entered the home at 12:30 p.m. through an unlocked door and then used force to sexually assault her. \n Police have not found the suspect. The case is pending investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pearl City woman reports sexual assault in her home"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "A 35-year-old Honolulu man who was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly burglarizing a Kaimuki house was charged today with second-degree unauthorized entry into a dwelling and first-degree criminal property damage. \n Police said Carlos Chang of an Alexander Street address was initially arrested on suspicion of first-degree burglary, abuse of a family member and first-degree criminal property damage. \n Chang allegedly entered the 32-year-old man's home while the victim was inside. The victim called police and Chang was found and arrested nearby. \n Chang's bail was set at $20,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man charged for allegedly burglarizing Kaimuki house"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "COLUMBIA, S.C. \u00bb The Marine Corps is considering possible punishments and potential courts-martial for up to 20 officers and enlisted leaders in the wake of investigations into the suicide of a 20-year-old recruit at its Parris Island training facility in South Carolina.  \n The results of three investigations released today found trainees \u2014 and even some drill instructors \u2014 were subjected to repeated incidents of verbal and physical abuse at the storied training site. It also faulted commanders for not paying enough attention to what was going on. \n The investigations were sparked by the death of Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan, a young Muslim who had told his relatives he wanted to become a Marine to serve his country. He died after falling nearly 40 feet in a stairwell. \n An attorney for Siddiqui's family, Nabih Ayad, has said the family has \"always suspected hazing of some sort\" in connection with his death. He did not return a phone call Thursday and calls to the family weren't returned. \n Some of the 20 commanders and senior enlisted leaders have already been fired, including the three most senior Marines in charge of the recruit's unit. The Marines also ordered that the rest be temporarily relieved, according to a statement sent to The Associated Press. Their punishments could range from administrative punishments, such as counseling, to the most severe action of military charges and courts-martial. \n No formal charges have been filed. Under military law, a preliminary hearing must be held that will determine whether the incident warrants further administrative or judicial action in every individual's case. \n That process could take weeks to months, and the individuals would not be identified unless they are formally charged. \n The findings are the result of three investigations conducted over the past six months by Maj. Gen. James Lukeman from the service's training and education command. \n A redacted investigative report did not mention Siddiqui by name but appeared to describe his death. It says that on March 18, the day Siddiqui died, an unnamed recruit wrote a note to his drill instructor asking to go to the infirmary for a sore throat. Because he didn't follow proper procedure, the recruit was forced to run back and forth in his barracks, the report said. \n After several runs, the recruit began to cry and fell to the floor clutching his throat, apparently unresponsive, the report said. He was ordered to get up and was slapped in the face, it said. After he was slapped, the recruit ran out a door and vaulted over a railing on the third floor of the barracks, the report said. \n The investigation also revealed \"recurrent physical and verbal abuse of recruits by drill instructors,\" with a lack of oversight by officers. Even new drill instructors were subjected to abuse by more senior drill instructors, a practice known as \"hat hazing\" because of the iconic flat-brimmed hats worn by the instructors. \n About 500 drill instructors are assigned to the Parris Island post. Parris Island is the only site where female Marines go through basic training, but they are trained in units separate from their male counterparts. All recruits from east of the Mississippi River train at the massive installation. \n The report said Lukeman's command has also taken steps to review and revise the Corps' approach to mental health issues and its handling of potential issues or statements by personnel involving suicide. \n The statement said immediate steps have been taken to enforce a \"zero-tolerance\" approach to hazing, and called for increased oversight of training activities by additional Marine Corps officers. \n The report said the investigation found the abuse was confined to Siddiqui's battalion at Parris Island, but the ordered changes to policy will apply to all battalions at Parris Island and the Marine Corps' West Coast training facility in San Diego. \n The Michigan congresswoman who pressed the Marine Corps to look into Siddiqui's death said the service has taken only the first step in helping his family get answers it deserves. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Mich., said she is visiting the South Carolina site this weekend to review changes the service has made in light of Siddiqui's death, and to make sure those found responsible are held accountable. \n \"As a young Muslim man, he truly understood the value of freedom of religion and all he wanted was to defend the ideals our nation holds dear,\" Dingell said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Marines uncover wide abuse, hazing after recruit's suicide"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n A mother is given her 2-year-old son, Stephon Smith, after being reunited with him and daughter, Skylar, 4, (background left) today at a Mobile station in Vinita Terrace, Mo. The children were kidnapped briefly when a man jumped into their vehicle and drove off as their mother entered the station to pay for gas. They were later found unharmed in nearby University City. Grandmother Lucy Davis, background center, holds Skylar. \n ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n A mother cuddles her 4-year-old daughter, Skylar Smith, today at a Mobile station in Vinita Terrace, Mo. Skylar and her brother, Stephon Smith, were kidnapped briefly when a man jumped into their vehicle and drove off as their mother entered the station to pay for gas. They were later found unharmed in nearby University City. \n VINITA TERRACE, Mo. \u00bb Two children were safe today after briefly being kidnapped by a car thief who took their mother's car from a gas station near St. Louis. \n The man who took the car apparently let the children out about a half a mile away at about 8:15 a.m. Police say they appeared to be unharmed. They are a 4-year-old girl and her 2-year-old brother. \n \"I'm very grateful to God, I am,\" said Lucy Davis, the children's grandmother, who was reunited with them. \"I'm elated.\" \n The car thief, armed with a gun, was still on the loose. He was driving a white BMW with Missouri license plate DL8-G5N. \n Capt. Steve Runge of the North County Police Cooperative said the suspect is wanted for armed criminal action, kidnapping and stealing a motor vehicle. He said the gas station surveillance camera captured a good image of the suspect. \n Runge distributed the photo to reporters and said the image quality was so sharp that the public should be able to help police identify him quickly. \n \"This guy's caught \u2014 he just doesn't know it yet,\" Runge said. \n The children's mother had left the children in the car while she went inside to buy snacks at about 8 a.m. That's when the armed man jumped in the car and sped off, Runge said. \n The children were located at about 8:15 a.m. by University City police. \n Someone called police to report seeing two children wandering down the street, said Detective Lt. Fredrick Lemons II of University City police. An officer stopped and talked with the children and then drove them back to the gas station. \n When police reunited the children with relatives, the little girl was seen carrying a stuffed animal. \n Davis, the children's grandmother, said they live with her about three blocks from the gas station. Davis wasn't with them Thursday morning but heard about what happened from her daughter. \n Her daughter was on her way to work. She had her children in the backseat, in their car seats. They were awake. She fueled up, then went inside the gas station to get some snacks. Davis said she doesn't know if the car was running but assumes the keys were left in the ignition. \n Davis, 52, rushed to the gas station when she heard about the kidnapping. Minutes later, the family was jubilant when officers told them the children were found safe. \n \"I pray to God for protection, and I never had doubt they would be safe,\" she said. \n The girl told Davis a little of what happened. \n \"She said the bad man took her and (her brother), and stole the car,\" Davis said. \"That's all she said.\" \n Davis said the children were checked out by a paramedic to make sure they were OK. She said she assumes the gunman wanted the car, not the kids. \n \"He probably jumped in the car before he realized there were kids in the car,\" she said. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch  \n ", "author": "By Kim Bell St. Louis Post-Dispatch", "title": "Armed car thief takes vehicle with 2 kids inside; children later dropped off safe"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Newly crowned Miss World Japan Priyanka Yoshikawa smiles as she speaks during an interview with The Associated Press in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> The newly crowned Miss World Japan is hardly a typical Japanese woman. Being half-Indian is only part of it. \n Priyanka Yoshikawa, crowned Monday after outshining more than 6,900 other applicants, has a certificate in elephant training, teaches English to children, enjoys kickboxing and volunteers as a translator at medical meetings. \n The 22-year-old is preparing for the worldwide pageant in Washington, D.C., in November. \n Being fitted for a couture gown for the event is part of the program, but fashion plays a small role in Yoshikawa's life. \n And she doesn't want to fit into any stereotype. \n She told The Associated Press on Wednesday that being in a beauty contest is a way to achieve her ambitions: Go to Bollywood, while pursuing her goal of building a children's home in India. \n A national debate was sparked in largely homogeneous Japan last year when Ariana Miyamoto, a half-American of African descent, was chosen Miss Universe Japan, another international beauty contest. Miyamoto faced criticism that she doesn't look Japanese enough, even though she mostly grew up in Japan and speaks the language perfectly. \n So far, Yoshikawa has faced less criticism. She says her victory is perhaps a sign that Japan is becoming more tolerant of diversity. \n \"I think (being mixed race) is getting more acceptable,\" she said, citing her victory as the second in a row. It's a matter of \"who can represent your country (best) and I think that's the answer,\" she said after a fitting at a Tokyo dressmaker's office and discussing the design of her gown for the November event. \n She did think about her identity at length, but being called \"hafu,\" or half, a term in Japanese for people of mixed-race, doesn't bother her, though it sometimes has negative connotations. Her roots have expanded her cultural experiences and perspective, she said. \n While traveling in Asia, she is often mistaken as a local, while in Japan she is constantly scrutinized, Yoshikawa said. Japanese people seem to have stereotypes of how Japanese, Asians, or Americans should look. \"I just let it go \u2026 you can be anything now. We are all the same human beings.\" \n Japanese with foreign roots or cultural backgrounds have faced discrimination, though less so as global exchanges prompt more international marriages. Mixed-race Japanese Olympians earned medals for Japan at the Rio Games. \n Yoshikawa, who has an Indian father and a Japanese mother, grew up mostly in Japan but spent one year in India and three years in America. She says living overseas gave her a broader perspective, but that she still calls Japan home. \n What struck her the most was a year in Kolkata. As a 9-year-old girl, she saw her peers living in poverty, up close. \n \"That totally changed my life. If I didn't live in India, or India was not inside me or part of me, I don't think I would have been here talking as Miss World Japan,\" she said. \"Living in India has changed everything, how I see the world, how I want to live, my vision.\" \n After returning to Japan with her family, cleanliness and safety here struck her again. She says the stark difference inspired her to work for a change \u2014 to improve the lives of children in India. \n To help send her message out, Yoshikawa hopes the elephant training license on her resume will catch attention because, she says, there will be more mixed-race people in Japan and that will no longer be a way to stand out. \n The license, which she obtained in Laos, is not just a decoration. She loves elephants, in part because of her Indian roots, and can ride an elephant with a passenger on the back and can bathe them. \"That's me, I can do that.\" \n Beyond Miss World, she wants to achieve her ambitions in India \u2014 in Bollywood's film industry and Kolkata. \n \"I would like to go into that industry. I need to learn dancing and Hindi but yes, of course I love to try anything,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Newly crowned Miss Japan proud of Indian roots"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Marc Zell, co-chairman of Republicans Overseas Israel speaks as the Republican Party launches its first ever election campaign in Israel in Modiin. \n JERUSALEM >> Republican activists are trying to \"make America great again\" \u2014 from inside a Jewish settlement deep in the West Bank. \n This week, supporters of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump have set up a campaign office in the Karnei Shomron settlement in the northern West Bank, hoping to tap into the large numbers of American immigrants in the area for support. \n The office is in addition to several Republican outposts set up across Israel to get American expatriates to register to vote. A new location in Gush Etzion, a bloc of settlements near Jerusalem, is expected to open next week. It's believed to be the first time either Republican or the Democrat activists have placed a campaign office in the West Bank. \n Marc Zell, co-chair of Republicans Overseas Israel, said the get-out-the-vote effort is not just for show. \n His group estimates there are about 300,000 American citizens living in Israel, including some 50,000 West Bank settlers. Zell hopes as many as 200,000 of them will register to vote. With the vast majority believed to be Republicans, he said there could be enough votes to influence results in swing states like Ohio, Pennsylvania or Florida. \n \"The total Israeli vote could make a difference, as it has in the past,\" he said. In 2000, for instance, he said about 1,500 Americans here cast ballots in Florida for George W. Bush \u2014 enough to provide the razor-thin margin that propelled him to victory. \n \"Had they not been counted, he would not have been president,\" Zell said. \"It's not academic speculation.\" \n Zell said the decision to locate outreach offices in the West Bank was not meant to make a \"specific\" political statement. \n \"But we're not oblivious to the fact that having a campaign office there is going to attract attention. We're comfortable about doing it,\" he said. \n Although the offices are not formal branches of the Trump campaign, he said they are \"closely coordinated\" with Republican officials in the U.S. \n In Washington, Trump's campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks welcomed the effort. \n \"We have a lot of grassroots support \u2014 no official offices, but so many supporters there that know Mr. Trump will be great for Israel,\" she said. \n While American Jews tend to vote for the Democrats, many living in Israel, particularly in the West Bank settlements, tend to be religious and socially conservative, with much more hawkish views toward the Palestinians. \n Zell, who during the primaries opposed Trump, said he came to embrace the Republican nominee in large part because of his views on Israel. \n Early in the campaign, Trump upset a gathering of Republican Jews by refusing to endorse Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel \u2014 a key Israeli position. Some of his other comments were seen by some as promoting Jewish stereotypes. \n But since then, Trump has described himself as \"very pro-Israel\" and has taken up a host of positions endorsed by Israel's hard-line government. \n Trump has vowed to \"dismantle\" the U.S.-led nuclear deal with Iran, which was bitterly opposed by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The Republican platform also says there should be \"no daylight\" between Israel and America. \n In an about-face for Trump, the platform now calls for recognizing Jerusalem as Israel's capital, a position that puts the campaign at odds with the international community and ignores the Palestinians' claim to east Jerusalem as their capital. \n The Trump campaign also appears to distance itself from the position of recent administrations \u2014 both Republican and Democrat \u2014 that opposed Israeli settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem. \n While Trump's platform makes no direct reference to the settlements, it rejects \"the false notion that Israel is an occupier\" and opposes any attempt to \"impose an agreement or to dictate borders.\" \n The Palestinians seek both areas, captured by Israel in 1967, as parts of a future independent state alongside Israel \u2014 a position with U.S. and wide international backing. Trump has given no vision on what a future Israeli-Palestinian peace deal should look like, saying the two sides need to work it out themselves. \n \"He's not coming here with preconceived notions about what to do,\" Zell said. \"This could be a real watershed in changing policy-thinking in Washington toward our region.\" \n Trump's opponent, Hillary Clinton, has also reached out to Israelis, giving an interview to the country's largest TV station broadcast Thursday. In the interview, Clinton said that Trump's hostile rhetoric toward Muslims has strengthened jihadis. She also tried to assure Israelis that the U.S.-led nuclear deal with Iran is good for Israel. Many Israelis share Netanyahu's skepticism about the deal. \n Neither the Trump nor the Hillary Clinton campaign has appeared to reach out to the much smaller number of Palestinian-American voters in the region. \n Sam Bahour, a prominent Palestinian-American businessman in the West Bank, said he had not heard of any outreach from either side. \"Guess the incentive of the selection of candidates is a non-starter,\" he said in an email. \n The U.S. Embassy in Israel said it does not keep track of the number of Americans living in the region. But Sheldon Schorer, a prominent Democratic activist in Israel, agreed with Zell's estimates of roughly 200,000 potential voters. \n However, he said he expects most to support Clinton. Although local Democrats are less organized than the Republicans, he said party activists are also hosting registration drives and educational events. \n \"I know the Republicans are investing very heavily in this \u2026 but I don't think they are going to get the results they want,\" he said. \"I think they will be disappointed today, partially because of the unattractiveness of their candidate.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump supporters court Jewish settlers in the West Bank"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "THE RECORD / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n The flag raised by firefighters at Ground Zero on 9/11, captured in an iconic photograph by former Record photographer Thomas E. Franklin, was recovered by the 9/11 Memorial & Museum and unveiled during a ceremony today. \n The flag that was hoisted above the rubble of the World Trade Center hours after the terror attacks of Sept. 11 \u2014 and which became a symbol of American hope and resilience after it was photographed by then-Record photographer Thomas Franklin \u2014 officially returned to lower Manhattan today.  \n The flag, mounted in a glass case, was unveiled in its new home inside the 9/11 Memorial & Museum. It occupies a prominent spot, by itself on the museum's top floor, befitting its role as an important icon of American history, said Joe Daniels, president of the 9/11 Memorial, which plans to host an event Sunday to commemorate the 15th anniversary of the attacks. \n First published in The Record on Sept. 12, firefighters raise the American flag at ground zero on Sept. 11, 2001. \n \"In a museum with so many important artifacts, this flag stands out,\" Daniels said. \"As we prepare again to pay tribute to those who were lost, this flag is a timely reminder of the spirit of our heroes and the resolve of a great city and great nation.\" \n Hours after the attacks, firefighters with the Fire Department of New York spotted a flag onboard the Star of America, a yacht docked at the marina near the World Trade Center. They took the flag and raised it on a lanyard above the rubble. The flag flew for only one night, however, and the next day a different flag was flown. \n After that, the original flag went missing for 15 years. In 2014, a television show called \"Lost History\" aired on the History Channel about the mystery of the flag. \n Within weeks, a man in Everett, Wash., went to a local fire station and handed over a flag he said was the 9/11 flag. He left no identification, however, and police in Everett were unable to track him down, said Detective Mike Atwood, one of the officers assigned to the case. \n So Atwood and his partner, Jim Massingale, spent months trying to verify whether the flag was authentic. They enlisted a crime lab in Washington state, which confirmed that the flag was embedded with dust particles from the 9/11 site. That plus an examination of the lanyard, which was made from two ropes taped together, confirmed the flag was authentic. \n \"Fifteen years later, I can't believe this is happening,\" said Shirley Dreifus, who co-owned the yacht with her husband, and who donated the flag to the museum. \"I am just so happy the flag is back where it belongs.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 The Record (Hackensack, N.J.)  \n ", "author": "By Christopher Maag The Record (Hackensack, N.J.)", "title": "Flag from iconic photo returned to 9/11 National Memorial and Museum"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill Cosby departs after a pretrial hearing in his sexual assault case at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pa., on Tuesday. \n PHILADELPHIA \u00bb Bill Cosby has long preached the gospel of personal responsibility to fellow blacks, irritating those who fault racism for holding the community back. \n But now lawyers for the 79-year-old comedian have suggested for the first time that racial bias is to blame as Cosby faces the prospect of 13 women testifying in court that he drugged and molested them. Twelve of them are white. \n Cosby's legal team raised the issue on the courthouse steps Tuesday after a hearing in his criminal sex assault case in suburban Philadelphia. Whether they intend to bring up race in the courtroom remains to be seen. At a minimum, some legal experts said the defense is trying to influence potential jurors. \n \"I think that you've always got to have in mind who's your jury pool,\" said Los Angeles lawyer Mark Geragos, whose clients have included Michael Jackson. \"That's probably the end game.\" \n Or the lawyers may have been dutifully carrying out Cosby's instructions: \"It could well be they are expressing the concerns of the client,\" said Carl Douglas, who was on O.J. Simpson's legal Dream Team. \n Cosby is set to go on trial next June on charges he drugged and sexually violated Temple University employee Andrea Constand at his home in 2004. He could get 10 years in prison if convicted. \n In bringing up race, his legal team took aim at celebrity lawyer Gloria Allred, who represents about half the women who have agreed to testify against Cosby. \n Allred \"calls herself a civil rights attorney, but her campaign against Mr. Cosby builds on racial bias and prejudice that can pollute the court of public opinion,\" the lawyers said in a statement. \n \"Mr. Cosby is no stranger to discrimination and racial hatred. When the media repeats her accusations \u2014 with no evidence, no trial and no jury \u2014 we are moved backwards as a country and away from the America that our civil rights leaders sacrificed so much to create.\" \n Allred called the tactic \"desperate.\" \n \"It is ironic that a man who has chastised the black poor for making race an excuse would now have to lean upon that as part of his defense strategy,\" said Georgetown University sociology professor Michael Eric Dyson, a black scholar and author of the book \"Is Bill Cosby Right? Or Has the Black Middle Class Lost Its Mind?\" \n \"If you're more cynical, you might say, 'What manipulation of racial rhetoric in defense of the indefensible,'\" Dyson said Thursday. \n Cosby's lawyers have not raised any bias claims in court during their myriad efforts to get the case thrown out. The focus for now is on keeping out the most damning evidence, including Cosby's 2005 deposition in which he admitted using drugs and alcohol to seduce women. The defense will also fight strenuously to keep the 13 other accusers off the stand. \n His lawyers asked on Tuesday to have the trial moved out of suburban Montgomery County, where the case was a major topic in the election campaign for district attorney last fall. Lead defense attorney Brian McMonagle suggested that the jury be drawn instead from Philadelphia. \n Though McMonagle did not say so, Montgomery County is 80 percent white and 10 percent black. In Philadelphia, the racial split is nearly even. \n That's not to say Cosby enjoys the unquestioned support of the black community. \n The trailblazing TV star and one-time role model has chided activists who call the criminal justice system racist. \n \"These are people going around stealing Coca-Cola. People getting shot in the back of the head over a piece of pound cake,\" Cosby said in an often-quoted 2004 speech before the NAACP. \"Then we all run out and are outraged: 'The cops shouldn't have shot him.' What the hell was he doing with the pound cake in his hand?\" \n His scolding remarks to the black community about baggy pants, fatherless homes and rap music have rankled younger blacks and scholars like Dyson. But they may still resonate with older blacks who share his focus on family life, education and personal morality. \n \"Those that grew up in the shadows of his 'Cosby' show don't want to believe the stench of the allegations,\" Douglas said. But \"I would think that millennials, if they think of the word 'Cosby,' would think of the word 'date rape' before you think of 'The Cosby Show' or Cliff Huxtable.\" \n Still, when it's time for the defense to pick a jury in this case, Geragos suggested race will trump all: \"Ultimately, at the end of the day, they're not going to take a white juror over an African-American juror.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For the first time, Bill Cosby's lawyers claim racism"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "A couple waits outside a restaurant in Boston's Chinatown neighborhood. Artist Wen-ti Tsen, who plans to install life-sized portraits on the street around the neighborhood beginning Sept. 10, says they're meant to underscore how the city's building boom is displacing longtime residents and businesses in the historic downtown enclave. \n BOSTON >> A public art project in Boston's Chinatown is spotlighting the impact of development on the lively, historic downtown neighborhood. \n Life-sized portraits of residents through the neighborhood's long history are going up in plazas and on street corners for about a week starting Sept. 10. \n Artist Wen-ti Tsen will also set up photo stations to take portraits of current residents, workers and passers-by that will be turned into life-size cutouts, too. \n Tsen says the project is meant to underscore how the neighborhood remains a place where generations of people have lived and worked. \n Susan Chinsen, of the Chinese Historical Society of New England, suggests the exhibit provides a \"neutral\" view of the often contentious gentrification debate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gentrification focus of new public art in Boston's Chinatown"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "LOS ANGELES TIMES / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Donald Trump supporter and Westmont College student Jake Lopez grabs a Trump campaign poster in his dorm room to take out on campus on March 29 in Montecito, Calif. \n National polls suggest millennials will vote for Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump by large margins in November, but that doesn't mean millennials lean further to the left than young people of previous generations. \n On the contrary, according to a new study, a larger percentage of millennials identified as conservative during their last year of high school than did baby boomers and GenXers when they were the same age. \n In 1976, when baby boomers were donning their caps and gowns, 21 percent of high school seniors identified themselves as conservative. In 2014, when it was the millennials' turn to graduate, 29 percent did so, the study authors report. \n Meanwhile, the percentage of high school seniors who identified as liberal was 35 percent in 1976 and 34 percent in 2014. \n \"In the 1980s, when the GenXers were young, it was considered the height of the young conservative \u2014 remember Alex P. Keaton on 'Family Ties'\"? said study leader Jean Twenge, a social psychologist at San Diego State University. \"But among millennials, we see a higher percentage of those identifying as conservative than we did then. Considering the reputation of millennials as a very liberal generation, that is pretty surprising.\" \n The study, published this week in the Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, found that generational groups have traditionally grown more conservative and Republican over time. \n On average, Americans identify as more politically liberal at age 18 and become increasingly conservative between their 20s and 60s. If the millennial generation \u2014 defined as those born between 1980 and 1994 \u2014 continues that pattern, \"they will not be the highly Democratic and liberal generation many had anticipated,\" Twenge and her colleagues wrote. \n \"Right now, millennials look very liberal and more likely to vote for a Democrat, but maybe that's just because they are young,\" Twenge added in an interview. \n John Della Volpe, director of polling at Harvard University's Institute of Politics, said he has seen similar trends in his own work surveying the millennial generation over the past several years. \n \"My impression is that too many folks across America and even in the pundit class think of this generation as a monolith waving a socialist flag,\" he said. \"It is so far from the truth. It is much more nuanced than that.\" \n The new study is based on data from three large and long-running national surveys. That allowed the researchers to track generational differences in both political ideology and party identification over time. \n The Monitoring the Future study polls a nationally representative sample of high school seniors. The American Freshman survey interviews a nationwide sample of first-year students at four-year colleges annually. Finally, the General Social Survey, conducted by NORC at the University of Chicago, queries a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults. \n \"The strength of these surveys is it allows us to look at generational trends without having to worry about what is due to age,\" Twenge said. \n The surveys show that millenials, in addition to being more conservative, are more politically polarized than boomers or GenXers were at the same age, and that the rise in polarization has happened mostly on the right. More 12th-graders in the 2010s identified as strong Republican (22 percent) than in earlier decades, while the number of those identifying as strong Democrat (21 percent) has remained relatively flat. Only 23 percent expressed no preference for a political party in 2014, down from 29 percent in 1988. \n Among college students, 50 percent of boomers identified themselves as middle of the road, compared to 53 percent of GenXers and 47 percent of millennials. \n One of the biggest surprises for Twenge was the huge jump in the percentage of people identifying as independent across generations. Among all adults, 46 percent identified as independent in 2014, she said. Among those between the ages of 18 and 29, it was even higher \u2014 59 percent. \n For context, from the early 1970s through the late 1990s, the percentage of all adults who considered themselves independent ranged from 41 percent to 39 percent. \n Twenge, who wrote a book on millennials called \"Generation Me,\" said her previous research could help explain why so many of them identify as independent. \n Among Americans of all ages, confidence in large institutions like government and corporations is at an all-time low, but that is especially true for young adults, she said. \n \"Millennials are very individualistic,\" she said. \"For them, joining a political party is kind of antithetical to the way they see the world. I think that explains a lot about what happened this election year.\" \n Della Volpe said this new paper and his own work at Harvard suggest that Republicans could do well with millennials, if they can figure out how to talk to them.  \n \"The key finding in my last big survey in the spring of 2016 was that young people are indicating they are open to a more nuanced conversation about politics, and listening to views of Democrats as well as Republicans,\" he said. \"Why hasn't the Republican Party in Washington and across the country figured this out and tried to take advantage of it?\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Deborah Netburn Los Angeles Times", "title": "Millennials are more conservative than boomers or Gen Xers were at their age, study finds"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "COURTESY ASHLEY BOYLE / JAN. 2013 \n Ashley Boyle with her daughter Finley Puleo Boyle at Malaekahana Beach, Laie in November 2013 before Finley suffered massive brain damage from an overdose of sedatives while at the dentist in December. \n Former Kailua dentist Lilly Geyer was indicted by an Oahu grand jury late today and charged with manslaughter in connection with the death of 3-year-old Finley Boyle, who fell into a coma during a dental procedure Dec. 3, 2013 and later died. \n Attorney General Doug Chin announced that Geyer faces 37 counts in the indictment, including numerous instances of medical assistance fraud and prohibited acts related to controlled substances. \n A bench warrant was issued for Geyer's arrest and bail was set at $100,000. \n The charges stem from events involving patients treated from October to December 2013 at Geyer's dental practice in Kailua. The attorney general's office said Geyer is subject to enhanced sentencing because two of the patients tied to the counts were children under the age of eight. \n The charges follow a joint investigation by the Department of Public Safety, Narcotics Enforcement Division, and the Attorney General's Medicaid Fraud Control unit. \n Geyer is accused of assault in the second degree for recklessly causing serious bodily injury to Boyle, identified only as FB in the indictment. She is also charged with manslaughter for recklessly causing her death, and with manslaughter by omission for failing to perform a duty imposed by law. \n Boyle was heavily sedated and stopped breathing in the dentist's chair on Dec. 3, 2013. She never regained full consciousness and died on Jan. 3, 2014. \n An autopsy ruled she died of complications following cardiac arrest, likely caused by the drugs given to sedate her. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kailua dentist indicted for manslaughter in dental death case"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A screen magnification feature of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 is demonstrated, in New York on July 28. Aviation safety officials took the extraordinary step of warning airline passengers not to turn on or charge a new model Samsung smartphone during flights following numerous reports of the devices catching fire. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb U.S. aviation safety officials took the extraordinary step late Thursday of warning airline passengers not to turn on or charge a new-model Samsung smartphone during flights following numerous reports of the devices catching fire. \n The Federal Aviation Administration also warned passengers not to put the Galaxy Note 7 phones in their checked bags, citing \"recent incidents and concerns raised by Samsung\" about the devices. It is extremely unusual for the FAA to warn passengers about a specific product. \n Last week, Samsung ordered a global recall of the jumbo phones after its investigation of explosion reports found the rechargeable lithium batteries were at fault. In one case, a family in St. Petersburg, Florida, reported a Galaxy Note 7 phone left charging in their Jeep caught fire, destroying the vehicle. \n Australian airline companies were among the first to take measures. Qantas has asked passengers not to switch the Note 7 devices on and not to charge them during flights, its spokeswoman Sharna Rhys-Jones said. Media reports said other Australian airlines took a similar step, including Jetstar Airways and Virgin Australia. \n Shares of Samsung suffered their second worst day of the year, tumbling 4 percent Friday on the Korea Exchange. \n Samsung launched the latest version of the Note series in August. The Note series is one of the most expensive lineups released by Samsung, and the devices usually inherit designs and features of the Galaxy S phones that debut in the spring. Samsung also added an iris scanner to the Note 7, which detects patterns in users' eyes to unlock the phone. \n Before the issue of battery explosions emerged, supplies were not keeping up with higher-than-expected demand for the smartphone. \n The Note 7 isn't the only gadget to catch fire thanks to lithium-battery problems, which have afflicted everything from laptops to Tesla cars to Boeing's 787 jetliner. \n Rechargeable lithium batteries are more susceptible to overheating than other types of batteries if they are exposed to high temperatures, are damaged or have manufacturing flaws. Once the overheating starts, it can lead to \"thermal runaway\" in which temperatures continue escalating to very high levels. Water can extinguish the flames, but doesn't always halt the thermal runaway. Flames will often reappear after initially being quenched. \n Lithium batteries are ubiquitous in consumer electronic devices. Manufacturers like them because they weigh less and pack considerably more energy into the same space than other types of batteries. \n Earlier this year, the International Civil Aviation Organization, a U.N. agency that sets global aviation safety standards, banned bulk shipments of rechargeable lithium-ion batteries as cargo on passenger planes until better packaging can be developed to prevent a fire from spreading and potentially destroying the plane. \n Kristen Gelineau in Sydney contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FAA warns airline passengers not to use Samsung smartphone"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "YONHAP VIA AP \n A South Korean marine watches a TV screen reporting about North Korea's possible nuclear test at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, Friday. South Korea's Yonhap news agency said Seoul believes North Korea conducted its fifth nuclear test explosion on Friday. The letters on the screen read: \"Explosion suspect.\" \n ASSOCIATED PRESS / OCT. 2015 \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un salutes at a parade in Pyongyang, North Korea on Oct. 10. South Korean and international monitoring agencies reported Friday an earthquake near North Korea's northeastern nuclear test site, a strong indication that Pyongyang had detonated its fifth atomic test explosion. \n SEOUL \u00bb North Korea said Friday it conducted a \"higher level\" nuclear warhead test explosion, which it trumpeted as finally allowing it to build \"at will\" an array of stronger, smaller and lighter nuclear weapons. It is Pyongyang's fifth atomic test and the second in eight months. \n South Korea's president called the detonation, which Seoul estimated had produced the North's biggest-ever explosive yield, an act of \"fanatic recklessness.\" \n The North's boast of a technologically game-changing nuclear test defies both tough international sanctions and long-standing diplomatic pressure to curb its nuclear ambitions. It will raise serious worries in many world capitals that Pyongyang has moved another step closer to its goal of a nuclear-armed missile that could one day strike the U.S. mainland. \n Hours after Seoul noted unusual seismic activity near the North's northeastern nuclear test site, Pyongyang said in its state-run media that a test had \"finally examined and confirmed the structure and specific features of movement of (a) nuclear warhead that has been standardized to be able to be mounted on strategic ballistic rockets.\" \n \"The standardization of the nuclear warhead will enable (North Korea) to produce at will and as many as it wants a variety of smaller, lighter and diversified nuclear warheads of higher strike power with a firm hold on the production of various fissile materials and technology for their use. This has definitely put on a higher level (the North's) technology of mounting nuclear warheads on ballistic rockets,\" the country said. \n South Korean President Park Geun-hye strongly condemned the test, saying in a statement that it showed the \"fanatic recklessness of the Kim Jong Un government as it clings to nuclear development.\" Kim is the North Korean leader. \n Park's office said she spoke with U.S. President Barack Obama about the test Friday morning, during a regional summit in Laos. Park said South Korea will employ all available measures to put more pressure on North Korea, which has previously conducted nuclear tests every three to four years. \n North Korea said there was no radioactive material leaked, but the explosion put the region on edge. \n Chinese state media reported that the nation's environmental protection agency started nuclear radiation monitoring. Japanese planes began to collect air samples from national air space to analyze possible radioactive materials. Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike said Japan's capital city is also testing water samples and monitoring radiation levels in the air. \n South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement that \"artificial seismic waves\" from a quake measuring 5.0 were detected near the Punggye-ri test site. European and U.S. monitoring services also detected similar seismic activity, with the U.S. Geological Survey calling it an \"explosion\" on its website. \n A South Korean Defense Ministry official, who refused to be named because of office rules, said that Seoul detected an estimated explosive yield of 10 kilotons. After the North's fourth test, in January, South Korean lawmaker Lee Cheol Woo said Seoul's National Intelligence Service told him that an estimated explosive yield of six kilotons was detected. \n The 5.0 magnitude earthquake Friday is the largest of the four past quakes associated with North Korean nuclear tests, according to South Korea's weather agency. Artificial seismic waves measuring 3.9 were reported after North Korea's first nuclear test in 2006; 4.8 was reported from its fourth test this January. \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has overseen a robust increase in the number and kinds of missiles tested this year. Not only has the range of the weapons successfully tested jumped significantly, but the country is working to perfect new platforms for launching them \u2014 submarines and mobile launchers. \n The longer ranges and mobile launchers give the North greater ability to threaten the tens of thousands of U.S. troops stationed throughout Asia. \n The seismic activity comes on the 68th anniversary of the founding of North Korea's government and just days after world leaders gathered in China for the G-20 economic summit. \n Any test will lead to a strong push for new, tougher sanctions at the United Nations and further worsen already abysmal relations between Pyongyang and its neighbors. North Korea is already one of the most heavily sanctioned places on earth, and many question whether the penalties work. \n China, the North's economic lifeline and only major ally, has previously offered cover to Pyongyang, though Beijing has expressed growing frustration with what outsiders call provocations. \n Pyongyang likely wanted to show the world that strong international sanctions following its fourth nuclear test and long-range rocket launch earlier this year haven't discouraged its efforts to advance its nuclear weapons and missiles programs, according to Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea expert at Seoul's Dongguk University. \n \"It seems that the North has decided to play an 'end game' where they push things to see how far they can go. It's already being heavily sanctioned and there will be little room for any new sanctions that will meaningfully hurt them more,'\" Koh said. \n North Korea is thought to have a handful of rudimentary nuclear bombs and has spent decades trying to perfect a multistage, long-range missile to eventually carry smaller versions of those bombs. \n After several failures, it put its first satellite into space with a long-range rocket launched in December 2012, and has since launched another satellite on a similar rocket. Experts say that ballistic missiles and rockets in satellite launches share similar bodies, engines and other technology. \n Despite the North's boasts Friday, it's unclear whether the country has achieved the technology needed to manufacture a miniaturized nuclear warhead that could fit on a long-range missile capable of hitting the United States. Some analysts believe that it has the ability to arm shorter range missile with warheads. \n In January, North Korea claimed to have conducted a hydrogen bomb test, but many foreign governments and experts were skeptical about the claim. After that test, some analysts said the country likely needed only a couple more test explosions before acquiring a miniaturized warhead that could be mounted on a long-range missile. \n North Korea's persistent pursuit of missiles and nuclear weapons has long been one of the most intractable foreign policy problems for U.S. administrations. The most recent test comes ahead of U.S. presidential elections in November. \n On Tuesday, North Korea fired three medium-range Rodong missiles that traveled about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) and landed near Japan. And last month, a missile from a North Korean submarine flew about 500 kilometers (310 miles), the longest distance achieved by the North for such a weapon. This worried many South Koreans because submarine-based missiles are harder to detect before launch than land-based weapons. \n Diplomacy has so far failed to stop North Korea's progress. Six-nation negotiations on dismantling North Korea's nuclear program in exchange for aid were last held in late 2008 and fell apart in early 2009, when North Korea was led by Kim Jong Un's father, Kim Jong Il, who died in late 2011. \n North Korea blames the United States and South Korea for its nuclear program, saying long-running \"hostility\" from Seoul and Washington to its government makes the development crucial for the small country's survival. \n Among Pyongyang's regular demands are for Washington to withdraw its troops from the region and to sign a peace treaty formally ending the Korean War. It also wants recognition as a nuclear weapons state. \n The Korean Peninsula remains technically at war, as the 1950-53 conflict ended in an armistice. Washington stations more than 28,000 troops in South Korea as a buttress against any North Korean aggression. Tens of thousands more are in nearby Japan. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul: North Korea's 5th nuke test 'fanatic recklessness'"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / OCT. 2015 \n Fish swim over a patch of bleached coral in Kaneohe Bay on Oct. 26. Officials today unveiled an action plan to cope with coral bleaching threatening island reefs. \n Officials today proposed a series of steps to fight coral bleaching that's threatening the state's reefs, including new marine protected areas, limits on fishing and controlling polluted runoff from land. \n Hawaii's ocean temperatures have been rising as greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have increased, forcing corals to expel algae they rely on for food. Vast stretches of reef have turned white over the past two summers, increasing the risk that the coral will get sick and die. Some already have died. \n It's a serious concern for the health of the ocean because coral reefs provide habitat for fish and other marine life, scientists say. Severe or concurrent years of bleaching can kill coral reefs, as has been documented over the past two years in oceans around the world. Scientists expect a third year of bleaching to last through the end of 2016. \n Bruce Anderson, the state Division of Aquatic Resources administrator, said addressing polluted runoff is difficult, noting it would cost millions of dollars to create artificial wetlands that would help control runoff. Fishermen in the past have also resisted moves to limit their catch. \n But Anderson said the coral bleaching crisis presents an opportunity. \n \"We are going to have future bleaching events, and the water is going to get warmer. And it's going to happen again and again,\" he said. \"So our challenge is to prevent the impacts of bleaching as much as we can and also to help the reefs recover.\" \n Another idea is to ban lay gill nets that fishermen leave in the water. Anderson said these types of nets are harmful because they kill all the fish caught in them, not just the species targeted by the fisherman. The nets work because the mesh is large enough for a fish's head to go through but too small for its body to escape. \n The state will hold public meetings on its proposals before any are adopted. \n Anderson said the state came up with the proposals after surveying over 80 scientists around the world about what steps are most effective at helping coral reefs. \n Warmer ocean temperatures bleached coral in Kaneohe Bay off Oahu in 2014. Last year, they bleached corals off the west coast of the Big Island and off Maui. \n Hawaii Fishermen's Alliance for Conservation and Tradition President Phil Fernandez said he said he looks forward to working with Anderson and the state on the proposals. \n The no-take zones may be problematic, depending on where they would be, he said, but his group is open to discussing them. \n As for potential catch limits on parrotfish, a popular reef fish, he said the species needs to be managed but the question is to what degree and how. Parrotfish help coral by eating algae and preventing it from smothering the reef. \n \"We want the reef to come back. We fish, and the health of fish is completely dependent on habitat. When the habitat is decimated, the fish goes away,\" he said. \n The Nature Conservancy of Hawaii's marine science director said he's excited and encouraged the state is taking on the issue and that it recognizes it needs to think strategically about coral bleaching. \n Eric Conklin called the proposals ambitious and noted the state will need to get feedback and input from the community. He said the proposals face a long road to approval through a public process. \n \"It's really easy to say 'the science tells us these are the best things to do.' It's really tricky to figure out the best way to be guided by that science but develop up a plan that still meets the needs of the people who rely on the resource,\" Conklin said. \"That's the real challenge in front of us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii prepares plan to help coral recover from bleaching"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "NASA / GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER VIA AP \n This artist's rendering made available by NASA on Tuesday shows the Origins Spectral Interpretation Resource Identification Security - Regolith Explorer (OSIRIS-REx) spacecraft contacting the asteroid Bennu with the Touch-And-Go Sample Arm Mechanism. The mission aims to return a sample of Bennu's surface to Earth for study as well as return detailed information about the asteroid and its trajectory. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket carrying the Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource Identification, Security-Regolith Explorer (OSIRIS-REx) spacecraft lifts off from launch complex 41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, today in Cape Canaveral, Fla. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. \u00bb The first NASA explorer of its kind took off on a seven-year quest today, chasing after a big, black, unexplored asteroid to gather a few handfuls of gravel for return to Earth. \n These bite-size bits of ancient space rock from asteroid Bennu could hold clues to the origin of life, not just on our planet but potentially elsewhere in the solar system. \n Thousands gathered to witness the evening launch of Osiris-Rex, a robotic hunter that looks something like a bird with its solar wings. The spacecraft took flight atop an Atlas V rocket, which soared a little before sunset on the mission, a U.S. first. \n \"Here we go!\" principal scientist Dante Lauretta of the University of Arizona at Tucson, said via Twitter at liftoff. Victory was declared an hour later; launch controllers shook hands and embraced as the spacecraft shot out of Earth's orbit, bound for Bennu. \n Round trip, the SUV-sized spacecraft will travel more than 4 billion miles (6 \u00bd billion kilometers) by mission's end in 2023. \n It will take two years for Osiris-Rex to reach Bennu (BEHN'-oo), which is circling the sun in a slightly wider orbit than Earth's. The boxy spacecraft will actually go into orbit around the asteroid, seeking out the best spot before going in for a quick bite. \n NASA has gone after comet dust and solar wind particles before, but never anything from an asteroid. It promises to be the biggest cosmic haul since the Apollo moon rocks. \n The roundish rock \u2014 an estimated 1,600-plus feet (500 meters) across and taller than the Empire State Building \u2014 is believed to harbor carbon dating back 4.5 billion years, to the beginning of our solar system. That makes it a time capsule and a scientific prize. \n \"We will make discoveries on this mission that we have not anticipated. It's exciting!\" said Bill Nye, \"The Science Guy,\" chief executive officer of the Planetary Society. \n The launch came 50 years to the day that the first \"Star Trek\" episode aired on TV. NASA launch commentator Mike Curie referenced the anniversary, urging the spacecraft at liftoff \"to boldly go\" to Bennu and back. \n Osiris-Rex may lead to asteroid-mining missions, according to scientists, and could help protect the planet from menacing space rocks. \n Japan already has visited an asteroid and returned some specks (the mission didn't go quite as planned), and is chasing another space rock for even more samples. Osiris-Rex's bounty, however, should surpass that; Lauretta and his team want at least 60 grams of dust and gravel, or 2 ounces' worth when the big day comes in 2020. Ground tests have yielded eight times that in a single scoop, so hopes are high for four to five handfuls. \n Osiris-Rex will hover like a hummingbird over Bennu, according to Lauretta, as the spacecraft's 10-foot (3-meter) mechanical arm touches down like a pogo stick on the surface for three to five seconds. Thrusters will shoot out nitrogen gas to stir up the surface, and the loose particles will be sucked up into the device. Spacecraft managers call it \"the gentle high five.\" They get just three shots at this, before the nitrogen gas runs out and the effort abandoned. \n The team opted for this touch-and-go procedure instead of landing to increase the odds of success. Despite extensive observations of Bennu from ground and space telescopes, no one knows exactly what to expect there, and it could be difficult if not impossible to anchor a spacecraft on the surface, Lauretta said. \n Osiris-Rex's freed sample container \u2014 the same kind used for the comet-dust retrieval \u2014 will parachute down with the asteroid treasure in Utah. The mother spacecraft, meanwhile, will continue its orbit of the sun. \n Among the 8,000 NASA launch guests was the schoolboy who came up with the asteroid's name for a contest. \n Twelve-year-old Mike Puzio of Greensboro, North Carolina, cheered as he watched his first up-close rocket launch: \"It was awesome!\" \n \"Unbelievable,\" added Dr. Larry Puzio, his pediatrician dad. \n The name Bennu comes from the heron of Egyptian mythology. Mike thought Osiris-Rex looked like a bird, with its twin solar wings and long arm outstretched for a sample grab. And with the spacecraft named after the Egyptian god Osiris, Bennu was an obvious choice, he said. \n Osiris-Rex is also a NASA acronym for origins, spectral interpretation, resource identification, security-regolith explorer. The estimated cost of the mission is more than $800 million. \n \"Space exploration brings out the best in us,\" Nye said shortly before Osiris-Rex began its journey. \"It is an extraordinary use of our intellect and treasure to elevate humankind, to help us know our place in the cosmos.\" \n It may also one day save the home planet. \n Bennu swings by Earth every six years, and 150 years from now, could hit us. The odds are less than one-tenth of 1 percent, according to Lauretta. While this particular rock won't destroy Earth \u2014 just carve out a huge crater \u2014 other asteroids could cause more trouble. \n Osiris-Rex will help scientists better understand the ever-changing paths of asteroids, and that could prove its biggest payoff. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "NASA spacecraft on way to asteroid to bring back samples"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama speaks in the East Room of the White House in Washington on July 21. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb It's no Nobel Peace Prize, but Barack Obama has a new honor to brag about. Scientists have named a parasite after him \u2014 and there's no worming out of it.  \n Meet Baracktrema obamai, a tiny parasitic flatworm that lives in turtles' blood. A new study officially names the 2-inch, hair-thin creature after Obama. \n Thomas Platt, the newly retired biology professor at Saint Mary's College in Indiana who chose the name, says it's an honor, not an insult. Really. \n Platt, who discovered and named the flatworm to crown his career before retiring, has more than 30 new species to his credit. In the past, he's named them after his father-in-law, his doctorate adviser \"and other people I have a great deal of respect for. This is clearly something in my small way done to honor our president,\" Platt said today. \n Platt, who is a distant relative of the president, says people pay thousands of dollars for the privilege of having a species named after them. \n Parasites, which live in and get nutrients from host animals, get a bad rap. Platt says this one reminds him of the president: \"It's long. It's thin. And it's cool as hell.\" \n Platt says Baracktrema obamai \"are phenomenally incredibly resilient organisms.\" \n \"I hold them in awe and with phenomenal respect,\" Platt says. \n The worm is related, distantly, to a parasite that can cause a devastating disease in humans, but it causes no harm to turtles, Platt says. \n Parasites are cool, crucial to life and all around us, says Rutgers biologist Michael Sukhedo, editor of the Journal of Parasitology, where the study appears. About 7 out of 10 animals on Earth are parasites, he says. \n Naming a new species \u2014 especially in the final paper of a career \u2014 \"is a big decision,\" Sukhedo says. \n Obama already has a spider, a fish and even an extinct lizard named after him. \n Although names are usually bestowed as an honor, Sukhedo admits once or twice parasites have been named as a tool of revenge \u2014 something Platt says isn't the case here. One time, Sukhedo says, a biologist named an entire group of parasites after her ex-husband: microphallus. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Barack Obama is officially now a parasite (it's an honor)"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n A strong quake struck near Australia today. \n A strong earthquake struck near Australia today, but does not pose a tsunami threat to Hawaii. \n The preliminary magnitude 6.3 quake was centered 17 miles southwest of Macquarie Island, Australia, at a depth of 6.2 miles at 11:46 a.m. Hawaii time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. \n The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said that \"a destructive Pacific-wide tsunami is not expected and there is no tsunami threat to Hawaii.\" \n No serious injuries were immediately reported. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Strong earthquake strikes near Australia; no tsunami threat"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "Big Island police have identified the 70-year-old California visitor who apparently drowned Tuesday while snorkeling at Pohoiki Beach as Nancy Peacock. \n An autopsy will be conducted to determine cause of death. Peacock was visiting Hawaii from Martinez, Calif. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police identify visitor who apparently drowned while snorkeling on Big Isle"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "A critical motor vehicle accident in Kalihi sent two men to the hospital this morning. \n A man in his 30s was in critical condition, according to Emergency Medical Services, and the other man, of unknown age, was in serious condition. \n Police closed a stretch of N. School Street in Kalihi following the crash. \n N. School Street between Aupuni and Kohea streets was closed around 10 a.m. However, the closure was extended to Lanakila Avenue around 10:48 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Critical vehicle accident closes stretch of N. School Street"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER STAFF \n UH public safety vehicles were posted outside Bachman Hall on the UH-Manoa campus, where officials were alerted this morning to a possible threat of an armed male. \n STAR-ADVERTISER \n McCarthy Mall at the University of Hawaii-Manoa campus on March 3. Honolulu police officers and University of Hawaii security personnel are patrolling the Manoa campus Thursday morning after receiving a report of a possible armed man. \n The University of Hawaii at Manoa lifted a campus-wide alert early this afternoon after police detained a man who had been described as \"distraught,\" possibly armed and headed to UH. \n The UH tweeted out at about 12:20 p.m. that the \"person of interest was taken into custody.\" Officials said the man was arrested in Kahala and was not on campus. \n Honolulu Police Department spokeswoman Michelle Yu confirmed that \"the male taken into custody was the subject of the earlier missing persons' bulletin who was reported as being distraught.\" He has not been charged with any crime, she said. \n At 9:01 a.m., the university sent out an alert to faculty, staff and students saying the UH Department of Public Safety \"received a report of an armed male possibly heading to UH Manoa campus. There is no evacuation at this time.\" The alert said the man was driving a black Mercedes-Benz. Police and UH security personnel immediately began patrolling the Manoa campus. \n UH spokesman Dan Meisenzahl said, \"He had a connection to someone here at the University of Hawaii but he is not a student or an employee. \n \"The initial implied threat did not come through university channels. We were notified by (HPD),\" he said. \"Out of an abundance of caution, the police responded and we have to take our lead from law enforcement. \n Later in the morning, Honolulu police confirmed in a missing person bulletin that they were looking for a \"distraught\" 41-year-old Hawaii Kai man, who was last seen at about 8 a.m. in Hawaii Kai. Police said he may be driving a 2000 black Mercedes-Benz. HPD did not say if he was armed or what triggered the missing person's bulletin. \n UH sent a second alert at 11:12 a.m., explaining that the first alert was a cautionary measure, and the threat is specific to one building, which they did not identify. \"The person of interest is known to be armed, but the incident is isolated and Honolulu Police and UH Manoa DPS are actively working the situation,\" UH said. \n A university spokesman said no classes were canceled and there has been no evacuation of the campus. \n St. Francis School, whose campus borders the UH-Manoa campus, also sent out a text alert to parents. \n Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on cellular phone. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "UH-Manoa security alert lifted after police detain 'distraught' man"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JULY 2014 \n Tower 4 at Oahu Community Correctional Center. Families of inmates at OCCC will be able to schedule visits up to seven days in advance beginning Oct. 1, according to the Department of Public Safety. \n Families of inmates at Oahu Community Correctional Center will be able to schedule visits up to seven days in advance beginning Oct. 10, according to the Department of Public Safety. \n The change in OCCC's visitation policy means that visits will be allowed seven days a week (except holidays) instead of just Saturdays and Sundays, said Toni Schwartz, Hawaii Department of Public Safety spokeswoman. \n The new visit schedule will be 7:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Monday through Sunday. \n Families will be allowed to schedule one 30-minute visit per week with up to two people visiting at a time with an inmate. \n The prison will use the five glassed-off interview rooms that are currently in the existing visitation room. \n No contact will be allowed between the inmates and visitors, Schwartz said. \n Implementing non-contact visits also creates a safer environment for staff, inmates and visitors by blocking a primary contraband pathway, she added. \n No new construction was needed for the change to no-contact visits. \n \"Visit availability for inmate's families forecasted over a seven-day period provides a wider array of options for families to visit and meshes better with scheduled security staffing,\" said OCCC Warden Francis Sequeira in a written statement. \"The daily facilitation of non-contact visits will be regimented and safer for inmates and staff alike.\" \n \"We know these visits are important for the inmates as well as their families, and this change will allow OCCC to hold visitation with less strain on staff and more oversight and control,\" said Public Safety Director Nolan Espinda. \n Visitors will be able to call and schedule their visits up to seven days in advance but no later than 24 hours in advance of the visit. \n Currently, visitors on weekends must line up at OCCC and are taken on a first-come first-served basis, Schwartz said. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "OCCC to implement new visitation policy"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Students gathered outside a high school in west Texas after a shooting incident today. \n ALPINE, Texas \u00bb A female student died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound today after shooting and injuring another female student inside a high school in West Texas, according to the local sheriff. \n Brewster County Sheriff Ronny Dodson told radio station KVLF that the injured student ran outside seeking help and was taken to a hospital with injuries that weren't considered life threatening. \n \"The shooter appears to have shot herself,\" the sheriff said. A gun was found near the suspected shooter, he said. \n The incident began shortly before 9 a.m. at Alpine High School in Alpine, a town of 5,900 about 220 miles southeast of El Paso. \n Authorities did not immediately release a possible motive for the gunfire. \n Dodson said a federal law enforcement officer who was responding to the incident was shot in the leg when another officer's gun accidentally discharged. \n Dodson didn't immediately return a message left with his office by The Associated Press seeking further details about the investigation. The school district declined comment, saying it would release a statement later. Alpine police referred to its Facebook page for updates, but none had been posted as of this afternoon. \n Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said he's monitoring developments in the Alpine shooting and promised to provide support for law enforcement agencies investigating the matter. \n The shooting prompted a lockdown at Alpine's three public schools. \n Dodson said the shooting at the high school was part of a chaotic series of events that included a bomb threat called in at nearby Sul Ross State University, which required law enforcement personnel to rush there from the high school. \n \"That's ridiculous for someone to call in something like this when we've got this situation going on,\" Dodson said. \"This community does not expect this, we don't want this, and we can't explain it yet.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Texas sheriff: 1 student dead, 1 hurt in school shooting"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "JAYNA OMAYE / JOMAYE@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Lifeguards posted warning signs at Makaha Beach Wednesday afternoon after a woman was bitten by a shark. \n City lifeguards will keep shark warning signs up at Makaha Beach until at least Friday morning as a precautionary measure in the aftermath of a shark attack Wednesday afternoon in waters near the shoreline. \n A 51 year-old woman who had been swimming about 250 yards offshore sustained a large gash across her right arm, shoulder and torso in the attack. Lifeguards, assisted by surfers, brought the swimmer to shore at about 2:30 p.m. Paramedics treated the injured woman on the beach and transported her to a trauma center in serious condition. \n After the rescue, lifeguards posted shark warning signs and cleared the water. The beach was reassessed today, with lifeguards patrolling of the area. No shark has been spotted today in the Makaha Beach area, said Shayne Enright, spokeswoman for the city's Emergency Medical Services. \n The incident marked the fifth shark attack in the state this year, and the first on Oahu in 2016. Three occurred on Maui and one on Kauai this year, and none involved a fatal injury. \n The last shark attack at Makaha Beach occurred in late October when a boy on a bodyboard was bitten on the leg about 50 to 60 feet from shore. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Shark warning signs remain up at Makaha Beach after attack"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "A 17-year-old boy was arrested after he allegedly threatened a teacher at a Kalihi school Wednesday morning. \n The incident occurred at 11:55 a.m. Police did not identify the school. \n The teen was released pending investigation after being arrested on suspicion of first-degree terroristic threatening. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Teen arrested after allegedly threatening Kalihi school teacher"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke with 'Today' show co-anchor Matt Lauer at the NBC Commander-In-Chief Forum held at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, New York on Wednesday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, with 'Today' show co-anchor Matt Lauer, left, spoke at the NBC Commander-In-Chief Forum held at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, New York on Wednesday. \n NEW YORK \u00bb After being roughed over by online critics for his performance moderating back-to-back live interviews with Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, Matt Lauer made a knowing reference during an interview with comic Dana Carvey today. \n Carvey, on NBC's \"Today\" show, was impersonating Russian leader Vladimir Putin and commending Lauer for his work on the previous evening's national security forum. \"You have a fan,\" Carvey, as Putin, said. \n \"One,\" replied Lauer, holding up his index finger. \n Lauer received the most criticism for not challenging Trump on the candidate's claim that he opposed the war in Iraq before it happened, despite a 2002 interview where he said he supported it. Clinton, who was interviewed earlier by Lauer, had referenced that Trump interview with Howard Stern. \n \"How can someone like (Lauer) not set the record straight on Trump's bogus claim of being against the war in Iraq?\" tweeted Glenn Kessler, fact-checking at The Washington Post. \n Some online critics criticized Lauer for appearing to rush Clinton at points during the interviews and seeming to be tougher on the Democrat. The reception illustrated the pressure that will be on moderators for the three face-to-face debates between Clinton and Trump later this fall. Lauer's NBC colleague, Lester Holt, is scheduled to moderate the first debate on Sept. 26. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Roughed up by critics, Matt Lauer jokes with Dana Carvey"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke to members of the media before boarding her campaign plane at Westchester County Airport in White Plains, N.Y., today, to travel to Charlotte, N.C., to attend a campaign rally. \n WHITE PLAINS, New York \u00bb Hillary Clinton blasted Donald Trump today for his condemnation of American military generals and his praise for Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying her Republican opponent had \"failed\" at proving he can be commander in chief. \n \"Every Republican holding or seeking office in this country should be asked if they agree with Donald Trump about these statements,\" Clinton said in a morning news conference. \n Clinton's remarks followed a Wednesday night national security forum where the presidential candidates made back-to-back appearances. \n The Democrat was repeatedly challenged on her controversial email use at the State Department and her vote as a senator for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. She also flushed out several national security priorities if she is elected, including trying to take out the leader of the Islamic State and vowing to defeat the extremist group without putting U.S. troops on the ground in Iraq or Syria. \n Trump did little to counter the criticism that he lacks detailed policy proposals, particularly regarding the Islamic State group. He both insisted he has a private blueprint for defeating the extremist group and that he would demand a plan from military leaders within 30 days of taking office. \n But he was also harshly critical of the military, saying America's generals have been \"reduced to rubble\" under Obama. Asked to square his request for military options with that criticism, Trump said simply: \"They'll probably be different generals.\" \n The Republican also renewed his praise for Putin and his disdain for President Barack Obama, saying that the Russian enjoyed an 82 percent approval rating. \"The man has very strong control over a country,\" Trump said. \"It's a very different system and I don't happen to like the system, but certainly, in that system, he's been a leader, far more than our president has been a leader.\" \n Speaking to reporters this morning, Clinton suggested she agreed with Democrats who say she is being held to a different standard in the White House race. \n \"I don't understand the reasons for it,\" she said. \"I find it frustrating, but it's part of the landscape we live in.\" \n With just two months until Election Day, national security has emerged as a centerpiece issue in the White House race. Both candidates believe they have the upper hand, with Clinton contrasting her experience with Trump's unpredictability and the Republican arguing that Americans worried about their safety will be left with more of the same if they elect Obama's former secretary of state. \n Clinton's argument that Trump is ill-prepared to be commander in chief has been bolstered by a flood of Republican national security experts who have chosen to back the Democratic nominee instead of their own party's pick. \n Some of those Republicans will join Clinton Friday for what she dubbed at \"working session\" on the threat of terrorism. Those attending the event include Michael Chertoff, who served as Homeland Security secretary under President George W. Bush. \n Wednesday's forum served as a preview of sorts for Clinton and Trump's highly-anticipated presidential debates. The candidates will face off for the first time on Sept. 26 at Hofstra University. \n By virtue of a coin flip, Clinton took the stage first and quickly found herself responding at length to questions about her years in government. She reiterated that she had made mistakes in relying on a personal email account and private server as secretary of state and in voting for the 2003 invasion of Iraq as a senator. But she defended her support for U.S. military intervention to help oust a dictator in Libya, despite the chaotic aftermath. \n \"I'm asking to be judged on the totality of my record,\" said Clinton, who grew visibly irritated at times with the repeated focus on her past actions. \n Trump stood by a previous comment that appeared to blame military sexual assaults on men and women serving together, but added he would not seek to remove women from the military. And for the first time, he opened the door to granting legal status to people living in the U.S. illegally who join the military. \n \"I think that when you serve in the armed forces, that's a very special situation,\" Trump said. \"And I could see myself working that out.\" \n The Republican also repeated an incorrect claim that he was opposed to the war with Iraq before the invasion. That assertion is contradicted by an interview Trump did with Howard Stern in September 2002 in which he was asked whether he supported the invasion. He replied, \"Yeah, I guess so.\" \n Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Steve Peoples contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton blasts Trump's comments on military generals, Putin"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. President Barack Obama pauses as he speaks during a news conference at the Landmark Mekong Riverside Hotel in Vientiane, Laos. \n VIENTIANE, Laos >> President Barack Obama says Donald Trump confirms his belief that the Republican presidential candidate isn't qualified for the job \"every time he speaks,\" adding that he was confident Americans would ultimately reject the brash billionaire on Election Day. \n Closing out his final presidential trip to Asia today, Obama said his meetings with foreign leaders during stops in China and Laos had illustrated that governing is \"serious business\" requiring knowledge, preparation and thought-out policies that can actually be implemented. He urged Americans not to allow the \"outrageous behavior\" seen amid the campaign-season din to become the new normal. \n \"The most important thing for the public and the press is to just listen to what he says and follow up and ask questions to what appear to be either contradictory or uninformed or outright wacky ideas,\" Obama said. \n Throughout the campaign, Obama has repeatedly denounced Trump and deemed him \"unfit\" to serve as commander in chief, while arguing that his controversial positions and comments are a step beyond what Republican nominees have embraced in the past. Obama has endorsed Hillary Clinton and has said he plans to campaign full-force for the Democrat before the Nov. 8 election. \n Obama's remarks came at the end of a grueling nine-day trip that took him to Laos and China following U.S. stops in Nevada, Hawaii and Midway Atoll in the Pacific Ocean. Obama said the United States and Southeast Asian nations gathered in Laos have advanced a vision of an open, competitive economic system in which all nations play by the same rules. \n \"When I think back to the time I spent here as a boy, I can't help but be struck by the extraordinary progress that's been made by the region in the decades since, even if there's still a lot of work to be done,\" Obama said. \n Topping that list is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation free-trade deal Obama helped broker. The deal awaits ratification in the U.S. Congress, where there is opposition from both parties. Obama said he planned to do everything possible to persuade lawmakers to approve it before year's end. \n Obama rejected the notion that he'd been slighted while in Asia or that leaders in the region were rejecting his leadership \u2014 a criticism leveled by Trump. \n The start of Obama's trip was overshadowed by tense moments on the tarmac in Hangzhou when Chinese officials clashed with White House aides and appeared to have failed to secure a staircase for Obama's plane. The awkwardness continued days later when Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte called Obama a \"son of a bitch\" and warned Obama not to challenge him in their planned meeting in Laos. Obama called off the meeting. \n But Obama ended up exchanging pleasantries with Duterte on the summit's sidelines. Obama said they shook hands but that it was a brief interaction, adding that he'd told Duterte their aides should confer on how the two treaty allies can move forward. \n \"I don't take these comments personally, because it seems as if this is a phrase he's used repeatedly directed at the pope and others,\" Obama said of the slur. \n As an example of progress on the trip, Obama pointed to discussions with Southeast Asian leaders about maritime disputes in the South China Sea and suggested progress had been made in clarifying the path ahead to lower tensions between China and the Philippines. In a joint statement issued by leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, members were expected to issue a mild rebuke to China without referencing it by name. \n \"I realize this raises tensions,\" Obama said earlier as he met with ASEAN leaders, referring to a recent international arbitration ruling against China on the maritime dispute. \"But I also look forward to discussing how we can constructively move forward together to lower tensions and promote diplomacy and regional stability.\" \n On his final day in Asia, Obama met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose help Obama is seeking to galvanize further action on climate change, especially among developing countries. The two grinned and shook hands but made no substantive comments as reporters were allowed in briefly for the start of their meeting. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama: Americans will reject Trump's 'wacky' ideas"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Houses of Parliament on the river Thames in London. A committee charged with stopping Britain's creaky, leaky Parliament from falling down is set to say whether lawmakers will have to move out for several years so repair work can be done. \n LONDON >> A committee charged with stopping Britain's creaky, leaky Parliament from falling down is set to say Thursday whether lawmakers will have to move out for several years so repair work can be done. \n The Joint Committee on the Palace of Westminster has been studying options for the 19th-century complex, one of London's most famous landmarks, which needs work to repair collapsing roofs, crumbling walls and leaking pipes, and to remove asbestos. \n A study by Deloitte Real Estate last year laid out three options, taking between six and 32 years. \n The BBC and other media say the committee will back the shortest timeframe, known as a \"full decant.\" It would see members of the House of Commons and House of Lords move to temporary premises nearby for six years starting in about 2022. \n The plan, estimated to cost about 3.5 billion pounds ($4.7 billion), requires lawmakers' approval. \n British legislators last moved from their traditional chambers when bombs fell on the building during World War II, setting the House of Commons on fire. \n Most of the Parliament complex was built after a major fire razed its predecessor in 1834, though the oldest section, Westminster Hall, is 900 years old. \n The Palace of Westminster, as the buildings are officially known, has been designed a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. But its maze of corridors, leaky roofs and antiquated plumbing make it a challenging workplace for some 2,000 politicians and staff, and the stonework on its neo-Gothic exterior is crumbling. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawmakers could have to move out of crumbling UK Parliament"}

{"date": "September 8, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks with 'Today' show co-anchor Matt Lauer at the NBC Commander-In-Chief Forum held at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, New York, tonight. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, with 'Today' show co-anchor Matt Lauer, left, speaks at the NBC Commander-In-Chief Forum held at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space museum aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, in New York tonight. \n Donald Trump sought to allay voter concerns about his temperament as Hillary Clinton tried to assure Americans that her mistakes in handling national security email should not undercut their trust in her capacity to lead the nation. \n In a scrappy prelude to their upcoming debates, the rival presidential nominees appeared back to back at an NBC News town hall in New York tonight, highlighting contrasts on turmoil in the Middle East and other matters of concern to the in-person military audience. \n Trump renewed his praise for Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Republican, who has wavered on whether he would commit to defending NATO allies under attack by Russia, argued that Putin was more effective than President Barack Obama and that the Russian leader's compliments of Trump would not affect their relationship. \n \"The fact that he calls me brilliant or whatever he calls me is going to have zero impact,\" Trump said. \"If he says great things about me, I'm going to say great things about him. \u2026 Now it's a very different system, and I don't happen to like the system. But certainly in that system he's been a leader, far more than our president has been a leader.\" \n Trump also stood by his 2013 comment on Twitter about the frequency of sexual assault in the military: \"26,000 unreported sexual assaults in the military \u2014 only 238 convictions. What did these geniuses expect when they put men & women together?\" \n \"It is a correct tweet,\" Trump said when Matt Lauer, the \"Today\" show anchor who moderated the forum, asked about it. \"There are many people that think that that's absolutely correct.\" \n Trump was immediately slammed on social media for defending the tweet. \n Asked whether the solution was to keep women from serving in the military, Trump said no. \n Trump also stood by his inaccurate claims that he opposed U.S. military intervention in Iraq and Libya, and he defended his comment that he understands the Islamic State terrorist group better than U.S. generals do. \n \"Under the leadership of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, the generals have been reduced to rubble,\" Trump said. \"They have been reduced to a point where it's embarrassing to our country.\" \n The Islamic State never would have gained power in Syria and Iraq if the U.S. had occupied Iraq's oil fields at the end of the Iraq war, he argued. \n \"We spend $3 trillion, we lose thousands and thousands of lives, and then, Matt, what happens is we get nothing,\" Trump said. \"It used to be to the victor belong the spoils. Now, there was no victor there, believe me. There was no victor. But I always said take the oil.\" \n Asked how that could be done, Trump said: \"You would leave a certain group behind, and you would take various sections where they have the oil.\" \n Clinton, who appeared before Trump, spent the better part of her half hour explaining how she handled classified materials during her four years as secretary of state. The Democratic presidential nominee expressed regret about using a private email server and insisted she never compromised national security. \n \"There is no evidence my account was hacked,\" she said. \n When traveling abroad, Clinton said, she took precautions including ducking into a portable tent to view classified materials to ensure no cameras were snooping. \n \"I take it very seriously,\" she said. \"Always have, always will.\" \n After months of casting Trump as reckless and dangerous, Clinton argued that \"rock-solid steadiness\" was one of the most important characteristics of a good commander in chief, along with strength and judgment. \n Laying out her strategy for combating the Islamic State, Clinton said she would not allow the U.S. to be mired in another war in the Middle East. \n \"We are not putting ground troops into Iraq ever again, and we're not putting ground troops into Syria,\" she said. \n Asked about her vote for the Iraq war while she was a U.S. senator from New York, Clinton reminded the audience that she regretted the decision, while Trump still insists he was opposed to the invasion, despite evidence to the contrary. \n \"I have taken responsibility for my decision,\" Clinton said. \"He has refused to take responsibility for his support.\" \n Clinton reiterated her support for the nuclear deal with Iran, saying enforcing the agreement would give her a freer hand to deal with the country's ballistic missile tests and support for terrorism. \n \"I would rather be dealing with Iran on all of those issues, without having them racing to a nuclear weapon,\" she said. \n Clinton pledged to hold weekly meetings in the Oval Office to ensure veterans were receiving adequate health care, but said she would oppose any attempts to privatize hospitals run by the Department of Veterans Affairs. \n \"There is an agenda out there \u2026 to do just that,\" she said. \"I think that would be disastrous for our military veterans.\" \n The event, televised live, was organized by the nonpartisan Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. It was held aboard the decommissioned aircraft carrier Intrepid, now home to a museum on the Hudson River in New York. \n Some of Trump's most high-profile controversies have centered on the military and veterans. Last year, he insulted Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who spent five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, by saying he prefers veterans who \"weren't captured.\" Trump refused to endorse McCain against a primary challenger last month who was a vocal Trump supporter. \n Trump also lashed out at the family of Humayun Khan, an Army captain who died in Iraq, after his father criticized Trump during a highly emotional moment at the Democratic National Convention. Trump's repeated attacks on the Khan family were widely criticized and came amid a stretch of behavior so erratic, even by the standards of his unorthodox campaign, that top Republicans were said to be exploring alternatives should he leave the race. \n Since then, Trump has overhauled his campaign leadership and appears to have moved on from the Khans and begun sticking to his core issues of immigration and trade on the campaign trail. \n Polls show Trump has more support from the military community. \n Trump leads 55 percent to 36 percent among veterans and active-duty service members, according to a new NBC/SurveyMonkey poll. The same poll showed Clinton with an overall lead among registered voters, 48 percent to 42 percent. \n Clinton had the advantage when registered voters were asked which candidate was better equipped to handle nuclear weapons, leading 44 percent to 24 percent. Trump has caused alarm among nuclear experts with his loose talk about nuclear war. \n It's a message Clinton's campaign and her allies have tried to hammer home, portraying Trump as too unstable and erratic to oversee the country's arsenal. \n Priorities USA, a super PAC supporting Clinton, is spending $5 million on a new television advertisement in swing states to criticize Trump's statements on war and nuclear weapons. \n ", "author": "Tribune News Service", "title": "Clinton pressed on emails, Trump defends praise of Putin at military town hall"}

