{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2014 \n Archbishop Anthony Apuron stands in front of the Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathedral Basilica in Hagatna, Guam. The Catholic Church on Guam has been devastated by allegations that its longtime archbishop sexually abused altar boys. \n HAGATNA, Guam >> The Catholic Church on the Pacific island of Guam has been devastated by allegations that its longtime archbishop sexually abused altar boys. But even before the scandal broke, Guam's church was divided over another issue \u2014 the presence of a controversial European lay movement that became so toxic that a community of nuns fled to the mainland U.S. in despair. \n The battle on the tiny tropical U.S. territory pits the Neocatechumenal Way lay group against critics on a majority Catholic island that was colonized by Spanish missionaries in the 17th century. The Way was founded in the 1960s in Madrid and is best known for sending families out on missions to evangelize in places where Catholics are a either a minority or have fallen away from the church. \n For years, locals on Guam have complained that the Way represented a new missionary movement trying to introduce an unusual version of Catholicism to their church, which is the most influential institution on the island. The Way's practices include celebrating Mass on Saturday night in special communities of 30-40 people seated around a table, rather than facing an altar in a church open to all. \n Guam's critics aren't alone. Bishops in Japan, the Philippines and elsewhere have sought to limit the Way's activity in their territories, complaining of sectarian and culturally insensitive practices. \n But the Way had a strong supporter in Guam Archbishop Anthony Apuron, who encouraged the group's growth on the island and even turned his new seminary over to the Way to run. \n That coddling came to an abrupt halt when Pope Francis suspended Apuron last June after a handful of men came forward to accuse him of having sexually abused them decades ago when he was a Guam parish priest. Apuron has denied the accusations and can't be criminally charged because too much time has passed. The Way hasn't been implicated. \n Francis named an interim archbishop, Michael Byrnes, to lead the archdiocese until Apuron's fate within the church is decided by a Vatican court. \n Responding to the criticism, Byrnes on March 15 placed restrictions on the Way, mandating a yearlong \"pause\" in the creation of new prayer communities on Guam, ordering that its members obey Vatican rules in celebrating Mass and launching a review into the quality of their training as Catholic teachers. \n \"The sooner we have unity and universal adherence as an archdiocese to the norms established by the church \u2026 the sooner we shall be on the path to reconciling with one another,\" Byrnes said. \n It was the latest case of a bishop cracking down on the Way, which has won praise in Vatican circles for its missionary zeal, but criticism in the field for sometimes being a divisive presence. \n In Guam, where 80 percent of its 159,000 residents are Catholic, the Way has attracted about 800 followers. Globally, it is said to have upward of 1 million. \n What makes the group controversial is its liturgy, in which the faithful often receive Communion sitting down. The laity also offer personal \"resonances\" about Scriptural readings that critics say can detract from the priest's homily. \n Despite its detractors, the Way enjoyed the blessing of St. John Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI. The Vatican approved its statutes and some of its peculiar liturgy in 2008, but did order the Way to more closely adhere to universal liturgical norms. \n Pope Francis has praised the Way's missionary spirit, but he has insisted they pursue \"humble and obedient unity\" with local churches, said Massimo Faggioli, a Villanova University professor of historical theology. \n Faggioli said the situation in Guam represented \"a perfect storm\" of problems that underscores just how divisive movements like the Neocatechumenals can be. The Guam church is coping with a sex scandal, financial problems and grassroots criticism of the Way. \n \"Francis hasn't singled out one movement as a bad example, but he has always told them you have to create unity, you cannot create a sub-church or a parallel church,\" Faggioli said. \n In Guam, which is closer to the Philippines than Hawaii, more tradition-minded faithful rebelled at Apuron's embrace of the Way, which included naming Way priests to parishes where beloved pastors had served for years. \n Many people simply stopped contributing. The Agana Cathedral-Basilica was placed in receivership last week, drowning under $2 million in debt thanks in part to a drop-off in donations. \n Way supporters point to its strong spirituality and enthusiasm in reawakening the faith in Catholics. \n \"We are a small reality on this island willing to reach out for the poor, for those who are out of the church,\" said Dr. David Atienza, the lead catechist for the Way in Guam. He said the group would comply with Byrnes' letter. \n The Rev. Allan Figueroa Deck, a Jesuit professor of pastoral theology at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, said that despite some detractors, the Way is a new church reality. \n \"The positive thing to say is that it represents one among many movements in the church that is offering a way to be Catholic and a way to be Christian that is more demanding, that is deeper, that is more engaged, than what you find in many everyday Catholics,\" he said. \n Opponents of the Way formed a group \u2014 the \"Concerned Catholics of Guam\" \u2014 and last year took out full-page newspaper ads urging victims of priestly sexual abuse to come forward. The campaign resulted in Apuron's accusers going public and a law lifting the statute of limitations on abuse claims. For more than 35 Sundays, protesters have picketed outside the cathedral, demanding that Apuron be defrocked. \n \"Concerned Catholics of Guam\" was also decisive in pushing for an investigation into the archdiocesan seminary, which Apuron opened in 1999 and moved to an 18-acre property thanks to a $2 million anonymous donation. \n A Vatican-backed inquiry into the seminary found that the property's control had effectively been transferred to the Way's administrators without Vatican approval. Byrnes transferred ownership back to the archdiocese. The review also found deficiencies in the curriculum. \n The seminary controversy came to a head when the Carmelite order of religious sisters revealed it had provided the $2 million donation, but said the money had been intended for an archdiocesan seminary to train diocesan priests, not a Neocatechumenal Way seminary to train missionaries. \n In a remarkable press conference in November, Carmelite Mother Superior Dawn Marie came out of her cloister and announced that her small community of nuns had left the island after a 50-year presence because of the \"toxic environment\" created by the controversy. \n The Vatican's administrator running the archdiocese, Archbishop Savio Hon Tai Fai, apologized for how the donor's intent had been \"twisted by some people\" and thanked the sisters for their long service. \n Apuron, who remains off the island as his canonical trial continues, didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. In November, he welcomed Byrnes' appointment, saying: \"During this time of difficulty for Guam, in which so many hurtful things have been said, I have remained on retreat while working with the authorities in the Vatican to establish my innocence.\" \n ", "author": "", "title": "Guam Catholic Church sees a \"perfect storm\" of controversy"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "A 17-month-old girl died Friday after she was struck by a vehicle operated by her mother. \n According to police, the mother was reversing the vehicle when the child apparently stepped into the driveway. \n The incident occurred around 4:30 p.m. at a Kailua residence. \n The girl was transported to an area hospital where she later died. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Toddler fatally struck by vehicle operated by mother"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n At left, North Carolina head coach Roy Williams. At right, Gonzaga head coach Mark Few. On Monday, the two will go head-to-head in the NCAA championship game. \n GLENDALE, Ariz. >> Roy Williams has been here before. Just last year, in fact. And five times altogether, playing for the NCAA championship. Twice he got to celebrate winning the final game of the season with the Tar Heels, pushing their total to five tournament titles. \n For Mark Few and Gonzaga, this is all new. Just getting to the Final Four was a first, and now they are one victory from lifting the trophy. \n If it came down to history, tradition and experience, North Carolina would run away with Monday's NCAA championship game. If only it were that easy for the Tar Heels. \n \"You know, on game night, kids got to play. That's the bottom line,\" Williams said Saturday night after the Tar Heels beat Oregon 77-76. \"I've never won a game from the bench. I may have lost some, but I know I've never won one.\" \n The 66-year-old Williams called Few one of his best friends in coaching and said he was stressed out hoping that his poker buddy would finally break through and reach the Final Four this year. \n The last time they played each other in the NCAA Tournament was 2009, when the Tar Heels eliminated the Bulldogs in the Sweet 16. Since the Zags graduated from upstart to national power, there have been lots of early exits in the tournament. \n Few has been the coach of Gonzaga for 18 seasons and never once have the Zags missed the NCAA Tournament. He is 503-112 at Gonzaga, but there were always questions about whether the program was good enough to really be considered among the best in the country. \n Those should be gone now and if there are any lingering doubters, the Bulldogs can take care of that on Monday by beating one of the bluest of college basketball's blue bloods. This is North Carolina's record 20th Final Four. \n \"I know Gonzaga, they don't have the history that we do. But they've only lost one game this year. They're a pretty good team,\" North Carolina guard Joel Berry II said. \"While the history matters to show how great your program is, at the same time it doesn't because you got to play that game on Monday.\" \n For years Williams was the coach who couldn't win the big one. During his time at Kansas, Williams made it to the Final Four four times but never won one. He left for North Carolina, his alma mater where he played and worked as an assistant for Dean Smith. \n Williams shook that label in his second season at North Carolina, winning it all in 2004-05 and then came back with another title in 2008-09. A gut-wrenching loss to Villanova in a championship game classic last year denied Williams a third career title. Now he will get another chance to pass his mentor, Smith (who won two) and become just the sixth coach with at least three NCAA championships on his resume. \n \"I'm coaching a new group of kids,\" Williams said. \"And making it back to the national championship game is amazing. Oh, you did that last year? Well, that still makes it even more amazing kind of thing.\" \n Few joked earlier in the tournament about not worrying about having a monkey on his back. He has, like Williams, always gone out of his way to make it about his players \u2014 and this season he has some really great players such as Nigel Williams-Goss and Przemek Karnowski. \n \"I've had some really, really tough teams. I've had some really close teams. I've had some teams that have been crazy efficient on the offensive end and ones that have been pretty darned good on the defensive end that probably didn't get credit for it,\" Few said. \"These guys are all of that. All of it.\" \n The matchup is set: the Hall of Fame coach with a chance to move into company that includes the likes of Mike Krzyzewski, Bob Knight and John Wooden against the future Hall of Famer looking to add the only thing missing on his resume. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Hall of Fame coach vs. future Hall of Famer for NCAA title"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rolando Cardenas makes an initial court appearance on Wednesday in Las Vegas. Cardenas has been charged with killing one passenger and wounding another on a double-decker bus last weekend on the Las Vegas Strip. \n LAS VEGAS >> The Las Vegas public transportation system is investigating how it uses surveillance video and vehicle advertisements, a week after a fatal shooting and barricade situation on a public bus shut down the Strip hotel-casino district for hours. \n Angela Castro, spokeswoman for the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, said in a statement Saturday that the agency is working with Las Vegas police to examine those issues from the March 25 incident. \n Police said Rolando Cardenas, 55, fatally shot one man and wounded another on the double-decker bus in front of the Cosmopolitan hotel-casino before barricading himself inside for more than four hours. Cardenas now faces murder, attempted murder, battery and firearm charges. His lawyer has already raised mental competency as a possible defense in the case. \n Gary Breitling, 57, of Sidney, Montana, was shot in the chest and soon died at a nearby hospital. The other man hurt was treated and released. \n Police said Cardenas was sitting in the back on the second level of the bus traveling on Las Vegas Boulevard when he opened fire. All those aboard were able to flee. But during the barricade, authorities were uncertain if there were any victims held hostage and struggled to get a good view of the suspect inside. \n \"Based on the shooting on (the) Las Vegas Strip, we are currently working with law enforcement and our transit contractors to hopefully resolve the issues that reduced law enforcement's ability to see inside the bus,\" Castro said. \n The bus on one side, including the windows, was covered in a white vinyl film that advertised for the local outlet shopping mall. The transit agency is searching for an alternative material to improve visibility from the outside, Castro said. \n Officials are also looking into adding live access to its video monitors. The public buses have multiple surveillance cameras. But they now only tape from inside the bus for later review, without the capability to offer real-time views. \n Vegas police officials couldn't immediately be reached for comment Saturday. Officer Larry Hadfield, a spokesman for the department, declined to discuss the specific issues with the Las Vegas Review-Journal, which first reported the transit agency's plans. \n He told the paper: \"There were issues, but our officers deal with issues they run into, whether it's a brick wall or a glass window.\" \n On the day of the shooting, there were eight transit security officers on duty along the tourism corridor. The transit agency budgets $8 million annually for security, Castro said. \n \"The safety and security of our transit riders, contractors and staff is our utmost priority. We remain committed to providing a safe and reliable transit experience,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Las Vegas officials rethink bus security, ads after shooting"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "Police are investigating a traffic incident on the Likelike Highway that left a woman in critical condition. \n According to an Emergency Medical Services report, the woman, believed to be in her 20s, suffered multiple injuries when she was apparently ejected from a moving car traveling in the Kaneohe-bound lanes. The highway in the Kaneohe-bound direction was closed from Valley View Drive between 8:10 p.m. and 11:28 p.m., according to police traffic alerts. \n The woman was transported to a local trauma center. \n No further details are yet available. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman critically injured after being ejected from vehicle on Likelike Hwy."}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2014 \n Artist Gilbert Baker, designer of the Rainbow Flag, has become a widely recognized symbol of gay rights. He died on Friday at age 65. \n NEW YORK >> Gilbert Baker, the creator of the rainbow flag that has become a widely recognized symbol of gay rights has died. He was 65. \n Baker was found dead Friday at his New York City home. The city medical examiner's office said Saturday that he had died of hypertensive heart disease. \n Baker was born in Kansas and served in the U.S. Army from 1970 to 1972. \n He was stationed in San Francisco in the early days of the gay rights movement and continued to live there after his honorable discharge. \n According to Baker's website, he taught himself to sew and began making banners for gay and anti-war marches, creating the rainbow flag in 1978. \n Baker said in a 2008 interview that he knew instantly from the way people reacted to the flag that it was \"going to be something. I didn't know what or how \u2026 but I knew.\" \n Baker was part of a circle of San Francisco gay activists that included Harvey Milk, the city supervisor who was assassinated in 1978, and Cleve Jones, who created the Names Project AIDS memorial quilt in the 1980s. \n In an interview Saturday, Jones recalled the rainbow flag's first appearance at the 1978 gay pride parade. \n \"It was quite amazing to stand there and watch all these thousands of people turn off Market Street into San Francisco Civic Center Plaza and march beneath these giant flags that were flapping in the wind,\" Jones said. \"People looked up and faces lit up and, without any explanation, this was now our flag.\" \n The flag was initially eight colors, but it was cut to six because of the limited availability of fabrics, Jones said. He said Baker rejected advice to patent the rainbow flag design and never made a penny off it. \n Baker also designed flags for civic occasions including the inauguration of Dianne Feinstein, now California's senior U.S. senator, as mayor of San Francisco. \n Baker moved to New York in 1994 and created a milelong rainbow flag for the gay pride parade, which that year commemorated the 25th anniversary of the 1969 Stonewall uprising. \n Current San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee said in a statement that the rainbow flag \"has become a source of solace, comfort and pride for all those who look upon it.\" \n \"Gilbert was a trailblazer for LGBT rights, a powerful artist and a true friend to all who knew him,\" Lee said. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Creator of rainbow flag, a symbol of gay rights, dies at 65"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his Republicans are determined to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch, pictured, within the week. But to do so, they will likely have to override Democratic objections and unilaterally change Senate rules so that Gorsuch can be confirmed with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber, instead of the 60-voter threshold. \n WASHINGTON >> The Senate is headed for a tense showdown over President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee that could have far-reaching consequences for Congress, the high court and the nation. \n Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his Republicans are determined to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch within the week. But to do so, they will likely have to override Democratic objections and unilaterally change Senate rules so that Gorsuch can be confirmed with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber, instead of the 60-voter threshold. \n Though it may seem arcane, the approach is known on Capitol Hill as the \"nuclear option,\" because it strikes at the heart of the Senate's traditions of bipartisanship and collegiality. \n It would allow all future Supreme Court nominees to be confirmed without regard to the objections of the minority party. And senators of both parties say that proceeding with the rules change could ultimately lead to complete elimination of the minority party's ability to block legislation via filibuster, one of the few remaining mechanisms that force bipartisan cooperation in Congress. \n \"Once you go down this path it's awful easy just to keep going, and that is not a good thing,\" said Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., a senior lawmaker. \n Nevertheless, Republican senators are fully prepared to take the step, blaming Democrats for forcing them into it by preparing to filibuster a well-qualified nominee. \n And Democrats are just as ready to push the GOP to pull the trigger, even as they argue that McConnell and Republicans will have only themselves to blame. \n \"He can prove that he cares about the Senate by not changing the rules,\" Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York told The Associated Press, referring to McConnell. \n As of now, Gorsuch claims support from 54 senators \u2014 the 52 Republicans, along with two moderate Democrats who are up for re-election in states Trump won, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota. One by one, most of the other Democrats have lined up against Gorsuch, citing his rulings in favor of corporations or his vague answers during his confirmation hearings. Though Democrats remain a handful shy of the 41 votes that would be required to mount a filibuster and trigger a rules change, it is the widely expected outcome. \n \"I remain very worried about our polarized politics and what the future will bring, since I'm certain we will have a Senate rule change that will usher in more extreme judges in the future,\" Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri said Friday as she became the latest Democrat to announce plans to join the filibuster against Gorsuch. \n Gorsuch, 49, has served more than a decade as a federal appeals court judge based in Denver. He is mild-mannered but deeply conservative, in the mold of the justice he would replace, Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016. \n McCaskill and other Democrats have pointed out that while Gorsuch's confirmation won't change the ideological balance of a court that will be likely to split 5-4 on important cases, that could be what happens next as liberal justices age along with Justice Anthony Kennedy, 80, who often acts as a swing vote. \n Republicans argue that the filibuster has almost never been used against a Supreme Court nominee and they are right; even Clarence Thomas got onto the court without a filibuster, despite highly contentious confirmation hearings over sexual harassment claims from Anita Hill. \n The only Supreme Court nominee to have been blocked by a filibuster was Abe Fortas, President Lyndon Johnson's nominee for chief justice in 1968. After a procedural vote failed, Johnson withdrew Fortas' nomination. Fortas was already a sitting justice on the Court. \n But the Supreme Court blowup has been a long-time coming, and both parties share the blame. Republicans were prepared to invoke the \"nuclear option\" on lower court nominees in 2005, but a bipartisan group of 14 senators made a deal that stopped it. Then Democrats took the step in 2013 when they grew frustrated over lower court nominees getting blocked, but left the Supreme Court subject to a 60-vote threshold. \n Now, with Trump in the White House and politics ever more polarized, there appears to be no room for compromise. \n Democrats are still fuming over the treatment of former President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland, who never even got a hearing from Republicans last year after Scalia died. And for Republicans, Gorsuch's nomination is the one positive note so far in the trouble-plagued Trump administration, and they are determined to get a win. \n Though some GOP senators have privately counseled caution, McConnell has no plans to wait and has declared definitively that Gorsuch will be confirmed on Friday. If Gorsuch joins the court shortly thereafter, he would be in time to hear the last set of cases in the court's current term, including one about church-state separation. \n The stage will be set for the next Supreme Court nominee to be confirmed with a simple majority, potentially tilting the court ideologically for decades to come. And an uncertain future will await the filibuster itself, and the Senate as a deliberative, bipartisan institution. \n \"It just continues on a downward spiral; it's us that's to blame, it's the base, it's responding to the base on each side,\" said Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn. \"It's both sides that have taken us to this place.\" \n ", "author": "", "title": "Senate heads for Supreme Court showdown"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Somali soldier provides security as newly displaced Somalis gather at a camp in the Garasbaley area on the outskirts of Mogadishu, Somalia. \n WASHINGTON >> Week by week, country by country, the Pentagon is quietly seizing more control over warfighting decisions, sending hundreds more troops to war with little public debate and seeking greater authority to battle extremists across the Middle East and Africa. \n This week it was Somalia, where President Donald Trump gave the U.S. military more authority to conduct offensive airstrikes on al-Qaida-linked militants. Next week it could be Yemen, where military leaders want to provide more help for the United Arab Emirates' battle against Iranian-backed rebels. Key decisions on Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan are looming, from ending troop number limits to loosening rules that guide commanders in the field. \n The changes in Trump's first two months in office underscore his willingness to let the Pentagon manage its own day-to-day combat. Under the Obama administration, military leaders chafed about micromanagement that included commanders needing approval for routine tactical decisions about targets and personnel moves. \n But delegating more authority to the Pentagon \u2014 and combat decisions to lower level officers \u2014 carries its own military and political risks. Casualties, of civilians and American service members, may be the biggest. \n The deepening involvement in counterinsurgency battles, from the street-by-street battles being fought in Iraq right now to clandestine raids in Yemen and elsewhere, increases the chances of U.S. troops dying. Such tragedies could raise the ire of the American public and create political trouble with Congress at a time when the Trump administration is trying to finish off the Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria and broaden efforts against similarly inspired groups. \n Similarly, allowing lower level commanders to make more timely airstrike decisions in densely populated areas like the streets of Mosul, Iraq, can result in more civilian deaths. The U.S. military already is investigating several bombings in Mosul in mid-March that witnesses say killed at least 100 people. And it is considering new tactics and precautions amid evidence suggesting extremists are smuggling civilians into buildings and then baiting the U.S.-led coalition into attacking. \n Alice Hunt Friend, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, cited yet another concern: Military operations becoming \"divorced from overall foreign policy\" could make both civilian leaders and the military vulnerable to runaway events. \n \"Political leaders can lose control of military campaigns,\" she warned. \n But top military leaders say they need to be able to act quicker against U.S. enemies. And they've been staunchly supported by Trump, who has promised to pursue Islamic extremists more aggressively and echoed the view of Pentagon leaders that the Obama administration's tight control over military operations limited effectiveness. \n Explaining his request for more leeway in Somalia against al-Shabab militants, Gen. Thomas Waldhauser, head of U.S. Africa Command, told Congress this month that more flexibility and \"timeliness\" in decision-making process was necessary. \n Approved by Trump on Wednesday, it was hardly the first military expansion. \n The Defense Department has quietly doubled the number of U.S. forces in Syria. It has moved military advisers closer to front lines in Iraq. It has publicly made the case for more troops in Afghanistan. \n The White House is tentatively scheduled this coming week to discuss providing intelligence, refueling and other assistance to U.A.E. as it fights Houthi rebels in Yemen, according to officials who weren't authorized to speak about a confidential meetings and demanded anonymity. \n Some changes are happening with little fanfare. While there is limited American appetite for large-scale deployments in Iraq and Syria, additions are coming incrementally, in the hundreds of forces, not the thousands. \n The result may be confusing for the public. Trump hasn't eliminated Obama's troop number limits. Thus, the caps of 503 for Syria and 5,262 for Iraq are still in effect. \n But the military is ignoring them with White House approval and using an already-existing loophole to categorize deployments as temporary. For example, several hundred Marines and soldiers were recently sent to Syria to assist U.S.-backed Syria forces, including in the fight to retake IS' self-declared capital of Raqqa. All were deemed temporary so not counted against the cap. \n On Friday, the Pentagon said that officially there are 5,262 U.S. troops in Iraq even as officials privately acknowledge at least a couple thousand more there. \n It's still early in the Trump administration. And as the White House juggles complex details of several military campaigns, it is dealing with tax reform, its health care repeal failure, partisan infighting and expanding investigations into possible Russian ties to his presidential campaign. Observers say the expanding military power may reflect the administration's limited \"bandwidth\" at the moment. \n But the military wants some decisions quickly. \n Iraqi forces are trying to complete the recapture of Mosul, IS' stronghold, and more American advisers closer to the battle can help. U.S.-backed fighters are closing in on Raqqa and the Pentagon is pushing to accelerate the effort. Conducting both operations at the same time, the Pentagon argues, will put a lot of pressure on IS. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Pentagon expands warfighting authority"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2015 \n Management and Training Corp. recently purchased Willacy County Correctional Center that was shuttered after a 2015 inmate riot left it uninhabitable. \n DALLAS >> Several Texas counties that are struggling with debt because their jails have few or no prisoners hope to refill those cellblocks with a different kind of inmate: immigrants who have entered the country illegally. \n The debt dates back to the 1990s and the first decade of the 2000s, when some rural counties were losing employment prospects and population. To bring jobs and money, they built correctional centers with hundreds and sometimes more than a thousand beds that could be used to house inmates from other counties as well as prisoners for the state and federal governments. \n In some cases, the strategy worked, at least for a while. But a decline in crime and an increase in alternative sentencing reduced the Texas prisoner population and created a glut of jail space. \n Now the debts, utility bills and maintenance are becoming so burdensome that counties are confronting a difficult choice. They can seek a federal contract to house some of the immigrants expected to be detained in President Donald Trump's immigration crackdown. Or they can sell the vacant detention centers to private prison companies that aim to do the same. \n Jails and private prisons across the country are weighing their options after the Department of Homeland Security announced in January that it was shopping for more jail space as part of its efforts to secure the border. \n In some places, the situation is the reverse of Texas, with public prisons full and states paying for extra beds. A private prison operator that had been housing 250 inmates for Vermont recently dropped the state as a client because the federal government will probably offer more for the same space. \n \"Anyone with vacant beds is hoping the federal government will lease them at a much higher rate,\" Lisa Menard, acting commissioner of the Vermont Department of Corrections told lawmakers in February. \"Immigrations and customs enforcement are looking to lease beds everywhere.\" \n Three vacant Texas detention centers have been sold to private prison companies in the last few weeks, according to county officials and records filed with the national Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. \n Some of the jails require updating to meet U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement standards, but the existing facilities could put Texas at an advantage compared with other states where the companies would have to spend months building detention space. \n Meanwhile, the traditional inmate-holding business is still declining. A proposed budget from the Texas Senate would end state contracts with four facilities, including three that are privately run, making it more important for those companies to get immigrant contracts to stay profitable. \n ICE would not discuss how many beds the agency might need or its timetable for obtaining them. Agency spokesman Carl Rusnok declined to discuss any negotiations, citing the confidentiality of the federal contracting process. \n At least one advocacy group is wary of the secretive process and of putting more detainees in privately run facilities after complaints and violations of inmate-care standards. \n \"If this is the plan to expand to the bottom of the barrel in detention centers, that should raise huge red flags for people concerned about immigrants' well-being and rights,\" said Bob Libal, executive director of Austin-based Grassroots Leadership, which seeks immigration and detention reform. \n Management and Training Corp. recently purchased a South Texas detention center that was shuttered after a 2015 inmate riot left it uninhabitable. The Willacy County Correctional Center, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) north of the Mexico border, fetched close to $68 million, allowing the county to pay off the construction bonds. \n Until the riot over alleged deficiencies in medical care, the company ran the facility in a private-public partnership with the county. \n Company spokesman Issa Arnita said MTC was \"working closely with ICE and hoping to get a contract.\" \n Officials in Maverick and Jones counties confirmed that their empty correctional centers were being purchased by the private prison company known as the GEO Group Inc., which runs the most immigrant detention facilities of any private company operating in Texas. \n A spokesman for GEO said the company does not comment on specific transactions. \n Like a handful of other counties across Texas, Maverick County formed a nonprofit corporation \u2014 the Maverick County Public Facility Corporation\u2014 to obtain financing through municipal bonds and insulate the county from direct financial responsibility. A private operator would then run the detention center and split the profits. \n After a 2013 contract disagreement with GEO over the division of profits, the private company pulled out and the county tried to operate the facility and repay the bonds, said Maverick County Judge David Saucedo, the county's top administrative officer. \n The county eventually reached an agreement with bondholders to foreclose on the facility. \n Other counties have entered into agreements with private prison companies to renovate their empty facilities in expectation of reopening if immigrant detention opens opportunities. \n However, some county officials say they have no plans to work with prison companies because of previous experiences. \n After Emerald Correctional Management pulled out of its contract to run a 600-bed facility in 2014, La Salle County decided to operate the detention center itself. \n With 350 to 450 prisoners on any given day, many picked up by the U.S. Marshals Service, the county about 40 miles (64 kilometers) north of Laredo is finally turning a profit. Judge Joel Rodriguez was cautious about the prospects of an increase in immigrant detentions. \n \"There are a lot of facilities in Texas sitting empty,\" he said. \"And I don't know if they will be filled because of this.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Empty jails hope to cash in on illegal immigration crackdown"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a statement to clarify its intentions, Verizon says users must explicitly grant permission before using AppFlash. Verizon says customers will be able to easily disable the service, and no one will be required to use it. \n NEW YORK >> Is Verizon planning to spy on its customers? \n You might conclude that it is after reading Verizon's privacy policy on an upcoming AppFlash service, which promises easier access to search and apps on Android phones. The policy says Verizon may share data on features and services you use, along with the list of apps you have installed on your phone, with other Verizon businesses to target ads. \n The privacy watchdog Electronic Frontier Foundation described AppFlash as \"spyware.\" \n Not so fast, Verizon says. In a statement to clarify its intentions, Verizon says users must explicitly grant permission before using AppFlash. Verizon says customers will be able to easily disable the service, and no one will be required to use it. \n The statement, however, doesn't say exactly what permission Verizon is seeking. The privacy policy says users can control AppFlash's access to your location and contact information, but says nothing about giving control over broader usage data. At most, users can turn off ad tracking on the phone by digging through the settings. \n The EFF has since retracted Thursday's blog post, pending further investigation. The group had said AppFlash represents Verizon's intention \"to start monetizing its customers' private data as soon as possible.\" The post came just days after Congress voted to block Obama-era restrictions on what internet-access companies like Verizon could do with information about you. \n Verizon has gotten heat over user privacy before. Last year, Verizon agreed to pay a $1.35 million fine over a \"supercookie\" that federal regulators said followed phone customers on the internet without their permission. \n The complaints come as Verizon evolves into an advertising business, with the purchase of AOL in 2015 and the upcoming acquisition of Yahoo's internet businesses. Verizon, in knowing what web sites and apps you use, could charge companies more for ads that are targeted to your personal habits. \n Android phones and iPhones already come with search services similar to AppFlash. The main difference is when people use AppFlash, Verizon gets more data on your interactions and can target ads accordingly. \n AppFlash is a Verizon-branded version of Evie Launcher, which people can already get through the Android app store. After installation, one swipe from a phone edge brings up a search bar; one search pulls content from the web and installed apps at once. For instance, after searching for the movie \"Beauty and the Beast,\" Evie offers one-tap access to buy tickets through Fandango or to read reviews through IMDB or Rotten Tomatoes. \n Verizon says AppFlash will be tested initially on a single phone, LG's K20 V. Verizon has offered no details on its plans beyond that, though the app is for Android only and Apple forbids carriers from shipping iPhones with their own apps already installed. \n While Verizon promises to seek permission, it's not yet known how Verizon will do that and how clear it will be in explaining what's being collected and how it will be used. \n Evie Launcher does ask permission to access location and contact information, and you can say no. It also asks for permission to replace the regular home screen experience for launching individual apps. However, Evie says nothing about privacy during the setup; its privacy policy online says personal information such as usage activity and search queries will be collected, but not shared with third parties. \n For those who use AppFlash, Verizon says data collected may be shared with other Verizon businesses for ad targeting. AOL, which Verizon owns, can place ads tailored web users on many other sites, too. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Privacy concern raised over search service on Verizon phones"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An overview of the colonial era Regal Theater in New Delhi, India. The Indian capital's iconic theater signed off on Thursday night after more than eight decades with nearly 600 movie buffs cheering a 1964 Bollywood classic at a final screening. It's expected to make way for a multiplex from a single screen. \n NEW DELHI >> From Bollywood superstars to political heavyweights, the Regal theater hosted some of India's biggest names over more than eight decades. \n But with nostalgic theater-goers singing their way to the exits after a final showing of a Bollywood classic, the iconic New Delhi theater has closed its doors to make way for a multiplex. \n \"It's the end of an era. It's very sad,\" said Nanak, who had worked at the theater since 1979. Nanak, whose grandfather and father were part of the Regal's management team in the 1950s and '60s, uses one name. \n With its corridors studded with black-and-white images of Bollywood stars such as Nargis, Madhubala, Meena Kumari, Dev Anand and Raj Kapoor, the magic of a bygone era was visible throughout the theater. \n For its final screening, the Regal showed \"Sangam,\" or \"Union of Two Hearts,\" on Thursday night in a tribute to producer-director Kapoor, Bollywood's biggest showman, who premiered his movies at the theater from the 1950s to the '70s. \n Around 600 movie buffs cheered the 1964 Bollywood classic at the final screening. Some young movie lovers came with their parents and grandparents, and many were singing the film's songs as they left the theater. \n \"There was nostalgia,\" said Sudhir Dutta, 75, recalling that he had seen \"A Tale of Two Cities\" in 1958 in his first visit to the Regal. \n India's first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and his daughter, Indira Gandhi, also used to watch movies there, said Bhoop Singh, a theater executive. \n The Regal opened in 1932, built by Sobha Singh, an Indian civil contractor and real estate owner. At first, the theater hosted mainly Indian stage shows. Then came performances by Western classical musical artists, Russian ballets and British theater groups. \n Finally, movies were shown. The 1931 Bollywood film \"Alam Ara,\" the first Indian movie with sound, was the first Hindi movie screened at the Regal. \n The theater, part of an 84-year-old shopping hub known as Connaught Place, is in one of the main commercial areas of New Delhi, built during British colonial rule. \n A decision to shut the theater was prompted by a craze for multiplexes in India. Also, the recent caving in of portions of the roofs of two buildings in the area raised concerns about the Regal's safety. \n Building a multiplex is a better option than renovating such an old building, Bhoop Singh said, adding, \"We may resume screening movies in the multiplex within two years.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iconic New Delhi movie theater shuts down after 85 years"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "COURTESY U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION \n The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says the EpiPen recall covers 13 lots distributed from December 2015 through July 2016. \n A recall of the emergency anti-allergy medicine EpiPen is expanding to the U.S. and other markets in North America, Europe, Asia and South America because the allergy shots may not work. \n The notice issued Friday by Mylan N.V. expands upon warnings made earlier this month after two reports of the device failing. \n Mylan didn't immediately respond to a question about how many devices are affected by the recall. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says the recall covers 13 lots distributed from December 2015 through July 2016. \n The problems could be potentially life-threatening, although Mylan described the incidence of the defects as \"extremely rare.\" \n The EpiPen is used to treat allergic reactions to certain food and bug bites \n The products can be replaced at no charge by calling 877-650-3494 or emailing customer.servicemylan.com. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Anti-allergy medicine EpiPen recall expands to U.S."}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Christopher Nolan, director of the upcoming film \"Dunkirk,\" discusses the film during the Warner Bros. Pictures presentation at CinemaCon 2017 at Caesars Palace on Wednesday. \n LAS VEGAS >> Would you pay $40 to watch a movie in the comfort of your own home 10 days after its big-screen release? How about $30 after 45 days? \n These are just a few of the ideas being thrown around by major Hollywood studios looking to more effectively compete with streaming services, television, smartphones and everything else that consumers can choose to spend their time with nowadays. \n Premium video on demand (PVOD) is less disruptive than Sean Parker's troubled Screening Room idea, which would have offered movies in the home for $50 on the same day they're released in theaters. Yet PVOD still had many questioning its merits this past week at the theater industry's CinemaCon in Las Vegas, from big studio execs to small theater owners, and stars and filmmakers in between. \n For most exhibitors, shortening the theatrical window, as the industry calls it, from the traditional 90 days is seen as a bad idea, especially for those who've invested large sums of money to upgrade seats and projection tools at the behest of the studios. \n \"The shortening of the theatrical window would be horrible for the entire industry,\" said Glen Gray, an exhibitor from South Florida. \n As would be expected at an annual gathering of exhibitors, from big theater chains to single-screen operations \u2014 many studio executives were quick to emphasize their commitment to the theatrical experience. \n \"Netflix, my ass,\" said Sony chairman Tom Rothman after showing some footage from \"Blade Runner 2049.\" \n Others took a more subtle approach. \n Dave Hollis, the executive vice president of distribution at the Walt Disney Company, used his platform to speak on behalf of his company and other Hollywood studios to tell exhibitors that they \"all believe deeply that films should be seen in a theater\" and that they \"have a common goal to get people to see them in your cinemas.\" \n Even Amazon Studios, with its blatant streaming strategy, offered encouragement to theater owners. \n \"We really believe in the theatrical experience by fully supporting the theatrical window for our releases,\" said Jason Ropell, Amazon's head of motion pictures, noting that \"Manchester by the Sea\" is in its \"19th week and counting\" in theaters. \n But there's no question the marketplace is changing. The North American box office may have reached record highs the past two years, yet attendance has remained nearly flat for over a decade. In other words, growth is coming from higher ticket prices, not more people seeing movies. \n Warner Bros. marketing and distribution chief Sue Kroll was the rare executive at CinemaCon to speak openly about theatrical threats. \n Customers, she said, \"want more choices in where and how they consume our content.\" \n \"Where there is demand, somebody is going to step in and fill that void,\" Kroll said. \"We have to be creative and innovative in addressing the challenges of this marketplace, as we always have (and) \u2026 move toward a future that will be beneficial and profitable to all of us.\" \n Moments later, director Christopher Nolan took the stage to preview footage from his ambitious, large-format celluloid epic \"Dunkirk\" and offered a different view from Kroll, who is distributing his film. \n \"The only platform I'm interested in talking about is theatrical exhibition,\" Nolan said. The usually quiet audience erupted into applause. \n Earlier, the director told The Associated Press that while the threat is nothing new, it's also not something filmmakers are, \"particularly excited about.\" \n \"You really want your film to be in theaters as long as possible because that's where they are meant to be seen,\" Nolan said. \n Indeed, most of the filmmakers sided with Nolan, including \"Arrival\" and \"Blade Runner 2049\" director Denis Villeneuve, who said he will \"always make movies for massive screens,\" and \"Downsizing\" director Alexander Payne. \n \"I don't work in television, I work in cinema and I like my films to be seen on the big screen. Period,\" Payne said. \n Others, like George Clooney and Matt Damon, recognize that the tide is turning. \n \"I think it's inevitable in some way,\" Clooney said. \"But people still go to concerts because at some point, you've got to go out. You can't keep telling your wife, 'Oh honey, let's stay home and watch TV' \u2026 I don't think it's mutually exclusive. I think both can survive.\" \n Damon was more wistful. He sees how his kids can watch whatever they want when they want and how marked a difference it is from how he grew up experiencing movies. \n \"It seems to make sense that there will be some sort of necessary shift,\" Damon said. \"I feel like people will always want to take in stories like that and movies won't become obsolete \u2026 but people who did vaudeville probably felt that way too.\" \n Even Charlie Hunnam admitted he finds himself waiting to see things at home, as much as he loves the theatrical experience. \n \"Time is so precious and life is so frenzied and sometimes if you don't catch it at the right time, there are people sneezing in your ear, being on their phones,\" he said. \n Chris Meledandri, the CEO of Illumination Entertainment, who has overseen animated hits like \"The Secret Life of Pets,\" views the looming changes in movie consumption as a pointed challenge for Hollywood. He says filmmakers and studios must continue making the cinematic experience \"dynamic and relevant so that there's an organic drive to the theater.\" \n \"It becomes our responsibility,\" Meledrandri implored, \"to produce for the reality in which we live and to create films that \u2014 regardless of what the distribution strategy is \u2014 will compel audiences into the theater.\" \n ", "author": "", "title": "Premium video on demand is a future few filmmakers want"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "COLOMBIAN ARMY PHOTO VIA AP \n In this handout photo released by the Colombian National Army, soldiers and residents worked together in rescue efforts in Mocoa, Colombia. \n BOGOTA, Colombia >> Rescuers prying through piles of rocks and wooden planks left by floodwaters from three rivers that surged through a Colombian city vowed to resume their search at first light Sunday as the death toll from one of the worst disasters in the country's recent history neared 200. \n With no electricity to light Mocoa, authorities were forced to suspend the search tonight almost a day after heavy rains caused the rivers to overflow and send a wall of water through the city near the Ecuador border around midnight, sweeping away homes, cars and trees while residents slept in their beds. \n President Juan Manuel Santos said 193 people had been killed and authorities said as many as 220 were feared missing. The bodies were being placed in a temporary morgue where three teams of medical examiners were working around the clock to swiftly identify the remains. \n \"They are going to work 24 hours a day,\" said Carlos Valdes, director of the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Science, the agency leading the medical team working to identify the deceased. \n Authorities and residents in the city tucked between mountains along Colombia's southern border spent today tending to victims, trying to find homes on streets reduced to masses of rubble and engaged in a desperate search to locate loved one who disappeared in the dark of night. Authorities expect the death toll to rise. \n Eduardo Vargas, 29, was asleep with his wife and 7-month-old baby when he was awoken by the sound of neighbors banging on his door. He quickly grabbed his family and fled up a small mountain amid the cries of people in panic. \n \"There was no time for anything,\" he said. \n Vargas and his family huddled with about two dozen other residents as rocks, trees and wooden planks ripped through their neighborhood below. They waited there until daylight, when members of the military helped them down. \n When he reached the site of his home today, nothing his family left behind remained. \n \"Thank God we have our lives,\" he said. \n Santos traveled to Mocoa and declared the city a disaster zone today. The Air Force transported 19 patients to a city further north and said 20 more would be evacuated soon. Medicine and surgical supplies were being sent to the city as the area's regional hospital struggled to cope with the magnitude of the crisis. \n Herman Granados, an anesthesiologist, said he worked throughout the night on victims and that the hospital doesn't have a blood bank large enough to deal with the number of patients and was quickly running out of its supply. \n Some of the hospital workers came to help even though their own relatives remained missing. \n \"Under the mud,\" Granados said, \"I am sure there are many more.\" \n Santos blamed climate change for triggering the avalanche, saying that the accumulated rainfall in one night was almost half the amount Mocoa normally receives in the entire month of March. With the rainy season in much of Colombia just beginning, he said local and national authorities need to redouble their efforts to prevent a similar tragedy. \n The crisis is likely to be remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in recent Colombian history, though the Andean nation has experienced even more destructive environmental catastrophes. Nearly 25,000 people were killed in 1985 after the Nevado del Ruiz volcano erupted and triggered a deluge of mud and debris that buried the town of Armero. \n As rescuers shifted through debris, many residents in Mocoa were conducting their own searches for lost loved ones. \n Oscar Londono tried in vain throughout the night to reach his wife's parents, whose home is right along one of the flooded rivers. He decided it was too dangerous to try to reach them in the dark. So he called over and over by phone but got no answer. \n Once the sun began to rise he started walking toward their house but found all the streets he usually takes missing. As he tried to orient himself he came across the body of a young woman dressed in a mini-skirt and black blouse. \n He checked her pulse but could not find one. \n \"There were bodies all over,\" he said. \n When he finally reached the neighborhood where his in-laws live he found \"just mud and rocks.\" Rescue workers with the military oriented him toward the mountain, where he found his relatives camped with other survivors. \n \"To know they were alive,\" he said, \"it was a reunion of tears.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Desperate quest for survivors as Colombia death toll mounts"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich., followed by Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, both members of the House Freedom Caucus, left a closed-door strategy session with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, R-Wis., on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON >> A top adviser to President Donald Trump urged the defeat of a Michigan congressman and member of a conservative group of U.S. House lawmakers who derailed the White House on legislation to repeal and replace the Obama-era health care law. \n Government ethics lawyers said today's tweet by White House social media director Dan Scavino Jr. violated federal law that limits political activity by government employees. The White House denied Scavino had run afoul of the law. \n Two days after Trump himself tweeted a threat to the conservative House Freedom Caucus, a group of fellow Republicans, Scavino followed up today by singling out Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich., for criticism and urging Trump supporters to defeat the congressman in next year's primary election. \n \"realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. justinamash is a big liability. #TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary,\" Scavino tweeted. \n Amash, who began serving his fourth House term in January, responded by retweeting Scavino and adding: \"Trump admin & Establishment have merged into #Trumpstablishment. Same old agenda: Attack conservatives, libertarians & independent thinkers.\" \n Ethics lawyers who worked for both Republican and Democratic presidents said Scavino violated the Hatch Act, a federal law that limits political activity by government employees. They said it didn't matter that Scavino tweeted from an account marked as \"personal\" and not from his official government Twitter account. \n Daniel Jacobson, a White House lawyer under President Barack Obama, tweeted that White House staff \"can't use an official or de facto govt Twitter acct (which this is) to call for defeat of a candidate. De facto means that if you tweet only about WH work from your account, it's an official account. Labeling 'personal' doesn't change that.\" \n Richard Painter, who at one time was the chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush, called attention to the description beneath the photo on the account Scavino has designated as personal. It shows Scavino in the Oval Office, and he is identified as director of social media and a senior adviser to Trump. \n \"This is use of official position to influence an election,\" Painter tweeted. \"Look at the photo and description underneath. Bush WH would have fired him.\" \n The White House said in a statement that the tweet did not violate federal law \"as it clearly comes from his personal account and not his official White House account.\" It said Scavino created an official account after he started working at the White House \"to ensure compliance with the Hatch Act and he has taken the necessary steps to ensure there is a clear distinction between both Twitter accounts.\" \n House Freedom Caucus members helped derail a vote last month on legislation long sought by Republicans to repeal and replace the health care law known as \"Obamacare.\" Its members argued that the bill didn't go far enough to undo the law. Some moderate Republicans also objected to the legislation, but for different reasons. \n About a week after House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., pulled the bill from the House floor, Trump directed his Twitter fire on fellow Republicans. \n \"The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018!\" Trump said Thursday. In follow-up tweets, the president singled out three Freedom Caucus members \u2014 Reps. Raul Labrador of Idaho, Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio and its chair, Mark Meadows of North Carolina. He said if they \"would get on board we would have both great healthcare and massive tax cuts & reform.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump aide urges defeat of Freedom Caucus member"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "Excessive speed is believed to have been a factor in a motorcycle collision in Wailuku that left a 36-year-old Lahaina man dead on Friday evening. \n According to police, Aaron Burnett was riding a Harley-Davidson motorcycle south on Kuihelani Highway when he apparently rear-ended an SUV and lost control of the motorcycle. Burnett fell to the roadway and was then struck by an oncoming Mazda sedan. \n The incident occurred around 8:30 p.m. near Waiko Road. \n Burnett was pronounced dead at the scene. \n The driver of the SUV sustained minor injuries and was treated at the scene. The driver of the Mazda was not hurt. \n It is not yet known if alcohol or drugs may also have been factors in the incident. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Motorcycle collision kills Lahaina man"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "CHICAGO >> A 14-year-old boy has been arrested in the sexual assault of a 15-year-old Chicago girl that was streamed live on Facebook and watched by about 40 people who didn't report it to authorities, police said late today. \n Chicago police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said more arrests are expected as the investigation continues. Police have said the attack involved five or six males, and Guglielmi said the boy \"was one of the offenders in the video.\" \n Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson is slated to provide more details at a news conference Sunday morning. \n Guglielmi said the juvenile suspect faces felony charges of aggravated criminal sexual assault, manufacturing of child pornography and dissemination of child pornography. \n The spokesman has said police were not aware of the mid-March attack until the girl's mother approached Johnson as he was leaving a police station on the city's West Side and showed him the video. Johnson was \"visibly upset\" after he watched, both by the video's content and the fact that there were \"40 or so live viewers and no one thought to call authorities,\" Guglielmi said. \n The girl's mother told the Associated Press last month that her daughter received online threats following the attack and that neighborhood kids were ringing her doorbell looking for the girl. The Chicago Sun-Times later reported that the girl's family had been relocated. \n The video marks the second time in recent months that Chicago police have investigated an apparent attack that was broadcast live on Facebook. In January, four people were arrested after video showed them allegedly taunting and beating a mentally disabled man. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Chicago police arrest 14-year-old in sex assault streamed on Facebook"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "TT VIA AP \n Permanent Secretary of the Swedish Academy Sara Danius entered a concert by Bob Dylan today in Stockholm. \n STOCKHOLM >> Bob Dylan finally has his hands on his Nobel Literature diploma and medal. \n Klas Ostergren, a member of the Swedish Academy, said the 75-year-old American singer-songwriter received his award during a small gathering today at a hotel next to the conference center where Dylan was performing a concert later that night. \n Ostergren told the Associated Press that the ceremony was a small, intimate event in line with the singer's wishes, with just academy members and a member of Dylan's staff attending. \n \"It went very well indeed,\" he said, describing Dylan as \"a very nice, kind man.\" \n Other members of the academy told Swedish media that Dylan seemed pleased by the award. \n During his show hours later, Dylan made no reference to the Nobel award, simply performing a set blending old classics with tunes from his more recent albums. \n Dylan had declined the invitation to attend the traditional Nobel Prize banquet and ceremony on Dec. 10 \u2014 the date of Alfred Nobel's death \u2014 pleading other commitments. \n But in order to receive the award worth 8 million kronor ($894,800), Dylan must give a lecture within six months from Dec. 10. He has said he will not give his Nobel lecture this weekend but a recorded version of it will be sent later. \n Taped Nobel lectures have been occasionally presented, most recently in 2013 by Canadian Nobel literature laureate Alice Munro. \n \"I think he has said it all already as you heard in the acceptance speech. And you know, Dylan didn't apply for the Nobel prize. People seem to forget that. It wasn't a competition, he didn't ask for it, he was bestowed it. It's not for the giver of a gift to expect something in return,\" said Shmuel Burger, a 61-year-old physician and die-hard Dylan fan who traveled from Israel for the concert. \n The 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature was awarded to Dylan \"for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.\" He had expressed awe at receiving the Nobel Prize and thanked the Swedish Academy for including him among the \"giants\" of writing. \n Besides his two concerts in Stockholm, Dylan will also play in the southwestern city of Lund on April 9. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dylan finally gets his hands on his Nobel Literature prize"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau speaks at the Ford Essex Engine Plant in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. \n TORONTO >> Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has gotten in on the April Fools' Day spirit with a lighthearted tweet aimed at former \"Friends\" star \u2014 and classmate \u2014 Matthew Perry. \n Justin Trudeau and the actor, who played Chandler Bing on the sitcom, both attended Rockcliffe Park Public School in Ottawa. \n In an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel's late night talk show last month, Perry recounted his memory of beating Trudeau up when they were students. \n On April 1, Trudeau tweeted that he wouldn't mind revisiting the fight. \n \"I've been giving it some thought, and you know what, who hasn't wanted to punch Chandler? How about a rematch MatthewPerry?\" he wrote. \n Trudeau's spokeswoman confirmed it was an April Fools' joke. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trudeau jokes he'll fight actor Matthew Perry in rematch"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Melissa Cochran at a hospital in London. Cochran, who suffered a broken leg from a high-profile London attack is now able to stand up on her own. \n SALT LAKE CITY >> The Utah woman who suffered a broken leg from a high-profile London attack is now able to stand up on her own. \n Melissa Cochran's brother Clint Payne on Saturday posted a photo of her on a verified GoFundMe website account. \n It shows her smiling and standing up, holding her crutches in the air. \n It was captioned with this quote: \"What lies behind you and what lies in front of you, pales in comparison to what lies inside of you.\" \n Cochran also suffered a broken rib and cuts to the head during the March 22 attack. \n Her husband, Kurt Cochran, was killed when a man in an SUV mowed down pedestrians on Westminster Bridge. \n The couple was on the last day of a European trip celebrating their 25th wedding anniversary. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "London attack victim stands on her own after broken leg"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "The Honolulu Fire Department says a wild land fire near Kaena Point in Waialua burned approximately 15 acres of brush. \n HFD says nine units, including the department's Air 1 helicopter, responded to the fire about a mile past the end of Farrington Highway about 6:30 p.m. Friday. They quickly got the fire under control but due to darkness and hazardous terrain, suspended their operation. \n When the units returned this morning, they found that what was left of the fire had put itself out, said Capt. James Todd, HFD spokesman. \n There were no reports of property damage or injuries. \n ", "author": "By Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Overnight fire burns approximately 15 acres"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police have opened an attempted murder investigation in connection with a stabbing outside Ft. Shafter in Kalihi Friday. \n Police said the victim was stabbed during an argument with a 33-year-old man about 8:40 p.m. They have not arrested anyone. \n The city's Emergency Services Department says an ambulance crew picked up the victim at a Meyers Street address. The crew said the victim had a stab wound on the upper right side of his body. The ambulance transported the man to an area hospital in serious condition. \n ", "author": "By Nelson Daranciang ndaranciang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "41-year-old man stabbed outside Ft. Shafter Friday night"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, right, his wife, Chirlane McCray , left, and Public Advocate Letitia James, arrive for the funeral services for Timothy Caughman Saturday. \n NEW YORK >> Just under two weeks after he staggered into a Manhattan police station covered in blood, Timothy Caughman was remembered at his funeral today as a man dedicated to making the world a better place through conversation. \n \"It's such a sick irony that someone obviously diseased of mind could commit a hate crime against someone so loving,\" said Khadijah Peek, Caughman's cousin, as she choked back tears. \n James Harris Jackson, a 28-year-old white man from Baltimore and a veteran who served in Afghanistan, admitted killing the 66-year-old Caughman at random on March 20 as part of a plan to kill black men in New York City, authorities said. He was charged with murder as a hate crime and murder as an act of terrorism. \n A lawyer for Jackson has said if the allegations hold up, he will need to address \"obvious psychological issues.\" \n Mayor Bill de Blasio, who attended the funeral at Mount Zion Baptist Church in Queens, said that Jackson's actions were part of a rising tide of hate but that Caughman's death would serve as a call to fight against racism. \n \"Forces of hate have been unleashed in recent months,\" de Blasio said from the podium. \"We owe it to Timothy to do something more. We have to actively reject hate.\" \n De Blasio's condemnation brought people to their feet, but some wished the White House would also speak out. \n \"I didn't hear Donald Trump say, 'Oh, that's a shame about what happened to Mr. Caughman,'\" said Portia Clark, who grew up with Caughman. \"As far as I can remember, several presidents have acknowledged wrongdoing in the community. It makes me feel like he doesn't care, it's not important enough.\" \n Others lamented that some media outlets had originally mischaracterized their friend Caughman, whom they knew as Hard Rock for his tough demeanor as a young man, as homeless. \n Caughman was killed while collecting cans, but he traded in those coins not just to get by. \n \"He never would have been homeless, not with the family on both sides that he had,\" said Charles Johnson, who said he met Caughman as a 3-year-old boy. \"As far as his bottles, collecting cans, he was doing that with a purpose.\" \n With the coins he received in exchange for the recyclables, Caughman would buy Amtrak tickets to Washington, D.C., where he would attend congressional hearings and strike up conversations in the Capitol's cafeteria. \n Other speakers said Caughman's dedication to engage with democracy was just one part of his zeal for life. \n \"Timothy Caughman, aka Hard Rock, spent a lifetime doing good. He founded a basketball league. He helped young children get jobs. He was well-known in the hood,\" read Vincent Pugh from a poem he had written about his old friend. \"I want you to remember Hard Rock \u2014 not how he died, but how he lived with a passion so great.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mourners gather for funeral of black victim of sword slaying"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATD PRESS \n Mosque vandalism suspect Joseph Scott Giaquinto. Giaquinto was arrested on suspicion of several charges, including a crime motivated by bias, just hours after police released portions of surveillance video and asked for the public's help identifying the hoodie-wearing man seen picking up a stone and kicking a door. \n FORT COLLINS, Colo. >> A former Army medic accused of breaking glass doors and throwing a Bible into a Colorado mosque has been charged with felony criminal mischief. \n Giaquinto is free on bond and is due in Larimer County court on Tuesday. He could face up to 18 months in prison if convicted of the felony charge. \n Giaquinto was arrested hours after police released surveillance video of a man kicking a door Sunday at the Islamic Center in Fort Collins, about 60 miles (96 kilometers) north of Denver. \n His father, Michael Giaquinto, told the Coloradoan that his son was an Army medic who served in Iraq and Korea and had moved last year to Fort Collins. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former Army medic charged in Colorado mosque vandalism case"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The U.S. Capitol dome is seen at dawn in Washington. The crash of the House Republican health care bill may well have transformed an issue the party has long used to bash Democrats into the GOP's very own political nightmare. \n WASHINGTON >> The crash of the House Republican health care bill may well have transformed an issue the party has long used to bash Democrats into the GOP's own political nightmare. \n Since former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul was enacted in 2010, Republicans have blamed Democrats for rising premiums and diminished choices of insurers and doctors in many markets. Repealing Obama's law has been a paramount GOP campaign promise that helped them grab control of the House that year, the Senate in 2014 and elected Donald Trump to the White House last November. \n Yet here they are, in full control of government but unable to deliver their pledge. Instead, they're sweeping up debris from a failed bill that party moderates and conservatives hated, sparked a civil war between Trump and the hard line House Freedom Caucus and threatens to alienate GOP base voters. \n Many Republicans say they now own the health care issue. \n \"If you say, 'This is Obamacare, it's failing,' people can say, 'Well, we elected you to fix it,'\" said Tom Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia who headed the House GOP's campaign committee. \n \"We have the House, the Senate, the White House,\" said David Winston, a GOP strategist who advises congressional leaders. \"People are going to expect points on the board.\" \n Davis, Winston and others note that it's a long way to the November 2018 elections. That's when Republicans will defend their congressional majorities, so GOP successes on issues like tax cuts and infrastructure that affect the economy and jobs could overshadow their health care dud. \n In addition, party leaders hope to produce new health care legislation. It's unclear how they'd do that without compromising with Democrats, who currently have little motivation to pull Republicans out of the quicksand. That could change if Democrats decide a deal is better than gambling on whether voters blame them and Obama's law should premiums rise and the number of insurers decline significantly. \n \"They both have risk, and that's a recipe for ultimately some action to be taken,\" said Mike Leavitt, health secretary under President George W. Bush. \n For now, there are ominous signs for Republicans. \n The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll last week found strong voter antipathy for how Trump is handling health care and for the sunken House GOP bill. That included widespread worry that people would lose coverage and opposition to its higher premiums for older people, smaller subsidies for lower earners and cuts in Medicaid aid for the poor. \n Dangerously for Republicans, threatening to reduce federal health care aid speaks directly to voters in states that backed Trump. All 13 states with the highest proportion of people getting federal subsidies for their insurance premiums voted for him last November, according to federal data. \n Democrats view all that as campaign ad fodder. Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., protected many Republicans by averting a House vote on the doomed bill, but several dozen supported it in committees. \n \"Clearly the Republicans own this,\" said Rep. Ben Ray Lujan, D-N.M., who heads House Democrats' campaign organization. \"We will continue to make sure that the American people know about their votes.\" \n GOP damage could come from another direction, too. \n Failure to dismantle Obama's law could dampen turnout in next year's congressional elections by voters demoralized when Republicans fumbled their promised repeal. Brent Bozell, chairman of the conservative For America, said Friday it would be \"absolute suicide\" for the GOP to stay on its current, unsuccessful course. \n \"Just saying, 'Give us four more years and we'll repeal it' is going to be very hard\" to sell to voters, said Robert Blendon, professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. \n Aware their fates might rest on how insurance markets fare, both parties will closely watch insurers' filings due in June. Those will indicate what markets they intend to serve in 2018 and what premiums they'd like to charge. \n Also scrutinized will be whether regulatory actions by Trump and health secretary Tom Price buttress or undermine insurance markets. \n Trump issued an early executive order that agencies curb implementation of Obamacare, and he's repeatedly predicted the statute will explode. Price has noted that the law has 1,442 provisions that leave decisions to the health secretary and said he would study \"every single one.\" \n In early evidence Trump is uninterested in severe disruptions, Ryan said last week that the administration will for now continue financing $7 billion-a-year in subsidies for deductibles and co-payments for over 6 million low-income people. \n A federal court ruled the Obama administration had no authorization to fund that program. The Trump White House could accept that ruling and halt the payments, which go to insurance companies who've said the money is crucial for them to continue providing policies. \n All this pressures GOP lawmakers to get it right if and when they produce new legislation. \n \"Next time around, it's you-know-what or get off the pot,\" said Rep. Steve Womack, R-Ark. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Health care defeat means GOP risks blame in '18 elections"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Men's Central Jail facility in Los Angeles. The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime, according to an analysis. \n LOS ANGELES >> The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime, according to an analysis published today. \n In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the city saw a spike in crime. \n There's no clear reason behind the decline. \n Law enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be behind some of it. \n Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less motivation. \n In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because of such incidents. \n \"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I have to do,\" George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times. \"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may be up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.' \" \n Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen significant hesitance. \n \"I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are very cautious about what they do now because of the scrutiny,\" Beck said. \"But do I see it? I don't really see things that make me think that the workforce as a body is retreating. I don't see that at all.\" \n Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014, downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they take. \n Beck said in his city the increase has come in the most serious crimes, while the decrease has come from drug arrests. \n But he said a positive change in policing is partly behind the drop in arrests, with less emphasis in his department on just making countless busts as was the case decades ago. \n \"The only thing we cared about was how many arrests we made,\" Beck said. \"I don't want them to care about that. I want them to care about how safe their community is and how healthy it is.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California has fewer arrests, but not necessarily less crime"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Bill O'Reilly of the Fox News Channel program \"The O'Reilly Factor,\" poses for photos in New York. O'Reilly says in a statement posted to his website that he is \"vulnerable to lawsuits\" because of his high-profile job in response to a New York Times report. \n NEW YORK >> Fox News host Bill O'Reilly said Saturday that he is \"vulnerable to lawsuits\" because of his high-profile job, in response to a New York Times report detailing payouts made to settle accusations of sexual harassment and other inappropriate behavior. \n O'Reilly posted the statement to his website after the Times report Saturday, and Fox News' parent company 21st Century Fox backed him in a statement. \n The story said more than 60 people were interviewed, including current and former employees of Fox News or its parent company and people who know the women behind the complaints or are close to O'Reilly. Most demanded anonymity. \n 21st Century Fox, which is still dealing with the legal fallout from sexual harassment charges against former Fox News head Roger Ailes, did not reply to questions about the O'Reilly payouts or whether any disciplinary action was taken against O'Reilly. But the company said in a statement that it had looked into \"these matters\" in the past few months and discussed them with O'Reilly. \n The company said O'Reilly denied the merits of \"these claims\" but has \"resolved those he regarded as his personal responsibility.\" \n The company said it \"takes matters of workplace behavior very seriously\" and that \"Mr. O'Reilly is fully committed to supporting our efforts to improve the environment for all our employees at Fox News.\" \n O'Reilly's statement did not deny the payments. \"Just like other prominent and controversial people, I'm vulnerable to lawsuits from individuals who want me to pay them to avoid negative publicity,\" it said. Requests for comments sent to a lawyer and a spokesman for O'Reilly were not immediately answered. \n Ailes left last summer amid sexual harassment charges, which he has denied. Fox also reportedly fired an executive, Francisco Cortes, after a sexual assault complaint and paid his accuser more than $2.5 million in a settlement. \n O'Reilly had been criticized earlier this week because of a comment he made about California Rep. Maxine Waters' hair. He apologized Tuesday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fox backs O'Reilly after reports of sexual harassment"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Then-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn speaks during the daily news briefing at the White House, in Washington. On the defensive, the White House is throwing counter punches to deflect attention from three investigations into the Kremlin's interference in last year's election and possible Russian ties to President Donald Trump or his associates. \n WASHINGTON >> On the defensive, the White House is throwing counter punches to deflect attention from three investigations into the Kremlin's interference in last year's election and possible Russian ties to President Donald Trump or his associates. \n The White House says the real story is not about Russia, but about how Obama administration officials allegedly leaked and mishandled classified material about Americans. Reaching back to campaign mode, Trump aides also contend that Hillary Clinton had more extensive ties to Moscow than Trump. \n Arguing the White House's case Friday, Trump spokesman Sean Spicer said: \"There is a concern that people misused, mishandled, misdirected classified information \u2014 leaked it out, spread it out, violated civil liberties.\" \n The White House has not pointed to any hard evidence to support its allegations, and instead has relied on media reports from some of the same publications Trump derides as \"fake news.\" The truth is buried somewhere in classified material that is illegal to disclose. \n THE FLYNN AFFAIR \n Trump fired national security adviser Michael Flynn following news reports that Flynn misled the White House about his contacts with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. But the White House says the problem is that Flynn's conversations were in the news at all. \n \"The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington?\" Trump tweeted after firing Flynn in February. \n The White House has called for investigations into the disclosure of multiple intercepted conversations that Flynn had with Ambassador Sergey Kislyak before the inauguration. The government routinely monitors the communications of foreign officials in the U.S. It's illegal to publicly disclose such classified information. \n Officially, the White House said Flynn was forced to resign because he'd give inaccurate descriptions of the discussions to Vice President Mike Pence and others in the White House. But Trump has continued to defend Flynn, suggesting he was only fired because information about his contacts came out in the media. \n \"Michael Flynn, Gen. Flynn is a wonderful man,\" Trump said. \"I think he's been treated very, very unfairly by the media.\" \n THE DEEP STATE? \n White House officials say some Obama holdovers are part of a so-called deep state out to tear Trump down. \n This week, the White House latched onto a month-old television interview from an Obama administration official who said she encouraged congressional aides to gather as much information on Russia as possible before the inauguration. \n Evelyn Farkas, the former deputy assistant secretary of defense, said she feared that information \"would disappear\" after President Barack Obama left office. \n Spicer called Farkas' comments \"devastating\" and said they \"raised serious concerns on whether or not there was an organized and widespread effort by the Obama administration to use and leak highly sensitive intelligence information for political purposes.\" \n Farkas was no longer in government when she urged officials to collect intelligence on \"the staff, the Trump staff, dealing with Russians.\" She left the Pentagon in 2015, just over a year before the election. She says she was offering advice to associates and did not pass on actual information. \n Obama administration officials have acknowledged that there were efforts to preserve information that could be related to the Russian investigations, as was first reported in The New York Times. Former Obama officials contend that intelligence was disseminated to pockets of the government where officials had clearance to see classified reports, not publicly leaked. \n Still, Farkas herself connected the concerns among government officials about the Trump campaign's possible ties to Russia to the information winding up in the press. \n \"That's why you have the leaking,\" Farkas said in the March 2 interview on MSNBC. \"People are worried.\" \n THE HILL WEIGHS IN \n The White House has embraced a top Republican's assertion that information about Trump associates were improperly spread around the government in the final days of the Obama administration. It appears the White House played a role in helping House intelligence committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., acquire some of that information. \n Nunes announced last week that he had seen intelligence reports showing that Trump aides' communications were picked up through routine surveillance. But he said their identities may have been improperly revealed. The California congressman later said he viewed the reports at the White House. \n The White House contends that Nunes' information \u2014 which has not been made public \u2014 validates Trump's explosive claim that his predecessor wiretapped his New York skyscraper. Nunes has disputed that but still says he found the reports \"troubling.\" \n The White House's apparent involvement in helping Nunes access the information has overshadowed what Trump officials contend are real concerns about how much information about Americans is disseminated in intelligence reports. Trump has asked the House and Senate intelligence committees to include the matter in their Russia investigations. \n CAMPAIGN MODE \n Trump won the election, but thinks it's his vanquished opponent whose ties to Russia should be investigated. \n Some of the White House's allegations against Clinton stem from her four years as secretary of state, a role that gave her ample reasons to have frequent contacts with Russia. \n To deflect questions about Trump's friendly rhetoric toward Russia, the White House points to the fact that Clinton was a central figure in the Obama administration's attempt to \"reset\" relations with Moscow \u2014 an effort that crumbled after Vladimir Putin took back the presidency. \n \"When you compare the two sides in terms of who's actually engaging with Russia, trying to strengthen them, trying to act with them, trying to interact with them, it is night and day between our actions and her actions,\" Spicer said. \n Rex Tillerson, Trump's secretary of state, has deep ties to Russia from his time running ExxonMobil and cutting oil deals with Moscow. \n The White House has also tried to link Clinton to Russia's purchase of a controlling stake in a mining company with operations in the U.S., arguing that she was responsible for \"selling off one-fifth of our country's uranium.\" \n The Clinton-led State Department was among nine U.S. government agencies that had to approve the purchase of Uranium One. According to Politifact, some investors in the company had relationships with former President Bill Clinton and donated to the Clinton Foundation. However, the fact checking site says most of those donations occurred well before Clinton became secretary of state and was in position to have a say in the agreement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House says real story is about leaking, not Russia"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Soldiers carry a victim on a stretcher, in Mocoa, Colombia, Saturday, April 1, 2017, after an avalanche of water from an overflowing river swept through the city as people slept. \n BOGOTA, Colombia >> An avalanche of water from three overflowing rivers swept through a small city in Colombia while people slept, destroying homes and killing at least 127 unsuspecting residents, authorities said today. Authorities also reported 400 people injured and another 220 people missing. \n The incident triggered by intense rains happened around midnight in Mocoa, a city of about 40,000 located near Colombia's southern border with Ecuador that is tucked between mountains at the crux of two rivers. \n Muddy water and debris quickly surged through the city's streets, toppling homes, ripping trees from their roots, lifting cars and trucks and carrying them downstream. Many of the residents did not have enough time to climb on top of their roofs or seek refuge on higher ground. \n President Juan Manuel Santos warned the death toll could continue to rise. \n \"We don't know how many there are going to be,\" he said of the fatalities when he arrived at the disaster zone. \"We're still looking.\" \n Witnesses described feeling buildings vibrate and though an alarm reportedly went off to alert residents it could not be heard throughout the city. Videos residents posted online showed vast areas filled with wood planks and debris. Some could be heard calling out the names of people missing. \n \"There are many people looking for their relatives,\" said Oscar Forero, a spokesman with the Colombian Red Cross. \n The Red Cross planned to set up a special unit in Mocoa Saturday afternoon to help relatives search for their loved ones. \n Herman Granados, an anesthesiologist at the local hospital, said he arrived early Saturday morning and worked throughout the night on victims. He estimated there were at least 300 people injured and said the hospital doesn't have a blood bank large enough to deal with the magnitude of the crisis and was quickly running out of supplies. \n He said some of the hospital workers came to help even while there are own relatives remained missing. \n \"Under the mud,\" he said, \"I am sure there are many more.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Colombia: 127 dead after rivers overflow, toppling homes"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRES \n From left, Solai Pomtong, 14; Laila Pomtong, 9, and Alicia Lapp. The CHP says the two girls were abducted Friday, March 31, 2017 from Greenville, Calif., in northern California's Plumas County, and 33-year-old Lapp is a suspect. An Amber Alert was in effect Saturday. \n GREENVILLE, Calif. >> The California Highway Patrol says two girls who were abducted in Northern California have been found safe. \n An Amber Alert for 14-year-old Solai Pomtong and 9-year-old Laila Pomtong was cancelled today. The CHP says the girls were abducted Friday afternoon from Greenville in Plumas County. \n KGO-TV reports 33-year-old suspect Alicia Lapp is in custody. \n Greenville is a city of 1,100 people about 150 miles northeast of Sacramento and 100 miles northwest of Reno, Nev. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Amber Alert for 2 girls in California cancelled"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Basil Eleby is escorted by his public defender and two Fulton County Sheriff's office officers into the court room at the Fulton County Jail in Atlanta. \n ATLANTA >> A man charged with arson today in the raging fire that collapsed part of Interstate 85 north of downtown Atlanta has been arrested more than a dozen times, mostly on drug charges. \n Jail records show that Basil Eleby has been arrested repeatedly since 1995. Accused of starting the fire below the elevated highway, Eleby now faces charges of first-degree arson and first-degree property damage. \n Sophia Bruner and Barry Thomas, both charged with criminal trespass, were arrested along with Eleby on Friday. \n \"We believe they were together when the fire was set and Eleby is the one who set the fire,\" Deputy Insurance Commissioner Jay Florence said. \n The fire sent flames and smoke high into the air Thursday from an area used to store state-owned construction materials and equipment. It burned so hot that the concrete and steel overpass disintegrated, crippling traffic in a city known for dreadful rush-hour congestion. \n Florence would not discuss how the fire was started or why, saying those details would be released as the investigation progresses. Eleby's bond was set at $200,000 pending his next court appearance on April 14. \n Dozens of firefighters battling the roaring blaze beneath the roadway moved safely out of harm's way amid telltale signs the roadway was breaking apart from the intense heat. \n \"They heard the cracking of the concrete,\" Atlanta Fire Chief Joel Baker said. \"They could see concrete was flying all over the place toward firefighters.\" \n Firefighters shut down the roadway before it fell and retreated safely without injury. \n Experts in structural engineering said fires on highways and bridges rarely burn long enough or hot enough to cause a complete collapse \u2014 but it has happened. Intense heat can compromise even steel-reinforced concrete, said Lauren Stewart, director of the Structural Engineering and Materials Laboratory at Georgia Tech in Atlanta. \n \"With fires, especially fires that burn for long periods and with high heat, you can see structures, anything from buildings to bridges, can have their material properties degrade,\" Stewart said. \n It's happened before. In 1996, a fire in a big pile of tires beneath I-95 in Philadelphia left a span too weak to handle cars, shutting down 4 miles of the busy East Coast route. \n Atlanta commuters struggling to find different routes or use mass transit had better get used to longer commutes: Repairs will take \"at least several months,\" said Russell McMurry, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Transportation. \n McMurry announced Friday that 350 feet of highway will need to be replaced in both directions on I-85, which carries about 400,000 cars a day through Atlanta and is one of the South's most important north-south routes. \n U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao promptly released $10 million for the initial repair work, and the Federal Highway Administration promised more in emergency repair funds. Officials gave no estimate of how much the job would cost. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Repeat offender charged with arson in Atlanta overpass fire"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump listens during a meeting with the National Association of Manufacturers in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. \n NEW YORK >> A slim majority of Americans favor an independent investigation into the Trump campaign's ties with the Russian government, according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research that showed public views about the controversy driving congressional investigations are sharply divided along party lines. \n Amid questions swirling in Washington that have forced the resignation of one top Trump official and the scrutiny of several others, most Americans say they're at least somewhat concerned about the possibility that the Republican businessman's campaign had inappropriate contacts with the Russian government, but less than half say they're very concerned. \n More than three-quarters of Democrats favor an independent investigation into Trump's Russian ties while only one-quarter of Republicans do. Overall, 52 percent of Americans favor such a probe, while 23 percent are opposed. Another 22 percent say they neither favor nor oppose an investigation. Asked if they favor an independent investigation into the issue of Moscow's meddling in the 2016 campaign, Americans broke along similar margins. \n \"Russia has always been an enemy of the United States and of democracy across the world. Our politicians have no business making secret deals with them. That's not the America I know,\" said John Dodd, 68, who runs a bowling alley in Big Spring, Texas. \"Every day, I turn on the news and it feels like there's more to it. For our country's sake, I hope it leads to nowhere. But I am afraid it does.\" \n Questions about possible ties between Trump's associates and Russian officials have dogged the White House. \n Since July, the FBI has been conducting a counterintelligence investigation into Russia's interference in the election and possible coordination with Trump associates. House and Senate intelligence committees, led by Republican lawmakers, are also investigating. Some Democratic leaders have called for an independent investigation, saying the congressional probes, particularly the House investigation, has been tainted by political interference from the White House. \n Several Trump associates have been caught up in the controversy. Trump's first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was forced to resign after he misled the vice president about conversations with a Russian ambassador. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from the Justice Department investigation after he did not disclose a meeting with the same ambassador. White House senior adviser Jared Kushner has volunteered to be questioned by congressional investigators. Former campaign manager Paul Manafort's connections to Russia are part of the congressional probes. \n The president has steadfastly denied any inappropriate links to Russia. \n According to the poll, 44 percent of Americans say they're very or extremely concerned that Trump or others involved in his campaign had inappropriate contacts with the Russian government. Another 18 percent say they're somewhat concerned, and 36 percent say they're not very concerned or not concerned at all. \n \"The election was tampered with \u2014 the Russians stole it for Trump,\" said Lamar Walker, 47, a Democrat from LaGrange, Georgia. \"This man now has the nuclear war codes. But all he cares about is the wall, the Mexicans and going golfing. He said he was going to make America great again. I have not seen one thing he has actually made greater.\" \n But Republicans have a sharply different view. \n \"They are just kicking up dust. It's obstruction. It's just another way to try to block this president,\" said Edward Vazquez, a 46-year-old Republican who works as an engineer in Odessa, Texas. \n Intelligence officials have determined that Russia worked to influence the campaign by hacking the Democratic National Committee and Democratic officials. The information was shared with online leakers. Officials believe that aim was to boost the Trump campaign. \n Trump has said he accepts this determination, although he has been broadly dismissing of the congressional investigations and the steady stream of reporting on new developments. Trump lashed out in early March accusing former President Barack Obama of wiretapping the phone at Trump Tower. He asked House and Senate intelligence committees to investigate. Republican and Democratic lawmakers, as well as FBI Director James Comey, have said they've seen no evidence to support the claim. \n On the whole, Americans are far less likely to see a need for an investigation into Trump's wiretapping accusations \u2014 35 percent in favor to 38 percent opposed. But that again was starkly divided along party lines. Nearly half of Republicans but less than a third of Democrats or independents, favor an investigation. \n A majority of Democrats think that Republicans in Congress haven't been critical enough of Trump, while the majority of Republicans think that Democrats have made too much about Trump's alleged ties to Russia, according to the poll. \n Among Republicans, an overwhelming 76 percent feel that the media has been too critical of Trump. Democrats are split \u2014 45 percent think the media has been mostly fair, while another 38 percent think the media has not been critical enough. \n \"We're incredibly partisan. We can't even sit down and talk to the other side anymore,\" said Ron Larson, a 64-year-old Republican who works as an accountant in Albert Lea, Minnesota. Larson said he didn't have strong feelings one way or the other about the need for a special investigator into the Russia links, he was just disheartened to see an young presidency paralyzed by party loyalty. \n \"This is why we can't get anything done,\" he said. \"All Washington does is fight.\" \n The AP-NORC poll of 1,110 adults was conducted March 23-27 using a sample drawn from NORC's probability-based AmeriSpeak panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4.0 percentage points. \n Interviews were conducted online and using landlines and cellphones. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Poll: Most Americans want independent Russia probe"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators with the Unite Against Fascism (UAF) group, face off with police officers in central London, during a counter-protest against nearby demonstrations by right-wing Britain First and the English Defence League. \n LONDON >> Demonstrators from far-right groups clashed with anti-fascist protesters in central London today, as British police imposed restrictions to try to keep the opposing groups apart. \n Authorities arrested 14 people for various offenses. Protesters gathered at Trafalgar Square and spilled on to nearby roads. \n London's Metropolitan Police imposed conditions on the march and rally Saturday by Britain First and the English Defence League. Organizers described the event as a response to the deadly March 22 attack near Parliament. \n \"We will stand together and show we will not now, not ever, bow down and fear terrorists and terrorism,\" the EDL said on Facebook event page. \n The Unite Against Fascism group held a counter demonstration. \n The protests came just 10 days after attacker Khalid Masood launched an 82-second rampage near Parliament that left four dead, mowing down three pedestrians on Westminster Bridge and stabbing a police officer to death in a Parliament courtyard. Masood was shot dead by police. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Far-right clash with anti-fascists in London, 14 arrested"}

{"date": "April 1, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House chief strategist Steve Bannon disclosed assets between $13 million and $56 million, including his influential political consultancy, Bannon Strategic Advisors Inc., worth as much as $25 million. \n The White House released financial disclosures for many of its senior officials Friday \u2014 a group of some of the wealthiest people ever to join a presidential administration. \n The documents provide a snapshot of what the employees' finances looked like when they joined government service in January, but they do not give a full account of how those people are disentangling from business assets that could pose possible conflicts of interest. \n President Donald Trump, a billionaire New York businessman, and Vice President Mike Pence, the former Indiana governor, are not legally required to file new financial disclosures until next year. Here are some findings from The Associated Press review of thousands of pages of documents: \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n JARED KUSHNER AND IVANKA TRUMP \n Kushner, the president's senior adviser, and Ivanka Trump, Kushner's wife and the president's daughter, resigned from all of their business entities and sold off 58 assets. But the couple held onto much of what they have built into a global and real estate-focused empire. The documents show that have at least $240 million in assets. \n Kushner began selling off the most problematic pieces of his portfolio shortly after Trump won the election, and some of those business deals predate what is required to be captured in the financial disclosure forms. For example, Kushner sold his stake in a Manhattan skyscraper to a trust his mother oversees. Kushner organized much of his holdings into trusts for which he is the sole primary beneficiary. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n GARY COHN \n One of the wealthiest members of the Trump administration \u2014 aside from the president himself \u2014 is Gary Cohn, who left a top position at Goldman Sachs to become Trump's chief economic adviser. His financial disclosure shows he received at least $40 million in income from Goldman Sachs-related dividends, interest, salary and bonuses, about half of which was in some form of stock compensation. \n His investments range from prestigious venture capital fund Andreessen Horowitz to self-storages units in Ohio. Cohn also reported more than $1 million in income from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China \u2014 something the White House has said he is in the process of divesting along with his Goldman holdings. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n STEVE BANNON \n Trump's chief strategist, Steve Bannon, disclosed assets between $13 million and $56 million, including his influential political consultancy, Bannon Strategic Advisors Inc., worth as much as $25 million. Bannon also disclosed that he earned slightly less than $200,000 last year as executive director of Breitbart News Network LLC, before he resigned to join Trump's campaign last August. \n The documents show he was vice president of the data firm Cambridge Analytica for more than two years, before resigning in August 2016 to help run Trump's campaign. Cambridge was the main data provider for Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who waged a bitter battle with Trump for the Republican nomination. Bannon's consulting firm pulled in more than $125,000 from Cambridge last year. He has stake in Cambridge somewhere between $1 million and $5 million, but the disclosure says he has an \"agreement in principle\" to sell his investment. \n Bannon also disclosed his ownership stake worth up to $5 million in Bannon Film Industries Inc., the entertainment company that veered into political-themed documentaries, including last year's anti-Hillary Clinton documentary \"Clinton Cash.\" He retains that investment even while selling off other arrangements, according to the filing. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n KELLYANNE CONWAY \n Kellyanne Conway, who became the first female campaign manager to successfully elect a president, is, not surprisingly, a successful woman herself. \n Even before being named counselor to the president, Conway was worth as much as $40 million, derived mostly from her investments and her salary at her personal political consulting firm, \"the polling company/WomanTrend.\" \n Conway earned, through her company, slightly more than $800,000 in business income for her work in 2016. The business is worth between $1 million and $5 million, according to her disclosure statement. \n Most of Conway's assets, more than $31 million, are held in cash or money-market accounts \u2014 likely because she had to sell most of her investments before taking a job in the White House. She does still own stock in drug giant Pfizer, snack food companies Kraft Heinz and Mondelez, and tobacco companies Altria and Philip Morris. Those stock holdings are relatively minor \u2014 less than $200,000 \u2014 compared with her net worth. \n Conway gave speeches or provided political consulting services to dozens of political interest groups, mostly advocating conservative causes. She also gave a paid speech to Point 72 Asset Management, the firm owned by billionaire hedge fund manager Steven Cohen. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n DON MCGAHN \n Don McGahn, who served as Trump's top campaign lawyer and is now White House counsel, made more than $2.4 million last year for his work at Jones Day, a prominent Washington law firm with deep ties to the Republican Party. McGahn listed legal services for more than 22 conservative and GOP-tied entities last year, including the National Rifle Association, the Citizens United Foundation, the Republican National Committee and Americans for Prosperity. \n A guitar player who often performs in public with an '80s cover band called Scott's New Band, McGahn also disclosed that he earned $4,900 last year from a music booking firm. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n BORIS EPSHTEYN \n A dogged television surrogate for President Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign, Epshteyn disclosed that his primary asset was a stake worth between $1 million and $5 million in TGP Securities Inc., a New Jersey investment banking firm where Epshteyn previously worked as a managing director. \n Epshteyn made only $30,000 last year as a familiar Trump media surrogate. He made far more with TGP, earning $226,000 last year. He made another $240,000 from consulting fees with a health-care cost containment firm, Prime Health Services. \n After the election, Epshteyn joined the White House press office, working with talk shows booking Trump administration figures. But in recent days, reports surfaced that he was leaving the post and it was unclear if he would wind up elsewhere in the administration. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n REINCE PRIEBUS \n Priebus, the White House chief of staff, took in more than $500,000 in salary and bonuses from the Republican Party. He also earned at least $750,000 from equity buyout and partner-distribution income from the law firm Michael Best & Friedrich. \n \u2014\u2014 \n JULIA HAHN \n One of Bannon's employees at Breitbart \u2014 now his top lieutenant in the White House \u2014 has assets that could be worth as much as $2.3 million. That's notable because of her young age: She's in her mid-20s. \n Hahn made a salary of $117,217 at Breitbart News as a senior investigative reporter from July 2015 to January 2017. Her previous job as executive producer of the Laura Ingraham show, where she worked from June 2013 until she went to Breitbart, earned her a salary of $74,082. She owns a very small stake in a real estate investment company known as Cherrywood Partnership, which owns apartment buildings in Pennsylvania. That stake is worth between $250,001 and $500,000. \n \u2014\u2014 \n PETER NAVARRO \n Navarro's only job before joining the White House as director of the National Trade Council was as an economics and public policy professor for the University of California-Irvine, where he had a salary of $240,000. \n He has a variety of assets, including stocks, bonds and investment property. All told, the value is more than $1 million, but not by much. Most of his assets are tied up in his pension and investment properties, which have mortgages attached to them. \n \u2014\u2014 \n JASON GREENBLATT \n Greenblatt, a former Trump Organization lawyer advising the president on Middle East policy, listed assets of more than $1.4 million. Many of the holdings were stock mutual funds. He made $1.02 million last year at the Trump Organization. \n Greenblatt has made two visits to the Middle East since joining the White House, meeting with Israelis and Palestinians and attending an Arab summit in Jordan this week. \n \u2014\u2014 \n KEITH KELLOGG \n Kellogg, the National Security Council chief of staff, reported earning $96,000 in salary and severance for one month working for Cubic Corp., a defense contractor, plus ownership worth at least $366,000 in various investment funds, bonds and a retirement account. He owed at least $600,000 in loans, including a mortgage on his home. \n \u2014\u2014 \n MAKAN DELRAHIM \n Deputy White House counsel Makan Delrahim reported earning a little more than $1 million last year in salary, stock payouts and a buyout from his law firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, where he was a partner. Delrahim, a board member of the World Poker Tour Foundation, is also a passive investor in a movie called \"Trash Fire,\" according to the filing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "White House wealth: Trump employees disclose their finances"}

