{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2010 \n Dressed in jeans and blue suede loafers, Kim Jong Nam, the eldest son of then North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, waved after his first-ever interview with South Korean media in Macau in 2010. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> As Malaysian police continue their inquiry into the death of Kim Jong Nam, the outcast half brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, there's plenty of speculation surrounding what seems one of the stranger killings the world has recently seen. \n North Korea killed Kim Jong Nam because he planned to create an exile government around defectors, says one rumor. Kim Jong Un was furious after learning about secret Chinese plans to enthrone his estranged sibling in Pyongyang if something happens to him, says another. \n Or maybe Pyongyang wasn't involved at all. Perhaps, Kim Jong Nam, known for his carefree lifestyle and gambling habits, angered crime organizations over money problems and that got him killed, say some online arguments. \n Some theories are more bizarre. South Korean newspapers have reported on rumors making rounds on the Chinese internet that impeached South Korean President Park Geun-hye, who faces a court ruling on whether she should permanently step down over a corruption scandal or be reinstated, plotted Kim's death to create a distraction. \n South Korea's spy agency, which has consistently described Kim Jong Un as an irrational and unstable dictator, argues that he killed a non-threatening sibling out of \"paranoia.\" The fuming North Korean ambassador to Kuala Lumpur says the country will reject the autopsy results on Kim Jong Nam because Malaysian officials may be \"trying to conceal something\" and \"colluding with hostile forces.\" \n While imaginations run freely, most South Korean experts think there's a straightforward explanation behind the alleged assassination of Kim, who appears to have been killed by two women at a Kuala Lumpur airport on Monday in what has been suspected as a poison attack. \n Kim Jong Un, who has executed or purged a slew of high-level officials since taking power in 2011, most likely made another move to remove a potential challenger to his power, the experts say. Kim Jong Nam had been the only member of the Kim clan who regularly talked to foreign journalists and sometimes went so far as to openly criticize the country's hereditary power transfer. \n North Korea has been seen as tightening control on its high-profile individuals overseas since the defection of Thae Yong Ho, a senior North Korean diplomat in London who arrived in South Korea last year. There's also a possibility that Kim Jong Nam, who continued to stay in Macau and the Chinese mainland, was taken out because he disobeyed orders to return home, according to some experts. \n But others find North Korea's involvement hard to believe. Both of the women arrested for suspected involvement in the killing were non-Koreans and some think their methods were too unorthodox and careless to be considered a North Korean hit job. \n \"(The attack on Kim) was unbelievably sloppy,\" Kim Jongdae, a South Korean lawmaker, told a radio interview. He pointed out that one of the women reportedly got arrested by returning to the scene a day later with the same clothes. \n \"Kim Jong Nam led a free-wheeling life, and loved to travel, and mingle with women \u2026 He might have had problems with crime organizations. Or maybe this was a crime based on a love affair gone bad,\" he said. \n Seo Jae Pyoung, a North Korean defector and anti-Pyongyang activist, thinks it's unlikely that Kim's death involved crime organizations. While Kim was believed to have profited from helping Chinese firms trade with North Korea when his father and the North's second leader Kim Jong Il was alive, he probably stayed away from risky business activities after Kim Jong Un came to power, Seo said. \n While some think the attack on Kim Jong Nam was careless, others see it as ingenious. It's possible that the women might have not even known they were part of an assassination attempt \u2014 one of the detained female suspects reportedly told police she was tricked into thinking she was part of a TV comedy show prank. \n \"Whoever did it came up with a careful plan that effectively concealed criminal intent until the job was done,\" said Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea expert at Seoul's Dongguk University. \"That person had great understanding of how Western TV media works.\" \n Getting foreigners to do the job, rather than directly using its own operatives, might have been a logical choice for North Korea because it will likely continue denying involvement. \n North Korea used its own operatives when it set off a bomb meant for then-South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan during a 1983 visit to Burma. Although Chun narrowly escaped the blast, more than 20 people were killed, including several of Chun's Cabinet ministers and top aides. One North Korean agent was shot dead by police, a second one was sentenced to death and executed, and a third reportedly died in Myanmar prison in 2008. \n Burma, now known as Myanmar, responded by cutting its diplomatic ties with North Korea, and relations between the countries weren't restored until 2007. The costly experience of three decades ago might have ensured North Korea would use borrowed hands for the alleged assassination in Malaysia, which is one of its few diplomatic partners, Koh said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Was it brother? Lover? Or crime gang? North Korea rumors abound"}

{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / JULY 25 \n U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa is inviting the public to attend a round table discussion in her downtown Honolulu office. \n U.S. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa is holding a round table discussion in her office about possible changes to the Affordable Care Act. \n Repealing former President Barack Obama's signature health care laws is one of President Donald Trump's priorities. \n Hanabusa is concerned that changes proposed by congressional Republicans could result in significant harm and loss of important health benefits. She's also worried about losing federal funding. \n Several state lawmakers, officials and health industry officials will be there. \n They also plan to discuss changes to Medicaid expansion and lifetime limits of coverage. \n The public is invited to attend the meeting Saturday at 10 a.m. in her downtown Honolulu office. \n Space at the meeting is limited. Those who want to attend should call her office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hanabusa to host round table talk on Affordable Care Act"}

{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / JAN. 26 \n Vice President Mike Pence is making his debut on the world stage with a trip to Germany and Belgium. \n MUNICH >> Making his debut on the world stage, Vice President Mike Pence is looking to reassure skeptical allies in Europe about U.S. foreign policy under President Donald Trump, who has made his \"America First\" mantra a centerpiece of his new administration. \n Pence arrived today in Germany, his first overseas trip as vice president, on a mission to ease concerns about the U.S. commitment to multinational institutions like NATO and the European Union. The visit, which will include a stop in Brussels on Sunday and Monday, comes amid worries in Europe about Russian aggression, and amid lingering questions about Trump's relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin and whether the new president may promote isolationist tendencies. \n The dismissal of Trump's national security adviser, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, has also put Pence and his stature within the administration under new scrutiny. Flynn was forced to resign Monday following reports he misled Pence about contacts with a Russian diplomat, which the vice president learned about through media accounts. \n Landing on a cold, rainy evening, Pence was greeted by about two dozen members of the Bavarian Honor Guard and local dignitaries at Munich's airport. On Saturday, he will deliver a speech at the Munich Security Conference and then meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. \n Pence is also scheduled to sit down with the leaders of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko \u2014 countries facing the threat of Russian aggression \u2014 along with Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim. \n \"These are pretty blunt-spoken people and they are very nervous. Pence is looking like an adult,\" said James Jeffrey, a U.S. ambassador to Iraq during the Obama administration and a distinguished fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. \"The question is will Trump listen to him?\" \n Pence was also expected to meet with the leaders of Iraq and Afghanistan, where the U.S. is embroiled in two separate wars. In the earliest days of his presidency, Trump declared his intention to fight and defeat the Islamic State group. But he also remarked that the U.S. may get a second chance to take Iraqi oil as compensation for its efforts in the war-torn country, a notion rebuffed by Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, who will be meeting with Pence. \n Trump's immigration and refugee ban has also ruffled feathers with a number of Muslim-majority countries affected by the order currently tied up in court, including Iraq \u2014 a close ally in the fight against IS. \n The American allies will be seeking clues from Pence as to how the Trump administration plans to deal with Russia in the aftermath of Flynn's departure, U.S. inquiries into Russia's involvement in the presidential election and Trump's past praise for Putin. \n European countries along Russia's border were rattled about deeper U.S.-Russian ties after Trump suggested sanctions imposed after Russia's annexation of Crimea could be eased in exchange for a nuclear weapons deal and the president referred to NATO as \"obsolete\" in an interview before his inauguration. Trump has since tempered his language, telling foreign leaders in phone calls about the importance of the NATO alliance. \n NATO, or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is a military alliance of European and North American democracies created after World War II to strengthen international cooperation as a counter-balance to the rise of the Soviet Union. In 2014, the 28-member alliance created a rapid-reaction force to protect the most vulnerable NATO members against a confrontation with Russia. \n But Trump cast doubt as a candidate about whether the U.S. might fulfill its NATO obligations if he won the White House, saying in a July interview that he would decide whether to protect the Baltic republics against Russian aggression based on whether those countries \"have fulfilled their obligations to us.\" \n Pence will travel to Brussels, Belgium, on Sunday for meetings related to NATO and the European Union. His Monday itinerary includes face-to-face meetings with EU Council President Donald Tusk, EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg. \n As part of his message, Pence is expected to press allies in Europe to raise their defense budgets to NATO's target of 2 percent of GDP. Germany has been wary of the costs and pointed to its expenditures from supporting refugees and investing in international development. \n As Indiana's governor, Pence led a number of foreign trade missions, and he traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan as a member of Congress. But he is just beginning his relationships with foreign leaders and aides said the trip was also aimed at establishing personal ties with U.S. partners. \n \"There's considerable concern, but because they don't know (Pence) they're willing to give him a chance,\" said Julianne Smith, a former deputy national security adviser to Vice President Joe Biden. \"This is the opportunity for the administration to reassure very skittish allies across the European continent and beyond.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pence arrives in Germany for meetings with world leaders"}

{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Robert Durst appeared in Los Angeles Superior Court Airport Branch for a pre-trial motions hearing on Jan. 6. \n LOS ANGELES >> Robert Durst's close friend reluctantly admitted today that he had misled and lied to prosecutors for months before coming clean and saying that the real estate heir had confessed to killing their close friend. \n A dogged defense lawyer finally got Nathan Chavin to say he was \"lying\" after he had deftly wielded an arsenal of weaker synonyms to explain what he said were efforts to avoid turning on his friend by telling the truth. \n \"I was covering up. I was withholding the truth,\" Chavin said. \"Is that a euphemism? I was lying.\" \n Evidence of Chavin's \"waffling,\" a word he employed at one point, was used by Durst's camp to undermine the prosecution's star witness after he dropped two damning bombshells the day before. \n Chavin said Berman, their mutual close friend, told him years ago that Durst confided in her that he killed his first wife, Kathleen Durst, who disappeared in 1982 and has never been found. Chavin said Durst told him outside a New York restaurant in 2014 what he took to be a confession to Berman's killing. \n \"It was her or me,\" Durst said about Berman, according to Chavin. \"I had no choice.\" \n Durst, 73, has pleaded not guilty to murder in the fatal shooting of Berman in her Los Angeles home. Authorities have long suspected he killed Kathleen Durst, but he's never been charged with any crime related to her disappearance. \n Chavin's testimony came in a rare hearing to record witnesses who are elderly or fear the millionaire could have them whacked. The testimony that concluded today would only be used at a future trial if they are dead or couldn't appear for some other reason. \n The defense said Durst poses no threat. He's frail, shuffles into court slowly and he's in jail where his phone conversations are recorded. \n But prosecutors say that Durst killed Berman as she was preparing to speak with police who had reopened the investigation into Kathleen Durst's disappearance in New York. \n Chavin's identity was disclosed to the defense just two weeks before the hearing and he was on a plane to California that same day. He has been guarded by members of an elite division of the Los Angeles Police Department. \n The battle over truth and lies played out against a backdrop of deeper themes: loyalty and betrayal. \n Chavin said he struggled to balance his allegiances to two best friends before deciding to tell \"the whole truth\" about what he knew about Berman's death. \n Berman had once found herself in that position, he said, after she learned that Durst killed his wife. \n \"Kathie's gone and we can't help her, we have to help Bob,\" Berman had said, according to Chavin. \n Chavin had said Berman would do anything for Durst, and so would he. \n In one recorded phone call played in court, Deputy District Attorney John Lewin asked if he thought Berman would have ultimately told the truth about Durst. \n \"I don't think she would have lied under oath,\" Chavin said. \n \"If that's the case it looks like Bob (Durst) made an intelligent decision,\" Lewin cracked. \"It looks like Bob decided he had loose ends he couldn't have out there.\" \n \"That's certainly logical,\" Chavin said, though he denied knowing about Durst's involvement. \n In the end, Chavin decided Berman deserved more of his loyalty than Durst. \n \"I had to consider my obligation to Susan,\" Chavin said. \"I had a duty to protect her memory like she had to protect Bob.\" \n Durst's lawyer suggested Chavin fabricated the so-called confession to curry favor with Douglas Durst, who ran the family's New York real estate development empire, feared his older brother and wanted him behind bars. \n Chavin, an ad executive, told prosecutors he was making a major pitch to the firm and that his business depended on maintaining goodwill with Douglas Durst, who hates his brother. \n He was asked by Lewin on one recording if his knowledge of a confession would put him in the good graces of Douglas Durst. \n \"It sure would,\" he said. \"But it would make me a liar.\" \n Durst was arrested in New Orleans in 2015 just before the final episode aired of the six-part HBO series, \"The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst.\" \n After the arrest, Durst called Chavin from jail and said he regretted participating in the documentary that dredged up new evidence and ended with him muttering to himself on a live microphone: \"You're caught! What the hell did I do? Killed them all, of course.\" \n On the jailhouse call, Durst said the filmmaker had put him behind bars. \n Durst said it was \"unbelievable how stupid I could be.\" \n Chavin reminded Durst that he counseled him not to participate in the project. \n Chavin said Durst had urged him to take part, but he declined. \n \"I thought it would be harmful to him,\" Chavin said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Loyalty and lies central in Durst star witness testimony"}

{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Waves crashed against a pier in Seal Beach, Calif. \n LOS ANGELES >> A powerful Pacific storm blew into Southern and Central California today with wind-driven heavy rains that downed power lines and electrocuted a man, stranded others in flooded areas and disrupted hundreds of flights at airports. \n With the storm feeding on an atmospheric river of moisture stretching far out into the Pacific, precautionary evacuations of homes in some neighborhoods were requested due to the potential for mudslides and debris flows. \n More than 300 arriving and departing flights were delayed or canceled at Los Angeles International Airport. \n In the Sherman Oaks area of Los Angeles, a falling tree downed power lines and hit a car. A 55-year-old man was electrocuted and pronounced dead at a hospital, police and fire officials said. \n Winds gusting to 60 mph or more lashed the area. Heavy rains turned creeks and rivers into brown torrents and released slews of mud from hillsides burned barren by wildfires. Several stretches of freeways and highways were closed by flooding. \n \"It's crazy,\" said Robin Johnson, an academic adviser at the University of California, Santa Barbara. \"It's just pouring down rain. The wind is just going nuts.\" \n \"At one point the wind was so strong I'm surprised it didn't blow my windows out,\" retiree Phoenix Hocking said in a Facebook message from Carpinteria. \"I now have a pond in my patio. And my dog is starting to grow flippers so he can go out and do his business.\" \n In San Bernardino County, a 20-mile stretch of State Route 138 in the West Cajon Valley was closed at the scene of a summer wildfire. \n Mud sloshed over concrete rail barriers and about two dozen vehicles, including big-rigs and a school bus, were either mired in mud or became unable to turn around on the closed road and some were abandoned, county fire spokesman Eric Sherwin said. \n In LA's Sun Valley, 10 cars were trapped in swift-moving water on a roadway and eight people had to be rescued, the Fire Department reported. \n Two people in a car were rescued and four students on the bus were removed and taken to a school office, he said. \n Another road in the area was covered with 2 feet of mud. \n Using ropes and inflatable boats, firefighters rescued seven people and two dogs from the Sepulveda basin, a recreation and flood-control area along the Los Angeles River. One person was taken to a hospital with a non-life threatening injury. \n The storm took aim at Southern California but also spread precipitation north into the San Joaquin Valley and up to San Francisco. It was not expected to bring significant rain in the far north where damage to spillways of the Lake Oroville dam forced evacuation of 188,000 people last weekend. \n The National Weather Service said it could end up being the strongest storm to hit Southern California since January 1995. \n Rain and wind wiped out play in golf's Genesis Open at the Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles, where a eucalyptus tree cracked. \n Hundreds of trees and dozens of power lines had toppled in the Los Angeles area and at one point more than 60,000 city power customers were without electricity. \n A 75-foot tree fell onto an apartment building near the University of California, Los Angeles, narrowly missing someone who was in bed, fire officials said. Four of the six apartments have been declared unsafe to enter, prompting the evacuation of 16 college students. \n \"I was just sitting in bed trying to enjoy a Friday morning of no class,\" one resident told KCAL-TV. \"I had a giant, like, thunder popping sound and then next thing I knew a branch was coming through the ceiling.\" \n Her leg was scratched by debris and \"I was covered in sawdust,\" she said. \n Her thought now was, \"Where am I going to live?\" \n Another tree smashed a carport and vehicles in the Santa Barbara suburb of Goleta. \n Knott's Berry Farm amusement park in Orange County closed because the weather. High surf pounded beaches. \n By evening, Ventura County and northern Los Angeles County had seen 24-hour rain totals of up to 7 \u00bd inches, with the San Marcos mountain pass in Santa Barbara County receiving nearly 8 \u00bd inches. \n Farther south, downtown Los Angeles had received about 1 \u00bd inches of rain while some areas saw up to 4 inches. \n The storm system was moving \"very slowly\" eastward and Los Angeles County was expected to see more rain through Saturday, said Joe Sirard, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Oxnard. \n The city of Duarte, in the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains east of Los Angeles, ordered evacuation of 180 homes below a burn scar. Up the coast, evacuations were urged for parts of Camarillo Springs in Ventura County and around an 11\u00bd-square-mile burn scar west of Santa Barbara. \n Santa Anita Park near Pasadena canceled all its horse races today. \n In Northern California, officials monitoring the stricken Oroville Dam on the Feather River said they were confident the reservoir would handle any runoff from expected storms because ongoing releases have been lowering the lake's level since its spillways were damaged last week. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "One dead, others stranded as storm lashes California"}

{"date": "February 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this image made from video, North Korean Ambassador to Malaysia Kang Chol spoke to the media gathered outside the morgue in Kuala Lumpur on Friday. \n KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia >> Malaysia performed a second autopsy on the estranged half brother of North Korea's leader because the first procedure was inconclusive, piling on the intrigue surrounding what appeared to be a well-executed assassination at an airport in Kuala Lumpur, an official said Saturday. Police arrested a fourth suspect, identified as a North Korean man. \n The second autopsy clearly enraged North Korea, which has vowed to reject the results of any post-mortem and demanded that Malaysia turn over the body immediately. Speaking to reporters outside the morgue late Friday, Pyongyang's ambassador said Malaysian officials may be \"trying to conceal something\" and \"colluding with hostile forces.\" \n A Malaysian official with knowledge of the investigation confirmed the second autopsy started Friday night and said that the results of the first one were inconclusive. He asked that his name not be used because he is not authorized to speak to the media. \n The inconclusive autopsy results raise all sorts of questions about the mysterious death of Kim Jong Nam, but a lack of closure and a lingering sense of the unknown aren't unusual when it comes to North Korea. While South Korea has blamed North Korea for a slew of notable assassinations or attempted killings in past decades, the North often denies involvement or simply doesn't comment. \n The death of Kim Jong Nam, the exiled half brother of North Korea's powerful and mercurial ruler, has unleashed a torrent of speculation, tales of intrigue and explosive, unconfirmed reports from dueling nations. \n Malaysia has arrested four people so far, the lastest a man carrying an ID that identified him as 46-year-old Ri Jong Chol. He was picked up Friday night. \n Authorities were still trying to piece together details of the case. \n Kim Jong Nam, who was 45 or 46 and had lived in exile for years, suddenly fell ill at the Kuala Lumpur airport on Monday as he waited for a flight home to Macau. Dizzy and in pain, he told medical workers at the airport he had been sprayed with a chemical. He died while being taken to a hospital. \n South Korea has accused its enemies in North Korea of dispatching a hit squad to kill Kim Jong Nam at the airport in Kuala Lumpur, saying two female assassins poisoned him and then fled in a taxi. \n On Friday, Indonesia's police chief said an Indonesian woman arrested for suspected involvement in the killing was duped into thinking she was part of a comedy show prank. \n Indonesian police chief Tito Karnavian, citing information received from Malaysian authorities, told reporters in Indonesia's Aceh province that Siti Aisyah, 25, was paid to be involved in \"Just For Laughs\" style pranks, a reference to a popular hidden camera show. He said she and another woman performed stunts which involved convincing men to close their eyes and then spraying them with water. \n \"Such an action was done three or four times and they were given a few dollars for it, and with the last target, Kim Jong Nam, allegedly there were dangerous materials in the sprayer,\" Karnavian said. \"She was not aware that it was an assassination attempt by alleged foreign agents.\" \n Malaysian police were questioning four suspects \u2014 Aisyah, another woman who carried a Vietnamese passport; a man they said is Aisyah's boyfriend; and the North Korean man. \n North Korea broke its silence on the case Friday night. Speaking to reporters gathered outside the morgue in Kuala Lumpur on Friday, North Korean Ambassador Kang Chol said Malaysia conducted the autopsy on Kim Jong Nam \"unilaterally and excluding our attendance.\" \n \"We will categorically reject the result of the post-mortem,\" Kang said, adding that the move disregarded \"elementary international laws and consular laws.\" \n Kang said the fact that Malaysia has yet to hand over the body \"strongly suggests that the Malaysian side is trying to conceal something which needs more time and deceive us, and that they are colluding with the hostile forces towards us who are desperate to harm us.\" \n Malaysia is one of just a handful of countries to have full diplomatic ties with North Korea, with each country having an embassy in the other's capital. Malaysia has also been a key place for quiet, semi-official \"track 2\" diplomatic talks between North Korea and with the United States. \n Malaysia said Friday it wants DNA samples from Kim Jong Nam's family as part of the post-mortem procedure and that officials were not yet willing to hand the body over to the North Koreans. Although Kim Jong Nam is believed to have two sons and a daughter with two women living in Beijing and Macau, police in Malaysia say none has come forward to claim the body or provide DNA samples. \n \"If there is no claim by next-of-kin and upon exhausting all avenues (to obtain DNA), we will finally then hand over the body to the (North Korean) embassy,\" said Abdul Samah Mat, a senior Malaysian police official. He would not say how long that process might take. \n Kim Jong Nam was estranged from his younger half brother, the North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. He reportedly fell out of favor with their father, the late Kim Jong Il, in 2001, when he was caught trying to enter Japan on a false passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Second autopsy ordered on Kim half-brother, fourth arrest made"}

