{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 20 photo, police officer Matthew Monteiro speaks to a motorist about texting while driving while patrolling on his bicycle in East Bridgewater, Mass. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 20 photo, police officer Matthew Monteiro watches for motorists who may be texting while patrolling on his bicycle during afternoon rush hour in East Bridgewater, Mass. \n WEST BRIDGEWATER, Mass. \u00bb State police in Chattanooga, Tennessee, have been known to patrol in a tractor-trailer so they can sit up high and spot drivers texting behind the wheel.  \n In Bethesda, Maryland, a police officer disguised himself as a homeless man, stood near a busy intersection and radioed ahead to officers down the road about texting drivers. In two hours last October, police gave out 56 tickets. \n And in West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, south of Boston, an officer regularly tools around town on his bicycle, pedals up to drivers at stoplights and hands them $105 tickets. \n Texting while driving in the U.S. is not just a dangerous habit, but also an infuriatingly widespread one, practiced both brazenly and surreptitiously by so many motorists that police are being forced to get creative \u2014 and still can't seem to make much headway. \n \"It's everyone, kids, older people \u2014 everyone. When I stop someone, they say, 'You're right. I know it's dangerous, but I heard my phone go off and I had to look at it,'\" said West Bridgewater Officer Matthew Monteiro. \n The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates nearly 3,500 people were killed in crashes involving distracted drivers in the mainland U.S. and Puerto Rico in 2015, up from almost 3,200 in 2014. The number of deaths in which cellphones were the distraction rose from 406 in 2014 to 476 in 2015. \n But many safety advocates say crashes involving cellphones are vastly underreported because police are forced to rely on what they are told by drivers, many of whom aren't going to admit they were using their phones. \n \"You don't have a Breathalyzer or a blood test to see if they are using their phones,\" said Deborah Hersman, president and chief executive of the National Safety Council and former chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board. \"Certainly, law enforcement can ask people, 'Can I see your phone?' but people can refuse, so they then have to get a search warrant.\" \n Forty-six states have laws against texting while driving that typically also ban sending or reading email, using apps or engaging in other internet activity. Fourteen states bar drivers from using hand-held cellphones for any activity, including talking. \n While efforts to discourage texting have increased in recent years, the consensus among police, safety advocates and drivers is that the problem is only getting worse. \n In New York, texting tickets soared from about 9,000 in 2011 to nearly 85,000 in 2015. In Massachusetts, they rocketed from about 1,100 to a little over 6,100 over the same period. In California, the number of people found guilty of texting while driving climbed from under 3,000 in 2009 to over 31,000 in 2015. \n Everywhere they look, police see drivers staring at their phones behind the wheel. \n \"We did see one driver who had two phones going at one time \u2014 one in his left hand and one in his right hand, with his wrist on the steering wheel,\" said Lt. Paul Watts, a Virginia state trooper. \n West Bridgewater Police Chief Victor Flaherty said: \"We've seen cars in trees. We've had two houses hit within three weeks. We had a car off the road 100 yards before it hit a parking lot.\" \n Enforcement is difficult, in part because it's hard to prove texting violations in states that allow drivers to talk on hand-held cellphones. \n \"For the normal officer, in a car, it's very difficult to tell if someone is texting or just using their phone in another way,\" Flaherty said. \n In Florida, texting is a secondary offense, meaning that even if police spot drivers texting, they can't be stopped unless the officer sees another violation, such as speeding. Police gave out just 1,359 citations for texting in 2015. \n Drivers have also become sneakier. Instead of resting their phones against the steering wheel, they hold them down low to make it more difficult for police to see what's going on. \n \"Some people call it the red-light prayer because their heads are bowed and they are looking down at their laps with a nice blue glow coming up in their face,\" said Chris Cochran, a spokesman for the California Office of Traffic Safety. \n In New York, some lawmakers proposed equipping police with a device called the Textalyzer. An officer investigating a crash could use it to check the driver's phone for any activity before the wreck. The idea ran into legal objections and has not been put to a vote. \n Fines for first offenses range from $20 to $500. In some states, such as New York, drivers caught texting also get points on their driving record, which can lead to higher insurance rates. \n Some states have increased the penalties, including Louisiana, which raised its fine for first-time offenders from $175 to up to $500. But safety advocates have focused more on pushing for better enforcement, said Jonathan Adkins, executive director of the Governors Highway Safety Association. \n Surveys show that most drivers know the dangers of using their phones while driving but that many do it anyway. \n Jay Winsten, director of the Center for Health Communication at Harvard's School of Public Health, is working on a major media campaign against distracted driving. The center spearheaded the successful 1980s campaign that promoted the use of designated drivers to combat drunken driving. \n In addition to warning drivers not to use their phones, the new campaign will promote defensive driving, urging motorists to watch out for distracted drivers. \n \"We're trying to get the attention of people by not talking to them as the villain, but rather as the other guy,\" Winsten said. \n In the meantime, Officer Monteiro can't pedal his bike fast enough to get to all the drivers he sees texting. One day, he caught a teenager playing Pokemon Go on his phone while driving. Another time, he caught a woman watching YouTube videos. Both got slapped with $105 tickets. The teenager also faces a 60-day suspension of his license. \n Vinny Fiasconaro, 30, got a warning after Monteiro saw him using the calculator on his phone at a stop sign. Fiasconaro shook his head sheepishly. \n \"I was in the wrong,\" he said. \"You should be focusing on the road. You should pay attention.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police losing battle to get drivers to put down their phones"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / NOV. 2015 \n In this file photo, former Subway pitchman Jared Fogle arrives at the federal courthouse in Indianapolis. \n INDIANAPOLIS \u00bb Subway's former pitchman imprisoned for child pornography and sex abuse argued in a court filing today that the parents of one of his female victims are to blame for what he describes as her \"destructive behaviors.\" \n Jared Fogle's motion filed in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis also argues that the parents may be responsible for the girl's injuries alleged in a civil lawsuit against him. \n The victim was a subject in some of the child pornography in Fogle's criminal case and filed a lawsuit against him in March. It seeks monetary damages for, among other things, personal injury and emotional distress. \n Fogle's filing alleges the parents fought and abused alcohol in front of her. It argues that's among the causes of her distress and contends the parents may be liable for some or all of her claims against Fogle. \n Fogle was sentenced in November to more than 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to distributing and receiving child pornography and traveling out of state to engage in illicit sexual conduct with a minor. Fogle has paid restitution to his victims, but they can still sue him and seek additional money. \n The parents are not named in the court documents, and the victim is referred to only by the pseudonym \"Jane Doe.\" \n Fogle's Thursday filing also points the finger at the parents' divorce, describing it as acrimonious. \"Custody and parenting time (agreements),\" it says, \"required Jane Doe to constantly rotate her living arrangements caused unnecessary stress, anxiety, and trauma for Jane Doe.\" \n The victim's lawsuit, which seeks at least $300,000 in damages, names Fogle and the former head of his anti-obesity charity, Russell Taylor. Taylor's wife is also a defendant in the suit. \n Prosecutors who charged Fogle and Taylor last year said Taylor used cameras hidden in the Indianapolis-area homes where he lived to secretly film 12 minors and shared some of the images with Fogle. The pornography was produced over a four-year period. \n Fogle encouraged Taylor to continue filming children, who were recorded as they were nude, changing clothes or engaged in other activities while visiting Taylor's homes, prosecutors said. \n The Indiana girl suing was among those filmed and has suffered \"significant emotional trauma,\" her attorney M. Michael Stephenson said around the time the suit was filed. \n The girl's attorneys didn't immediately respond to an after-hours inquiry from The Associated Press seeking comment on the latest filing. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-Subway pitchman in suit: Victim's parents to blame"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese transport ministry officials raided the Tokyo headquarters of scandal-ridden Mitsubishi Motors Corp. after the government alleged the automaker cheated on mileage ratings on more models than earlier reported. \n TOKYO >> Japanese transport ministry officials raided the Tokyo headquarters of scandal-ridden Mitsubishi Motors Corp. on Friday after the government alleged the automaker cheated on mileage ratings on more models than earlier reported. \n The systematic inflating of mileage numbers first surfaced in April, over minicars, eK wagon and eK Space, that also were sold under the Nissan Motor Co. brand. No overseas models are affected. \n This week, the government said it had found similar cheating on eight more models, including an electric car, for which Mitsubishi had overstated the cruise range on a single charge. \n Ministry official Yuki Ebihara said the raid, the third over the mileage scandal, was part of an investigation to find out how the cheating developed and what might be behind such persistent wrongdoing. \n Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors is compensating owners with cash rebates. Sales of the eight models have been halted in Japan. \n When the mileage discrepancy over the minicars surfaced, the government ordered mileage tests redone on other models, following the correct procedure, rather than the incorrect methods used by Mitsubishi Motors. \n Mitsubishi initially said the discrepancy in the mileage was minimal. This week, Mitsubishi acknowledged they went with the best data the redone tests turned up, not the average, as required by law. \n Mitsubishi's vehicle sales in Japan have nosedived, falling 35 percent last month compared to the same month last year. \n Nissan has said it is taking a 34 percent stake in Mitsubishi to help its turnaround, although the deal has not yet been completed. \n Mitsubishi's reputation was hammered by a massive cover-up of defects that surfaced in the early 2000s. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan raids Mitsubishi Motors over mileage-cheating scandal"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jeremy Shuler, 12, a freshman at Cornell University, poses on campus in Ithaca, N.Y. He's the youngest student on record to attend the Ivy League school. \n ITHACA, N.Y. >> When he was 2, Jeremy Shuler was reading books in English and Korean. At 6, he was studying calculus. Now, at an age when most kids are attending middle school, the exuberant 12-year-old is a freshman at Cornell University, the youngest the Ivy League school has on record. \n \"It's risky to extrapolate, but if you look at his trajectory and he stays on course, one day he'll solve some problem we haven't even conceived of,\" said Cornell Engineering Dean Lance Collins. \"That's pretty exciting.\" \n Jeremy is the home-schooled child of two aerospace engineers who were living in Grand Prairie, Texas, when he applied to Cornell. While Jeremy's elite-level SAT and Advanced Placement test scores in math and science at age 10 showed he was intellectually ready for college, Collins said what sealed the deal was his parents' willingness to move to Ithaca. Jeremy's father, Andy Shuler, transferred from Lockheed Martin in Texas to its location in upstate New York. \n \"I wanted to make sure he had a nice, safe environment in terms of growing up,\" Collins said. \n With his bowl-cut hair, cherubic face and frequent happy laughter, Jeremy is clearly still a child despite his advanced intelligence. He swung in his chair while his parents, who he calls Mommy and Daddy, recounted his early years during an interview at the engineering school where his grandfather is a professor, his father got his doctorate and Jeremy is now an undergrad. \n \"From the beginning, he was physically advanced, very strong,\" said Harrey Shuler, who has a doctorate in aerospace engineering but put her career on hold to home-school Jeremy. He fixated on letters and numbers at 3 months old, knew the alphabet at 15 months, and was reading books on his own at 21 months in English and Korean, his mother's native language. \n When he was 5, he read \"The Lord of the Rings\" and \"Journey Through Genius: The Great Theorems of Mathematics\" on his own. Enrolling him in kindergarten was pointless. \n \"We were concerned about him socializing with other kids,\" his mother said. \"At the playground he was freaked out by other kids running around screaming. But when we took him to Math Circle and math camp, he was very social. He needed someone with similar interests.\" \n Jeremy nodded vehemently at that, saying his closest friends are from the math discussion groups. \"One of my Math Circle friends actually wrote 'Minecraft for Dummies,'\" he said, adding that the computer game is one of his favorite pastimes along with reading science fiction. \n He said he's settling in to college life. \n \"I was nervous at first, but I'm a lot more excited than nervous now,\" he said, adding that he's already made a couple of friends. \"As Mommy said, all the kids in math camp were older than me, so I'm used to having older friends. As long as they like math.\" \n He's enjoying the classes, especially the theoretical discussions, he said. \n \"The classes are kind of easy so far, but I know they'll be harder pretty soon,\" Jeremy said. \n That's an important thing to keep in mind, according to others with experience in early college. \n Joe Bates, founder of Singular Computing in Newton, Massachusetts, and a leading researcher in artificial intelligence, entered Johns Hopkins University when he was 13. Now 60, Bates said college was liberating after conventional schooling that always bored him. \n \"It was actually the first time it was fun and interesting to be in school,\" Bates said. On a social level, he felt more at home with his nerdy college classmates than he had with junior high students. \n \"If I were to give Jeremy any advice, it would be that it can be hard and you should not assume you can manage everything,\" Bates said, recalling how distressed he was when he found himself struggling with his doctoral studies at Cornell Engineering. \"You should truly keep your parents and advisers informed, and ask them for help. It's not going to be like before, when you could just do everything.\" \n As for the future, Jeremy plans to just keep on learning. \n \"I want to pursue a career in academia,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cornell University welcomes 12-year-old college freshman"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe removes costume of the Nintendo game character Super Mario as he makes an appearance during the closing ceremony at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. \n TOKYO >> How much did Nintendo pay to land that dream marketing opportunity at the Rio Olympics closing ceremony, where Japan's prime minister popped out dressed as the red-hatted plumber Super Mario? \n Zero. \n The Japanese video game maker behind \"Pokemon\" and \"Zelda\" got the coveted stage that corporate sponsors pay millions for after they were approached by those creating the festivities for \"cooperation,\" not the other way around, says Nintendo Co. spokesman Yasuhiro Minagawa. \n \"I want to make that clear. We did not pay,\" he said in a telephone interview. \"And we are not going to become Olympic sponsors either.\" \n Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's emergence in a Super Mario costume was the highlight of the handover section for Tokyo, the host of the 2020 games. \n The segment was so favorably received in Japan as surprisingly playful and tasteful, given the staidness usually associated with Japan Inc., that Abe earned a new nickname, \"Abe-Mario.\" \n Tokyo city official Masahiro Hayashi said Japan's top advertising company Dentsu Inc. was tapped to produce the handover segment, with a total budget for the Rio Olympics and the Paralympics of $12 million. \n He refused to say how much Dentsu was paid, or give other details. \n The city of Tokyo and the organizing committee are under intense pressure to trim costs, which have ballooned over the years, partly because of the weakening yen but also because planning fiascos, such as decisions to redo designs for both the main stadium and the Tokyo 2020 logo. \n Organizing committee spokesman Motoki Okumura would not give details of the spending for the closing ceremony. Dentsu also declined to comment. \n \"Top Olympic sponsors pay millions of dollars to the IOC for permission to promote their brands to a massive global audience. Nintendo just did it for free. With Japan's prime minister as their pitchman. Easily the marketing coup of the Rio games,\" said Bob Dorfman, a sports marketing analyst and creative director at Baker Street Advertising of San Francisco. \n Purists might feel the commercial branding was a bit overdone, and argue for other ways to promote Japanese culture, according to Dorfman, who has lived in Japan. \n \"But gaming and anime are certainly major aspects of modern Japan, and Mario is a universal icon. As someone who doesn't take sports or the Olympics too seriously, I found the whole thing pretty funny and entertaining,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Super Mario marketing op in Rio cost Nintendo how much? Zero"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "Here's a list of closures, cancellations and changes due to Hurricane Lester. This list will be updated. \n All public schools on Maui will close at noon Friday. \n University of Hawaii Maui College and all other UH facilities in Maui County will close Friday at noon and all events and classes are canceled after noon and Saturday. \n Hawaii Theatre Center is canceling events scheduled for Sept. 3 and 4. \n Saturday's OIA high schools football games are rescheduled to Monday, including the Aloha Stadium doubleheader. \n Saturday's Farmers Market at Kapiolani Community College canceled. \n Maui Swap Meet on the UH-Maui College campus canceled. \n Okinawan Festival, scheduled for Saturday and Sunday at Kapiolani Park, canceled. \n Gore Vidal's play \"The Best Man,\" scheduled to open Friday at The Actors' Group, rescheduled for Sept. 9. \n Aloha Festivals Royal Court investiture and opening scheduled for Saturday rescheduled for 5 to 7 p.m. Sept. 9 at the Royal Hawaiian Center's Royal Grove. \n The Oahu Walk to End Alzheimer's, originally scheduled for Saturday, has been rescheduled for Oct. 22 at Moanalua Gardens. \n The Miss Hawaii Chinatown Scholarship Pageant scheduled for Saturday at Hawaii Theatre has been canceled. A new date is expected. \n Maui VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic closed at noon Friday. \n State courthouses and judiciary offices in Maui County close noon Friday, including district courts on Molokai and Lanai, the Children's Justice Center, Office of the Public Guardian, and the Driver's Education Office. Deadlines extended for any Maui County court matters with a filing or hearing date of Friday; all documents due during the court closure will be considered timely if filed by the close of business on Tuesday. \n Haleakala National Park will close 8 p.m. Friday until further notice. Closure includes all backcountry areas and sunrise operations for Saturday. \n Hana Bay closed Friday and Saturday. \n State parks: Open for Labor Day weekend. On Maui, camping and lodging facilities closed. On Oahu, camping areas closed Friday night. If storm warnings are lifted either Friday night or early Saturday morning, email notifications will be sent out to about 85 Oahu camping permittees alerting them that camping permits will allow them to camp starting Saturday night. \n State Division of Forestry and Wildlife: On Maui, alll forest reserves, wildlife sanctuaries, natural area reserves and Na Ala Hele hiking trails remain closed. \n Makapuu tidepools trail closed. \n HawaiiUSA Federal Credit Union's Kahului and Kihei branches closed Saturday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Cancellations, closures and changes due to Hurricane Lester"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks at the American Legion's 98th Annual Convention at the Duke Energy Convention Center in Cincinnati, Ohio on Wednesday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Hillary Clinton may have to rely on executive actions to an unprecedented degree to secure major policy accomplishments if she's elected president, and the Democratic Party's left wing intends to hold her feet to the fire to make sure she does just that.  \n In anticipation of becoming the first Democratic president in more than a century to take office without full control of Congress, Clinton is campaigning on promises to take far-reaching and legally contentious unilateral actions that go beyond the steps taken by President Barack Obama. They include giving work permits to 5 million undocumented immigrants, requiring background checks for purchases of firearms online or at gun shows, imposing long-term limits on climate-warming emissions and closing a tax loophole that benefits hedge fund managers. \n \"She needs to demonstrate to the base that, one way other another, she's actually going to get something done,\" said Jim Manley, a former adviser to Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid. \"They feel \u2014 wrongly, in my opinion \u2014 that this president hasn't done enough. So she's not going to fall for that trap.\" \n It's \"unusual\" for presidential candidates to tout executive actions, said Norm Ornstein, a political scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, because they typically assume disputes will be resolved through the legislative process. \"This is making it clear that she understands the legislative process is pretty much broken,\" he said. \n Ornstein said there are some issues she may be able to move bipartisan legislation on in her first few months, such as an infrastructure package, changes to the tax code or a fix to ailing Affordable Care Act exchanges. \n \"Other than that, she's going to be doing just what Obama did, which is getting as much done as possible with executive power,\" Ornstein said. \n After he secured major legislative achievements with Democratic majorities in his first two years, Obama resorted to executive actions during his second term. Accusing him of running an \"imperial presidency,\" Republicans pushed back on Obama using legislation and lawsuits, and they intend to keep up the heat if a President Hillary Clinton follows in his footsteps. \n \"A big part of the House's 'Better Way' agenda is restoring Congress' powers and asserting checks on executive power, and we'll pursue those reforms regardless of who is in the White House,\" AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, said in an email. \n Clinton's persistent and significant lead in the polls has congressional Republicans resigned to having her in the White House, with many actively discussing how to deal with her presidency, according to senior House aides. \n Michael Steel, a former spokesman for ex-House Speaker John Boehner and a top adviser to Jeb Bush's 2016 campaign, said he hopes Clinton's time in the Senate will make her a president who is \"more respectful of the limited role of executive power under our Constitution, and follow her husband's example finding common ground on issues like balancing the budget and welfare reform in the 1990s.\" \n \"If she does not, I expect the pushback from congressional Republicans will be swift, fierce and unrelenting,\" Steel said. \n Even if Democrats win the White House and Senate, polls indicate Republicans are likely to maintain control of the House. The probability of that scenario has prompted progressive groups, who showed their clout in the Democratic primary, to ratchet up the pressure on Clinton. \n \"With an intransigent Republican Congress still more likely than not, we hope Secretary Clinton will use all the tools at her disposal as president, including executive action, to pursue the progressive platform she's running on,\" said Dan Cantor, the national director of Working Families Party. \"One example is the carried interest loophole, which gives an insane tax cut for the super-rich that they do not need.\" \n Clinton has vowed to protect Obama's executive actions \u2014 including those on immigration, climate change, gun control and LGBT rights \u2014 and go further. She'd expand deportation relief and work permits to the parents of young undocumented immigrants. She's vowed to fulfill commitments made in the Paris climate accord to cut U.S. greenhouse-gas emission as much as 30 percent in 2025 (compared to 2005 levels) \"without relying on climate deniers in Congress to pass new legislation.\" \n Clinton has also proposed a series of actions to crack down on Wall Street, an issue that animated supporters of her primary challenger, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders. She'd tighten the so-called Volcker Rule to prevent large banks from putting taxpayers on the hook for risky trading. People on Wall Street who commit crimes \"will be prosecuted and imprisoned,\" her blueprint says. \n Clinton's proposed executive actions on Wall Street could be \"extremely consequential\" when it comes to preventing another financial crisis, said former Obama White House economist Jared Bernstein.  \n Some of Obama's executive actions have been successfully challenged in court; his 2014 move to shield about four million undocumented immigrants from deportation was blocked a federal court, and a deadlocked 4-4 ruling by a shorthanded Supreme Court left the program in limbo. \n Clinton also would face certain legal challenges, but the vacancy left on the court by the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia looms large. A Clinton appointee would lead to a majority of Democratic-nominated justices for the first time in generations, a shift that some legal scholars believe might lead to rulings that expand the limits of executive power. \n A Clinton campaign spokesman didn't return requests seeking comment for this article. \n If the Republican majority shrinks in the House, it likely will come at the expense of more moderate members in swing districts, giving even more power to the party's most conservative wing. That may be a recipe for continued legislative paralysis. \n \"You're going to have a party struggling to regain its mojo. How do you do that? You look to how you can score a big victory in the next election,\" Ornstein said. \"Well, they have a playbook for that. Delegitimize the president and the process; capitalize on the angry populist reaction.\" \n And in the most optimistic scenario, in which Democrats win a narrow House majority, many new members will be from Republican-leaning districts, thus creating an incentive to distance themselves from Clinton. \"You'd have a lot of members who are going to be running scared,\" Ornstein said. \n Despite Clinton's strong relationships with numerous Republicans in Congress from her two terms in the Senate, structural incentives will make cooperation difficult. Obama received scant GOP cooperation despite taking office with clear majority of votes and a towering approval rating of 68 percent, according to Gallup. Clinton's latest favorable rating is 40 percent. Her intense unpopularity among GOP voters, combined with conservatives' preference that leaders stand on principle rather than compromise, means Ryan could pay a price in the House Republican caucus for cutting deals.  \n \"I don't think that a President Clinton and her team should expect much in the way of a honeymoon next year if she were to win,\" said Manley, the former Reid adviser. \"Hope springs eternal, but I'm not convinced that, especially in the House, Republicans are going to tell the Freedom Caucus they've had enough with their tactics. Throw in trustworthy ratings (for Clinton) and it's going to be very problematic. \n \"This debate hasn't begun yet, but it's going to be ugly,\" he said. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Bloomberg News  \n ", "author": "By Sahil Kapur Bloomberg News", "title": "Clinton may rely on executive orders more than Obama if she wins"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "KCBS-TV VIA AP \n This Aug. 15 photo provided by KCBS-TV shows Harry Burkhart, a German national, in Los Angeles County Superior Court during his trial on multiple arson charges. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb A German man who spread fear across Los Angeles for several nights as he torched cars and homes to avenge his mother's deportation was convicted today of nearly 50 arson counts. \n Harry Burkhart, 29, objected to the verdict, which carries a potential prison sentence of nearly 90 years. \n \"There were a lot of unfair claims I wish I could do something about,\" he told the judge through a German interpreter. The judge said Burkhart could take that up on appeal. \n Jurors were told to return to court next week to begin determining whether the ex-Frankfurt resident was sane at the time of the crimes. If not, he could be sent to a mental institution. \n Burkhart had threatened to \"roast America\" after his mother, Dorothee Burkhart, was ordered extradited to Germany to face fraud charges, prosecutors said. \n Burkhart placed incendiary devices under cars in Hollywood, the San Fernando Valley and West Hollywood on Dec. 30 and Dec. 31, 2011, and on Jan. 2, 2012, authorities said. Some vehicles were in carports and in 19 cases the fires spread to homes and apartments. \n The sheer number of fires \"brought the fire department in this city to its knees,\" Los Angeles County prosecutor Sean Carney told jurors in his opening statement. \n Defense attorney Steve Schoenfield told jurors that the prosecution had linked his client to only six or seven fires and \"copycats\" might have started others. \n There were no serious injuries or deaths as a result of the fires but damages were estimated to be more than $3 million. \n Burkhart \"wanted America to burn\" and \"was going to resolve his grievance through fire and fear,\" Carney said. \"He was ready to set many more.\" \n Burkhart was arrested in 2012. Burkhart's anti-American outburst during a detention hearing for his mother in 2011 cemented his likeness in the mind of a deputy U.S. marshal, who authorities say recognized him after police began circulating a video showing the man wanted in the arson spree. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "German man convicted of setting rash of fires in L.A. to avenge mother's deportation"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "Police have arrested and charged a 42-year-old Pahoa man today in the June 9 burglary of a 65-year-old man's Hawaiian Acres subdivision house. \n Police conducted an investigation into the burglary in which the house on Road 9 was broken into and some household items were taken. \n That led to identifying Billymack Moore as the suspect, police said. \n Officers arrested Moore today while in custody for unrelated offenses. \n He was charged with first-degree burglary and fourth-degree theft. \n His bail was set at $10,250. \n He is scheduled to make his initial court appearance Friday. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii island man charged in burglary of Hawaiian Acres house"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "COURTESY UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII \n Finalists for the UH West Oahu chancellor position, from left, Maenette Benham, Larry Buckley and Franklin Kudo. \n Three educators have been selected as finalists for the chancellor position at the University of Hawaii at West Oahu following a national search, the university announced today. \n A 14-member search advisory committee assembled by UH President David Lassner identified the following candidates for the position: \n >> Maenette Benham, dean of the Hawaiinuiakea School of Hawaiian Knowledge at UH-Manoa; \n >> Larry Buckley, interim vice president for educational services at West Hills College in California; and \n >> Franklin Kudo, professor of accounting at UH-West Oahu. \n The candidates will participate in public forums later this month at the Kapolei campus. \n Benham, who holds a doctorate in educational administration (K-12) from UH-Manoa, was named inaugural dean of Hawaiinuiakea in 2008. She previously taught at Kaiser High School, Kamehameha Schools and Chaminade University before joining the College of Education faculty at Michigan State University, where she spent 16 years. \n She earned an undergraduate and master's degree in theater arts from San Francisco State University. \n Buckley, who earned a doctorate in philosophy from UH Manoa, has worked as a college administrator at several California schools. He previously served as president of Ca\u00f1ada College in Redwood City; interim president and vice president of instruction at San Bernadino Valley College; and vice president of instruction at Fullerton College. \n He began his career teaching as a lecturer at Leeward, Windward and Kapiolani community colleges, as well as at UH West Oahu and Manoa. Buckley also holds an undergraduate and master's degree in history from UH Manoa. \n Kudo, who earned a doctorate in management from Case Western Reserve University in Ohio, has taught accounting at UH West Oahu for the past decade. He also serves as CEO and majority shareholder of New City Nissan, the largest Nissan franchised dealership in the state. \n Kudo \u2014 whose twin brother, Benjamin, serves on the Board of Regents \u2014 holds a master of business administration from the University of Washington and a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Colorado. \n UH said the public is invited to meet the finalists at a series of open forums at the West Oahu campus on Sept. 8 (Kudo); Sept. 12 (Benham), and Sept. 15 (Buckley). The forums will be held at 2 p.m. in the school's library in the 'Ulu'ulu Archive Exhibition Space on the first floor. \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Finalists for University of Hawaii-West Oahu chancellor are announced"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Dancers from several halau perform with the Lalakea Foundation at the International Coalition for the Conservation of Nature World Conservation Congress opening ceremony today at the Neal S. Blaisdell Center arena. \n The international community came together today in Hawaii for 10 days of talks by leading academics, conservation groups and government officials to address the impacts of global warming, wildlife trafficking and environmental conservation.  \n Gov. David Ige announced a major sustainability initiative to preserve his state's delicate ecosystem at the opening ceremony of the International Coalition for the Conservation of Nature World Conservation Congress \u2014 committing to protect more watershed areas and reefs ecosystems through increased regulation . \n Ige said Hawaii will also double its local food production to reduce dependence on many items shipped to the islands, and impose a biosecurity plan to remove and prevent the introduction of invasive species that harm local wildlife. \n The measures come on top of an existing plan for Hawaii, which is the nation's most oil-dependent state, to become energy independent by 2045. \n \"As an island state, Hawaii is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, including increased storms, coral bleaching as well as local impacts that place our reefs at risk,\" said Jack Kittinger, director of Conservation International's Hawaii program in a statement. \"CI is grateful to the Governor for committing to protect our natural environment so that it can continue to benefit our communities now and into the future.\" \n The conference is being held in the U.S. for the first time, and Ige called Hawaii a \"microcosm of our planet earth\" but also the \"endangered species capital of the world.\" \n Also today, President Barack Obama was travelling from Honolulu to one of the most remote corners of the Pacific Ocean \u2014 Midway Atoll \u2014 to amplify his call for global action on environmental protection. \n In his latest conservation push, Obama is expanding the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, which includes Midway, to four times its current size. Speaking to leaders of Pacific island nations ahead of his trip, Obama said that 7,000 species live in the waters, and 1 in 4 are found nowhere else in the world. \n \"Ancient islanders believed it contained the boundary between this life and the next,\" Obama told Pacific Island nation leaders Wednesday night before the conference started. \"This is a hallowed site, and it deserves to be treated that way. And from now on, it will be preserved for future generations.\" \n The marine monument will grow to 582,578 square miles under Obama's expansion, an area more than twice the size of Texas. The world's largest, the monument reflects Obama's strategy of using his executive powers to put lands and waters off-limits to development, despite concerns from critics who argue his heavy-handed approach comes at the expense of vulnerable local economies. \n A study released Wednesday ahead of the conservation conference concluded that Africa's population of savanna elephants is rapidly declining. The animals are in danger of being wiped out as international and domestic ivory trades drive poaching across the continent, the study said. \n The African savanna elephant population plummeted about 30 percent from 2007 to 2014 and is currently declining at about 8 percent annually, according to the survey funded by Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Paul Allen. \n \"If we can't save the African elephant, what is the hope of conserving the rest of Africa's wildlife?\" asked elephant ecologist Mike Chase, the study's lead researcher. \n After the most powerful El Nino on record heated the world's oceans to never-before-seen levels over the past two years, huge swaths of once vibrant coral reefs that were once teeming with life are now stark white ghost towns disintegrating into the sea. \n The world's top marine scientists are still struggling to find the political and financial backing to tackle the loss of these globally important ecosystems. \n At the largest international gathering of coral reef experts in May, scientists called for action to save the world's reefs. \n Australia's famed Great Barrier Reef is among those hit hard, and the scientists urged the government of Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull to do more to conserve it. \n \"This year has seen the worst mass bleaching in history,\" the letter said. \"The damage to this Australian icon has already been devastating.\" \n The conference in Hawaii is hosting more than 8,000 people from 180 nations. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Global warming is key topic at Hawaii conservation congress"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "All public schools in Maui County will shut down at noon tomorrow in preparation for Hurricane Lester, the Department of Education said this afternoon. \n The department earlier today said that all Big Island schools would reopen tomorrow, after being closed Wednesday and Thursday ahead of Tropical Storm Madeline. \n \"We assessed our school campuses this morning and no damages were reported,\" schools Superintendent Kathryn Matayoshi said of the 41 Hawaii island public schools. \"We will remain vigilant as Hurricane Lester makes its way towards the islands and continue to keep everyone informed of the affects it may have on our schools.\" \n ", "author": "By Nanea Kalani nkalani@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Maui's public schools to shut early Friday as Lester nears"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo shows a fence broken by storm surge from Tropical Storm Madeline at an oceanfront home in Kapoho today. \n HILO >> Teams fanned out across Hawaii County today to look for any serious damage from Tropical Storm Madeline's close brush with the island, while Civil Defense officials warned residents to remain on guard as Hurricane Lester approaches the state. \n Interim Hawaii County Civil Defense Administrator Ed Teixeira said there have been no reports yet of significant damage from Madeline, which dumped as much as eight inches of rain on parts of the island in the 24 hours ending at 11 am today. \n Teixeira said all critical infrastructure including roads and electrical service was restored by this morning. Madeline knocked out power to thousands of residents Wednesday, but Hawaii Electric Light Co. had restored service to all about two dozen residents by Thursday morning. \n Damage assessment crews were investigating a report of flooding in the Puna subdivision of Mountain View, where Madeline deposited 2.45 inches of rain, and were also inspecting neighborhoods in Kapoho where the storm surge flooded roads and cut off homes. \n The damage assessment crews will report back later today and \"we'll just analyze what we've got, and if people need help, make sure that somebody's helping them,\" Teixeira said. \n Rainfall from Madeline totaled more than eight inches at Saddle Quarry; six inches in Glenwood in Puna; and more than five inches in the Hilo communities of Piihonua and Waiakea Uka in the 24 hours ending at 11 a.m. \n County officials said they received isolated reports of a downed tree that damaged a home in the Puna subdivision of Leilani Estates, but found no serious damage to public parks or other facilities. \n State and county offices reopened today, county bus service was restored and the county closed its emergency shelters at 6 a.m. today after Madeline had passed. \n County emergency workers this afternoon will refocus their planning efforts on Hurricane Lester, which is projected to pass north of Hawaii County early Saturday morning on a course that may pose a threat to much of the state. \n Hawaii and Maui Counties remain in hurricane watch status today, which means hurricane force winds are possible in the watch area in the next 48 hours. Lester is packing sustained winds of 120 mph with stronger gusts. \n The track that Lester is projected to follow north of the Big Island \"is tight, it's close,\" Teixeira said. \"Definitely we're going to get from Lester high surf, definitely we're going to get a lot of rain, but it's the wind that I'm concerned about, and how much of it we're going to get.\" \n If the National Weather Service models are perfectly accurate, \"we should see no destructive winds, knock on wood, other than winds that may as it goes up Hamakua maybe some gusts\" that would be above 39 mph, he said. \n However, the Central Pacific Hurricane Center warned that \"it would take only a small leftward shift in the track to directly and profoundly affect the state, and watches could be expanded to other islands later today or tonight. This possibility must be considered when making preparations over the next couple of days.\" \n Lester has been gradually weakening, with the forecast putting Lester at its closest point to the Big Island at 2 a.m. to 3 a.m. Saturday, Teixeira said. \n ", "author": "By Kevin Dayton kdayton@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Hawaii County assesses damage from Madeline, prepares for Lester"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Smoke rose from a SpaceX launch site today, at Cape Canaveral, Fla. NASA said SpaceX was conducting a test firing of its unmanned rocket when a blast occurred. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. \u00bb A massive fireball and explosion erupted today at SpaceX's main launch pad, destroying a rocket as well as a satellite that Facebook was counting on to spread internet service in Africa. \n There were no injuries. The pad had been cleared of workers before what was supposed to be a routine pre-launch rocket engine test. \n \"Cause still unknown,\" Musk said via Twitter. \"More soon.\" \n The explosion \u2014 heard and felt for miles around \u2014 dealt a severe blow to SpaceX, still scrambling to catch up with satellite deliveries following a launch accident last year. It's also a setback for NASA, which has been relying on the private space company to keep the International Space Station stocked with supplies and, ultimately, astronauts. \n SpaceX was preparing for the test firing of its unmanned Falcon rocket when the blast happened shortly after 9 a.m. at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. The test was in advance of Saturday's planned launch of an Israeli-made communications satellite to provide home internet for parts of sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East. \n A video of the explosion shows a fireball enveloping the top of the rocket. Moments later, the nose cone containing the satellite plunged to the ground, followed by more explosions. \n Buildings four miles away shook from the blast, and a series of explosions continued for several minutes. Dark smoke filled the overcast sky. A half-hour later, a black cloud hung low across the eastern horizon. \n Video cameras showed smoke coming from the restricted site well into late afternoon. Most of the rocket was still standing, although the top third or so was clearly bent over. \n The explosion occurred at Launch Complex 40 at the Air Force station, right next door to NASA's Kennedy Space Center, where emergency staff went on standby and monitored the air for any toxic fumes. The initial blast sent NASA employees rushing outside to see what happened. The Air Force stressed there was no threat to public safety in the surrounding communities. \n Because the pad was still burning, it remained off-limits to everyone as the afternoon wore on. \"We want to make sure we isolate any potential problem,\" said Shawn Walleck, a spokesman for the Air Force's 45th Space Wing, \"because at this point, we've had no casualties, we've had no injuries, and we want to keep it that way.\" \n Facebook spokesman Chris Norton said the social media company was \"disappointed by the loss, but remain committed to our mission of connecting people to the internet around the world.\" Founder Mark Zuckerberg was in Kenya today, discussing internet access with government officials. \n The satellite's Israeli-based operator, Spacecom, said the loss will have \"a significant impact\" on the company. Just last November, ground controllers lost contact with the previous satellite in this so-called Amos series. Spacecom said the new satellite was supposed to provide services to television and internet operators. \n The Falcon rocket destroyed today is the same kind used to launch space station supplies. The last such flight took place in July. SpaceX, one of two companies making deliveries, is also working on a crew capsule to ferry station U.S. astronauts. \n Two NASA astronauts were doing a spacewalk 250 miles up, outside the space station, when the explosion occurred. Mission Control did not tell them about the accident, saying all communication was focused on the spacewalk. \n NASA later put out a statement, saying the space agency remains confident in its commercial partners, SpaceX included. The space station is well stocked and able to weather any potential delays to upcoming SpaceX deliveries, NASA said. \n At the same time, NASA said it remains on track for next today's launch of an asteroid-chasing and sampling spacecraft, the first of its kind for the U.S. The spacecraft and the Atlas rocket were inside their hangar at the time of the explosion, barely a mile away; preliminary inspections show both to be in good shape. \n The California-based SpaceX had been ramping up with frequent launches to make up for a backlog created by a launch accident in June 2015. In that mishap, a support strut evidently snapped in the upper stage; the problem was fixed. \n Until today, the company had successfully carried out eight launches this year, with nine more in the wings by year's end, including the debut flight of the so-called Falcon Heavy. Now that lineup is in jeopardy. \n SpaceX is leasing the Cape Canaveral pad from the Air Force for unmanned Falcon launches. The company is also redoing a former shuttle pad at Kennedy for future manned flights for NASA. The first crewed flight was supposed to take place by the end of next year. Boeing also is developing a crew capsule for NASA. \n Even before today's accident, NASA's inspector general office was skeptical there would be astronaut flights by SpaceX or Boeing before late 2018. Technical challenges are piling up and threaten to cause delays, according to a report issued today. \n Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., whose single space shuttle flight ended 10 days before the Challenger disaster in 1986, said in a statement that the SpaceX accident \"reminds us all that space flight is an inherently risky business.\" \n Others also rallied behind SpaceX, including Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. \"Despite the difficulties, commercial spaceflight will carry on with American drive and ingenuity,\" he said in a statement. \n AP writers Rodney Muhumuza in Kampala, Uganda, and Daniel Estrin in Jerusalem contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Explosion at SpaceX launch pad destroys rocket, satellite"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maria Fernanda Ramirez Bolivar wiped off tears as she carried her baby Micaela Milagros Mendoza Ramirez, during a news conference, Aug. 26, in Miami. Ramirez Bolivar contracted the Zika virus when she traveled to her native Venezuela, she was three months pregnant. \n MIAMI \u00bb Florida has found the Zika virus in three groups of mosquitoes trapped in Miami Beach \u2014 the first time this has happened in the continental U.S. \u2014 and authorities are blaming a particular flower for making mosquito control much more difficult. \n One of the traps that tested positive was at the Miami Beach Botanical Gardens, where bromeliads bloom. The plants trap standing water in their cylindrical centers, providing excellent breeding areas for mosquitoes amid their colorful flowers and pointy leaves. \n \"Everyone should know by now that bromeliads are really problematic for us. These are probably the number one breeding area for mosquitoes,\" said the mayor. He said Miami Beach is removing all bromeliads from its landscaping, and urged residents across the county to either pull them out or rinse them after every rain. \n And with Hurricane Hermine bringing much more rain to Florida, Gov. Rick Scott today ordered the county to immediately conduct aerial spraying by helicopter as recommended by the CDC. \n The Zika-carrying mosquitoes were trapped in a touristy 1.5-square-mile area of South Beach identified as a zone of active transmission of the virus, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services said in a news release. \n \"This is the first time we have found a Zika virus positive mosquito pool in the continental United States,\" confirmed Erin Sykes, a CDC spokeswoman. \n Finding the virus in mosquitoes has been likened by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control to finding a needle in a haystack, but the testing helps mosquito controllers target their efforts, and it confirms that the insects themselves, in addition to infected humans, have begun transmitting the virus inside the mainland United States. \n The illness spreads from people to mosquitoes to people again through bites, but the insects do not spread the disease among their own population, and their lifespan is just a few weeks. \n A poll released today suggests nearly 48 percent of Americans are wary of traveling to U.S. destinations where people have been infected with Zika through mosquito bites. \n The Kaiser Family Foundation survey also found 61 percent felt uneasy about traveling to Zika zones outside the U.S. mainland, including Puerto Rico. \n Most of the Zika infections from Florida mosquitoes have been in the Miami area, not the tourist mecca of Orlando and its Walt Disney World, Universal and SeaWorld theme parks. \n But Miami is a major tourism draw, with more than 15.5 million people making overnight visits to the city and its nearby beaches last year. Florida in general has a lot to lose as Zika spreads: The state set a new record for tourism with more than 105 million people from out of state and other countries visiting in 2015. \n Officials said they are not considering asking restaurants and bars in the area to temporarily close outdoor dining areas, but they will increase spraying, trapping and testing. \n \"This is a very, very difficult mosquito to control,\" said Gimenez. \"The CDC director once told me this is the cockroach of mosquitoes, that it will find a way somehow to breed.\" \n Since July, authorities have linked a couple dozen cases to transmission in small areas of Miami's Wynwood district and the popular South Beach neighborhood of Miami Beach. Other isolated cases not linked to travel outside the U.S. also have been confirmed elsewhere in Miami-Dade county, as well as in neighboring counties and in the Tampa Bay area, totaling 47 for the state. \n A third of people surveyed in the poll believe Congress should make approving more funds to combat Zika a top priority. President Barack Obama proposed $1.9 billion in emergency funding for Zika in February, but Congress has been unable to agree on a final bill. \n The poll of 1,211 adults conducted Aug. 18-24 has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. \n Scott, a Republican, has repeatedly called on Congress to send the president a Zika funding bill, saying \"we still need the federal government to show up.\" \n In Washington, U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell expressed frustration that Congress hasn't acted. She's been forced to take from other health priorities to fund the fight against Zika, and said that stopgap funding will run out at the month's end. \n \"The money that's running out is the tide-over money we have taken from other (priorities),\" Burwell told reporters. \"What we need is a bipartisan agreement.\" \n That is how previous Congresses handled earlier public health emergencies such as bird flu and Ebola. Burwell said any Zika bill has to make special provision for Puerto Rico, which has been most severely affected. \n Local officials said 95 more mosquito samples \u2014 each one containing several dozen bugs \u2014 have tested negative since the three traps were found. \n \"Yes, we will be asking the federal and state government for additional funds as we move on in the fight against Zika, but it doesn't mean we will be stopping any of our efforts,\" while we wait to be reimbursed, said Gimenez. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Zika found in mosquitoes for first time on mainland"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "A 47-year-old man was hospitalized after he was run over by a truck while working along Farrington Highway in Nanakuli this morning. \n Emergency Medical Services said the victim was taken to the hospital in serious condition at 9:20 a.m. after a truck ran over his leg in the 89-000 block of Farrington Highway. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Truck runs over man's leg in Nanakuli"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "Eleele and Port Allen residents do not have to conserve water after the Kauai Island Utility Cooperative restored power to the Department of Water's booster pump station in Lihue tonight. \n A power outage prompted a request to residents and businesses to limit water consumption. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kauai officials lift request for water conservation"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "COURTESY GOAKAMAI.ORG \n A critical traffic accident closed the northbound lanes of the Likelike Highway in Kalihi this morning. \n A 72-year-old Kaneohe woman died today after her vehicle crashed head-on with another vehicle in Kalihi. \n The Medical Examiner's Office has identified the woman as Ione Adams. An autopsy is scheduled for Friday. \n Police said the woman was driving a 2014 sport utility vehicle on the Likelike Highway when it crossed over the median and collided with another vehicle driven by a 41-year-old Hawaii Kai woman, who suffered minor injuries. \n Firefighters and paramedics responded to the crash scene at the intersection of Likelike Highway and School Street at about 8:55 a.m. Paramedics took the woman by ambulance to the Queen's Medical Center, where she later died. \n The accident marked the 39th Oahu traffic fatality this year compared to 32 fatalities the same time last year. \n Police closed the northbound lanes of Likelike from School Street onward while an investigation was conducted, and reopened the lanes at 10:41 a.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Car crash in Kalihi kills Kaneohe woman, 72"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS HONOLULU \n The suspect in a Keeaumoku-area attempted sexual assault is described as bald, weighing about 150 pounds and 5 feet 9 inches tall. He was last seen wearing a white T-shirt and blue denim pants. \n Police are seeking the public's help in locating a man who attempted to sexually assault a woman in the restroom of a Makiki-area medical building on Monday. \n The suspect, described to a Caucasian man in his 30s, was standing in the restroom of the Kaheka Professional Building on South King Street at 11:15 a.m. Monday when a woman entered, police said. \n The suspect attempted to sexually assault the woman, but fled when a witness entered the room. \n The suspect is bald, weighs about 150 pounds and is 5 feet 9 inches tall. He was last seen wearing a white T-shirt and blue denim pants. \n Anyone with information is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or CRIME on a cellular phone. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police search for suspect in Makiki attempted sex assault"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "Update 5:30 a.m. \n The National Weather Service upgraded a high surf advisory to a high surf warning for east shores of Hawaii island, Molokai and Maui. \n The warning goes into effect at 6 p.m. and continues until 6 a.m. \n A high surf advisory remains in effect until 6 p.m. for east shores of most islands. \n Surf in the warning areas is expected to rise to 10 to 18 feet this afternoon and 15 to 25 feet tonight on east shores of Hawaii island. Surf is expected to reach 20 to 35 feet along east shores of Maui and Molokai. \n Update 5 a.m. \n The National Weather Service dropped a hurricane watch for Hawaii County as Hurricane Lester continued on a west-northwest path toward Hawaii. \n At 5 a.m., Lester was 435 miles east of Hilo and 625 miles east of Honolulu. It's sustained winds remained at 110 mph with hurricane-force winds extending 45 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds going out 140 miles from the center. \n The forecast track for Lester narrowed and the storm is taking a sharper turn north than in previous forecasts. The main Hawaiian islands are no longer in the forecast track for the storm. However, the track could still change and a hurricane watch continues for Maui County and Oahu. \n Forecasters no longer expect tropical storm-force winds of 39 mph or greater. However, forecasters said deep tropical moisture around the hurricane will bring increasing showers tonight for Maui County, with the possibility of localized, heavier downpours or thundershowers developing this weekend. \n \"Hurricane Lester is forecast to approach the state from the east today, and then pass to the northeast of all the main islands this weekend,\" the National Weather Service said. \"Lester will pass by the Big island early Saturday morning, Maui County on Saturday, Oahu Saturday evening and Kauai Saturday night. \u2026 \n \"Although the forecast track currently keeps the strongest winds and heaviest rains offshore, the local weather will be highly dependent on the exact track that Lester takes as it passes by. Only a small error on the left side of the forecast track would bring a significantly higher threat of damaging winds and flooding rains to the islands.\" \n The most significant impact from Lester is expected to be very high surf, forecasters said. \n A high surf advisory remains in effect until 6 p.m. today for east shores of most islands. \n Surf of 6 to 8 feet is expected to rise to 8 to 12 feet today as waves generated by Lester come ashore. \n Forecasters said beach-goers should expect strong, breaking waves, shore break and rip currents that could make swimming difficult and dangerous. \n Meanwhile, Madeline weakened to a tropical depression southwest of the main Hawaiian islands. \n At 5 a.m. Madeline was 445 miles southwest of Honolulu, with sustained winds of 35 mph, moving west at 16 mph. \n Madeline is expected to become a remnant low tonight. \n Update 2:17 a.m. \n Hurricane Lester weakened to a Category 2 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 110 mph and continues to travel west-northwest at 14 mph. Lester will continue moving in this direction over the next few days, forecasters said. \n National Weather Service officials expect Lester to pass by the Big Island early Saturday morning and then the rest of the state by Saturday night. \n At 2 a.m. Lester was located about 480 miles east of Hilo and 675 miles east of Honolulu. \n A hurricane watch is still in effect for Hawaii and Maui Counties and Oahu. \n A high surf advisory still in effect for all eastern facing shores. Surf is expected to be between 6 and 8 feet could reach between 8 to 12 feet by Friday with moderate impacts and strong breaking waves. \n All beachgoers, swimmers and surfers are urged to exercise caution and heed all advice given by Ocean Safety officials. \n Update 11:05 p.m. \n Hurricane Lester weakened slightly Thursday night but remained a powerful Category 3 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph. Hawaii and Maui counties and Oahu are still under a hurricane watch. \n At 11 p.m., Lester's center was located about 515 miles east of Hilo and about 710 miles east of Honolulu, moving west at 14 mph. The latest forecast shifted slightly north, putting the islands just outside the so-called \"cone of uncertainty\" for its five-day track. Hurricane-force winds extend up to 40 miles from the storm's center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 140 miles \n Forecasters with the Central Pacific Hurricane Center expect the center of the hurricane to pass north of Hawaii this weekend and to gradually weaken over the next couple of days. But they caution that \"a small deviation from the official forecast track could bring profound impacts to Hawaii.\" \n Officials said hurricane conditions, which include heavy rain and large surf, are still possible over Hawaii island and Maui County beginning Friday night and continuing through the weekend. \n Large swells generated by Lester will peak this weekend, becoming large and possibly damaging along exposed shorelines. A high surf advisory has been issued for all eastern shores. \n Update 8:15 p.m. \n At 8 p.m., Lester was a major Category 3 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 125 mph and higher gusts. It was centered 545 miles east of Hilo and 745 miles east of Honolulu. \n Lester continues to move west-northwest at 14 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend up to 35 miles from the center while tropical storm-force winds extend up to 150 miles. \n A hurricane watch is posted for Hawaii County, Maui County and Oahu. \n Forecasters said hurricane conditions and heavy rains may reach Oahu on Saturday night, with tropical storm conditions possibly developing as early as Saturday afternoon. Hawaii and Maui counties could see hurricane conditions and heavy rains on Saturday, with tropical storm conditions possibly developing as early as Friday night. \n Surf is expected to build over east-facing shores tonight and Friday. \n Update 5 p.m. \n Oahu has been added to the hurricane watch already covering Hawaii and Maui counties as powerful Hurricane Lester approaches the state from the east. \n A watch means hurricane wind conditions are possible in the next 48 hours. \n At 5 p.m., Lester was a major Category 3 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 125 mph and high gusts. It was centered 595 miles east of Hilo and 790 miles east of Honolulu. Lester has started its expected move to a more northwesterly track, moving west-northwest at 14 mph. Hurricane-force winds extend up to 35 miles from the center while tropical storm-force winds extend up to 150 miles. \n The latest forecast from the Central Pacific Hurricane Center on Oahu has it weakening, but still a hurricane, as it moves just north of the entire island chain through the Labor Day weekend. \n Forecasters said they expect this general motion to continue during the next 48 hours, with little change in intensity tonight, followed by gradual weakening. \n However they urge the public not to focus on the exact projected track. \"Any small deviation from the forecast track could bring direct and profound impacts to the state, and this possibility must be considered when making preparations,\" they said this evening. \n State and local officials encourage the public to make final preparations while the storm is still at least a day away. \n Forecasters said hurricane conditions, of winds of 74 mph or more, are possible over Hawaii and Maui counties Saturday, with tropical storm conditions, 39 mph or more winds, possible by late Friday night. Hurricane-force winds are possible over Oahu Saturday night, with tropical storm-force winds possible Saturday afternoon. Surf will peak this weekend, becoming large and damaging along portions of eastern shores, forecasters said, while heavy rains may reach Hawaii and Maui counties Saturday, and Oahu Saturday night. \n A high surf advisory is in effect for all east-facing shores until 6 p.m. Friday, with 8-to-12 feet waves expected. \n White House spokesman Josh Earnest, traveling with President Barack Obama to Midway Atoll today, told reporters that the president spoke with FEMA administrator Craig Fugate from Air Force One about hurricane threats in Hawaii and Florida. \"In both states, FEMA officials have been working extensively over the last several days to mobilize resources in support of local efforts,\" Earnest said. \"The president asked administrator Fugate to keep him up to date on response efforts and to alert him if there are any significant unmet needs. As always it is important for people in potentially affected areas to follow weather reports and follow the instructions from state and local officials.\" \n Lester is the second hurricane to threaten the state this week. Madeline weakened to a tropical storm and passed just south of the Big Island Wednesday, bringing heavy rain and strong winds, but causing no major damage. As of 5 p.m., Madeline was barely a tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph, 330 miles south-southwest of Honolulu, and moving west at 13 mph. \n Update 2 p.m. \n Lester strengthened into a major Category 3 hurricane this afternoon as it continued on a path toward Hawaii. \n At 2 p.m., Lester's winds intensified to 120 mph as it moved west at 14 mph. \n The storm was 640 miles east of Hilo and 840 miles east of Honolulu, according to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center. \n Tropical storm-force winds extend 150 miles from the center and hurricane-force winds extend 50 miles from Lester's center. \n Lester is expected to weaken over the next two days, but is expected to be at hurricane strength when it nears Hawaii. \n A hurricane watch is posted for Hawaii and Maui counties, where hurricane conditions are possible on Saturday. \n More watches and warnings may be posted for other islands tonight or Friday. \n A high surf advisory is posted and will likely become a warning as surf generated by Lester's winds begins arriving on east shores of all islands. \n Surf is expected to rise to 8 to 12 feet today. \n The large breaking waves, shorebreak and rip currents could make swimming difficult and dangerous, forecasters said. \n The waves are expected to rise even higher this weekend, becoming \"very large and damaging,\" the weather service said. \n There is a 3 percent chance of hurricane-strength winds in Hilo, going up to 7 percent in Kahului and 5 percent in Honolulu, forecasters estimated. \n The chances of tropical storm force winds are 56 percent in Kahului, 40 percent in Hilo and 49 percent in Honolulu. \n \"Heavy rains associated with Lester may reach Hawaii and Maui counties on Saturday, and may affect other Hawaiian islands later Saturday and Sunday,\" the weather service said. \n \"For those under a watch, now is the time to prepare,\" forecasters said. \"Cover all windows and doors with shutters or plywood. Loose objects such as lumber, lawn furniture, garbage cans and other items shou ld be secured or stored indoors. Prepare to brace all exterior doors, including garage doors. \n \"Prepare for the possibility of extended power outages. If you need to make a tripc to the hardware store, the grocery store or the gas station, do so as early as possible.\" \n Update 11 a.m. \n Defying forecasters' predictions, Hurricane Lester strengthened slightly this morning, clocking maximum sustained winds of 110 mph, 1 mph shy of Category 3 status. \n Lester is continuing on the same track toward the isles, moving west at 13 mph. \n At 11 a.m., Lester was 680 miles east of Hilo and 875 miles east of Honolulu. \n Forecasters at the National Weather Service still expect a general weakening of the storm over the next 48 hours, combined with a gradual turn toward the west-northwest later today through Saturday. \n Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 30 miles from the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 115 miles. \n A hurricane watch, meaning hurricane conditions are possible within 48 hours, remains posted for Hawaii and Maui counties. \n A high surf advisory is also in effect for all east-facing shores. Waves generated by Lester's winds are expected to reach 8 to 12 feet today, creating rip currents and waves breaking on shore. The currents and strong breaking waves could make swimming difficult and dangerous and all beach-goers, even those not entering the water, should exercise caution and heed advice given by lifeguards, forecasters said. \n Previous coverage \n The National Weather Service put Hawaii and Maui counties under a hurricane watch this morning as Hurricane Lester continues moving toward Hawaii. \n More watches and warnings could be posted today depending on Lester's track. \n The storm weakened overnight to a Category 2 hurricane with winds of 105 mph. It's expected to continue to weaken, but may still be a Category 1 hurricane when it passes near the state. \n At 8 a.m., Lester was 720 miles east of Hilo and 920 miles east of Honolulu, moving west at 13 mph. \n Lester is expected to take a turn to the west-northwest, which should keep its center northeast of the Hawaiian islands. \n But forecasters caution that even a slight change to the south could bring Lester dangerously close to Hawaii. \n Lester's hurricane-force winds extend up to 35 miles from the center and tropical storm-force winds extend up to 105 miles. \n \"The current Central Pacific Hurricane Center forecast brings Lester very close to the main Hawaiian islands Saturday and Sunday. Depending on the exact track that Lester takes, strong damaging winds and heavy rainfall are possible. Large and damaging surf is expected for east shores as well,\" forecasters said. \"It is still too early to determine which island is at most risk from Lester.\" \n Hurricane watches are usually issued 48 hours before the onset of tropical storm-force winds in an area. The Central Pacific Hurricane Center said today that hurricane wind conditions are possible over Hawaii and Maui counties Saturday. \n Swells generated by Lester will build over eastern shores today and Friday, peaking this weekend, forecasters said. Heavy rains from Lester may reach Hawaii and Maui counties on Saturday, and the other islands later in the weekend. \n Lester approaches the islands just as Tropical Storm Madeline moves west away from the islands after a close brush past the Big Island Wednesday. The storm dropped heavy rain on Hawaii island, leaving the ground saturated and increasing the potential for flooding, if Lester brings more significant rain. \n All islands are under a wind advisory today because of strong tradewinds associated with the former hurricane as it moves well south of the rest of the state. \n Forecasters expect breezy tradewind weather conditions today and Friday with showers likely in windward and mauka areas and scattered showers in leeward areas. \n Muggy conditions ahead of Lester will begin moving over the islands this afternoon through Friday night, increasing the chance of showers. Winds could also pick up. Forecasters said tropical storm conditions are possible Friday through Sunday. \n Winds will initially come from the northeast and north as Lester passes north of the state. But the winds will shift to Kona winds Sunday after Lester passes, bringing tropical moisture up from the south and the chance of heavy showers through Monday, even after the storm leaves the immediate area. \n Forecasters said people should prepare for Lester ahead of any bad weather. \n \"For those under a watch, now is the time to prepare. Secure or bring indoors, any loose outdoor objects like lawn furniture, children's toys, hanging plants, barbecue grills or any item that could become a destructive projectile in strong winds. Do not wait until it is too late. \n \"Stay calm and keep informed,\" forecasters said. \"Residents and visitors are urged to closely monitor the latest forecasts in association with Lester from the CPHC, as impacts are possible across all of the Hawaiian islands during the holiday weekend. \u2026 Be ready to evacuate if necessary. Heed the advice of local officials and comply with any orders that are issued. Persons living near the shore should be prepared to evacuate quickly should building surf threaten.\" \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hawaii island taken off hurricane watch as Lester swings north"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Hurricane Madeline as of 11 a.m. \n NOAA / NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE \n This composite satellite image shows Tropical Storm Madeline south of Hawaii and approaching Hurricane Lester. \n Update 12:30 p.m. \n A tropical storm left parts of Hawaii's Big Island soggy but intact today as residents of the island state prepared for a second round of potentially volatile tropical weather. \n Hawaii Island was pummeled with heavy rains and powerful waves overnight, but residents woke to blue skies and little damage after Madeline skirted the island. Hurricane Lester remains on track to impact the islands this weekend, but possibly after being downgraded to a tropical storm. \n \"So, really grateful for this respite today. I saw the sun this morning when I was driving into work,\" Kanani Aton, a spokeswoman for the Hawaii County civil defense agency, said today. \n The National Weather Service dropped the tropical storm warning and flash flood watch for Madeline today. \n \"It has passed south of our island,\" Aton said. \n Several roads and a bridge that were closed because of flooding have reopened, she said. All county and state facilities, including bus and solid waste service, were to resume today. \n Parks will not reopen until damage assessment teams have a chance to investigate, Aton said. At one park, water has receded after waves crashed into a seawall that surrounds Liliuokalani Gardens Park at Hilo Bay. Water had accumulated on the grass of the gardens, leaving stairs of a pavilion partially submerged. \n A brown water advisory is posted for the island. The Department of Health said people should stay out of waters with storm runoff, because of possible overflowing cesspools, sewer manholds, pesticides, animal fecal matter, dead animals, pathogens, chemicals, and flood debris. \n \"If the water is brown, stay out,\" the Health Department said. \n County amage assessment teams are going to targeted areas, such as places prone to flooding, Aton said. \n Public schools remained closed today, but will reopen Friday. Several had been used as shelters. \n Hawaii Volcanoes National Park reopened today, but some areas including campgrounds, Chain of Craters Road and the lava viewing area remained closed until Hurricane Lester has passed. \n The Coast Guard also reopened all ports on Hawaii island and cargo operations resumed. \n On Maui, Maui Electric crews restored power to about 7,817 customers in the upcountry and Napili areas. The largest outage happened at about 10:18 a.m., when about 6,394 customers from Makawao to Hana lost electricity. Most customers were restoredwithin a half hour. This morning, about 1,398 customers in the Napili area lost service at 4:12 a.m. after tree fronds fell on electrical lines. Power was restored by about 6 a.m., Maui Electric said in a news release. \n \u2014\u2014 \n The Associated Press contributed to this update. \n Update 11:15 a.m. \n Tropical Storm Madeline continued to weaken this morning. \n Packing maximum sustained winds of 45 mph, the storm continued moving away from the islands, moving west at 13 mph. The center of Madeline was located about 330 miles south of Honolulu. \n Forecasters expect Madeline to continue weakening over the next 48 hours while continuing along the same track. \n A wind advisory is posted until 6 p.m. because of strong tradewinds of 25 to 35 mph, with gusts of 50 mph. The winds are related to Madeline's passage south of the islands. \n Previous coverage \n A last-minute turn to the south kept the worst rains and winds from Tropical Storm Madeline offshore of the Big Island, but the storm still soaked the east end of the island, closing roads and causing some flooding overnight. \n At 5 a.m., Madeline was 120 miles south-southwest of South Point and 325 miles south of Honolulu, moving west at 14 mph. Tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles from the center. \n Wind shear is weakening the storm. Winds decreased to 50 mph and the storm is expected to become a tropical depression by Friday and a remnant low this weekend as it moves away from Hawaii. \n A wind advisory is in effect across the state as the storm generates strong tradewinds of 25 to 35 mph, with gusts to 50 mph through 6 p.m. \n The winds could cause loose objects to move around, make driving difficult and blow tree branches into power lines, causing power outages. \n A flash flood watch for Hawaii County is canceled. \n Public schools on the Big Island remain closed today, but other government offices and most businesses that closed Wednesday are scheduled to reopen today. \n Civil Defense teams will be going out today across the islands to assess the damage from Madeline. \n Emergency officials are also preparing for the possible arrival of Hurricane Lester. \n Madeline flooded roads Wednesday night, closing Kamehameha Avenue in Hilo between Manono and Ponahawai streets, Lihiwai Street through Liliuokalani Gardens in Hilo and East Kawailani Street below Kanoelehua Avenue. \n Officials said that with the ground already saturated from Madeline, any heavy rain from Lester could cause flooding. \n In the 24-hour period ending at 7 a.m., Saddle Quarry recorded 8.7 inches of rain; nearly 5.9 inches fell at Waiakea Uka and 7.5 inches fell at Kulani. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Parks, public schools remain closed after Madeline's passage"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The Hawaii United Okinawan Association canceled the Okinawan Festival slated for Saturday and Sunday due to the possible severe weather from Hurricane Lester. Volunteer Rodney Kohagura moved burners for the andagi, or Okinawan doughnuts, toward a loading area. \n STAR-ADVERTISER / SEPT. 2015 \n Chinagu Eisa Hawaii performed at the Hawaii United Okinawa Association 33rd annual Okinawan Festival at Kapiolani Park in Waikiki in September 2015. The Okinawan Festival, slated for Saturday and Sunday at Kapiolani Park, has been canceled due to the possible severe weather from Hurricane Lester. \n The Okinawan Festival, slated for Saturday and Sunday at Kapiolani Park, has been canceled due to the possible severe weather from Hurricane Lester. \n A note from festival chair Vince Watabu on the festival's Facebook page says organizers made the decision after talking to the city about safety concerns. The event is sponsored by the Hawaii United Okinawa Association. This was to be its 34th festival. \n Other weekend events have also been rescheduled due to possible storm conditions. \n Gore Vidal's political play \"The Best Man,\" scheduled to open Friday at The Actors' Group, has been rescheduled for Sept. 9. \n The Aloha Festivals Royal Court investiture and opening scheduled for Saturday has been rescheduled for 5 to 7 p.m. Sept. 9 at the Royal Hawaiian Center's Royal Grove. \n Hurricane Lester is expected to pass just north of the islands through the Labor Day weekend. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Okinawan Festival canceled over hurricane concerns"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY \n A major earthquake struck off the east coast of New Zealand this morning. \n A major earthquake struck off the east of New Zealand this morning but does not pose a tsunami threat to Hawaii or the Pacific region. \n The preliminary magnitude 7.1 quake struck at 6:37 a.m. Hawaii time, 104 miles northeast of Gisborne, New Zealand at a depth of 19 miles, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. \n There was no tsunami threat to Hawaii and a destructive Pacific-wide tsunami was not expected, according to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center. \n No injuries were immediately reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Major quake strikes off New Zealand; no tsunami threat to Hawaii"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "A four-seat Big Island tour helicopter was substantially damaged last month after landing at Kona Airport, according to a preliminary study by the National Transportation Safety Board. \n No one was injured in the accident that occurred on Aug. 26 at 7:45 a.m. after the Robinson R44 II helicopter landed at the Kailua-Kona Airport with two helicopter instructor pilots on board. \n According to the NTSB report released this week, one of the two flight instructor pilots reported problems after the helicopter landed and the aircraft \"began to gently oscillate fore and aft about its longitudinal axis.\" \n The pilot said the oscillating became more severe where one main rotor blade, the tail boom and the lower vertical fin hit the ground. \n \"The tail boom and lower vertical fin were substantially damaged as the result of the impact with terrain,\" according to the NTSB report. \n The flight had left the Kona airport at 7:15 a.m. \n The two certified flight instructors were not injured. \n Federal Aviation Administration records show the helicopter, which was manufactured in 2005, is owned by Hawaii Pacific Aviation. The company runs aerial tours of Oahu, the Big Island and Kauai under the name of Mauna Loa Tours and operates a flight school. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "NTSB releases report on helicopter hard landing in Kona"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "Honolulu police are looking for two men after a 24-year-old man was shot in the neck Wednesday night in Iwilei. \n The shooting occurred at 10:36 p.m. on Kuwili Street. \n Paramedics treated the victim who had a gun shot wound in the neck, and took him in serious condition to a hospital. \n Police have classified the case as second-degree attempted murder. No suspects have been arrested. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police seek 2 suspects after man shot in Iwilei"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Barack Obama arrived at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam after a day trip to Midway Atoll tonight. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama speaks to media as he tours on Midway Atoll in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama bows as he greets workers and volunteers on the tarmac as he arrives on Air Force one at Henderson Field on Midway Atoll in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n After pausing for a moment alone, President Barack Obama walks from the Battle of Midway Navy Memorial to talk to the media as he tours Midway Atoll in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, today. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n President Barack Obama arrived at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam Wednesday evening. Oahu commuters can expect more road closures and delays this morning as Obama travels from his Kailua rental home to Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, and a major international conference gets started at the Blaisdell Center. \n Update 9:20 p.m. \n Air Force One landed at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam at 8:38 p.m., following President Barack Obama's trip to Midway Atoll. \n Obama's motorcade headed for Kailua, where he was expected to spend the night. \n Update 3:30 p.m. \n President Barack Obama arrived on Midway Atoll today, paying homage to the men killed in a critical World War II battle and stressing the importance of protecting the planet and all its inhabitants from the effects of climate change. \n Obama emerged from Air Force One and greeted the roughly 40 inhabitants of Midway who had come out to welcome him. \"We are going to have a great time,\" he told them. \n Later, standing on a pier by Turtle Beach, Obama spoke to reporters. \"Let me start by saying that this is hallowed ground,\" he said, noting that this was the site of the 1942 Battle of Midway, where \"a number of young men lost their lives here \u2026 For us to be able to visit this monument and remind ourselves of the sailors and airmen and everyone involved who were able to rebuff the Japanese force, that was vastly outnumbered, is a testament to their courage and their perseverance.\" \n He went on to address the main themes of his short visit to Honolulu and Midway, promoting his administration's efforts to protect the environment which includes his decision last month to greatly expand the Papahanaumokuakea National Marine Monument in the Northwestern Hawaii Islands. \n \"It is also spectacular as an ecosystem,\" he said of the marine monument, \"and our ability to not just designate but build on this incredible natural beauty that is home to 7,000 marine species, that sees millions of birds, many of them endangered, sea turtles, Hawaiian monk seals, black coral, all sorts of species that in many other places we no longer see, we'll extend that 550,000 miles in ways that ensure not only that Midway itself is protected, that the entire ecosystem will be able to generate the kind of biodiversity that allows us to study it, research and understand our oceans better than we ever have before.\" \n \"And for us to be able to protect and preserve this national monument, to extend it, and, most importantly, to interact with Native Hawaiians and other stakeholders so that the way we protect and manage this facility is consistent with ancient traditions and the best science available, this is going to be a precious resource for generations to come. \n \"I look forward to knowing that 20 years from now, 40 years from now, 100 years from now this is a place where people can still come to and see what a place like this looks like when it's not overcrowded or destroyed by human populations,\" Obama said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n From media pool reports \n Update 9:55 a.m. \n President Obama departed Oahu aboard Air Force One from Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam at about 9:50 a.m. today on his way to Midway Atoll, where he will take a tour and get a briefing on Papahanaumokuakea National Marine Monument. \n Obama started his morning with a 6 a.m. workout at a Marine Corps Base Hawaii at Kaneohe gym, then returned to the Kailua home, before departing again after 9 a.m. He is expected to arrive back on Oahu tonight after 9 p.m. \n Previous coverage \n Oahu commuters can expect more road closures and delays this morning as President Barack Obama travels from his Kailua rental home to Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, and a major international conference gets started at the Blaisdell Center. \n Obama, who arrived last night and gave a speech at the East-West Center, will leave Honolulu for Midway Atoll, where he is scheduled to receive a briefing from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on the Papahanaumokuakea Monument. In the afternoon, the president will tour the island and then deliver a monument designation statement to the members of the press who follow him there. \n In the evening Obama will return to Honolulu and remain overnight before leaving for China Friday morning, where he will meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping and participate in his final G-20 Leaders Summit. \n Honolulu police will close roads as the president's motorcade travels to and from Hickam and Kailua this morning and tonight. The exact closures and times have not been disclosed but the president is scheduled to fly out of Hickam after 9:30 a.m. and return after 9 p.m. \n On Wednesday, ahead of the president's evening arrival, many commuters clogged Oahu's roads by mid-afternoon. \n In addition to the president, more than 9,000 delegates from 194 countries convene in Honolulu for the International Union for Conservation of Nature's World Conservation Congress. Opening ceremonies are scheduled for 10 a.m. today at the Neal S. Blaisdell Center and will feature remarks by U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and Gov. David Ige. \n Commuters are advised to stay away from the Blaisdell area. After today, the meeting moves to the Hawaii Convention Center. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Obama, on Midway Atoll, speaks of protecting planet"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "COURTESY USGS \n Minor earthquake strikes near Mauna Kea at around 12:11 a.m. \n A magnitude 3.6 earthquake struck the Big Island near Mauna Kea at around 12:11 a.m. today. \n The U.S. Geological Survey reported that the earthquake struck about 30 miles west-northwest of Hilo and about 5 miles west-northwest of Mauna Kea at a depth of 13 miles. \n No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Minor earthquake strikes near Mauna Kea"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nadim Fawzi Jouriyeh, rear, a Syrian refugee that arrived with his family in the United States this week, poses with the family in El Cajon, Calif. The family members are his wife Rajaa Abdo Altaleb, back left, son Mohammad Fawzi Jouriyeh, back right, daughter Hanan Nadim Jouriyeh, right, Farouq Nadim Jouriyeh, front center, and Hamzeh Nadim Jouriyeh, front left. \n EL CAJON, Calif. >> On Sunday, Nadim Fawzi Jouriyeh participated in a ceremony in Amman, Jordan, to mark the United States hitting its target of taking in 10,000 Syrian refugees in a year-old resettlement program. On Wednesday, the 47-year-old former construction worker and his family were walking grocery aisles, stocking up on roasted chicken, milk and lemons for their new home outside San Diego. \n It didn't take long for Jouriyeh, his 42-year-old wife and four children, ages 8 to 14, to feel welcome. \n \"America is a beautiful country,\" he said through an Arabic translator at the office of the International Rescue Committee in El Cajon, a San Diego suburb that has been a magnet for Iraqis and, more recently, Syrians who are fleeing war. \"The way they treat people and the people of America are very nice \u2026 When you go down the streets, everyone smiles at you. Even if they don't know you, they just smile at you.\" \n San Diego, the nation's eighth-largest city, has received 626 Syrian refugees since Oct. 1, more than any other in the United States. Many smaller cities have accepted outsized number of Syrians, including Erie, Pennsylvania (205), Toledo, Ohio (109), and Boise, Idaho (108). \n California and Michigan are neck-and-neck among states for receiving the most Syrian refugees, followed by Arizona, Texas and Illinois. Cities with large numbers include Chicago (469), Glendale, Arizona (384), Troy, Michigan (325) and Dallas (293). \n Refugees are typically assigned to cities where they have family and friends or, failing that, where there is an established community of immigrants who share their culture, said David Murphy, executive director in San Diego for the International Rescue Committee, one of nine organizations that helps refugee settle in the United States. \n In El Cajon, population 100,000, some store signs on Main Street are in Arabic. Merchants, bank tellers and school teachers speak the language. \n Three decades ago, an Iraqi Chaldean immigrant settled in El Cajon and the impact \"snowballed\" into a large Arabic-speaking community, Murphy said. Iraqis have been coming for years but Syrians are relatively new. \n \"It's really kind of tough to know how they're going to do. They haven't been here long enough to start businesses or anything like that,\" Murphy said. \n Jouriyeh, who left school after ninth grade in his native Homs to work, fled his war-ravaged city for Jordan in 2014. Daily bombings frightened the children as the Syrian government retook the city. Jouriyeh had to stay indoors for three days straight because it was too dangerous to go to work. \n A drive to the Jordanian border that would normally take two hours required three days as the family tried to avoid roadblocks, arrest and crossfire. Jouriyeh said about 80 people were killed in his convoy. \n Extensive vetting by the International Organization of Migration and the U.S. State and Homeland Security departments in Jordan led him to San Diego. \n The U.S. said its target of resettling 10,000 Syrian refugees in the 2016 fiscal year was reached Monday, more than a month ahead of schedule and the night Jouriyeh reached San Diego. The U.S. resettlement program focuses on the most vulnerable refugees, including those who were subjected to violence or torture or are sick. \n Close to 5 million Syrians have fled civil war since 2011. Most struggle to survive in tough conditions in neighboring countries, including Jordan, which hosts close to 660,000 Syrian refugees. \n The future of the U.S.'s role may be tied to presidential politics. Republican nominee Donald Trump said Wednesday that he would suspend arrivals from Syria, portraying them as a potential security threat. \n Jouriyeh said his top priorities are to find a job, enroll his children in school and find permanent housing. He wouldn't say if he would ever return to Syria. \n \"We hope our children succeed in education and be able to have a good future here,\" he said. \n Their days are filled with chores like opening a bank account and getting a phone. International Rescue Committee offers classes on English, job-hunting and citizenship. \n While grocery shopping on Wednesday, a Syrian vendor who came to the United States in 2010 introduced himself to Jouriyeh and asked about his journey. The strangers chatted pleasantly for a few minutes and said goodbye. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "10,000 Syrian refugees find new home in U.S."}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump speaks during a joint statement with Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto in Mexico City. \n COLUMBUS, Ohio >> For weeks, Donald Trump flirted with a self-described \"softening\" of the hard-line immigration policies that propelled him to the Republican nomination, raising the hopes of party officials, some Hispanic leaders and skeptical voters unnerved by his presidential candidacy. \n On Wednesday, he appeared on the brink of embracing that shift as he traveled to Mexico for a dramatic visit with President Enrique Pena Nieto. Against the backdrop of grand diplomatic pageantry, Trump lavished praise on America's southern neighbor and pointedly avoided insisting publicly that Mexico pay for the wall he's pledged to build along the U.S.-Mexico border. \n He was measured and soft-spoken, almost deferential as he read carefully off prepared notes. \n Within hours, Trump wiped it all away. \n In a lengthy and fiery address on immigration in Phoenix, the Republican nominee said in no uncertain terms that Mexico would indeed pay for his border wall. He lambasted millions of immigrants as violent criminals and a drain on the U.S. government. And he vowed that no person living in the United States illegally could chart a path to legal status without first leaving the country. \n \"There will be no legal status or becoming a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country,\" Trump declared, even has he sidestepped the dilemma about what to do with those who might stay in the country anyway \u2014 failing to address the major question that has frustrated past congressional attempts at remaking the nation's immigration laws. \n Even for Trump \u2014 who has made an art of straddling both sides of an issue and playing to the preferences of the audience he's standing before \u2014 the political whiplash was astounding. It reflected the tortured debate between Trump and his advisers over how to position the unconventional candidate in the general election \u2014 a debate that rages on, even with just over two months until Election Day. \n To be sure, Trump's daylong foray across the border and back was a bold gamble, reflecting his urgent need to shake up his race against Democrat Hillary Clinton. While polls have tightened nationally and in some key battleground states, Clinton has a massive advantage over Trump in what it takes to turn votes out in key swing states. \n She also has multiple paths to the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House, while Trump's roadmap is far narrower. \n The hastily announced visit to Mexico seemed intended to remind voters of Trump's brash, play-by-my-own-rules approach to politics. Trump was willing to risk traveling to a country where he is deeply unpopular and to meet with a leader who has been sharply critical of his views, going so far as to compare him to Adolf Hitler. \n The reward? Voters now have an image of Trump in a presidential setting, standing side-by-side with a world leader behind a lectern, listening patiently to a translator relay his counterpart's remarks. \n Trump advisers were jubilant after the visit, as was the candidate. One aide described the businessman as \"very, very pumped\" as his plane traveled to Phoenix for the day's final event. \n But while Trump was in the air, the drama that never seems far from his campaign resurfaced. While Trump had told reporters in Mexico he and Pena Nieto did not discuss who would pay for the proposed border wall, the Mexican leader \u2014 after staying silent as Trump did so \u2014 tweeted, \"I made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall.\" \n By the time Trump took the stage in Phoenix, any expectations for a softer immigration position or a more restrained candidate were squashed. \n Trump raged against what he called President Barack Obama and Clinton's \"open borders\" policy, accusing the Democrats of caring more about immigrants living in the U.S. illegally than American citizens. Feeding off the energy of a wholly supportive crowd, he said any person in the country illegally who is arrested for \"any crime whatsoever\" will be immediately placed into deportation proceedings. \n And in the night's most emotional moment, he invited relatives of people killed by such immigrants to the stage, encouraging them to each stand before the microphone to say their loved one's name aloud. \n Clinton's campaign was unshaken by Trump's attempt. Campaign chairman John Podesta first declared Trump \"choked\" by not raising the issue of payment for a border wall with Pena Nieto, then later accused the Republican of having lied about the meeting. \n And in a show of confidence, Clinton's campaign announced early Thursday morning that it planned to run its first television advertisements in Arizona, a state with a large Hispanic population that has been at the center of the nation's immigration debate. Only one Democrat \u2014 Bill Clinton \u2014 has won Arizona since 1952. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n What political news is the world searching for on Google and talking about on Twitter? Find out via AP's Election Buzz interactive. http://elections.ap.org/buzz \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AP writer Jill Colvin in Phoenix, Arizona, contributed to this report. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For Donald Trump, a day of political whiplash on immigration"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "A 46-year-old Kalaheo man was electrocuted Wednesday morning at a home construction site in Lawai, Kauai. \n The Kauai County Police Department has identified the man as Gary Wiser, a contractor who was working at the site on Hailima Road at 10 a.m., when the incident occurred while he was assisting a crane operator with moving roofing frames off the roadway and onto the home's property on Hailima Road. \n According to reports, Wiser was standing on the ground and holding the cable connected to the crane's boom when he was apparently electrocuted by an overhead power line. Wiser collapsed, and bystanders began CPR until firefighters and medics arrived. \n Medics transported Wiser to Wilcox Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Foul play is not suspected. An autopsy is pending. \n Police spokeswoman Sarah Blane said officers are investigating. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalaheo man electrocuted at home construction site"}

{"date": "September 1, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD \n The Coast Guard rescued a 56-year-old man after his 24-foot fishing vessel capsized approximately 12 miles west of Kauai's Kikiaola Harbor today. \n The Coast Guard rescued a 56-year-old man after his fishing vessel capsized off of Kauai this morning. \n At about 8 a.m., the fisherman sent an emergency-positioning alert indicating potential distress to the Coast Guard Joint Rescue Coordination Center Honolulu. \n He had been fishing about 12 miles west of Kikiaola Harbor when a large wave overwhelmed his 24-foot fishing vessel. Seven-foot wave conditions caused his boat to capsize, according to a Coast Guard news release. \n The Coast Guard said the fisherman was wearing a life jacket, and no injuries were reported. \n An MH-65 Dolphin helicopter and 45-foot response boat crew from Coast Guard Station Kauai responded to the scene. The helicopter arrived at about 10 a.m. and spotted the fisherman at 10:17 a.m. when he fired a flare. \n \"We commend this mariner for ensuring he took all the necessary safety precautions before going on his fishing trip,\" said Petty Officer 1st Class Crystal Escalante, a duty watchstander at the Joint Rescue Coordination Center, in the release. He noted that the fisherman's properly registered radio beacon alert as well as the flare and life jacket expedited the rescue effort. \n A free Coast Guard safety application available on iPhone and Android devices includes distress report information linked to a command center. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard rescues fisherman after boat capsizes off Kauai"}

