{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2016 \n A Prince costume and motorcycle are on display at Prince's Paisley Park in Chanhassen, Minn. Prince left no known will and had no known children when he died April 21, 2016, and the judge overseeing Prince's estate has yet to formally declare six of his siblings as its heirs. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS / 1985 \n Prince performs at the Forum in Inglewood, Calif. Fans can now stream most of his classic albums, and a remastered \"Purple Rain\" album is due out in June 2017 along with two albums of unreleased music and two concert films from his vault. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2007 \n Prince performs during the halftime show at the Super Bowl XLI NFL football game at Dolphin Stadium in Miami. A year after Prince died of an accidental drug overdose, his Paisley Park studio complex and home is now a museum and concert venue. \n MINNEAPOLIS >> A year after Prince died of an accidental drug overdose, his Paisley Park studio complex and home is now a museum and concert venue. Fans can now stream most of his classic albums, and a remastered \"Purple Rain\" album is due out in June along with two albums of unreleased music and two concert films from his vault. \n Prince left no known will and had no known children when he died last April 21, and the judge overseeing Prince's estate has yet to formally declare six of his siblings as its heirs. However, those running the estate have taken steps to preserve his musical legacy and keep the cash coming in. Here's a look at where things stand: \n THE MUSIC \n The value of the music deals hasn't been disclosed, and key financial information in voluminous court filings is sealed. \n Universal Music Group was a big winner, reaching major deals that gave it the licensing rights to Prince's vault of unreleased music and his independently recorded albums, publishing rights and merchandising rights. \n Under related deals, Prince's music is now available from major streaming services including Spotify, Apple Music, Pandora, Amazon Music and iHeartRadio. \n But a lawsuit remains pending against Jay Z's Roc Nation and the Tidal streaming service over alleged copyright violations. Tidal claims Prince gave it the exclusive right to stream his albums, including his Warner Bros. catalog. Estate lawyers say he gave Tidal limited rights to only one album, 2015's \"Hit N Run: Phase 1.\" \n PAISLEY PARK \n Paisley Park, which is run by the company that runs Elvis Presley's Graceland, opened for public tours in October. Visitors can see the studios and soundstage where Prince worked and pay their respects at the Paisley Park-shaped urn that holds his ashes. It also hosts dance parties and movie and video showings on Friday and Saturday nights. \n Close to 100,000 people from around the world have taken the tour, even though winter was expected to be the slow season, said Joel Weinshanker, managing partner of PPark Management, who has a similar role with Graceland. He wouldn't release revenue figures. \n Weinshanker said he expects several hundred thousand visitors in the first full year of operations, which he said would make it the No. 2 museum dedicated to an entertainer behind Graceland. \n He said most of the money is going toward preserving the building, which he said was in \"grave disrepair\" when Prince died, and toward protecting its contents. He said the heating and cooling system had to be replaced, some rooms where videos were stored had recent water damage, and valuable custom-designed outfits were improperly stored on wire hangers. \n From April 20-23, Paisley Park will mark the anniversary of Prince's death with Celebration 2017, which will include concerts and other programming. Acts scheduled to appear include The Revolution, Morris Day and the Time, New Power Generation, Liv Warfield and Shelby J., with members of 3RDEYEGIRL, the band Prince was nurturing when he died. Weinshanker said it will draw guests from 28 countries. \n THE PROBATE CASE \n Barring any surprises, six Prince siblings will get equal shares of his estate, which court filings have suggested is worth around $200 million. Federal and estate taxes are expected to consume nearly half of that. \n Judge Kevin Eide wrote last month that he was \"reasonably certain\" he'll ultimately declare the heirs to be Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, and his half-siblings Sharon Nelson, Norrine Nelson, John R. Nelson, Omarr Baker and Alfred Jackson. \n After Prince died, more than 45 people filed claims purporting to be his wife, children, siblings or other relatives. They've all been rejected, but Eide has said he'll wait for some appeals to run their course before making a final ruling, which could take several months or more. The six presumptive heirs have asked him to speed things up. A hearing on that request is set for May 10. \n THE DISPUTES \n With so much money at stake, there's been some infighting. Court documents and testimony show that the siblings disagreed over who should control the estate, eventually settling on Comerica Bank & Trust as the executor. \n The older half-siblings \u2014 Norrine, Sharon, John and Alfred \u2014 also wanted a co-executor, former Prince attorney L. Londell McMillan, who was a key figure in the deals for monetizing Prince's entertainment assets. \n But Tyka and Omarr opposed McMillan, questioning his fitness to serve and accusing him of mismanaging a family tribute concert last October. They wanted CNN commentator Van Jones, who advised Prince on philanthropy. Citing the siblings' inability to agree, the judge put Comerica in sole control. \n McMillan continues to advise Norrine, Sharon and John, though a recent filing indicates Jackson has broken with him. Lawyers for Omarr and Tyka have subpoenaed a potentially huge volume of documents from McMillan. The judge will consider a motion to quash that subpoena at the May 10 hearing. \n Sharon, meanwhile, claimed last month that Comerica was being \"dictatorial and bullish.\" Comerica denied any disrespectful, abusive or hostile conduct, but said the heirs don't get to vote on how it runs the estate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Deals ensure cash keeps flowing to unsettled Prince estate"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Contestants, from left, Jeff Varner, Sarah Lacina, Zeke Smith and Debbie Wanner appear at the Tribal Council portion of the competition series \"Survivor: Game Changers.\" \n GREENSBORO, N.C. >> \"Survivor\" contestant Jeff Varner who outed fellow competitor Zeke Smith as transgender on Wednesday night's episode of the CBS reality competition has been fired from his real estate job. \n Varner made accusations of \"a deception\" before revealing that Smith is transgender on the episode. Varner was immediately criticized by other players. He repeatedly apologized, but was voted out of the competition. \n Smith explained that he didn't mention that he was transgendered because he didn't want to be known as \"the trans 'Survivor' player.\" \n He writes in The Hollywood Reporter that by calling him deceptive, Varner invoked \"one of the most odious stereotypes of transgender people.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Survivor' contestant who outed competitor loses his job"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n April gave birth to a healthy male calf today at the privately-owned Animal Adventure Park before an online audience of more than a million viewers. \n HARPURSVILLE, N.Y. >> The wait is over for April the giraffe and the legions of fans who watched a New York zoo's livestream for signs that the long-legged internet star was in labor. \n April gave birth to a healthy male calf Saturday at the privately-owned Animal Adventure Park before an online audience of more than a million viewers. \n The 15-year-old giraffe delivered her calf shortly before 10 a.m. EDT in an enclosed pen at the zoo in Harpursville, a rural upstate village about 130 miles (209 kilometers) northwest of New York City. \n The mama giraffe tenderly licked her calf, which began to slowly pick its head up from the floor of the pen. About 45 minutes after it was born, the calf stood on its wobbly legs while mom helped keep her baby steady. He began nursing not long after. \n At least 1.2 million people watched the Adventure Park's YouTube streaming of the event. Zoo owner Jordan Patch said both mom and calf were doing fine. \n Patch called the birth \"unnerving\" to watch. \"Giraffes give birth standing up, which means when the calf is ready to be born, it exits its mother hooves first from six feet off the floor, making for a very exciting event,\" he said in a news release. \n The newborn is April's fourth calf but Animal Adventure Park's first giraffe calf. The proud papa, a 5-year-old giraffe named Oliver, watched from an adjacent pen. This is his first offspring. \n The zoo began livestreaming from April's enclosure in February. People around the world have been tuning in daily, with some growing impatient as the pregnancy seemed to drag on. \n A Farmington, New Hampshire, songwriter even posted a music video on YouTube called, \"I'm Going Crazy Waiting (For A Giraffe).\" \n April has her own website and even an apparel line. A GoFundMe fundraiser page that initially set a goal of $50,000 sat at more than $134,000 by Saturday night. The money will be used for the care of the animals. \n A contest will be held to decide on a name for the calf. \n The park's livestream was briefly interrupted in February when YouTube pulled the feed after someone reported the images contained explicit material and nudity. Patch blamed \"a handful of extremists and animal rights activists\" for the interruption. \n The new calf's vital statistics were not announced, but newborn giraffes usually weigh around 150 pounds (68.04 kilograms) and are about 6 feet (1.83 meters) tall at birth. Giraffes are pregnant for 15 months on average. \n Animal Adventure park is currently closed to the public and will open in mid-May. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Wait is over for April the giraffe, YouTube star and new mom"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "South-bound traffic on Kamehameha Highway at Heeia-Kea pier was being turned around due to a traffic accident that damaged a power pole, according to Honolulu police shortly before 8:30 p.m. \n Hawaiian Electric was called to assess the problem. North-bound traffic was not affected. \n At 9:10 p.m., police reopened the highway. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Damaged power pole slows traffic in Kaneohe area"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office identified today a woman who died after falling about 50 feet on a Nuuanu trail as Jennifer Allen, 32, of Honolulu. \n An autopsy will be performed Monday. \n Firefighters said someone reported a woman had fallen about 50 feet on Luakahu Falls Trail at about 12:40 p.m. Thursday. Responding firefighters found the woman unconscious, without a pulse and not breathing. Firefighters lifted Allen off the trail by helicopter and took her to Nuuanu Reservoir where she was transferred to paramedics. \n Police said Allen tripped and fell into a pool of water below. She died at the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Woman who died after falling 50 ft. off Luakaha Falls identified"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The French headquarters of Microsoft Corp. in Issy-les-Moulineaux, outside of Paris. \n PARIS >> Up-to-date Microsoft customers are safe from the purported National Security Agency spying tools dumped online, the software company said today, tamping down fears that the digital arsenal was poised to wreak havoc across the internet . \n In a blog post, Microsoft Corp. security manager Phillip Misner said that the software giant had already built defenses against nine of the 12 tools disclosed by TheShadowBrokers, a mysterious group that has repeatedly published NSA code. The three others affected old, unsupported products. \n \"Most of the exploits are already patched,\" Misner said. \n The post knocked back warnings from some researchers that the digital espionage toolkit made public by TheShadowBrokers took advantage of undisclosed vulnerabilities in Microsoft's code. That would have been a potentially damaging development because such tools could swiftly be repurposed to strike across the company's massive customer base. \n Those fears appear to have been prompted by experts using even slightly out-of-date versions of Windows in their labs. One of Microsoft's fixes, also called a patch, was only released last month . \n \"I missed the patch,\" said British security architect Kevin Beaumont, jokingly adding, \"I'm thinking about going to live in the woods now.\" \n Beaumont wasn't alone. Matthew Hickey, of cybersecurity firm Hacker House, also ran the code against earlier versions of Windows on Friday. But he noted that many organizations put patches off, meaning \"many servers will still be affected by these flaws.\" \n Everyone involved recommended keeping up with software updates. \n \"We encourage customers to ensure their computers are up-to-date,\" Misner said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Microsoft says users are protected from alleged NSA malware"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The former Governor of Veracruz state, Javier Duarte, spoke to reporters as he left the attorney general's headquarters in Mexico City on Aug. 5. \n GUATEMALA CITY >> Javier Duarte, the fugitive former governor of Mexico's Veracruz state who is accused of running a corruption ring to pilfer from state coffers, was detained in Guatemala today. \n A statement from Mexico's federal Attorney General's Office said Duarte was detained with the cooperation of Guatemalan police and the country's Interpol office in the municipality of Panajachel, which is a picturesque tourist town on Lake Atitlan in Guatemala's highlands. \n It said he is wanted on suspicion of money laundering and organized crime, and prosecutors directed the Foreign Relations Department to request Duarte's extradition via its Guatemalan counterpart. \n Photos published in Mexican media showed a bespectacled Duarte, clad in a gray shirt and black jacket-vest, being escorted by Interpol agents. \n Manuel Noriega, deputy director of Interpol in Guatemala, said Duarte was located at a hotel where he was staying with his wife. He was asked to leave his room, did so voluntarily and then was arrested without incident in the lobby. \n Noriega said Duarte would be presented before a judge to consider his possible extradition. \n Duarte was governor of Veracruz from 2010 until he left office Oct. 12, 2016, two months before the scheduled end of his term, saying he was doing so in order to face the allegations against him. \n At the time he denied having links to phantom businesses that allegedly won state contracts, and said he had not stolen a single peso of state money or diverted government funds overseas. \n \"I don't have foreign accounts,\" he said last year. \"I don't have properties anywhere.\" \n Duarte promptly disappeared and had been sought by Mexican authorities ever since. Earlier this year Interpol issued a notice for his capture. \n The Mexican government has found millions of dollars purportedly linked to Duarte, frozen more than 100 bank accounts and also seized property and businesses tied to the former governor. A reward of 15 million pesos ($730,000) had been offered for his capture. \n The detention comes a week after Tomas Yarrington, the former governor of Mexico's Tamaulipas state, was arrested in Italy, also on allegations of organized crime and money laundering. \n Another ex-governor, Cesar Duarte of Chihuahua state, is also wanted on suspicion of corruption and is believed to have fled to El Paso, Texas. He is not related to Javier Duarte. \n All three ex-governors were members of the ruling Institutional Revolution Party, or PRI, of President Enrique Pena Nieto. \n Javier Duarte became a powerful symbol of alleged corruption during mid-term elections last year in which the PRI lost several governorships, including Veracruz, that it had held uninterrupted since its founding in 1929. \n Duarte has also been widely criticized for rampant violence in the state as drug cartels war for territory, and for the killings of at least 16 journalists in Veracruz during his six years in office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Fugitive Mexican ex-Gov. Javier Duarte detained in Guatemala"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "Police reopened all lanes of Kamehameha Highway this afternoon after a crash between Kualoa Ranch and Kualoa Regional Park in Kaneohe. \n The crash happened at about 3:45 p.m. and forced police to contraflow traffic until tow trucks could remove the vehicles. No critical injuries were reported. \n Police reopened all lanes at about 5 p.m. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kamehameha Highway reopened following Kaneohe crash"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ROB SHIKINA / RSHIKINA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A suspect in a murder at Island West Apartments, 607 N. King St., was released today pending investigation. \n Police released a 47-year-old Kalihi murder suspect this afternoon pending an investigation. \n The suspect was arrested Friday morning on suspicion of second-degree murder in connection with the death of a 54-year-old woman and was released about 1:15 p.m. today, police said. \n Police said the man struck the woman at about 4:15 a.m. Friday after which she became unresponsive. Someone called 911 and paramedics pronounced the woman dead at the scene at 607 N. King St. \n Responding officers arrested the man at the scene, where he lives, at about 6:30 a.m. Autopsy results are pending. \n A neighbor who lives on the same floor as the man at Island West Apartments said the couple lived together and fought frequently. The neighbor described the man as unstable and said he often appeared intoxicated. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina", "title": "Kalihi murder suspect released pending investigation"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is seen in silhouette as he waves during a military parade on Saturday, April 15, 2017, in Pyongyang, North Korea to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of Kim Il Sung, the country's late founder and grandfather of current ruler Kim Jong Un. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> A North Korean missile exploded during launch Sunday, U.S. and South Korean officials said, a high-profile failure that comes as a powerful U.S. aircraft supercarrier approaches the Korean Peninsula in a show of force. \n It wasn't immediately clear what kind of missile was test-fired from the east coast city of Sinpo. But the failure will sting in Pyongyang because it comes a day after one of the biggest North Korean propaganda events of the year\u2014 celebrations of the 105th birthday of late North Korea founder Kim Il Sung, the current leader's grandfather. \n The North's test firing can be seen as a message of defiance to the Trump administration in Washington, coming as it does on the day U.S. Vice President Mike Pence is set to arrive in Seoul for talks on North Korea. \n President Donald Trump was uncharacteristically quiet about the failed launch. In a statement, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said Trump and his military team \"are aware of North Korea's most recent unsuccessful missile launch. The president has no further comment.\" \n Washington and Seoul will try hard to figure out what exactly North Korea fired. This matters because while North Korea regularly launches short-range missiles, it is also developing mid-range and long-range missiles meant to target U.S. troops in Asia and, eventually, the U.S. mainland. \n The ultimate goal is to have a full array of nuclear-tipped missiles in response to what Pyongyang says is hostility by Washington and Seoul meant to topple its government. North Korea is thought to have a small arsenal of atomic bombs and an impressive array of short- and medium-range missiles. \n Many outside analysts believe that North Korea has not yet mastered the technology to build warheads small enough to place on long-range missiles, though some civilian experts say North Korea can already build nuclear-tipped shorter range missiles that have South Korea and Japan within its striking range. \n The U.S. Pacific Command said in a statement that Sunday's missile exploded on launch. South Korea's Defense Ministry said it was analyzing exactly how the North Korean launch failed. Neither military knew what kind of missile was fired. \n In Seoul, South Korea's presidential office convened a national security council meeting to examine security postures. \n Always high animosity has risen on the Korean Peninsula in recent months, as the United States and South Korea conduct annual war games that North Korea claims are invasion preparation and the North prepared for Saturday's anniversary celebrations. A U.S. aircraft carrier, the USS Carl Vinson, is heading to waters off Korea in a show of force. \n Analysts warn that even failed missile launches provide valuable knowledge to North Korea as it tries to build its weapons program. The country launched a long-range rocket and conducted two nuclear tests last year, including its most powerful to date. \n Aside from improving the technology, North Korean missile and nuclear tests are seen by outside analysts partly as efforts to bolster the domestic image of leader Kim Jong Un and apply political pressure on Seoul and Washington. \n Kim Jong Un has overseen three nuclear tests and a string of missile and rocket launches since taking over after the death of his father, dictator Kim Jong Il, in late 2011. \n Another missile test from Sinpo failed earlier this month, when the rocket spun out of control and plunged into the ocean. That launch came shortly before Trump's first meeting with Chinese leader Xi Jinping. China is North Korea's only major ally. \n The extended-range Scud missile in that earlier launch suffered an in-flight failure and fell into the sea off North Korea's east coast, according to U.S. imagery and assessments. \n Despite Sunday's failure, the North's previous claim to have used \"standardized\" warheads has led to worries that it was making headway in its push to develop small and sophisticated warheads to be topped on long-range missiles. \n Washington sees North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles as a threat to world security and to its Asian allies, Japan and South Korea. The United States, South Korea and other countries have vowed to apply more pressure on the North, but so far nothing has worked to stop Pyongyang's nuclear program. \n Six-nation negotiations on dismantling North Korea's nuclear program in exchange for aid fell apart in early 2009. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S.: North Korean test missile explodes on launch"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Police say Todd Heap was behind the wheel of a truck when he accidentally struck his 3-year-daughter while moving the vehicle forward outside their home in Mesa, Ariz., on Friday, April 15, 2017. Officials say the girl was taken to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead. Mesa police say impairment was not a factor. \n PHOENIX >> Condolences poured in for retired NFL player Todd Heap and his family today, a day after police say the former Pro Bowl tight end accidentally ran over his 3-year-old daughter with a truck, killing her. \n Heap was moving the truck at his home in Mesa, a Phoenix suburb, on Friday when he struck the girl, police said. She was pronounced dead at a hospital. \n The Baltimore Ravens, Heap's longtime former team, called the accident \"knee-buckling news and an overwhelming tragedy.\" \n Jay Feely, who played with Heap on the Arizona Cardinals, wrote on Twitter : \"My heart is broken for Todd Heap and his family. One of the kindest persons I've ever met and a man who lives for his family.\" \n Heap spent 10 seasons with the Ravens, who selected him in the first round out of Arizona State in 2001. He spent two seasons with the Cardinals before retiring with 42 career touchdowns. He made the Pro Bowl after the 2002 and '03 seasons and was a second-team All-Pro in 2003. \n Heap also is a member of the Raven's Ring of Honor. \n \"We cannot imagine the heartbreak and sorrow Todd and Ashley's family feels right now,\" the Ravens said in a statement. \"We believe their deep faith and tremendous support from friends and family will help them through this unimaginable time.\" \n Heap is from a Mormon family that stretches its lineage to the early days of the faith. Since 2007, he and his wife have operated a foundation to help sick and disadvantaged children. \n He talked about family being the most important thing in his life in a 2015 interview with Kevin Byrne , the Ravens' senior vice president for public and community relations. \n \"I just got done jumping on the trampoline with my 2-year-old daughter,\" Heap told Byrne, \"and it's hard to get a bigger smile than that. I took all three of my boys golfing this morning. That was a lot of fun. (My wife) Ashley makes me smile every day. Family and all of the events we do, that regularly makes me smile.\" \n In a statement, the Cardinals called the death \"a grief that is beyond words and one which no family should experience. Hopefully the prayers, love and support of their incredible group of friends and family provide him the comfort that along with their strong faith will lead them through this unspeakably difficult time.\" \n Heap, 37, grew up in Mesa, led his high school football team to two state championships and was a standout at Arizona State before leaving early for the NFL. \n \"The Heaps have contributed so much to the Arizona State Sun Devils, Baltimore Ravens, and Arizona Cardinals communities, and we hope their family, friends and our respective communities can provide them with love and support as they work through this unspeakable heartbreak,\" Arizona State said in a statement. \n The Ravens chose Heap in the first round of the 2001 draft, the 31st pick overall, and he had some outstanding years with the team. \n He is the Ravens' career leader in touchdown receptions and is second in overall receptions and receiving yards. \n Heap played for the Ravens through 2010. He signed with the Cardinals in 2011, played two games the following season and officially retired in 2013. \n \"Absolutely gutted for Todd Heap and his family,\" Houston Texans star JJ Watt said in a tweet . \"Thoughts are with them in this incredibly tough time.\" \n Attempts by The Associated Press to reach Heap by telephone were unsuccessful. \n Mesa police Detective Steve Berry said the investigation into the accident continues but that there are no suspicious circumstances and no signs of impairment. \n The Maricopa County Medical Examiner's office has not released the girl's identity or ruled on a cause of death. \n The child safety advocacy group KidsandCars.org said more than 800 children have been killed in the past two decades in instances in which a child in front of a vehicle wasn't seen by the driver. The organization's president, Janette Fennell, said blind zones in the front and back of cars cause such tragedies. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Anguish, sympathy for Heap after ex-NFL player's kid killed"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Anti and pro-Donald Trump supporters clash during competing demonstrations at Martin Luther King Jr. Civic Center Park in Berkeley, Calif., Saturday, April 15, 2017. Protesters took to the streets in dozens of cities nationwide, many calling on Trump to release his tax returns. \n BERKELEY, Calif. >> At least 13 people were arrested after violence broke out today between groups of supporters and detractors of President Donald Trump holding rallies in downtown Berkeley, authorities said. \n About 200 people were at Berkeley's Martin Luther King Jr. Civic Center Park when several fights broke out. Dozens of police officers in riot gear standing nearby quickly arrested one man. Others were arrested after several skirmishes. \n Trump supporters announced earlier in the week that they were holding a \"Patriot Day\" at the park at noon that would feature speeches by members of the alt-right, an amorphous fringe movement that uses internet memes, message boards and social media to spread a hodgepodge of racism, anti-Semitism, misogyny and xenophobia. Counter-demonstrators then said they would hold a rally at the same place at 10 a.m. \n Police put in a makeshift barrier of plastic orange poles and orange fence mesh to separate both sides, but that quickly came down as demonstrators started punching and kicking each other, while pepper spray and firecrackers were thrown to the crowd. \n After the barrier was put back in place, demonstrators shouted at each other from a distance, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. \n \"You go back to the '60s,\" shouted a pro-Trump supporter. \n \"You go back to the 1400s,\" someone on the opposing side shouted back \n The groups then left the park and walked on Berkeley streets with police closely following them. Photographs of the scene showed at least two men with bloodied faces. \n Authorities had said ahead of the rallies, that baseball bats, sticks, flagpoles and any items that could be used as a weapon were banned at the park. Officers on Saturday confiscated sticks, knives, flagpoles and helmets and sticks with signs on them. \n The rally followed March 4 demonstrations at the same park planned by some of the same groups and that ended in violent clashes. Several people were injured and police arrested 10 demonstrators. \n In February, protesters threw rocks, broke windows and set fires outside the University of California, Berkeley's student union building, where then-Breitbart News editor and provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos was set to speak. His presentation was cancelled. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "13 arrested in California pro and anti-Trump rallies"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rebel gunmen at the site of a blast that damaged several buses and vans at the Rashideen area, a rebel-controlled district outside Aleppo city, Syria, Saturday, April. 15, 2017. Syrian TV said at least 39 people were killed Saturday in an explosion that hit near buses carrying evacuees from two towns besieged by rebels nearby. \n BEIRUT >> A stalled population transfer resumed Saturday after a deadly explosion killed at least 100, including children, government supporters and opposition fighters, at an evacuation point \u2014 adding new urgency to the widely criticized operation. \n The blast ripped through a bus depot in the al-Rashideen area where thousands of government loyalists evacuated the day before waited restlessly for hours, as opposition fighters guarded the area while negotiators bickered over the completion of the transfer deal. Only meters away, hundreds of evacuees from pro-rebels areas also loitered in a walled-off parking lot, guarded by government troops. \n Footage from the scene showed bodies, including those of fighters, lying alongside buses, some of which were charred and others gutted from the blast. Personal belongings could be seen dangling out of the windows. Fires raged from a number of vehicles as rescuers struggled to put them out. \n The scenes were the latest in the unyielding bloodshed Syrians are living through. Earlier this month, at least 89 people were killed in a chemical attack as children foaming at the mouth and adults gasping for last breath were also caught on camera. \n The bloody mayhem that followed the Saturday attack only deepened the resentment of the transfer criticized as population engineering. It also reflected the chaos surrounding negotiations between the warring parties. The United Nations did not oversee the transfer deal of the villages of Foua and Kfraya, besieged by the rebels, and Madaya and Zabadani, encircled by the government. \n No one claimed responsibility for the attack but pro-government media and the opposition exchanged accusations, each pointing to foreign interference or conspiracies undermining the deal. \n State TV al-Ikhbariya said the attack was the result of a car bomb carrying food aid to be delivered to the evacuees in the rebel-held area \u2014 ostensibly crisps for the children \u2014 and accused rebel groups of carrying it out. A TV broadcaster from the area said: \"There can be no life with the terrorist groups.\" \n \"I know nothing of my family. I can't find them,\" said a woman who appeared on al-Ikhbariya, weeping outside the state hospital in Aleppo where the wounded were transported. \n Ahrar al-Sham, the rebel group that negotiated the deal, denounced the \"cowardly\" attack, saying a number of opposition fighters as well as government supporters were killed in the attack. The group said the attack only serves to deflect the attention from government \"crimes\" and said it was ready to cooperate with an international probe to determine who did it. \n Yasser Abdelatif, a media official for Ahrar al-Sham, said about 30 rebel gunmen were killed in the blast. He accused the government or extremist rebel groups of orchestrating the attack to discredit the opposition. \n The Syrian Civil Defense in Aleppo province, also known as the White Helmets, said their volunteers pulled at least 100 bodies from the site of the explosion. White Helmets member Ibrahim Alhaj = said the 100 fatalities documented by the rescuers included many children and women, as well as fighters. \n Syrian state media said at least 39 were killed, including children. The opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the death toll at 43, adding that it would likely rise because of the extensive damage. A Facebook page belonging to the pro-government Foua and Kfraya villages said all those in three buses were killed or are still missing while a rebel official said at least 30 opposition fighters who were guarding the evacuees were killed in the blast. \n According to Abdul Hakim Baghdadi, an interlocutor who helped the government negotiate the evacuations, 140 were killed in the attack. He added it was not clear how many rebels were killed because they were evacuated to their areas. \n Hours after the explosion, the transfer resumed \u2014 as dozens of buses, starting with the wounded, left to their respective destinations. Before midnight Saturday, 100 of some 120 buses from both sides had already arrived. \n The explosion hit the al-Rashideen area, a rebel-controlled district outside Aleppo city where evacuation buses carrying nearly 5,000 people from the northern rebel-besieged villages of Foua and Kfraya were stuck. Residents from the two villages had been evacuated Friday, along with more than 2,000 from Madaya, an opposition-held town outside of Damascus besieged by government forces. \n The coordinated evacuations delivered war-weary fighters and residents from two years of siege and hunger, but moved Syria closer to a division of its national population by loyalty and sect. \n Madaya and Zabadani, once summer resorts to Damascus, have been shattered under the cruelty of a government siege. The two towns rebelled against Damascus' authority in 2011 when demonstrations swept through the country demanding the end of President Bashar Assad's rule. \n Residents were reduced to hunting rodents and eating tree leaves. Photos of children gaunt with hunger shocked the world and gave new urgency to U.N. relief operations in Syria. \n Foua and Kfraya, besieged by the rebels, lived under a steady hail of rockets and mortars. They were supplied with food and medical supplies through military airdrops. \n Critics say the string of evacuations, which could see some 30,000 people moved across battle lines over the next 60 days, amounts to forced displacement along political and sectarian lines. \n The explosion came as frustration was already mounting over the stalling evacuation process. \n \"The situation is disastrous,\" said Ahmed Afandar, a resident evacuated from the opposition area near Madaya. \"All these thousands of people are stuck in less than half a kilometer (500 yards).\" He said the area was walled off from all sides and there were no restrooms. \n Afandar said people were not allowed to leave the buses for a while before they were let out. Food was distributed after several hours and by early afternoon the evacuees from rebel-held areas were \"pressured\" to sit back on their buses, Afandar said. \n The evacuees from Madaya headed to rebel-held Idlib, west of Aleppo. After the blast, evacuees from opposition areas pleaded for protection fearing revenge attacks. \n Syrian state TV blamed the rebels for obstructing the deal. \n An opposition representative, Ali Diab, accused the government side of violating the terms of the agreement, by evacuating fewer armed men than agreed to from the pro-government areas. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Over 100 killed during Syria's troubled population transfer"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Madison County officials investigate a fire that destroyed the structure of the Cedar Covered Bridge, north of Winterset, Iowa. The fire was reported around 6 a.m., and was fully engulfed when fire crews arrived. \n WINTERSET, Iowa >> An iconic Madison County, Iowa, covered bridge \u2014 pictured on the cover of the best-selling novel \"The Bridges of Madison County\" \u2014 has been destroyed by fire, and authorities say they suspect it was intentionally set. \n The fire at the Cedar Bridge was reported around 6 a.m. Saturday, the Madison County Sheriff's Office told the Des Moines Register (http://dmreg.co/2pj5Yk9 ). \n Officials said the bridge was fully engulfed by the time firefighters got to the scene near Winterset in south-central Iowa. \n There was no electricity or light source at the bridge and no severe weather or lightning in the area, so the fire will be investigated as arson, Madison County Sheriff Jason Barnes said. \n \"It's pretty bad,\" Barnes said. \"When you think of Madison County, you think of those bridges. It's a direct attack.\" \n The original Cedar Bridge was built in 1883 before it burned in 2002. Investigators determined the fire to be arson, but no arrests were ever made. About a year later, another Madison County bridge was the target of arsonists, but sustained only minor damage. \n The Cedar Bridge was rebuilt and reopened in 2004. It was featured in the 1995 movie adaptation of \"The Bridges of Madison County,\" starring Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep. The novel was written by Robert James Waller, who died in March. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "'Bridges of Madison County' covered bridge destroyed by fire"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis presides over the Via Crucis (Way of the Cross) torchlight procession on Good Friday in front of Rome's Colosseum. \n VATICAN CITY >> Pope Francis is presiding over a solemn Easter Vigil ceremony marked by heightened security fears following a spate of Islamic-inspired attacks in Europe. \n Holding a single candle, Francis processed down the center aisle of a darkened St. Peter's Basilica on Saturday, symbolizing the darkness that fell after Jesus' crucifixion on Good Friday. When he reached the altar, the basilica's floodlights turned on, symbolizing the light of Christ's resurrection. \n Saturday's late-night service came just hours after Francis presided over the evocative torch-lit Good Friday procession at Rome's Colosseum, where Francis repeatedly denounced the \"shame\" of the blood spilled by innocent children, women and migrants in the world's conflicts, shipwrecks and other tragedies. \n On Sunday, he celebrates the joyful Easter Mass in a flower-filled St. Peter's Square. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pope presides over solemn Easter Vigil amid security fears"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Emma Morano sits in her home on the day of her 117th birthday in Verbania, Italy. An Italian doctor says Emma Morano, at 117 the world's oldest person, has died in her home in northern Italy. \n ROME >> Emma Morano, at 117 the world's oldest person who is also believed to have been the last surviving person born in the 1800s, died Saturday at her home in northern Italy, her physician said. \n Dr. Carlo Bava told The Associated Press by phone that Morano's caretaker had called him to say she had stopped breathing in the afternoon while sitting in an armchair at her home in Verbania, a town on Italy's Lake Maggiore. \n Bava said he had last seen his patient on Friday when \"she thanked me and held my hand,\" as she did every time he called on her. While Morano had been increasingly spending more time sleeping and less time speaking in recent weeks, she had eaten her daily raw egg and biscuits that day, he said. \n Bava also lives in Verbania and had been her physician for nearly a quarter of a century. \n Morano, born on Nov. 29, 1899, had been living in a tidy, one-room apartment, where she was kept company by her caregiver and two elderly nieces. \n \"She didn't suffer. I'm happy she didn't suffer but passed away that way, tranquilly,\" Bava said. \n He said she had been her usual chatterbox self until a few weeks ago. \n \"She was slowly fading away,\" Bava said. \n Bava has previously told the AP that Morano lost a son to crib death when he was six months old and left her husband in the first-half of the last century after he beat her. \n Morano \"abandoned the husband in the Fascist era, when women were supposed to be very submissive,\" Bava said in a 2015 interview. \"She was always very decisive.\" \n Morano went on to support herself by working in a factory making jute bags, then at a hotel, working way beyond the usual retirement age. \n She also defied health advice, Bava said Saturday. Some doctors had warned her against eating three eggs daily, which she did for years, but she ignored their advice. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Italy's Emma Morano, the world's oldest person, dies at 117"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PESS \n North Korean leader Kim Jong Un waves during a military parade in Pyongyang, North Korea to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of Kim Il Sung, the country's late founder and grandfather of current ruler Kim Jong Un. \n PYONGYANG, North Korea >> North Korea paraded its intercontinental ballistic missiles in a massive military display in central Pyongyang today, with ruler Kim Jong Un looking on with delight as his nation flaunted its increasingly sophisticated military hardware amid rising regional tensions. \n Kim did not speak during the annual parade, which celebrates the 1912 birthday of his late grandfather Kim Il Sung, North Korea's founding ruler, but a top official warned that the North would stand up to any threat posed by the United States. \n Choe Ryong Hae said President Donald Trump was guilty of \"creating a war situation\" on the Korean Peninsula by dispatching U.S. forces to the region. \n \"We will respond to an all-out war with an all-out war and a nuclear war with our style of a nuclear attack,\" said Choe, widely seen by analysts as North Korea's No. 2 official. \n The parade, the annual highlight of North Korea's most important holiday, came amid growing international worries that North Korea may be preparing for its sixth nuclear test or a major missile launch, such as its first flight test of an ICBM capable of reaching U.S. shores. \n But if the parade signaled a readiness for war, North Korea has long insisted that its goal is peace \u2014 and survival \u2014 with the growing arsenal a way to ensure that the government in Pyongyang is not easily overthrown. \n North Korea saw the toppling of Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Moammar Gadhafi in Libya \u2014 neither of whom had nuclear weapons \u2014 as proof of the weapons' power. \n \"It will be the largest of miscalculations if the United States treats us like Iraq and Libya, which are living out miserable fates as victims of aggression, and Syria, which didn't respond immediately even after it was attacked,\" said a Friday statement by the general staff of the North Korean army, according to the official Korean Central News Agency. \n Also Friday, North Korea's vice foreign minister told The Associated Press in an exclusive interview that Trump's tweets \u2014 he recently tweeted, for example, that the North is \"looking for trouble\" \u2014 have inflamed tensions. \n \"Trump is always making provocations with his aggressive words,\" Han Song Ryol said. \n U.S. retaliatory strikes earlier this month against Syria over a chemical weapons attack on civilians, coupled with Trump's dispatching of what he called an \"armada\" of ships to the region, touched off fears in South Korea that the United States was preparing for military action against the North. \n Pyongyang has also expressed anger over the ongoing annual spring military exercises the U.S. holds with South Korea, which it considers a rehearsal for invasion. \n But U.S. officials told The Associated Press on Friday that the Trump administration had settled on a policy that will emphasize increasing pressure on Pyongyang with the help of China, North Korea's only major ally, instead of military options or trying to overthrow Kim's regime. \n A U.S. military official, who requested anonymity to discuss planning, said the United States doesn't intend to use military force against North Korea in response to either a nuclear test or a missile launch. \n Kim, wearing a suit and tie, was greeted with thunderous \u2014 and extensively practiced \u2014 applause as he stepped into view on a large podium, clapping to acknowledge the thousands of soldiers and civilians taking part in the parade at Kim Il Sung Square. \n The parade, an elaborate display of the state's immense power, involves tens of thousands of participants, from goose-stepping soldiers to crowds of civilians who have spent weeks perfecting their ability to wave plastic flowers in unison. \n For outside military analysts, though, the highlight is the weaponry that the North puts on display. \n A series of what appeared to be KN-08 missiles were among the weapons rolled out on trucks. Analysts say the missiles could one day be capable of hitting targets as far as the continental United States, although North Korea has yet to flight test them. \n The parade also included large rockets covered by canisters in two different types of transporter erector launcher trucks, or TELs. An official from South Korea's Defense Ministry couldn't immediately confirm whether any of the rockets represented a new type of ICBM. \n Kim Dong-yub, a North Korea expert at Seoul's Institute for Far Eastern Studies, said the canisters and trucks suggested that the North was developing technology to \"cold launch\" ICBMs, ejecting them from the canisters before they ignite. This would allow North Korea to prevent its limited number of ICBM-capable launcher trucks from being damaged during launches and also make the missiles harder to detect after they're fired, he said. Cold launches would also allow the missiles to be fired from silos. \n Kim, the analyst, said it's likely that North Korea is also developing solid-fuel ICBMs, and that some of the rockets inside the canisters on Saturday might have been prototypes. \n Other military hardware at the parade included tanks, multiple rocket launchers and artillery, as well as a solid-fuel missile designed to be fired from submarines. Also on display was a powerful midrange missile that can potentially reach U.S. air bases in Guam, which outside analysts call a \"Musudan,\" as well as a new solid-fuel midrange missile that can be fired from land mobile launchers, making them harder to detect before launch. \n Kim Jong Un, a 30-something leader who took power in late 2011 after the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, emphasizes nuclear weapons as the foundation of his national defense strategy. Under his watch, North Korea has aggressively pursued a goal of putting a nuclear warhead on an ICBM capable of reaching the U.S. mainland. \n In his annual New Year's address, Kim said North Korea's preparations for an ICBM launch had \"reached the final stage.\" Recent satellite imagery suggests the country could conduct another underground nuclear test at any time. \n North Korea conducted two nuclear tests last year alone, advancing its goal to make nuclear weapons small enough to fit on long-range missiles. The North also last year launched a long-range rocket that put a satellite into orbit, which Washington, Seoul and others saw as a banned test of missile technology. \n Other senior officials joining Kim at the parade podium included Kim Won Hong, who the South Korean government had said earlier this year was fired from his job as state security minister, presumably over corruption. South Korea has a spotty record of tracking developments in North Korea, as information about the secretive, authoritarian state is often impossible to confirm. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Korea flaunts long-range missiles in birthday parade"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sarah Holliger from Findley, Ohio, blows bubbles during a Tax Day demonstration on Capitol Hill in Washington, calling on President Donald Trump to release his tax returns. \n CHICAGO >> Thousands of chanting, sign-carrying protesters took to the streets in cities across the nation today, demanding that President Donald Trump release his tax returns so Americans can scrutinize his business ties and potential conflicts of interest. \n Trump was the first major-party nominee in more than 40 years not to release his tax returns, saying it was because he was under audit. He later said that voters don't care. \n But 71-year-old Ilene Singh said he's wrong. She rode a bus from New Jersey to New York City with her friend Geraldine Markowitz, 83, to take part in protests. \"We're here to say we care,\" said Singh. \n Pushing her walker, Karin Arlin, 85, a Holocaust survivor who came to the U.S. from Germany when she was 9, said she's also worried about the direction of the country. \n \"You don't know which way the country goes,\" said Arlin next to her 89-year-old husband who fled Czechoslovakia during World War II. \"I hope Republicans see it.\" \n Although Tax Day demonstrations were peaceful, at least four people were arrested Saturday in Berkeley, California, after clashes between Trump opponents and supporters holding unrelated rallies in a downtown park. After Trump supporters said they would hold a \"Patriot Day\" rally, counter-protesters decided to hold a rally at the same place. \n Trump, who spent the morning at his Florida golf course, avoided several hundred protesters when his motorcade took a circuitous route back to Mar-A-Lago, his Palm Beach, Florida, estate. Protesters marched across the bridge that divides West Palm Beach and Palm Beach, chanting and hoisting signs that read \"Don the Con,\" \"Go back to New York\" and \"Show your taxes!\" \n In Washington, D.C., one of Trump's sharpest critics in the House spoke to protesters at the U.S. Capitol just before they set off on a march to the National Mall. Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters, of California, said there's nothing to prevent Trump from releasing his income taxes and that \"the simple truth is he's got a lot to hide.\" \n \"If he thinks he can get away with playing king, he's got another thought coming,\" Waters said. \n For four decades, presidents and major party nominees have released some of their tax returns, with the exception of Gerald Ford. Trump's break with precedent has raised questions about possible conflicts of interest. \n Protesters in Raleigh, North Carolina, said they suspect that Trump's returns might show he has paid little or nothing to the government he now heads, or that he was indebted to Russian, Chinese or other foreign interests. \n \"His reputation \u2026 as a businessman and, more importantly, as a true American, a person who is concerned with American values, would be totally destroyed if all his financial information was made public,\" said Mike Mannshardt, a retired teacher. \n Democrats are pushing for a vote on a bill from Rep. Anna Eshoo, a Democrat from California, which would require the president and all major-party nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or the Federal Election Commission. \n Republicans also have rebuffed Democrats' efforts to get the House Ways and Means Committee to act. It has legal authority to obtain confidential tax records, and could vote to make them public. \n Many demonstrators said they hoped Saturday's marches would convince Trump to voluntarily release them. \n \"We do care. We want to see his taxes,\" said Ann Demerlis, who was among hundreds who marched in Philadelphia from City Hall to an area in front of historic Independence Hall, carrying signs and chanting \"We want your taxes now!\" \n Tuesday is the deadline for taxpayers to file returns. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tax Day demonstrators demand that Trump release tax returns"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The American military services are looking for new ways to bring in more civilians with high-tech skills who can help fight Islamic State militants and prepare for the new range of technological threats the U.S. will face. \n WASHINGTON >> A decade ago, he was a young Army soldier training Iraqi troops when he noticed their primitive filing system: handwritten notes threaded with different colors of yarn, stacked in piles. For organization's sake, he built them a simple computer database. \n Now an Army reservist, the major is taking a break from his civilian high-tech job to help America's technological fight against Islamic State group. He's part of a growing force of experts the Pentagon has assembled to defeat the extremists. \n \"The ability to participate in some way in a real mission, that is actually something that's rare, that you can't find in private sector,\" said the 38-year-old Nebraska native who is working at U.S. Cyber Command at Fort Meade, Maryland. \"You're part of a larger team putting your skills to use, not just optimizing clicks for a digital ad, but optimizing the ability to counter ISIS or contribute to the security of our nation.\" \n Last year, then-Defense Secretary Ash Carter expressed frustration that the United States was losing the cyberwar against the militants. He pushed the Cyber Command to be more aggressive. In response, the Pentagon undertook an effort to incorporate cyber technology into its daily military fight, including new ways to disrupt the enemy's communications, recruiting, fundraising and propaganda. \n To speak with someone at the front lines of this campaign, The Associated Press agreed to withhold the major's name. The military says he could be threatened or targeted by the militants if he is identified publicly. The major and other officials wouldn't provide precise details on the highly classified work he is doing. \n But Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone, commander of U.S. Army Cyber Command, said the major is bringing new expertise for identifying enemy networks, pinpointing system administrators or developers, and potentially monitoring how IS' online traffic moves. \n He \"has the ability to bring an analytic focus of what the threat is doing, coupled with a really deep understanding of how networks run,\" Nakasone said, describing such contributions as \"really helpful for us.\" He outlined a key question for the military: \"How do you impact an adversary that's using cyberspace against us?\" \n The military is looking for new ways to bring in more civilians with high-tech skills who can help against IS and prepare for the new range of technological threats the nation will face. Nakasone said that means getting Guard and Reserve members with technical expertise in digital forensics, math crypto-analysis and writing computer code. The challenge is how to find them. \n \"I would like to say it's this great database that we have, that we've been able to plug in and say, 'Show me the best tool developers and analysts that you have out there,'\" Nakasone said. \"We don't have that yet. We are going to have one, though, by June.\" \n The Army Reserve is starting a pilot program cataloging soldiers' talents. Among 190,000 Army reservists, Nakasone said there might be up to 15,000 with some type of cyber-related skills. But there are legal and privacy hurdles, and any database hinges on reservists voluntarily and accurately providing information on their capabilities. \n Normally, Nakasone said a reservist's record includes background, training, assignments and schools attended. \n \"I would like to know every single person that has been trained as a certified ethical hacker,\" he said. \n The Army has been steadily building cyber mission teams, as part of a broader Defense Department undertaking. Of the 41 Army teams, just over half come from the Army National Guard and Army Reserve. \n Nakasone said officials were still working out costs. \n \"The money will come,\" he said, because building a ready cyber force is necessary. \n The Army major said others in the civilian high-tech industry are interested in helping. \n Many would like to participate \"in something bigger than themselves, something that has intrinsic value for the nation,\" he said. \n The major said he has signed up for a second one-year tour in his cyber job. He is looking at options for staying longer. \n \"I find what I'm doing very satisfying, because I have an opportunity to implement things, to get things done and see them work and see tangible results,\" he said. \"I'm not making as much as I was on the civilian side. But the satisfaction is that strong, and is that valuable, that it's worth it.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Military seeks civilians with high-tech skills to counter IS"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Fatimah Farooq counsels refugees from places like Iraq and Syria, who have been victims of trauma, torture or sex trafficking. Personally, she tries to help relatives from Sudan, some of whom have faced barriers resettling in the United States as her parents did right before she was born. \n DEARBORN, Mich. >> In her job as a refugee case manager, Fatimah Farooq would come to work in a hijab and speak with her clients in Arabic. Nonetheless, she found herself being asked whether she was Muslim. \n It's not easy, Farooq says, navigating her dual identities as black and Muslim. \n \"I'm constantly trying to prove that I belong,\" said Farooq, who now works in public health. \"It's really hard not to be an outsider in a community \u2014 especially today, in the current times.\" \n Many Muslims are reeling from a U.S. presidential administration that's cracked down on immigrants, including through the introduction of a travel ban that suspends new visas for people from six Muslim-majority countries and is now tied up in court. But black American-born Muslims say they have been pushed to the edges of the conversations \u2014 even by those who share the same religion. \n They say they often feel discrimination on multiple fronts: for being black, for being Muslim and for being black and Muslim among a population of immigrant Muslims. Farooq, whose Sudanese parents came to the U.S. before she was born, said her own family used to attend a largely African-American mosque but then moved to a predominantly Arab one \u2014 yet in both cases still felt like \"outsiders.\" \n The identity issues have rippled into social media with Twitter's #BeingBlackAndMuslim and BlkMuslimWisdom formed in recent weeks to amplify stories of black Muslims, whether it's to praise Mahershala Ali, who is black and became the first Muslim actor to win an Oscar, or to express concern over the lack of black speakers at a recent Islamic conference. Tensions are also being aired at community town halls, with panelists questioning why there hasn't been more involvement from Arab and South Asian Muslims in Black Lives Matter events. \n In response, activists say they're seizing the opportunity to unite Muslims of all backgrounds. \n Kashif Syed, who lives in the Washington, D.C. area, grew up in a family of South Asian Muslim immigrants around Detroit that was insulated from black Muslims. Now that he's part of a young professional Muslim community, he's trying to honor the experiences of others. \n \"We're seeing increasingly visible threats to Muslims across the country now \u2014 it's an important reminder of what black communities have endured for generations in this country,\" said Syed, who volunteers at Townhall Dialogue, a nonprofit fostering discussions about U.S. Muslim identity. \"I can't really think of a better time for non-black Muslims to start examining how we got here, and what lessons we can learn from the hard-won victories of black communities from the civil rights movement.\" \n Organizer Shamar Hemphill, a black Chicago native who works for the Inner-City Muslim Action Network, said Republican President Donald Trump's executive orders such as the travel ban have made organizers \"quadruple\" efforts to form alliances, including recent calls for Muslim groups to attend and organize around Martin Luther King Jr. Day events. \n \"We're not going to allow any policy or federal piece of legislation to separate us and isolate us. We're going to come together and protect each other,\" he said. \"It's also a great opportunity because it brings us out of our silos.\" \n Other attempts at unity have been made over the years. Imam Zaid Shakir at the California-based Zaytuna College, a liberal arts Muslim college, has delivered lectures about similarities between the Prophet Muhammad's farewell sermon and King's \"I Have a Dream Speech.\" The Council on American-Islamic Relations holds events around the birthday of Malcolm X, a Nation of Islam member who came into mainstream Islam. And IMAN in Chicago has celebrated hip hop, featuring Muslim rappers like Grammy-winner Rhymefest. \n Asha Noor, whose family fled Somalia's civil war when she was a baby, helped organize a town hall after Trump announced his first travel ban in February, which blocked travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries and put the U.S. refugee program on hold. That ban has since been replaced with a newer version. \n Noor said she feels there's less attention paid to the plight of refugees from her native Somalia and Sudan, the two African countries in Trump's executive order. She sees it as part of a \"continuous erasure of the black Muslim experience.\" \n \"Black Muslims often face a two-front challenge, both within the community and the larger American society,\" said Noor, who worked for Take on Hate, a campaign challenging discrimination against Arabs and Muslims. \"You can never be too sure if assaults or micro-aggressions are coming because you're black, Muslim, or both.\" \n Central to the issue, experts say, is that Islam is largely portrayed as something foreign. That's a misconception University of San Francisco professor Aysha Hidayatullah encounters when teaching an \"Islam in America\" class where she looks at Islam's presence in America from the slave trade to civil rights \u2014 something that is a surprise to many of her students. \n \"It's a class that is focused mainly on recovering the black memory of Islam in this country,\" she said. \"That's the element that's forgotten.\" \n Compared with the general population, U.S. Muslims are more racially diverse with a larger percentage born abroad. There's disagreement on how many millions reside in the U.S., but it's commonly accepted that American blacks represent about one-third of Muslims in this country. \n Many came to the religion through the Nation of Islam, which veers from mainstream Islam on several core teachings, leading many immigrant Muslims to consider it too divergent from their faith. But Imam W. Deen Mohammed transformed the movement after taking it over in the 1970s and gradually moved his thousands of followers toward mainstream Islam, while Louis Farrakhan took leadership of the black separatist Nation of Islam. \n Despite the history of blacks in the Muslim faith, Tariq Tour\u00e9, a Maryland writer and activist, says South Asian and Arab narratives still dominate the conversation. \n \"It's disheartening, because black Muslims can't even get a word in as to how they're navigating all of this,\" said Tour\u00e9, who's black. \"We really struggle with it all \u2014 the bridges that have been burned and the barriers that have been built within the Muslim communities when it comes to race.\" \n Abdul Rahim Habib, an American-born college student, said even his close friends assumed he converted to Islam because they didn't associate being black with being Muslim. That's even though the 21-year-old's Nigerian father and grandparents are Muslim. While growing up in Chicago, he could remember moments when Arab Muslims refused to greet him with \"As-Salaam-Alaikum,\" a wish of peace customary among all Muslims. \n \"A lot of our Arab brothers and sisters didn't really care about being brothers and sisters until this point when they started having problems,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Black Muslims aim for unity in challenging time for Islam"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says he does not view recent U.S. missile strikes on ally Syria as a message for Iran, which he called a \"powerful country\" that the U.S. cannot harm. \n TEHRAN, Iran >> Former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said today he does not view recent U.S. missile strikes on ally Syria as a message for Iran, which he called a \"powerful country\" that the U.S. cannot harm. \n The controversial former president made the remarks to The Associated Press today, three days after he stunned Iranians by registering to run for president again. \n His surprise candidacy must still be approved by authorities but has already upended a race that was widely expected to be won by incumbent moderate Hassan Rouhani. \n U.S. President Donald Trump's administration earlier this year announced it was putting Iran \"on notice\" in part over its ballistic missile tests, and last week pounded a Syrian air base with cruise missiles in response to a chemical weapons attack. \n Iran is the main regional backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad and is involved militarily on the ground in that country's civil war. \n Ahmadinejad dismissed suggestions that the U.S. strike on Syria might also be a warning for his country. \n \"I do not think it has a message for Iran. Iran is a powerful country and people like Mr. Trump or the United States administration cannot hurt Iran,\" he said. \n Ahmadinejad also voiced reluctant support for Iran's 2015 nuclear deal with the U.S. and other world powers, which saw Iran accept curbs on its nuclear program in exchange for relief from crippling international sanctions. \n Iran has managed to sign a series of multibillion-dollar civilian aircraft deals since sanctions were lifted, but many ordinary Iranians are still waiting on hoped-for economic benefits of the nuclear agreement to trickle down. \n \"The nuclear deal is a legal document and a pact. In the Islamic Republic, the officials and the supreme leader have approved of it and declared their commitment to it,\" Ahmadinejad said. \n \"The problem about the nuclear deal is how they advertised it. Both parties have represented it in such a way as if it can solve all the issues of human history. It was incorrect. It later turned out to be untrue,\" he continued. \n Ahmadinejad's candidacy has left many inside Iran scratching their heads. \n He registered to run on the same day as did his former Vice President Hamid Baghaei, saying at the time his decision was meant to support his political ally. \n His candidacy runs in opposition to a recommendation Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei that he not run because it would create a \"polarized situation\" that would be \"harmful for the county.\" \n Ahmadinejad had ruled out running in the wake of Khamenei's comments in September, but after reversing course this week he called the supreme leader's comments \"just advice\" that does not prevent him from running. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Iran's Ahmadinejad sees no threat from U.S."}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police have completely shut down St. Louis Drive from Waialae Avenue to Dole Street due to a downed utility pole. \n Traffic is being rerouted around the area and police urge motorists to use alternate routes. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Part of St. Louis Drive in Kaimuki shut down due to downed utility pole"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S. forces and Afghan commandos are seen in Asad Khil near the site of a U.S. bombing in the Achin district of Jalalabad, east of Kabul, Afghanistan, today. \n KABUL, Afghanistan >> The number of militants killed in an attack by the largest non-nuclear weapon ever used in combat by the U.S. military has risen to 94, an Afghan official said today. \n Ataullah Khogyani, spokesman for the provincial governor in Nangarhar, said the number of Islamic State group dead was up from the 36 reported a day earlier. A Ministry of Defense official had said Friday the number of dead could rise as officials assessed the bomb site in Achin district. \n \"Fortunately there is no report of civilians being killed in the attack,\" Khogyani said. \n The increased death toll in Nangarhar was announced as officials in southern Helmand province reported at least 11 civilians were killed and one wounded in two roadside bomb blasts overnight. \n The U.S. attack on a tunnel complex in remote eastern Nangarhar province near the Pakistan border killed at least four IS group leaders, Khogyani said. He said a clearance operation to assess the site of the attack was continuing. \n The strike using the Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, or MOAB, was carried out Thursday against an Islamic State group tunnel complex carved into the mountains that Afghan forces had tried to assault repeatedly in recent weeks in fierce fighting in Nangarhar province. \n Former Afghan president Hamid Karzai on Saturday criticized both the Afghan and U.S. governments for the attack in Nangarhar. Addressing a gathering in capital Kabul, Karzai said that allowing the U.S. to carry out the bombing was \"a national treason\" and an insult to Afghanistan. \n Current President Ashraf Ghani's office said Friday there was \"close coordination\" between the U.S. military and the Afghan government on the operation, and they were careful to prevent any civilian casualties. \n The U.S. estimates 600-800 IS fighters are in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. The U.S. has concentrated on fighting them while also supporting Afghan forces against the Taliban. The U.S. has more than 8,000 US troops in Afghanistan, training local forces and conducting counterterrorism operations. \n In Helmand province, at least 11 civilians were killed and one wounded in two roadside bomb blasts late Friday evening, said Omar Zwak, spokesman for the provincial governor. \n \"All victims of the attack were innocent civilians including women and children,\" said Zwak. The 11 died in a blast in Nawa district when their vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb. Another person was wounded when a second bomb exploded in Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand, he said. \n Also on Saturday, Khogyani said a district leader and three others were wounded when their vehicle was targeted by a bomb. One of the wounded was Ghalib Mujahid, Bati Kot district chief, he said. \n \"The district chief and others are out of danger and are not in life-threatening condition,\" he said. \n Last November, Mujahid was attacked by a sticky bomb attached to the vehicle and he was wounded and his driver was killed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Afghan official: Massive U.S. bomb death toll rises to 94"}

{"date": "April 15, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A skateboarder jumps over the newly applied Boston Marathon finish line on Boylston St. on Thursday in Boston. The finish line is made from an adhesive decal that covers a painted version that is left in place throughout the year. The 121st Boston Marathon is to be run on Monday. \n BOSTON >> Bostonians today marked the fourth anniversary of the deadly Boston Marathon attacks with quiet remembrances for the victims. \n Bill Richard placed a large wreath on the Boylston Street sidewalk where his 8-year-old son, Martin, died. The boy was one of the three spectators killed when two bombs planted near the finish line exploded on April 15, 2013, spraying shrapnel into the crowds. More than 260 others were wounded. \n The family of 29-year-old Krystle Campbell placed a second wreath about 200 yards away where the Medford native was killed in the first blast. \n Democratic Boston Mayor Marty Walsh and Republican Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker took part in the wreath-laying ceremonies for what is now called \"One Boston Day.\" \n Sean Collier, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer, also was killed later while struggling with the bombers as they tried to steal his gun. \n Bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in an ensuing standoff with police. His younger brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was convicted on federal charges and sentenced to death. \n The attacks have inspired several movies, including the Mark Wahlberg film \"Patriots Day.\" \n On the eve of the anniversary, volunteers planted thousands of daffodils along the marathon course in solidarity. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Boston to mark 4th anniversary of marathon bombing"}

