{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "Two 15-year-old boys were arrested in a second-degree robbery in Ewa Beach. \n The victim, also 15, said the two pushed him against a fence and took cash, a wallet, backpack, a key, a pair of sneakers, and a cap on Jan. 24, police said. \n The suspects fled, but one was later arrested by police on Monday, and the other suspect turned himself in to police on Tuesday. \n Both juveniles were released pending further investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Two 15-year-old boys arrested in a second-degree robbery in Ewa Beach"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This Jan. 18 photo shows marijuana including the store's best-seller, Gorilla Glue, available for sale at Rainforest Farms, owned by James and Giono Barrett in Juneau, Alaska. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Jan. 18, 2017 photo shows Giono Barrett, right, arranges marijuana products at Rainforest Farms in Juneau, Alaska. James Barrett, left, is co-owner of Juneau's first marijuana retail store. \n JUNEAU, Alaska >> Alaska brothers James and Giono Barrett have a dream: that some of the scores of cruise ship passengers who crowd the streets of the state capital each summer will one day use their shore excursions to kick back and light up a joint in a pot store's lounge. \n The Barretts own Juneau's first marijuana retail store and want to tap into the $260 million or so that tourists dropped in the small coastal city last year. \n Regulators could decide soon whether to make that happen. At a meeting Thursday in Juneau, they will consider allowing marijuana retail stores statewide to provide separate areas of their businesses for onsite consumption. \n It's the first time the matter has been addressed at the state level in the U.S., said Chris Lindsey, a senior legislative counsel with the Marijuana Policy Project. Recreational marijuana is legal in eight states and the District of Columbia. Denver is considering licenses for marijuana social clubs. \n Even if the Alaska board approves onsite consumption, don't expect to walk into a store on Friday for a sit-and-smoke. Retail stores must file applications for such a lounge, which includes how it will be separated from the retail operation and ventilated and what is the security plan. Many retail stores will also have to get waivers on local ordinances banning smoking. \n Critics fear an Amsterdam-like scene and pot spilling out of the retail stores onto streets and trails. They hope the state pot board on puts in place restrictions to keep onsite consumption from happening. \n The Barrett brothers in December opened Rainforest Farms, where Gorilla Glue \u2014 with a THC level of 23.8 percent \u2014 is their best seller. They share concerns about cruise ship passengers smoking pot in alleys or on trails but say the easy solution is giving them a place to legally smoke their weed or eat their edibles before they head back to the ship. \n \"We have a lot of tourists that come to Juneau \u2014 over a million every year \u2014 and a place for them to consume responsibly seems like a good thing to do,\" James Barrett said. \n Many of these tourists will continue on to Anchorage, where they could try more Alaska-grown weed before heading further north on their planned vacations. \n Leah Levinton envisions an Anchorage \"green light district,\" where scores of tourists come on buses to try the offerings at four retail stores in the city's Spenard neighborhood. She owns Enlighten Alaska with her brother, Evan, and their mother, Jane Stinson. \n \"Whether or not the state approves onsite consumption, the fact is we're going to have plenty of people coming from outside the state, and even (from) various countries that want to check out what Alaska has to offer in terms of cannabis,\" she said. \n About 100 miles north of Anchorage is the quirky tourist town of Talkeetna, long rumored to be the inspiration for the community featured in the 1990s television series \"Northern Exposure.\" \n Talkeetna is the last stop for climbers hoping to make the ascent of nearby Denali, North America's tallest peak, and residents have carved out a cultural and historical tourism niche for tourists making their way to Denali National Park. \n Joe McAneney is co-owner of The High Expedition Co., a marijuana retail store that he plans in a historic cabin on main street and hopes to tie in branding with the city's rich mountain climbing history. He anticipates the state will consider his retail license in April. \n Beyond the small cabin, which once was used by National Park Service rangers, he and his partner are working with designers to build a unique consumption lounge attached to the retail store. \n The store plans to be open year-round to serve locals, but that can't be the only focus, McAneney said. \n \"I think anyone who really wants to succeed and set themselves apart in the Alaska market really needs to focus on tourism,\" he said. \n Geri McCann has been involved with tourism in Talkeetna since 1973, and she is not in favor of having a marijuana retail store on the main drag. \n She markets Talkeetna as a cultural destination, where people can come to experience historic Alaska. \n \"We cradle that and protect that,\" she said. Her worry is that High Expedition customers will take their joints to a nearby riverside park and light up, even though smoking pot in public is illegal. \n \"It's going to change Talkeetna. Do we want that change?\" McCann said. \n Alaska Marijuana Control Board member Loren Jones of Juneau believes operators expecting to make good money off tourists are being unrealistic. He said so many states have legal marijuana now, it's silly to think people would take a cruise to Alaska just to get pot. \n \"When a Disney ship comes in with families, I don't think they're going to be running out to consume marijuana instead of whale watching or fishing,\" said Jones, adding he didn't know how he was going to vote on onsite consumption. \n Another member of the five-man regulatory board is Fairbanks resident Brandon Emmett, who has advocated for onsite consumption since voters approved marijuana in 2014. \n \"If this gets voted down, I think we have done a disservice to the taxpayers in Alaska because we've taken so much time hashing out the issue,\" he said. \n Back in Juneau, the Barrett brothers have plans to build a consumption lounge. They believe their customers and the people who travel on cruise ships \u2014 mainly baby boomers \u2014 are the same demographic. \n They know what their patrons want: pot like Quantum Kush, which at 26.2 percent THC has the highest potency in Alaska, or no-potency weed for medicinal purposes. \n \"They want to get really high, or they don't want to get high at all,\" James Barrett said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alaska board mulls pot use in retail stores"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n The stabbing happened near Kalakaua and Seaside avenues. \n A 25-year-old man was arrested tonight after a stabbing in Waikiki, police said. \n Honolulu Emergency Medical Services said the incident happened about 6:45 p.m. near Kalakaua and Seaside avenues. \n A 28-year-old man was injured in the upper body and taken to a hospital in serious condition, EMS said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested in Waikiki stabbing"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "BRUCE ASATO / BASATO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard addresses the crowd at the Democratic Party of Hawaii 2016 Convention at the Sheraton Waikiki in May 2016. Gabbard said today that she will personally pay for her trip to Syria following questions about her trip sponsor. \n U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard has decided to personally pay for her trip to Syria, following new stories about her trip sponsor being a backer of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. \n Gabbard issued a news release this evening, saying while she has met U.S. House ethics guidelines, the travel expenses for her trip in January have become a distraction from the important issue of whether the U.S. should support terrorists in overthrowing Assad. \n \"Contrary to baseless claims in the media, Rep. Tulsi Gabbard is beholden to no one in the region, her views on the situation are her own, and her determination to seek peace is beyond question,\" the news release from Gabbard's office said. \n The brothers said they were no longer a part of the organization. \n Gabbard last week described the two men as \"long-time peace advocates.\" \n Her office said she accompanied former Ohio Congressman Dennis Kucinich on the trip, after receiving his invitation. \n Gabbard wants Assad to remain in power and for the U.S. to withdraw support of rebel groups opposing Assad that she says have ties to terrorist groups. \n Former President Barack Obama supported the ouster of Assad, who is accused of war crimes and human rights violations in the Syrian civil war. Assad also has received support from Soviet President Vladimir Putin. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Gabbard says she will personally pay for Syria trip"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Waianapanapa State Park \n The body of a 33-year-old California man firefighters recovered from a freshwater cave in Hana over the weekend has been identified as Gregory Wilhelm of Novato. \n The Maui Fire Department said Wilhelm was swimming with three of his friends from Maui Sunday afternoon just outside of the Waianapanapa Freshwater Caves. \n He and a friend decided to enter and explore the caves and used light from a cellphone sealed in a plastic bag while inside the cave. \n The fire department said his friend headed out of the cave and noticed Wilhelm was missing. He returned to the cave to look for him but found only the cell phone. \n His friend left the area and called for help. The fire department's dive rescue team and Air 1 helicopter located Wilhelm's body about 75 feet from the cave's entrance. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "California man pulled from Maui freshwater cave identified"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump smiles as he speaks in the East Room of the White House in Washington, Tuesday, to announce Judge Neil Gorsuch as his nominee for the Supreme Court. \n NEW YORK >> President Donald Trump's past life as a television showman provided an irresistible comparison for the media covering his nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court. \n Trump's announcement from the White House on Tuesday had a prime-time slot with broadcast and cable news networks all on hand, genuine suspense over the choice and, finally, the big reveal when Gorsuch and his wife, Louise, emerged from a doorway at the host's \u2014 make that the president's \u2014 request. \n \"Was that a surprise?\" Trump asked audience members and television viewers. \n Supreme Court nominations are usually not prime-time affairs and usually not surprises; a president's selection typically leaks to the news media before the two people make it to the podium. Throughout Tuesday, however, anticipation built, with reporters primarily speculating it would be one of two men, Colorado's Gorsuch and Pennsylvania Judge Thomas Hardiman. \n CNN's Jim Acosta hyped the event as \"reality television meets the Potomac.\" CNN took a chance moments before the announcement, correctly predicting Gorsuch. \n \"High drama all day as the president and his team ratcheted up the suspense,\" NBC's Lester Holt said as that network cast aside its traditional prime-time fare for the announcement. \n \"We've never seen anything like this,\" said ABC's George Stephanopoulos. \n The announcement gave Trump the chance to move public attention off Friday's much-criticized decision to restrict travel from seven Muslim-majority countries, which had dominated headlines. \n After the buildup, the new president's first prime-time address to the nation was a staid and serious affair. Trump avoided ad-libs in extolling Gorsuch's background and judicial philosophy, while pointing out he was fulfilling a campaign promise in nominating someone like him. \n If Gorsuch's nomination is approved, that would mean all nine justices of the nation's top court will have studied at either Harvard or Yale, noted CBS News' Scott Pelley. \n \"For those of you keeping score, it's now Harvard 6, Yale 3,\" Pelley said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reality show comparisons in Trump announcement inescapable"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection shows Ronald Vitiello. Vitiello, a career Border Patrol official who was backed by the agents' union, was named today as chief of the agency. \n SAN DIEGO >> A career Border Patrol official who was backed by the agents' union was named Tuesday as chief of the agency, less than a week after his predecessor resigned under pressure. \n U.S. Customs and Border Protection said on Twitter than Ronald Vitiello has been appointed to lead the agency at a time when President Donald Trump has pledged to erect a wall on the U.S. border with Mexico and add 5,000 agents from the current level of about 20,000. \n The National Border Patrol Council \u2014 an early and outspoken backer of Trump's presidential bid \u2014 openly supported Vitiello for the job and pushed for the ouster of his predecessor, Mark Morgan, who resigned Thursday at the request of the new administration. Morgan stepped down only seven months after being named the first outsider to run the agency since it was created in 1924. \n Vitiello, who was most recently CBP's executive assistant commissioner for operations support, was acting Border Patrol chief when Morgan was appointed last year and had been considered a leading contender for the job then. He joined the Border Patrol more than 30 years ago and served as deputy chief in the administration of President Barack Obama. \n Brandon Judd, the union president, said in an interview days before Trump took office that Morgan never had the support of agents. \n \"(Vitiello) and I do not see eye to eye on a great, great many things but we were always able to keep it respectful, always,\" Judd said. \"Morgan and I have not been able to do that.\" \n Union officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday. \n Morgan's abrupt departure alarmed advocacy groups that criticized the Border Patrol for lack of oversight of agents and what they considered a culture that condoned abuse and misconduct.. \n Morgan was briefly CBP's internal affairs chief in 2014 while on loan from the FBI, where he worked for 20 years and climbed the ranks to assistant director for training. During his first stint at CBP, he oversaw an extensive review of complaints of excessive use of force and employee misconduct. \n Ronald Colburn, who preceded Vitiello as deputy chief and recommended him as his replacement, said Vitiello brings experience and a mild-mannered temperament to the job. He said Vitiello's tenure as deputy and acting chief positioned him well. \n \"He's a bootstraps leader, raised the rough the ranks, tested by fire,\" Colburn said. \"If I were picking among 20,000 employees, he's the first one I would think of.\" \n The leadership change comes a week after Trump issued an executive order to build a wall on 2,000-mile border with Mexico, extending it from about 700 miles currently, much of it in California and Arizona. Vitiello also faces a tall order in hiring more agents. CBP says about two-thirds of job applicants fail a required lie detector, causing the Border Patrol to recently fall below 20,000 agents for the first time since 2009. \n CBP did not make Vitiello available for an interview Tuesday and declined to comment beyond the announcement on Twitter, which was signed by Kevin McAleenan, CBP's acting commissioner. \n The appointment is not subject to Senate confirmation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Union-backed Ronald Vitiello named to lead Border Patrol"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sowena Achen held her nephew Makana Albert while his mother signed him up for insurance inside a church building on Monday in Honolulu. Faced with uncertainty about the federal health care law, Hawaii lawmakers are introducing bills to bring what they believe are the best parts of the Affordable Care Act into state law. \n HONOLULU >> In a modest church building in urban Honolulu, mother Mona Aliksa waited to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama's signature health care law. \n A small team of government and social service workers at folding tables helped Aliksa and others enroll in health plans Monday, despite uncertainty about whether President Donald Trump and a Republican-led Congress would completely repeal the law. \n \"I'm worried,\" Aliksa said. \"I have girls to take care of.\" \n Concerned about the dissolution of the Affordable Care Act, Hawaii lawmakers are introducing bills to merge into state law the consumer protections they consider the best parts of the federal program. \n The bills seek to guarantee insurers don't deny coverage based on pre-existing conditions, institute lifetime maximums for coverage or strip some of the benefits such as pregnancy care that were mandated by the federal act. \n \"Before the Affordable Care Act, a very sick child could use up all their lifetime benefits within days or months,\" said Rep. Della Au Belatti, chairwoman of the House Health Committee. \n Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010, about 54,000 people in the state gained coverage, according to the federal Department of Health and Human Services. Nationwide, more than 10 million people had coverage through the act, the department said. \n Because of the rapidly shifting discussion in Washington, many state lawmakers around the country are grappling with what kind of bills to introduce to preserve parts of the Affordable Care Act, said Richard Cauchi, health program director at the National Conference of State Legislatures. \n \"I think they're going to have a hard time with the replacement piece, and that's what worries me,\" said state Sen. Rosalyn Baker, chairwoman of the Senate Commerce, Consumer Protection and Health Committee. \"They're going to repeal, but they're not going to replace because they can't get consensus.\" \n The Hawaii bills, introduced in the House and Senate, both included a mandate that individuals purchase insurance \u2014 part of the federal law that encouraged healthy, young people to sign up, providing a funding source for the sicker patients insurance companies were forced to accept. The Senate bill was amended Tuesday to add an income tax credit, which could help people forced to buy health insurance to pay premiums. It's unclear whether there will be any federal funding available to help defray the cost for low-income customers. \n \"Without the federal money that would subsidize the cost, how would you make it affordable?\" said Beth Giesting, a consultant lobbying for Hawaii Association of Health Care Plans. \"If it's not affordable, you can't mandate it.\" \n Without knowing what the federal government is going to do, \"we're kind of working in the dark here,\" Giesting said. \n At a hearing on the Senate bill Tuesday, Hawaii Medical Services Association, the state's largest health insurance company, provided questions and comments on the bill, but didn't support or oppose it. The company pulled out of the employer side of Hawaii's health exchange in 2014 complaining about technical problems at what was then a state-run exchange. It also, along with Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, has blamed some quarterly losses on expenses related to the Affordable Care Act. \n The bills, introduced in the House and Senate, also seek to allow young people up to age 26 to stay on their parents' health insurance and to ensure that women aren't charged more than men for insurance. \n Sowena Achen, 35, was helping take care of her four-month-old nephew Makana Albert while his mom was signing him up for insurance. Achen is worried about what will happen to her nephew and many families who hail from Micronesia if insurance under the Affordable Care Act ends. \n \"Without the insurance, would they be OK?\" Achen said. \"I'm scared sometimes.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii bills aim to save best parts of Affordable Care Act"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HVO \n In this photo taken Saturday, an open lava stream continues to pour out of the lava tube, perched high on the sea cliff, and flow into the ocean. \n COURTESY HVO \n Geologists determined that the eastern end of the hot crack, shown in this photo taken Saturday, was about 11.8 inches wide and cut deeply into recent lava atop the older sea cliff. The western end could not be accessed due to safety concerns. This crack could be a precursor to the collapse of an unstable section of the sea cliff, making the site extremely dangerous to move over, the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said. \n COURTESY HVO \n A thermal image of the crack above K\u012blauea volcano's ocean entry. The temperature within the eastern end of the crack reaches about 428 degrees Fahrenheit. \n COURTESY USGS \n A viewing area, indicated by the yellow arrow in photo, has been created because of the instability of the sea cliff and other hazards created by molten lava flowing into the ocean. \n A long, lateral crack in sea cliffs built by Kilauea Volcano has officials and scientists worried about a second collapse into the ocean. \n Hawaii park officials are warning visitors to stay within the designated viewing area about 900 feet from where the lava is flowing into the ocean. \n \"We have a great viewing area,\" Hawaii Volcanoes National Park spokeswoman Jessica Ferracane said by telephone Tuesday. \n Ferracane said even with warning signs everywhere, some people are going into closed-off areas nearer to the lava flow. \n She said five people were given citations Sunday and more than four dozen citations have been issued in the last couple of months. \n Ferracane said nearly 1,000 people came to view the volcanic activity on the Kalapana side of the lava flow Sunday. \n Scientists viewing the lava flow Sunday estimated the crack was 70 feet long and about 50 feet inland, said Janet Babb, a scientist with the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. There was no estimate of when the makai section might break off. \n A huge section of the lava shelf collapsed into the ocean on Dec. 31. \n Venturing too close to an ocean entry on land or from the ocean exposes you to flying debris created by the explosive interaction between lava and water, the U.S. Geological Survey warns. \n At Kamokuna, lava continues to pour into the ocean from a tube 66 feet up the sea cliff. Surface flows also remain active within 1.5 miles of the Puu Oo vent, scientists said Tuesday. \n These flows currently pose no threat to nearby communities. \n In Halemaumau Crater, the lava lake surface was about 60 feet below the crater floor early Tuesday morning. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Volcano officials warn of possible lava shelf collapse"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This photo provided by the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals shows Judge Neil Gorsuch. \n DENVER >> Neil Gorsuch, named Tuesday as President Donald Trump's nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court, has a solidly conservative pedigree that has earned him comparison to the combative justice he would replace, Antonin Scalia. \n Gorsuch clerked for two Republican Supreme Court justices and worked in President George W. Bush's Justice Department before being appointed to the federal bench and authoring a series of sharply written, conservative opinions. His mother, Ann, ran President Ronald Reagan's Environmental Protection Agency. \n But Gorsuch has also won praise among liberals and others in the Colorado legal community for his fair-mindedness and defense of the underdog. \n \"He is a very, very smart man. His leanings are very conservative, but he's qualified to be on the Supreme Court,\" said Denver plaintiff's attorney David Lane. \"I don't know that Judge Gorsuch has a political agenda and he is sincere and honest and believes what he writes.\" \n \"He's smart, he's independent \u2014 thank the Lord,\" said Marci Glenn, a Denver attorney and a Democrat who recalled two cases before the judge on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver. \"As a lawyer for a little guy, knowing he was a conservative judge, I still felt comfortable having him on the panel.\" \n Gorsuch is a Colorado native who earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia University in three years, then earned a law degree from Harvard. He clerked for Supreme Court Justices Byron White, a fellow Coloradan, and Anthony Kennedy before earning a philosophy degree at Oxford University and working for a prominent Washington, D.C., law firm. \n He served for two years in Bush's Justice Department before Bush appointed him to a seat on the 10th Circuit in 2006. \n Gorsuch has contended that courts give too much deference to government agencies' interpretations of statutes, a deference that stems from a Supreme Court ruling in a 1984 case. He sided with two groups that successfully challenged the Obama administration's requirements that employers provide health insurance that includes contraception. \n Gorsuch summed up his minimalist judicial philosophy and focus on impartial judgment Tuesday evening. \n \"A judge who reaches every outcome he wishes is likely a very bad judge,\" he said after Trump introduced him from the East Room of the White House in a primetime televised address. \n Lane, who frequently clashes with law enforcement, praised Gorsuch as fair and open-minded. Lane won a $1.8 million jury verdict against the Denver Police Department in a brutality and wrongful arrest case. The city appealed and the case ended up before Gorsuch. Lane said Gorsuch tore into the city's lawyers and urged them to go to mediation rather than drag out appeals for years to deny the plaintiffs their reward. The mediation led the case to be settled for $1.6 million. \n Gorsuch has also drawn attention for siding with religious employers against the Obama administration's requirement that they provide health insurance that covers contraception. He also wrote a book arguing against euthanasia. \n Rebecca Love Kourlis, a former Colorado Supreme Court justice, said Gorsuch has written 175 majority opinions and 65 concurrences or dissents in his decade on the 10th Circuit. \n \"He's really earned his stripes,\" she said. \n Kourlis said Gorsuch is also a notable advocate for simplifying the justice system to make it more accessible. \"Legal services in this country are so expensive that the United States ranks near the bottom of developed nations when it comes to access to counsel in civil cases,\" Gorsuch wrote in a journal article last year. \"The real question is what to do about it.\" \n The article is written in Gorsuch's characteristic, straightforward style. \n \"He thinks it's really important for people other than lawyers to understand what he's writing,\" Kourlis said. \n Gorsuch is also an avid skier, fly fisherman and horseback rider, Kourlis said. He teaches at the University of Colorado's law school in Boulder. \n \"He is humble, he is extremely articulate and he is extraordinarily hard-working,\" Kourlis said. \n In his financial disclosure report for 2015, he reported assets ranging from $3.1 million to $7.25 million. He earned $26,000 for his law school duties and another $5,300 in book royalties that year. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supreme Court nominee Gorsuch has conservative pedigree"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks in the East Room of the White House in Washington on Tuesday to announce Judge Neil Gorsuch as his nominee for the Supreme Court. Gorsuch stands with his wife Louise. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judge Neil Gorsuch stands with his wife Louise as President Donald Trump speaks in the East Room of the White House in Washington on Tuesday to announce Gorsuch as his nominee for the Supreme Court. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch, a fast-rising conservative judge with a writer's flair, to the Supreme Court today, setting up a fierce fight with Democrats over a jurist who could shape America's legal landscape for decades to come. \n At 49, Gorsuch is the youngest Supreme Court nominee in a quarter-century. He's known on the Denver-based 10th Circuit Court of Appeals for clear, colloquial writing, advocacy for court review of government regulations, defense of religious freedom and skepticism toward law enforcement. \n \"Judge Gorsuch has outstanding legal skills, a brilliant mind, tremendous discipline and has earned bipartisan support,\" Trump declared, announcing the nomination in his first televised prime-time address from the White House. \n Gorsuch's nomination was cheered by conservatives wary of Trump's own fluid ideology. If confirmed by the Senate, he will fill the seat left vacant by the death last year of Antonin Scalia, long the right's most powerful voice on the high court. \n With Scalia's wife, Maureen, sitting in the audience, Trump took care to praise the late justice. Gorsuch followed, calling Scalia a \"lion of the law.\" \n Gorsuch thanked Trump for entrusting him with \"a most solemn assignment.\" And he said, \"Standing here in a house of history, I'm acutely aware of my own imperfections and pledge that if I am confirmed, I will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant of the Constitution of laws of this great country.\" \n Some Democrats, still smarting over Trump's unexpected victory in the presidential election, have vowed to mount a vigorous challenge to nearly any nominee to what they view as the court's \"stolen seat.\" President Barack Obama nominated U.S. Circuit Court Judge Merrick Garland for the vacancy after Scalia's death, but Senate Republicans refused to consider the pick, saying the seat should be filled only after the November election. \n Trump's choice of Gorsuch marks perhaps the most significant decision of his young presidency, one with ramifications that could last long after he leaves office. After an uneven start to his presidency, including the chaotic rollout last week of a controversial refugee and immigration ban, Trump's selection of Gorsuch appeared to proceed with little drama. \n For some Republicans, the prospect of filling one or more Supreme Court seats over the next four years has helped ease their concerns about Trump's experience and temperament. Three justices are in their late 70s and early 80s, and a retirement would offer Trump the opportunity to cement conservative dominance of the court for many years. \n If confirmed, Gorsuch will restore the court to the conservative tilt it held with Scalia on the bench. But he is not expected to call into question high-profile rulings on abortion, gay marriage and other issues in which the court has been divided 5-4 in recent years. \n Gorsuch has won praise from conservatives for his defense of religious freedom. In two cases that involved the contraception mandate under the Obama health care law, he sided with businesses and nonprofit groups that voiced religious objections to the requirement that they provide cost-free birth control to women covered under their health plans. \n The judge also has written opinions that question 30 years of Supreme Court rulings that allow federal agencies to interpret laws and regulations. Gorsuch has said that federal bureaucrats have been allowed to accumulate too much power at the expense of Congress and the courts. \n Like Scalia, Gorsuch identifies himself as a judge who tries to decide cases by interpreting the Constitution and laws as they were understood when written. He also has raised questions about criminal laws in a way that resembles Scalia's approach to criminal law. \n University of Michigan law professor Richard Primus said Gorsuch \"may be the closest thing the new generation of conservative judges has to Antonin Scalia.\" \n Gorsuch, like the other eight justices on the court, has an Ivy League law degree. The Colorado native earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia University in three years, then a law degree from Harvard. He clerked for Supreme Court Justices Byron White, a fellow Coloradan, and Anthony Kennedy before earning a philosophy degree at Oxford University and working for a prominent Washington, D.C., law firm. \n He served for two years in George W. Bush's Department of Justice before the president nominated him to the appeals court. His mother was Anne Gorsuch, who was head of the Environmental Protection Agency in the Reagan administration. \n Gorsuch is expected to face intense scrutiny from Democrats. Some liberals have demanded that Democrats block any Trump choice, underscoring the deep partisan discord surging through Washington. \n \"Now is not the time for business as usual,\" MoveOn.org's Ilya Sheyman said in a statement. \n Gorsuch was among the 21 possible choices for the court Trump released during the campaign. Other finalists also came from that list, including Thomas Hardiman, who serves alongside Trump's sister on the Philadelphia-based 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, and William Pryor, a federal appeals court judge and Alabama's attorney general from 1997 to 2004. \n If Democrats decide to filibuster Gorsuch's nomination, his fate could rest in the hands of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Trump has encouraged McConnell to change the rules of the Senate and make it impossible to filibuster a Supreme Court nominee \u2014 a change known in the Senate as the \"nuclear option.\" \n A conservative group already has announced plans to begin airing $2 million worth of ads in support of the nominee in Indiana, Missouri, Montana and North Dakota, four states that Trump won and in which Democrats will be defending their Senate seats in 2018. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump picks federal judge from Colorado for Supreme Court"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Volunteer lawyers worked to help free travelers detained at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on Sunday. As President Donald Trump's order temporary banning refugees and citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from traveling to the U.S., dozens of attorneys descended on JFK. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Volunteer lawyers worked, Sunday, to help free travelers detained at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. A cadre of volunteer lawyers, translators and others camped out in a diner at John F. Kennedy Airport, trying to find and free people abruptly detained under President Donald Trump's order temporary banning refugees and citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from traveling to the U.S. \n NEW YORK >> It had been a few years since attorney Roman Zelichenko left immigration law for a career in finance, and longer still since he pulled an all-nighter. \n But after President Donald Trump issued his immigration order, Zelichenko spent 21 straight hours at what swiftly became one of the nation's most closely watched immigration law centers \u2014 a diner at John F. Kennedy Airport where volunteer lawyers, translators and others tried to find and free people detained under the new rules. \n Alerted by law school friends, Zelichenko joined the effort because it resonated personally: He emigrated from Ukraine as a child. \n \"We all have different personal connections,\" he said Monday as he worked on the project's social media postings. But \"we're here as professionals, and our agenda is to uphold the rule of law.\" \n As Friday's presidential order reverberated around the world, dozens of attorneys descended on JFK to advocate for people suddenly stuck in a legal limbo that the lawyers argue is unjust and unlawful. \n Trump temporarily banned refugees and citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from traveling to the U.S. Throughout the weekend that followed, travelers were held for questioning, confusion spread across the air-travel system and protesters marched against the measure. \n Mobilized by email and word of mouth, the legal effort known on Twitter as \"NoBanJFK\" is one of several at major U.S. airports. Lawyers filed roughly two dozen lawsuits on behalf of detainees in several states and won several federal court rulings that, at least temporarily, blocked the government from removing people who arrived with valid visas. \n At JFK, where lawyers helped win the first of the rulings Saturday night, the round-the-clock work began with attorneys typing on laptops on the airport floor. Now they sit at a cluster of cafeteria tables, and law students have toiled alongside seasoned litigators. \n The volunteers take hotline calls on cellphones. Signs in multiple languages offer help. \n More than 650 attorneys have volunteered for the project, which participants feel has done their profession proud. \n \"I think lawyers get a bad rap, and sometimes it's deserved. But most of us went to law school to help people,\" said Melissa Trent, a civil rights lawyer who left a training session to spend over 24 hours at the airport over the weekend. \n \"We believe in this country, its laws and the Constitution \u2026 and when we see those values challenged, we show up.\" \n The lawyers say Trump's order violates constitutional protections against religious discrimination, among other principles and federal laws. \n Trump casts the measure as a safeguard against violent Islamic extremism. The order temporarily blocks immigrants and visitors from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. It does not include all countries with ties to terrorism affecting the U.S., nor does it address the threat of homegrown militants. \n Legal experts are divided as to how federal courts will ultimately view Trump's action. \n Whatever the final outcome, the airport attorneys and groups working with them have demonstrated a spontaneous form of legal rapid response to the new administration's policies. Meanwhile, Democratic state attorneys general are mounting broader challenges. \n Roughly 400 attorneys have signed up to volunteer at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, taking six-hour shifts from 6 a.m. to midnight. \n Today, some held signs \u2014 \"Do you need an attorney?\" \"Was anyone on your flight detained?\" \u2014 in arrival areas. Supporters donated office supplies, coffee and doughnuts. \n At Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, reports of detained travelers were still coming in today to volunteer lawyers who organized an airport hotel \"war room\" and set up tables outside the customs area, attorneys Peter Schulte and Paul Wingo said. \n A legal team also set up in the international arrival area at San Francisco's main airport. And at Washington Dulles Airport, about 100 attorneys gathered on Sunday alone. \n \"I was born here in order to help people who can't help themselves,\" said Mariam Masumi, who is Muslim, an immigration lawyer and the daughter of Afghan immigrants. She skipped a funeral to lend her skills at the airport. \n With no information coming from the government on who is being held, legal volunteers glean what they can from arriving passengers and from detainees' relatives or friends. \n \"These were families that were torn apart who had done nothing wrong,\" says Russell Kornblith, an employment-discrimination lawyer who joined the JFK effort Saturday with his fiancee, Elizabeth Rosen, a corporate litigator. \n One family Kornblith met was waiting for a 68-year-old Yemeni woman with diabetes who had a visa to stay with her son, a U.S. citizen, lawyers and relatives said. She was ultimately released after Saturday night's court order. \n Carolyn Lipp isn't even a lawyer yet, but she got a new sense of the profession's potential at JFK, helping with the work that won the New York court order. \n \"It's definitely why I came to law school, to do something like this,\" said Lipp, a Yale Law School student who got involved through the school's Worker and Immigrant Rights Advocacy Clinic. \"To make a difference.\" \n Associated Press writers William Mathis in New York; Ben Nuckols in Chantilly, Virginia; Olga Rodriguez in San Francisco; Sophia Tareen in Chicago and David Warren in Dallas contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Droves of volunteer lawyers step up to defend trapped travelers"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Then-Deputy Attorney General nominee Sally Quillian Yates testified on Capitol Hill, in March 2015, in Washington. President Donald Trump's abrupt, late-night firing of the acting attorney general, who had refused to allow the Justice Department to defend his immigration orders in federal court, sent a clear message to his future Cabinet about his tolerance for public dissent. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump's abrupt, late-night firing of the acting U.S. attorney general sends a clear message to his future Cabinet about his tolerance for public dissent. \n The president will soon have in place like-minded political appointees, not inherited officials like Sally Yates who refused to allow the Justice Department to defend his immigration orders in court. And they will be less inclined to publicly disagree with him. \n But his haste in firing an Obama administration holdover, his spokesman's admonishment that career employees should \"either get with the program or go\" and Trump's comments about issues he wants federal prosecutors to investigate all illustrate how he moves aggressively to ensure his directives are carried out, even at agencies like the Justice Department that cherish their independence. \n Over the decades, there has \"been respect for the independence of the Justice Department as a law enforcement agency,\" said Bill Baer, a high-ranking department official during the Obama administration. \"There is reason for grave concern that the incoming president views the Justice Department just as another political weapon to go after people who disagree with him.\" \n White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Yates was \"rightfully removed\" from \"a position of leadership that is given to someone who is supposed to execute orders that are handed down to them properly.\" While every American has the right to express an opinion, he said, the attorney general is \"required to execute lawful orders.\" \n A scheduled Senate committee vote on Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump's nominee for the Cabinet post, was postponed today. Democrats cited the firing as a basis for the delay and some said they had no confidence Sessions would be able to stand up to Trump. \n Monday night's firing of Yates, a career prosecutor appointed to a political position by Democrats, underscored the growing dissent \u2014 even among some Trump administration officials \u2014 over his executive order that halted America's refugee program and suspended immigration from seven Muslim-majority nations. Yates' refusal to defend the order was largely symbolic since Sessions would almost certainly support it once sworn in. \n Yet the public clash between a president and his chief law enforcement officer over the legality of a consequential policy could affect the willingness of Sessions, or any other Cabinet appointee, to say no to Trump. \n Sessions himself, at confirmation hearings for Democratic-appointed Justice Department officials \u2014 including Yates \u2014 has repeatedly demanded that they declare their willingness to stand up to the White House. He asked Yates at a 2015 hearing if she believed the attorney general or his or her deputy had \"the responsibility to say no to the president if he asks for something that's improper.\" \n Yates replied that the attorney general must follow the law and provide \"independent legal advice to the president.\" \n Sessions declared at his own confirmation hearing that he understood the importance of disagreeing with the president. \n \"You simply have to help the president do things that he might desire in a lawful way and have to be able to say no, both for the country, for the legal system and for the president, to avoid situations that are not acceptable,\" he said. \n That's not always easy. \n During the campaign and after taking office, Trump has waded into legal matters in ways that could call into question the Justice Department's vaunted independence. \n He said at one point he didn't think Hillary Clinton should be investigated further for her email practices, even though such a decision would surely be up to the FBI and Justice Department. He also demanded an investigation into allegations of voting fraud without presenting evidence of a problem, though federal lawyers would almost certainly need reasonable suspicion to embark on a probe. \n Justice Department officials have long asserted their independence from the White House, and in some cases have lost their jobs or were prepared to lose them. \n Famously, as deputy attorney general under George W. Bush, current FBI Director James Comey clashed with White House officials in the hospital room of Attorney General John Ashcroft over the reauthorization of a government surveillance program and later prepared his resignation. A Nixon-era attorney general and his deputy both resigned rather than fire an independent prosecutor investigating the Watergate scandal. \n There's also precedent for the Justice Department declining to enforce laws that its leader believed unlawful, including when Attorney General Eric Holder in 2011 said the department would stop enforcing the Defense of Marriage Act. \n Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch today praised Yates' stance as part of that tradition, saying the department's \"first duty is always to the American people.\" \n Though Democrats applauded Yates, the Trump White House and other Republicans argued that she abdicated her responsibility. \n George Terwilliger, a deputy attorney general under President George H.W. Bush, said the honorable thing to do in a \"crisis of conscience\" is to quietly resign. Disagreeing with the law, he said, is no excuse for not enforcing it. \n \"It undermined the independence of the institution of the Justice Department,\" Terwilliger said of Yates' announcement, \"and was an affront to the career men and women of the Justice Department who every day have to go into court and represent the position of the United States \u2014 whether they agree with it or not.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Yates firing sends a message about Trump's dissent tolerance"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "Kauai police have reopened Kuhio Highway near Kalihiwai Bridge following a traffic-related accident. \n Officers closed the section of the highway at approximately 11 a.m. Police, firefighters and paramedics responded to the crash. Police reopened the highway sometime before noon. \n Additional details are pending. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kuhio Highway on Kauai reopens after traffic accident"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Small business leaders applauded President Donald Trump after he signed an executive order in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington on Monday. Trump's order is aimed at significantly cutting regulations. White House officials are calling the directive a \"one in, two out\" plan. \n BRUSSELS >> The leader of the European Union put longtime ally the United States in a \"threat\" category today, insisting that President Donald Trump is contributing to the \"highly unpredictable\" outlook for the bloc. \n In a letter to 27 EU leaders before Friday's summit in Malta, EU President Donald Tusk mentioned the Trump administration as part of an external \"threat\" together with China, Russia, radical Islam, war and terror. \n Echoing statements from many European capitals, he said that those global challenges, \"as well as worrying declarations by the new American administration, all make our future highly unpredictable.\" \n He said that \"particularly the change in Washington puts the European Union in a difficult situation; with the new administration seeming to put into question the last 70 years of American foreign policy.\" \n This year marks the centennial of the U.S. entry in World War I, and it marked the beginning of the American century as well as the enduring trans-Atlantic bond with Europe. Tensions have risen though since Trump was elected U.S. president. \n Trump has questioned the NATO alliance linking North America and Europe, and hopes for a major trans-Atlantic trade deal have already taken a deep dive amid worries of U.S. protectionism. \n \"We should remind our American friends of their own motto: United we stand, divided we fall,\" Tusk said in the letter and also told a news conference in Tallinn, Estonia, after meeting with the three Baltic prime ministers before the Malta summit. \n Britain wasn't part of the letter since it is poised to leave the EU and is only scheduled to attend part of the leaders' meeting in La Valletta. The decision to leave was the biggest setback for the EU in decades, and Trump didn't endear himself with many EU leaders by saying that Brexit \"will be a tremendous asset and not a tremendous liability.\" \n Tusk wrote to the leaders that \"in politics, the argument of dignity must not be overused,\" before adding that \"today we must stand up very clearly for our dignity, the dignity of a united Europe \u2014 regardless of whether we are talking to Russia, China, the U.S. or Turkey.\" \n And Tusk further insisted that any disintegration wouldn't be beneficial to the restored nation states, but instead lead to \"their real and factual dependence on the great superpowers: the United States, Russia and China.\" \n In France, Belgium and the Netherlands, leaders weighed in, criticizing Trump's decision to temporary halt to all refugee admissions, as well as immigration from seven Muslim-majority nations. \n Trump's decision \"only aims to exacerbate tensions, create potential conflicts with in the end the greatest inefficiency regarding results in the fight against terrorism,\" French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said in France's lower house of parliament. \n He said that the ban \"is useless because it ostracizes some countries, it makes it impossible to welcome people who are persecuted in their country and need protection from free nations.\" \n In the Netherlands, Foreign Minister Bert Koenders hit back, saying, \"If you want to fight terror, then the worst thing you can do is trample human rights.\" \n Like Belgium, the Dutch government has updated its travel advisory for the U.S. to warn of the effects of Trump's new policy on citizens who have dual nationality with one of the seven nations affected. \n And even royalty got involved. During the very ornate speech to the authorities of the country, King Philippe had unkind words for both the U.S. and Britain. \n The monarch said that by looking inward, it \"countered their own tradition of openness and generosity.\" \n He said that \"you cannot restore confidence by turning back the clock, based on a kind of utopian nostalgia. And you can't do it by building walls.\" \n Mike Corder in the Hague, Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and AP Video Journalist Vitnija Saldava in Tallinn, Estonia, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "EU chief sees Trump announcements as threats"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The headquarters of Kaspersky Lab in Moscow, Russia, on Monday. Moscow has been awash with rumors of a hacking-linked espionage plot at the highest level since cyber-security firm Kaspersky said one of its executives with ties to the Russian intelligence services had been arrested on treason charges. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A sign above the headquarters of Kaspersky Lab, in Moscow, Russia on Monday. Moscow has been awash with rumors of a hacking-linked espionage plot at the highest level since cyber-security firm Kaspersky said one of its executives with ties to the Russian intelligence services had been arrested on treason charges. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n FSB headquarters, center, in downtown Moscow, Russia on Dec. 30. Moscow has been awash with rumors of a hacking-linked espionage plot at the highest level since cyber-security firm Kaspersky said one of its executives with ties to the Russian intelligence services had been arrested on treason charges. \n MOSCOW >> In the days since it emerged that four men had been arrested on treason charges linked to cyber intelligence and Russia's domestic security agency, conspiracy theories and speculation about the case have swept through Moscow. \n Was it some fallout from the alleged Russian hacking of the U.S. presidential election? Were they part of a hunt for a possible mole who tipped off American intelligence agencies? Was it a power struggle within Russia's security services? \n Specifics of the case are murky, and no Russian government officials have commented publicly. Russian media have been filled with lurid, often contradictory, details that most assume are leaked by warring factions of intelligence officers. \n Linking the arrests to the U.S. vote would mean joining the dots between a series of shadowy actors in the Russian internet world. \n In one of the few formal acknowledgements of the case, Ivan Pavlov, a Russian defense lawyer specializing in treason cases, confirmed to The Associated Press that at least four arrests on linked treason charges had taken place. He declined to elaborate. \n U.S. intelligence agencies alleged in early January that President Vladimir Putin ordered a campaign to influence the U.S. presidential election in favor of Donald Trump, with actions that included using a group called Fancy Bear to hack email accounts of individuals on the Democratic National Committee. \n In an unclassified version of their report, the agencies did not disclose how the U.S. learned what it said it knows, and Russia has denied the accusations. \n \"I have long assumed there has to be some human resource for U.S. intelligence,\" said Mark Galeotti, an expert on the Russian security services and a senior researcher at the Institute of International Relations in Prague. \n The first arrest emerged last week with the news of the detention of Ruslan Stoyanov, an executive at Kaspersky Lab, a cybersecurity firm. \n Stoyanov apparently traveled widely as the head of the company's computer incidents investigations. According to his LinkedIn profile, he was employed by the Russian Interior Ministry's cybercrime unit in the early 2000s and hired by Kaspersky in 2012. Kaspersky has said the charges against Stoyanov relate to a time before he joined the company. \n Multiple Russian media outlets have reported the detention of three officers working for the cybercrime division of the FSB, Russia's domestic security agency, at around the same time as Stoyanov's arrest in December. Two of the men have been named in Russian media as Col. Sergei Mikhailov, deputy head of the FSB's Information Security Center (TsIB), and a subordinate, Maj. Dmitry Dokuchayev. Pavlov said a fourth defendant in the case was his client, but he refused to reveal his name. \n TsIB is an \"experienced cyberespionage outfit\" that has expanded rapidly in recent years, according to Galeotti. \"Their job is to hoover up everything they can.\" \n Reporting by Russia's opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta and U.S. cybersecurity journalist Brian Krebs suggested compromising material on the FSB officers may have been a revenge operation by 26-year-old Vladimir Fomenko, revealed by U.S. cyber firm ThreatConnect last year as the owner of servers used in hacks on election systems in Arizona and Illinois, and a Russian businessman, Pavel Vrublevsky, who was jailed for a year in 2013 for organizing cyberattacks on a competitor. \n Krebs said in a blog entry Saturday that Mikhailov may have passed details of Russian cyber criminals over many years to U.S. law enforcement officers and U.S. journalists, including a cache of information on Vrublevsky he himself received. \n Vrublevsky told the AP on Monday he was only slightly acquainted with Fomenko. He declined to comment on the FSB officer arrests but said they were \"the guys who put me behind bars.\" Fomenko did not respond to a request for comment. \n In a further twist, the Interfax news agency reported today that Mikhailov and Dokuchayev are accused of passing information to the CIA. The report cited a source Interfax did not identify, making it difficult to verify its accuracy. A spokesman for the CIA declined to comment on the actions of Russian law enforcement. \n Mikhailov's arrest apparently was designed to have maximum effect on fellow officers. He was detained at a gathering of FSB officials when he had a bag placed over his head and was marched out of the room, according to Novaya Gazeta and the nationalist Tsargrad network. \n Another theory circulating apparently seeks to draw attention away from the U.S. hack. \n News outlets Life News and Rosbalt, which has close links to the security services, reported that the FSB officers fed sensitive information to hacking group Shaltai Boltai, or Humpty Dumpty, which used it in a complex profit-making enterprise to blackmail dozens of Russian political figures. \n A Moscow court confirmed Monday the arrest of Vladimir Anikeyev, reported to be one of the leaders of Shaltai Boltai, on hacking charges. \n The arrests appear to add more weight to allegations against the Russian intelligence services that they recruited from the country's vibrant hacking community to boost their offensive cyber capabilities. \n As U.S. president, Barack Obama imposed sanctions on renowned hackers Yevgeny Bogachyov and Alexei Belan for their alleged role in cooperating with the GRU, Russian military intelligence, to target the DNC. \n Andrei Soldatov, who has studied the Russian security services and the internet for years, said the Moscow arrests clearly pointed to intelligence officers and criminal hackers working together to hack the Democrats. \n Dokuchayev, one of the FSB officers reportedly accused of treason, has been identified by Russia media as a hacker known as \"Forb,\" who also worked for Hacker magazine in the 2000s before apparently joining the FSB. \n In a 2004 interview with the newspaper Vedomosti, Forb described how he made money from credit card fraud and boasted of hacking U.S. government websites. \n In 2011, Forb was listed as an editor at Hacker. Three of his colleagues contacted by the AP declined to comment on whether he had links with the FSB. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Reported treason arrests fuel Russian hacking intrigue"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Anini Beach \n Rescuers are searching for a 22-year-old Maryland woman who was swept out to sea while swimming in waters off of Kauai Monday night. \n The search started yesterday after the woman ran into trouble at Anini Beach. Kauai police, firefighters, lifeguards and the Coast Guard resumed their search this morning. \n Sometime before 6 p.m. Monday, the woman, whose identity has yet to be released, entered the water at the north end of Anini Beach when she ran into trouble and called out to her friend for help. Her friend, a 37-year-old Kapaa man, jumped into the water but got caught in a rip current, according to a Kauai Fire Department news release. \n A high surf warning was in effect Monday for north and west shores on Kauai when the woman and man got into trouble in the water. \n Firefighters responded after they received a 911 call from witnesses shortly after 6 p.m. When rescue crews arrived, a paddleboarder was assisting the Kapaa man who was approximately 150 yards from the shore. \n The fire department said a firefighter on a rescue board brought the man safely to shore while a firefighter on a personal watercraft searched for the woman. \n Paramedics treated the Kapaa man at the scene. \n Firefighters searched for the woman until nightfall to no avail. The Coast Guard deployed its MH-65 Dolphin helicopter and cutter Kittiwake last night and conducted a search throughout the night. \n The Coast Guard is continuing their search today along with the fire department's Air 1 helicopter, firefighters on personal watercraft and a roving patrol unit on Kauai's north shore. \n A high surf advisory is currently in effect for most of the Hawaiian Islands, including Kauai, until 6 p.m. Wednesday. \n The National Weather Service said a north, northeast swell is expected to rise to \"warning levels,\" or to 10 to 15 feet for the east shores of Kauai, Oahu, Molokai and Maui tonight and Wednesday. \n Forecasters warn the public of strong breaking waves and currents. \n Kauai's Ocean Safety officials strongly urge the public to avoid swimming at all North Shore beaches from the west-end of the Hanalei Pavilion to Kee Beach including Anini Beach. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Search resumes for visitor swept out to sea off Kauai"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n Surfers caught a wave at Waimea Bay on Nov. 11. Surf up to 25 feet could be in the cards this evening as weather officials expect a reinforcing north-northeast swell to join the current large swell pounding all islands. \n Surf up to 25 feet could be in the cards this evening as weather officials expect a reinforcing north-northeast swell to join the current large swell pounding all islands. \n A high surf advisory is in effect until 6 p.m. today, when a high surf warning is scheduled to take effect through Wednesday. Affected areas include the north and east shores of Kauai County, Oahu, Maui, Molokai and Hawaii island. \n Wave heights along north-facing shores are expected to hit 15 to 20 feet today, rising to 20 to 25 feet tonight. East-facing shores should see 6- to 10-foot surf today, rising to 10 to 15 feet tonight, according to National Weather Service officials. \n \"Waves may wash onto coastal roads, especially around high tide early Wednesday morning,\" weather officials said in an advisory. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Approaching swell expected to bring warning-level surf to all islands"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ROBERT SHIKINA / RSHIKINA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A fire at this Pololia Street house on Jan. 7 started in a second-story bedroom. \n Honolulu fire investigators concluded an Ewa Beach house fire where one man died was intentionally set. \n The fire occurred on Jan. 7 at a two-story home on 91-1050 Pololia St. The man who died in the fire was identified as 24-year-old Neil Gibbs. \n The case has been turned over to police. \n The Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office said the cause and manner of death are pending an ongoing investigation. \n The fire occurred at about 4:40 a.m. on Jan. 7. Gibbs' cousin said his brother kicked down Gibbs' locked bedroom door but could only see flames. The fire was too intense, forcing family members to evacuate the home. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control just before 5 a.m. and found Gibbs' body inside the room where the fire started. \n Gibbs was an online marketer and left behind a 2-year-old daughter. \n Damage to the structure and contents was estimated at $200,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fatal Ewa Beach house fire found to be intentionally set"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, spoke on Capitol Hill in Washington during the committee's Jan. 18 confirmation hearing for UN Ambassador-designate, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan Wis. left a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, today, following a GOP strategy session. Ryan gave a strong defense of President Donald Trump's refugee and immigration ban to caucus members and said he backs the order, which has created chaos and confusion worldwide. \n WASHINGTON >> House Speaker Paul Ryan today defended President Donald Trump's divisive executive order on refugees and immigration, arguing that while the rollout was bumpy, the policy is consistent with Republican principles. \n \"The president has a responsibility to the security of this country,\" Ryan told reporters. \"What is happening is something that we support, which is, we need to pause. And we need to make sure the vetting standards are up to snuff so that we can guarantee the safety and security of our country. That is what this does.\" \n \"I think it's regrettable that there was some confusion on the rollout of this,\" Ryan said, adding no one wanted to see legal permanent residents caught up in the immigration ban, which initially happened before the administration clarified that they should not be. \n Even though GOP congressional leadership was frozen out of the drafting of the order, Ryan told rank-and-file Republicans in a closed-door meeting before speaking to reporters that he backed the decision to stop the U.S. refugee program and ban all entries from seven Muslim-majority nations for 90 days. \n The action triggered mass confusion and chaos worldwide, split families and set off protests at airports across the country. \n In the aftermath, Ryan told the GOP that the \"rollout was a little bumpy, been a few potholes in the road but the actual policy he agreed with,\" Rep. Phil Roe, R-Tenn., said. \n Ryan warned lawmakers to expect protests at their offices, Roe said, but reminded them that the policy is in line with legislation the House has strongly backed in the past. \n Another lawmaker, Rep. Dennis Ross of Florida, said the speaker's message was, \"'Look this shouldn't be a surprise to anybody, this is what we all campaigned on \u2026 We're looking at eight years of a legacy that we're essentially undoing.'\" \n Said Rep. Chris Collins, R-N.Y.: \"The speaker was very out in front today reminding our conference this is something we should be embracing.\" \n Ryan's reassurances weren't enough to quiet frustration from some members. \n \"Basically, I think the thrust of the executive order should have been a very positive move,\" said Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y. \"The way it was handled though put the Republicans on defense, and also caused great inconvenience to too many people. But the political question you ask, yeah, they're losing political capital for no reason. It was a self-inflicted wound.\" \n Top congressional leaders of Trump's party, including Ryan, were left to find out the same way the general public did: from news reports as Trump signed the order on Friday. \n \"I guess one of you guys probably told me about it. Thank you for that,\" Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., who chairs the Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters Monday. \n Then, as lawmakers struggled to gather details for constituents about the order, at least one prominent GOP senator was told that the State Department had been instructed not to communicate with Congress. \n \"There's not a lot of answers as of today. In fact my staff was told the State Department as of today was ordered not to talk to Congress about this issue,\" said Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida. \"That cannot be a permanent position, we expect answers here fairly soon.\" \n Next followed the surprising news, first reported by Politico, that the administration's repeated claims that Hill Republicans were involved in drafting the executive order apparently referred to staffers on the House Judiciary Committee who acted without the knowledge of GOP leadership. \n Each new revelation set off alarm bells on Capitol Hill where Republicans, eager to give Trump the benefit of the doubt barely a week into his presidency, are confronting repeated bouts of chaos of the administration's own making. The failure to consult with lawmakers ahead of time on the immigration executive order set the stage for high-profile Republicans to criticize the measure once it started attracting widespread controversy, and so they did, despite leadership remaining generally supportive. \n And the administration's decision to make a major foreign policy move with no notice to Congress raised questions about how well the Trump White House will work with Capitol Hill to push through a massive legislative agenda that includes repealing and replacing Barack Obama's health care law, overhauling the tax code and building a border wall. Although many Republicans remained optimistic that the failures amounted to growing pains for the new administration, congressional relations under the Trump administration seemed to be off to a sour start. \n \"I think they understand, let me put it that way, that this was not handled in the most productive manner,\" Corker said. \"My guess is next time they attempt to do something that is far-reaching like this there'll be a lot more communication.\" \n Associated Press writer Andrew Taylor contributed. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Speaker defends Trump immigration order amid GOP concerns"}

{"date": "January 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman spoke during a March 21 news conference in New York. Schneiderman said his colleagues and other lawyers are being moved to action because they believe Trump \"does not have respect for the rule of law.\" \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson, right, talked to reporters as Gov. Jay Inslee, left, looked on, Monday, in Seattle. Ferguson announced that he is suing President Donald Trump over an executive order that suspended immigration from seven countries with majority-Muslim populations and sparked nationwide protests. \n SEATTLE >> Washington, Massachusetts, Virginia and New York are becoming the first states to sue the Trump administration with filings announced this week over the executive order restricting refugees and immigration. They likely won't be standing alone for long. \n Since Donald Trump was elected president, Democratic state attorneys general have been forming a coordinated wall of legal resistance over immigration, environmental protections, health care, and other major issues. \n New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman told The Associated Press that lawyers, including attorneys general, are having an \"awakening\" regarding the Trump administration. \n \"This is a president who does not have respect for the rule of the law,\" Schneiderman said. \"That's something that bothers a lot of people.\" \n On Tuesday, Schneiderman, and the attorneys general for Massachusetts and Virginia announced separately that their offices were joining legal challenges to Trump already filed in their states by advocacy groups. \n The state officials' plan for legal pushback has precedent: Several Republican attorneys general made it a practice to routinely file lawsuits against the policies of former President Barack Obama. \n Unlike groups taking up fights on behalf of individuals, attorneys general \u2014the chief lawyers for state governments \u2014 can sue more broadly on behalf of their states. Most are elected and thus can act independently of their state legislatures or governors. \n \"It's my responsibility as attorney general to defend the rule of law, to uphold the Constitution on behalf of the people of this state. And that's what we're doing,\" Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson said Monday when announcing his lawsuit against Trump's executive order. \n He said other states could join the lawsuit, which asks a judge to throw out key provisions of the order Trump issued Friday to temporarily closes the U.S. to all refugees and all people from seven majority-Muslim countries and bars Syrian refugees indefinitely. \n Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, who has held town hall meetings around Massachusetts on responding to Trump, called the policy \"harmful, discriminatory and unconstitutional.\" \n The administration says such action is needed to protect the country from terrorist attacks. Since it was issued, the White House has said people from the banned countries who have permission to work in the U.S. can enter. \n On Sunday, 17 Democratic attorneys general signed a letter vowing to \"use all of the tools of our offices to fight this unconstitutional order.\" Most of the signatories were from states controlled by Democrats and that Hillary Clinton won in November. But also signing were the Democratic attorneys general from Iowa and Pennsylvania, which voted for Trump, and Maine, where the electoral vote was split. \n Attorneys general have taken smaller actions since Trump was elected, both on their own and in concert. \n For example, some wrote Trump calling for him to keep former President Barack Obama's clean power plan in place. \n In January, a group of them asked a judge to let it intervene in a court case on the constitutionality of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That motion could be a step toward the state officials defending the office in court. Trump said Monday he intends to do \"a big number\" on the bill that created the agency. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller told the AP that protecting the office is a priority. \n Some attorneys general banded together to urge the U.S. Senate to reject Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions to lead the U.S. Department of Justice. \n Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said he has spoken with advocacy groups about legal strategies. Among them is Planned Parenthood, which is preparing to react if Trump and the GOP-led Congress defund the organization. \n One of the first steps T.J. Donovan took when he became attorney general in Vermont this month was forming a task force to advise him on immigration policies. \n State attorneys general have a history of banding together. Most notably, a series of lawsuits from them led to the 1998 tobacco industry settlement under which cigarette makers agreed to pay states more than $200 billion over 25 years. \n Republican attorneys general sued President Obama over his health insurance overhaul minutes after he signed it and over his rules to limit power plant emissions even before the details were final. In both cases, courts sided with them, at least in part. After Trump won the White House in November, taking on the president became part of the job description for their Democratic counterparts. \n State attorneys general have become more active since the administration of former President George W. Bush, especially when it comes to federal laws and policies, said a scholar who studies the office. \n \"It's become such an established part of what AG's do on the national level,\" said Paul Nolette, an assistant professor of political science at Marquette University. \"It's become much more AG's going on the offensive.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Democratic attorneys general in 4 states challenge Trump"}

