{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PIXABAY \n In an effort to increase oversight of state-licensed child care facilities, child care providers would be required to carry liability insurance under a bill in the Hawaii Legislature. \n Child care providers would be required to carry liability insurance under a bill in the Hawaii Legislature. \n It's part of an effort to increase oversight of state-licensed child care facilities. \n The Hawaii House of Representatives passed the bill Friday. \n Supporters say requiring liability insurance will reduce unnecessary legal costs and provide families peace of mind. \n But critics are concerned some child care providers could shut down because they can't afford it. \n The bill goes next to the Senate, which passed a different version of the bill. Senators will decide whether they agree with changes made in the House. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii mulls liability insurance for child care providers"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters of former President Park Geun-hye held national flags during a rally in Seoul, South Korea. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> Waving the national flag, the U.S. stars and stripes and shouting military-style slogans, tens of thousands of supporters of arrested former South Korean President Park Geun-hye rallied today for her to be released from detention on corruption allegations. \n Park was jailed Friday over allegations that she colluded with a confidante to extort money from businesses, take bribes and allow the friend to unlawfully interfere with state affairs. The Constitutional Court ruled March 10 to remove her from office after she was impeached in December. \n Reflecting a nation deeply split over its future, Park's opponents held their own protests in nearby streets, celebrating her arrest and calling for her conservative policies to be erased. Seoul police used thousands of police officers and hundreds of buses to separate the two crowds, whose rallies have divided the city's streets in recent months. \n Park's arrest marked a stunning fall for South Korea's first female president, who convincingly defeated her liberal opponent in 2012 thanks to overwhelming support from conservative older voters, who remembered her dictator father as a hero who rebuilt a nation devastated by a 1950-53 war with North Korea. \n Gathering in streets near Seoul City Hall, Park's supporters, many of them in their 60s or older, chanted \"Release President Park Geun-hye\" and \"Disband the National Assembly\" and roared in approval as organizers accused Park's political rivals as \"leftist North Korea sympathizers\" and \"turncoats.\" \n \"She could have avoided this all if she wanted to, but Park chose the road of a martyr,\" Jung Mi-hong, one of the organizers, bellowed from the stage. \"She has offered to sacrifice herself to protect the constitutionalism of the Republic of Korea and a free democracy,\" Jung said, referring to South Korea's formal name. \n Chung Kwang-taek, a protester, said that Park's opponents \"ruthlessly attacked a lonely woman who dedicated herself to the country\" and that she would overcome her troubles to \"live forever as a historical figure.\" \n Prosecutors can detain Park for up to 20 days, during which they are expected to formally charge her. The most damning accusation alleges that Park took tens of millions of dollars in bribes from technology giant Samsung in exchange for business favors, which would be punishable by a prison term longer than 10 years and even a life sentence if she is convicted. \n Park has apologized for putting trust in her jailed friend, Choi Soon-sil, but has denied breaking laws. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Supporters of arrested ex-president protest in Seoul"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / 2015 \n Women's Community Correctional Center in Kailua. \n Ten women say in a federal lawsuit that guards and a worker at a Hawaii's female prison sexually assaulted them while they were incarcerated. \n The employees \u2014 a female guard, three male guards and a male janitorial work-line supervisor \u2014 subjected the women inmates to emotional distress and deprived them of their rights by sexually assaulting them, the lawsuit filed Thursday said. \n Hawaii officials failed to properly train and supervise employees and ignored \"an obvious and ongoing pattern and practice of sexual abuse of inmates by both male and female guards and employees \u2026 that dates back at least 25 years,\" the lawsuit said. \n A spokeswoman for the state Department of Public Safety said Friday that officials have not yet been served with the lawsuit. The department oversees Women's Community Correctional Center in Kailua, a Honolulu suburb. \"We have to reserve comment until we receive it and have had time to discuss it with our legal counsel,\" said department spokeswoman Toni Schwartz. \n The inmates were given food, makeup, crystal meth and special privileges for complying with sexual demands, according to the lawsuit. \n In one of the allegations described, a female guard coerced an inmate to have sex in a control room, a bathroom and a closet. In exchange, the inmate received clothes, hair-care products, access to Facebook, a marriage proposal and a gold wedding ring, the lawsuit said. \n Another allegation describes a male guard forcing a woman to perform oral sex and then taunting her about it when her boyfriend visited. He gave her extra food in exchange for the sex assault, the lawsuit said. \n That guard reported an inmate for violations that never occurred when she didn't respond to his demands for sex, the lawsuit said. \n Another male guard gave inmates makeup, candy, cellphone access and other items in exchange for sex. \n One of the plaintiffs saw her cellmate having sex with a guard who gave them crystal methamphetamine. The woman who kept silent about what she saw attempted to hang and kill herself. When she ended up in a hospital, the same guard was assigned to watch her, the lawsuit said. \"His presence caused her undue stress, emotional trauma and outright fear for her life,\" the lawsuit said. \n An inmate assigned to janitorial work alleges in the lawsuit that the supervisor called her into his office and exposed himself. She ran away, but he cornered her and told her no one would believe her because \"she was just an inmate,\" according to the lawsuit. \n The female guard and two male guards no longer work for the department, Schwartz said, while the third male guard and the janitorial supervisor are still department employees. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "10 women file suit claiming abuse at Hawaii women's prison"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "KYODO NEWS VIA AP \n Japanese whaling vessel Nisshin Maru anchored in Shimonoseki, Japan. \n TOKYO >> Japan's whaling fleet returned home today after killing 333 whales in the Antarctic, achieving its goal for the second year under a revised research whaling program. \n The Fisheries Agency said the five-ship fleet finished its four-month expedition without major interference from anti-whaling activists who have attempted to stop it in the past. \n Japan says the hunt was for ecological research. Research whaling is allowed as an exception to a 1986 international ban on commercial whaling. Opponents of the Japanese program say it's a cover for commercial whaling because the whales are sold for food. \n The International Court of Justice ruled in 2014 that Japan's Antarctic whaling program should stop because it wasn't scientific as Tokyo had claimed. Japan conducted non-lethal whaling research in the Antarctic in 2015, and revised its program in 2016 by reducing the catch quota to about one-third of what it used to kill. \n \"It was great that we have achieved our plan. We will steadily continue our research toward a resumption of commercial whaling,\" Fisheries Agency official Shigeto Hase said at a welcome ceremony in Shimonoseki, home port for the fleet's mother ship, Nisshin Maru. \n Officials said the whalers used parts of the whales to determine their age, nutrition, and reproductive conditions. Opponents say such studies can be done using non-lethal methods. \n Kitty Block, executive vice president of Humane Society International, an animal protection group based in Washington D.C., said Japan is needlessly killing whales every year. \"It is an obscene cruelty in the name of science that must end,\" she said in a statement. \n Japan has hunted whales for centuries as a source of protein and cheaper alternative to other meats. Its whale catch has fallen in recent years in part because of declining domestic demand for whale meat. Protests by the anti-whaling group Sea Shepherd have also contributed to the decline. \n Critics say it's a dying industry, but Japan's government has spent large amounts of tax money to sustain the whaling operations, saying it's a Japanese cultural tradition that must be preserved. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japanese fleet returns from Antarctic hunt with 333 whales"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2015 \n Oregon was the first state in the nation to give 5-cent refunds for recycling used water bottles and soda cans more than 45 years ago. Now, in an effort to boost recycling, this eco-trailblazing state is doubling that refund. \n PORTLAND, Ore. >> Oregon's first-in-the-nation bottle recycling program will now double the payout for used soda cans and glass bottles, and frugal residents have been stockpiling for months in anticipation. \n With other recycling options now commonplace, this eco-trailblazing Pacific Northwest state is hoping to revamp the program with the increase from 5 to 10 cents for bottled and canned water, soda, beer and malt beverages \u2014 regardless what their labels say. \n Oregon's 1971 Bottle Bill \u2014 groundbreaking for its era in combating litter \u2014 has been replicated in nine other states and Guam. Michigan is the only other with an across-the-board 10 cent-payout, although booze and other large bottles go for 10 cents in California and 15 cents in Maine and Vermont. \n The Oregon system was a big hit in those initial years. But as curbside recycling and pickup services were brought on board two decades later \u2014 not to mention effects of inflation on the nickel's value \u2014 the rates at which people cashed in their bottles and cans gradually tumbled from 90 percent averages to under 70 percent of all bottle sales statewide in 2014 and 2015. \n That decline triggered the new 10-cent rate\u2014a provision added to the Bottle Bill in 2011 \u2014that takes effect Saturday. \n Grocery stores and stand-alone redemption centers are bracing for a bustling weekend. Even the state Capitol press pool in Salem has been buying cases of water bottles and stockpiling the empties to pay for a pizza party. \n Ted Ferrioli, state Senate Republican leader from John Day, Oregon, says he has seen schools and community organizations use it for creative ways to raise money for youth camps or 4-H clubs. \n \"They put a horse trailer out with a sign on it and it fills up and then they take it in and cash it out,\" Ferrioli recalled with a chuckle. \n Naysayers, meanwhile, criticize Oregon's system as bad policy at time when jobs and taxes are on the line to help close Oregon's looming $1.6 billion budgeting deficit. Oregon and Iowa's Bottle Bills are unique in that private industry, not government, operates the system and claims all unredeemed refunds. \n State residents cashed in slightly more than 1 billion empties in 2015, roughly two-thirds of total sales statewide, according to the Oregon Liquor Control Commission's 2017 report to the Legislature. That left almost $30 million in gross unredeemed refunds claimed by local and national distributors such as Pepsi, Pendleton Bottle Company and Oregon Beverage Recycling Cooperative participants. \n Some of those funds help industry operate the program that involves transporting recyclables to processing sites and reimbursing grocery stores, which don't make a profit but are still required to accept empty containers and refund consumers. \n But critics like Dan Meek, a Portland attorney and Oregon Progressive Party spokesman, said at least some of that unclaimed cash should benefit state coffers for education, health care or other public services. \n \"This is how the programs work in California, Hawaii, Massachusetts, and Connecticut,\" he said. \"New York retains 80 percent of unclaimed refunds; Michigan retains 75 percent. Oregon currently retains 0 percent.\" \n More recently, distributors participating in the Oregon co-op are using the funds to build, operate and staff upscale stand-alone redemption sites, which relieves nearby grocery stores of the responsibility. The process has been slow-going, however, with pushback from local communities and land-use issues, although the co-op is now retrofitting huge shipping containers as an alternative. \n Sen. Betsy Johnson, a Democrat from Scappoose, Oregon, about 30 mils northwest of Portland, said the co-op's slow building and shift away from some grocery retailers has been among her concerns for smaller communities like hers. But, she and others respect that it's part of Oregon's identity. \n \"The Bottle Bill has been a beloved institution of Oregon,\" Johnson said. \"The rationale was, we don't want this crap all over the roads and the beach, it's gross. And so if you give them money to take them back some place, everybody wins.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oregon set to double recycling rate to 10 cents a can"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner told the Senate intelligence panel this week he'd gladly answer questions about his meetings with the Russian ambassador and others. \n WASHINGTON >> Their reputations at risk, a coterie of President Donald Trump's associates caught up in the swirling debate about Trump and Russia are turning to a similar if unusual playbook: volunteering to testify to Congress, before even being asked. \n They are eager to come forward despite not having been compelled by subpoena to appear before the two committees investigating Russian meddling in the U.S. election and potential Trump campaign collusion. But testifying on such matter is an exercise most people would typically avoid, especially if there's a chance they're being scrutinized in a parallel FBI investigation. \n So what gives? \n \"There's only one way: Tell it early, tell it all, tell it yourself,\" said Lanny Davis, who was special counsel to President Bill Clinton during his impeachment hearings. \n Davis, who frequently advises political figures on crisis management, said it's wise for those whose names have emerged publicly as part of the investigations to seek proactively to clear their names. After all, Washington has seen more than its share of once-powerful people who failed to learn the lesson that the cover-up is often worse than the original sin. \n \"These questions are going to ultimately get answered,\" Davis said. \"You ought to answer them yourself.\" \n Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, told the Senate intelligence panel this week he'd gladly answer questions about his meetings with the Russian ambassador and others. Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman who features prominently in the Russia scandal, made a similar offer to the House committee investigating. So did former Trump adviser Carter Page and associate Roger Stone. \n Those aides haven't publicly asked for any protections from prosecution to testimony. But former national security adviser Michael Flynn is in talks with congressional committees to receive immunity in exchange for being questioned, according to his lawyer. Today, the top Democrats on the House intelligence panel said it was too early to consider an immunity deal for Flynn. \n In case a formal letter wasn't flashy enough, Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska took out quarter-page ads in The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal to publicize his willingness to \"take part in any hearings conducted in the US Congress on this subject in order to defend my reputation and name.\" That move followed an Associated Press report that Manafort in 2005 had written Deripaska, an aluminum magnate close to Russian President Vladimir Putin, proposing he do work for Deripaska that would \"benefit the Putin Government.\" \n The rush to volunteer to testify even extended to a convicted Ponzi schemer whose name had not previously been associated with the Russia investigations. Steven Hoffenberg, a Trump supporter and onetime New York Post owner, phoned the AP unsolicited to announce he'd volunteered to testify to offer \"evidence that is very serious.\" \n \"I decided on my own after watching the circus of false stories,\" Hoffenberg said, adding that given his criminal history the FBI likely tapped his communications, including those with people in Trump Tower during the summer of 2016. \"There's no privacy for me as a citizen.\" \n So far, none of the above has testified before Congress. Nor has former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, who agreed to testify before House intelligence committee Chairman Devin Nunes canceled the hearing. \n The openness to testify publicly, in the absence of at least a public demand for immunity, is in stark contrast to how last year's Capitol Hill investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server unfolded. In that case, multiple witnesses \u2014 including the IT staffer who set up Clinton's server \u2014 asserted their constitutional rights against self-incrimination and either did not appear at a hearing or refused to answer questions. \n Rob Walker, a Washington lawyer at the Wiley Rein law firm who represents clients in congressional investigations, said the willingness to testify struck him as \"contrary to the norm of what one would expect\" in such a probe. He said he was not sure a witness had anything to gain from appearing before Congress during an FBI investigation. \n \"As a general matter,\" he added, \"I would advise a client to follow a different path.\" \n Though witnesses may look like they have something to hide if they refuse to testify before Congress, it's also clear they open themselves to criminal prosecution in the event government officials believe they're lying. The Justice Department, for instance, prosecuted retired baseball star Roger Clemens for perjury after he denied steroid use to Congress, though he was later acquitted of all charges. \n It's unlikely the FBI is as enthusiastic as those volunteering to talk. \n Testifying before Congress can complicate a criminal investigation if a witness is granted immunity, given restrictions on the Justice Department's ability to use those statements in any subsequent prosecution. \n \"It's not just that you're not allowed to use the testimony, said Josh Chafetz, a Cornell University law professor and expert in congressional investigations. \"You're not allowed to use any leads you got from the testimony.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hands raised, Trump aides rush to try to testify on Russia"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "KABB/WOAI VIA AP \n This aerial image made from a video provided by KABB/WOAI showed a deadly crash involving a van carrying church members and a pickup truck on Wednesday. \n HOUSTON >> A witness says the driver of a pickup truck that collided with a church minibus in rural Texas, killing 13 people, acknowledged he had been texting while driving \u2014 a development that highlights the dangers of sending messages on smartphones while behind the wheel. \n Texas Department of Public Safety Sgt. Conrad Hein wouldn't comment today on whether texting might have played a role in the Wednesday collision on a two-lane road about 75 miles west (120 km) of San Antonio, near the town of Concan. But officials have said the truck driver appeared to have crossed the center line. \n Jennifer Morrison, the investigator in charge of the team from the National Transportation Safety Board, would only say that distracted driving will be among the issues investigated. \n The witness who is saying the pickup driver was texting while driving recounted the incident today in an interview with the Associated Press. Jody Kuchler, a 55-year-old self-employed welder, said he and his girlfriend were driving back to their home in the nearby town of Leakey when he came across a truck that was driving erratically across the road. \n \"He kept going off the road and into oncoming traffic and he just kept doing that,\" said Kuchler, who first shared the account of what happened with the San Antonio Express-News. \n Kuchler, who followed the truck for at least 15 minutes, said he called the sheriff's offices for both Uvalde and Real counties and told them \"they needed to get him off the road before he hit somebody.\" \n Kuchler said he witnessed the crash and afterward, he checked on both the bus and the truck and was able to speak with the driver of the truck, who the Department of Public Safety has identified as 20-year-old Jack Dillon Young, of Leakey. \n \"He said, 'I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I was texting.' I said, 'Son, do you know what you just did?' He said, 'I'm sorry. I'm sorry,'\" Kuchler recalled. \n Texas is unusual in that it has no statewide ban on texting while driving. Dozens of cities across the state prohibit the practice, but local ordinances may not have applied in the rural area where Wednesday's crash occurred. Laws in 46 other states ban sending or reading email, using apps or engaging in other use of the internet while driving. \n The Republican-controlled Texas Legislature approved a statewide ban in 2011 but it was vetoed by then-Gov. Rick Perry, who characterized such prohibitions as government micromanagement and said educating drivers was the key to deterrence. A similar proposal passed the Texas House a few weeks ago but has yet to make it to a Senate floor vote. \n The wreck on Wednesday occurred along a curve in the road where the speed limit is 65 mph, according to Department of Public Safety officials. The bus occupants \u2014 members of First Baptist Church of New Braunfels in Texas \u2014 were returning from a three-day retreat in Leakey, about 9 miles (15 kilometers) from where the crash happened. \n Twelve people on the bus died at the scene, authorities said. Another died at a hospital. One bus passenger remains hospitalized in serious but stable condition, according to the church. \n Young, the driver of the pickup, also remains hospitalized. \n The number of motor vehicle deaths in the U.S. last year topped 40,000 for the first time since 2007, according to the National Safety Council. The number of vehicle crash deaths in Texas rose 7 percent last year to 3,464, slightly higher than the national rise. One-in-10 driving fatalities in 2015 were caused by some kind of distraction, the U.S Department of Transportation said. \n Morrison said most, if not all, of the bus occupants in the Texas crash \u2014 who ranged in age from 61 to 87 \u2014 were wearing seat belts. The driver and front-passenger seats had three-point lap-and-shoulder belts while the rest of the seats behind had lap belts only, she said. \n Three-point seat belts are always preferable to lap belts because they hold the upper torso in place and help prevent head injuries, said automotive safety advocate Joan Claybrook. One of the problems with lap belts only is that in a frontal impact crash, people will remain in their seats but their upper bodies will go forward and their heads can strike the back of the seat in front, she said. \n If the passengers wearing lap-only belts are seated along the sides of the buses, instead of facing forward, they will often hit their heads on the sides of the vehicle or the windows, said Henry Jasny, senior vice president of Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. A frontal crash of this type would be like \"hitting a brick wall,\" he said. \n The NTSB identified the church vehicle as a 2004 Ford E-350 series van that had been converted to a minibus. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the only safety issues identified with that vehicle model from that particular year was a fuse problem reported in 2007 in vehicles that had been retrofitted to become ambulances. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Driver who hit church bus tells witness he was texting"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The North Carolina state House debated on the floor of the state House prior to a vote on HB 142 on Thursday in Raleigh, N.C. \n RALEIGH, N.C. >> North Carolina's deal to undo its \"bathroom bill\" is receiving both complaints and applause, along with one big vote of confidence that could pump tens of millions of dollars into the state's economy. \n The Atlantic Coast Conference announced today that it's ready to start considering North Carolina again for its lucrative neutral-site championships. That's a morale boost for a state that prides itself on college sports. \n Some business leaders, including the state Chamber of Commerce and Bank of America, are praising the deal, but others, including IBM and the McKinney advertising agency, remain doubtful. \n LGBT advocates, meanwhile, say the \"reset\" under House Bill 142 is not a true repeal, and still exposes gay and transgender people to discrimination. \n HB142 has eliminated HB2's requirement that transgender people use restrooms corresponding to the sex on their birth certificates in many public buildings. But the new law also makes clear that from now on, only state legislators \u2014 not local governments or school officials \u2014 can make rules for public restrooms. \n HB2 also invalidated any local ordinances protecting gay or transgender people from discrimination in the workplace or in public accommodations. HB142 prohibits local governments from enacting any new such protections until December 2020. \n The ACC pulled games from North Carolina last year and threatened to remove its 2017 football championship from Charlotte as well if HB2 remained on the books. Now the state's largest city can look forward to the $30 million economic boost that game brings, and the ACC says the state \"will again be considered for hosting\" future games. \n The NCAA, which also removed events from North Carolina, struck a more cautious tone on Thursday when its president Mark Emmert said the association will decide in the coming days whether HB142 represents \"a sufficient change in the law.\" \n The new law was passed by the legislature and signed into law by Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper in a matter of hours on Thursday. \n Mara Keisling, executive director of the National Center for Transgender Equality, complained that transgender people were left out of back-room negotiations on the deal. \n \"I don't know why any of these people thought they could use the exact secret process and incompetence that got them into this problem to get them out of this problem,\" she said in an interview. \n The ACLU said it's continuing its legal battle on behalf of transgender residents. \n \"Many of the provisions of HB142 carry forward problematic portions of HB2,\" the group's North Carolina legal director Chris Brook said. He said provisions such as the moratorium on local anti-discrimination ordinances \"mirror provisions we've already sued over.\" \n The stakes are high. An Associated Press analysis this week found that House Bill 2 would cost the state more than $3.76 billion in lost business over a dozen years. The tally was based on companies and events that already backed out, meaning that money won't likely return even with the 2016 law gone. \n The North Carolina Chamber of Commerce thanked Cooper and Republican legislative leaders \"for coming together on a bipartisan basis to find a solution.\" \n Bank of America, the largest North Carolina-based company, said in a news release: \"We support this bipartisan measure to repeal HB2 and create the conditions for continued dialogue and progress.\" \n Other companies responded negatively, such as the Durham-based advertising agency McKinney. \n \"As a national agency with a global creative reputation, our success depends upon attracting the very best talent and clients to Durham. This new bill continues to stand in the way of that,\" McKinney CEO Brad Brinegar said. \n IBM, which has a large Raleigh-area operation, \"opposed North Carolina's H.B.2 because it discriminates against people for being who they are. We welcome its repeal, but stronger local nondiscrimination laws should not be pre-empted,\" said the company's chief diversity officer, Lindsay-Rae McIntyre. \n Last year's cancellations included a Greensboro concert by Bruce Springsteen. Asked if HB142 does enough to bring them back, the band's guitarist Steven Van Zandt tweeted: \"There is nothing I would like more,\" but he called the repeal \"phony.\" \"They're not fooling the NCAA or anybody,\" he wrote. \n Movie director Rob Reiner, an activist for equal rights and major supporter of Democratic candidates, urged colleagues to continue avoiding North Carolina, tweeting: \"Entertainment leaders: don't fall for this 'deal.' Doesn't repeal #HB2.\" \n Money and politics aside, transgender people remained worried about their safety. \n \"It's not a full repeal,\" said Vivian Taylor, a National Guard veteran and transgender woman from North Carolina. \"It's obviously just there to try to make the NCAA basketball people happy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "North Carolina 'bathroom bill' reset gets applause and jeers"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Firefighters battled an early morning apartment fire in Oakland, Calif., on Monday. \n OAKLAND, Calif. >> An Oakland fire captain recommended in January that a building that burned this week, killing four people, should be shut down immediately for safety reasons, but department officials opted to take less drastic measures, records released today show. \n In an email dated Jan. 8 and titled \"Fire Safety Hazard,\" Fire Captain Richard Chew reported that a fire alarm had been pulled and not reset and there were open piles of garbage on the third floor of the building and a padlock on the door to the fire escape. \n He recommended officials consider shutting the building down immediately \"due to the danger to life safety.\" \n The records show Battalion Chief Geoff Hunter ordered Chew to cut the padlock and other officials to contact the building's owner to fix the alarm and remove trash. And Acting Assistant Fire Marshal Maria Sabatini, head of the fire prevention bureau, responded that it was appropriate to give the owner 30 days to make repairs. \n Oakland became the site of the deadliest structure fire in the U.S. in a decade when 36 people died in a December blaze at a warehouse known as the Ghost Ship that had been illegally converted into live and work spaces for artists. Officials then vowed to crack down on substandard housing and conduct more inspections. \n Firefighters said an unattended candle caused the fire. \n The city disclosed the emails as Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf announced today she was ordering an overhaul of fire safety inspection services, including doubling the number of people with the Fire Prevention Bureau. \n She told the Associated Press earlier this week that new streamlined communications she put in place after the Ghost Ship fire to keep problem buildings from slipping through the cracks seem to have improved and worked in this case. \n But after the emails were disclosed, she said the city had to step up its \"sense of urgency\" and professionalism despite strained resources. She said she had not known of the emails until recently. \n \"I've found these emails extremely disturbing and, clearly, these tragedies require that we learn and strengthen our systems,\" she told AP. \n A Jan. 9 email by another fire captain regarding the building that burned Monday reported there were no fire extinguishers in the building. And in a Feb. 25 email, Fire Lt. Steve Padgett reported that the address is a \"known fire hazard.\" \n \"There are no fire extinguishers. Storage in the hallways. Faulty or unmaintained smoke detectors,\" he wrote. \"This building is dangerous! Please let Station 15 know what we can do to get this place shut down, updated and repaired.\" \n Schaaf said earlier this week the city didn't have the authority to immediately shut down the property, which requires a declaration that a building is unsafe for human habitation. She said firefighters answering a call in February at the building reported possible problems, which prompted an inspection last week. \n Today, she said she was informed that the violations listed in the report required a 30-day notice under state law. \n Schaaf also had harsh words for the building's owner, Keith Kim. \"I'm disgusted. Unscrupulous landlords cannot put profits over safety, particularly in this atmosphere of fear from displacement,\" she said. \n Kim has not responded to repeated messages, including ones left today, and his attorney also has not responded to calls and emails. \n Kim was in the process of evicting Urojas Community Services, the tenant that leased two of the three floors. Urojas provided services to low-income people recovering from addiction or who had been recently homeless and subleased rooms to about 40 residents, said the group's founder, Jasper Lowery. \n The nonprofit organization said they called on the landlord to make necessary repairs, but Lowery said he ignored his pleas. Residents complained of serious rodent infestations, plumbing and electrical problems, garbage-strewn hallways and an unusable kitchen on the first floor. \n Instead, Lowery said he was served eviction papers, alleging Urojas owed thousands of dollars in past-due rent. The eviction process was still underway when the fire started Monday. \n \"We are grieving and heartbroken,\" said Aurea Lewis, Lowery's partner at Urojas. Lewis said her brother Ed Anderson, 64, was one of those residents who died in the fire. \n Lewis said her brother was a U.S. Air Force veteran and one of 11 siblings who grew up in Oakland. \n \"If you only knew how devastating this is for our family,\" she said. \n The emails released today show mounting concerns \u2014 and growing frustration\u2014 by fire officials. \n In a March 18 email, Fire Lt. Frank Mui listed \"what appears to be household extension cords used to supply electricity to different units in the building,\" including between the second and third floors via the central stairway. Rats had chewed through the insulation on one extension cord, he wrote. \n Minutes later, Battalion Chief Jeff Hunter shot off an email to Sabatini, of the fire prevention bureau. He wrote that the problems \"still exist and seem to be getting worse\" and that \"this building appears to be hazardous to both our public and our firefighters.\" \n Inspectors finally conducted an annual inspection on March 24. They again found multiple fire code violations, including inoperable sprinklers and alarms. Officials also noted a lack of fire extinguishers and overloaded electrical cords during the inspection. \n \"This is the beginning of a coordinated effort along with Building Services to address the issues at this location,\" Sabatini wrote. \n The owner was given 30 days to correct the problems. \n Three days later, the fire broke out. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Oakland fire captain warned of dangerous building months ago"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "A 69-year-old woman from Bakersfield, Calif., was in critical condition today after she collapsed at a shoreline area near Black Rock in Kaanapali. \n Fire rescue personnel responding to an 10:44 a.m. emergency call arrived to find witnesses and Sheraton Maui staff performing CPR on the woman. \n According to a Maui Fire Department release, the woman was snorkeling with another family member on the south side of Black Rock when she began feeling uneasy. The woman swam back to shore, exited the water and collapsed as she walked up the beach. \n Firefighters took over CPR until paramedics arrived to provide advanced life support. \n The woman was transported to Maui Memorial Medical Center. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Visitor in critical condition after near drowning off Black Rock"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "Two people died and two others, including a 2-year-old boy, were left in critical condition following a head-on traffic collision on Kuhio Freeway in Kealia on Friday. \n According to police, a Nissan Cube driven by a 28-year-old Kapaa man was heading south on the highway, in an area fronting St. Catherine Cemetery, when it apparently crossed the center line and collided with an oncoming delivery truck shortly before 9 a.m. \n The driver of the Nissan died at the scene. A 26-year-old female passenger, also from Kapaa, was transported to Wilcox Medical Center, where she was later pronounced dead. \n Another passenger, a 28-year-old Kapaa woman, was also transported to Wilcox Medical Center in critical condition. \n The 2-year-old boy, who was riding in the front passenger seat, was flown to the Queen's Medical Center in critical condition. \n The driver of the delivery truck, a 54-year-old Kapaa man, did not sustain serious injury. \n Police closed the highway in both directions for more than three hours while investigators scanned the scene and crews worked to remove the vehicles and clear debris from the roadway. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "2 killed in head-on collision on Kauai"}

{"date": "March 31, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n El Paso Democratic Congressman Beto O'Rourke officially launches his campaign for the U.S. Senate race in 2018, accompanied by his wife, Amy, in El Paso, Texas. \n AUSTIN, Texas >> Democratic Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke kicked off his longshot bid to unseat Republican Sen. Ted Cruz today, vowing an unscripted and unconventional campaign that could catch voters' imagination at a moment when Democrats are eager to go on offense against the Trump administration. \n \"We need to meet this fear, this anxiety, this paranoia that's coming out of the White House \u2014 that's gripping so much of this country \u2014 with a strength and a confidence that can only come from Texas,\" O'Rourke told enthusiastic supporters at a rooftop rally in his hometown of El Paso. \n The 44-year-old third-term congressman took shots at Cruz, who finished second to Donald Trump in last year's Republican presidential primary, saying the state needs a \"senator working full-time for Texas\" rather than \"serving his own interests\" running for president and helping lead a government shutdown in 2013. \n In response Cruz said: \"I welcome him to the race, and will continue to work every day to earn and keep the trust of Texans across our great state.\" \n But in a fundraising email to supporters, Cruz's campaign made clear the coming lines of attack, deriding O'Rourke as an \"unabashed liberal\" without \"any record of achievement, and a progressive ideology out of touch with the majority of Texans.\" \n Picking off Cruz would be a formidable challenge in Republican-friendly Texas, where no Democrat has won statewide since 1994, and O'Rourke will be the acknowledged underdog in the race. He pledged to campaign without pollsters, consultants or PAC money, and may have trouble getting much attention from a national party focused on defending 10 Senate Democrats who are up for re-election next year in states Trump won. \n O'Rourke also may end up facing a primary challenge since fellow Rep. Joaquin Castro is also weighing a bid. \n But O'Rourke said he was fine going forward without help from national Democrats, saying he would take his campaign straight to Texas voters. And with Republicans in control of the Senate 52-48, and scant pickup opportunities for Democrats, he argued that anyone interested in Democrats taking back the Senate majority should pay attention to his race. \n \"Playing defense, while important, is not going to turn people on, it's not exciting, it's not going to capture anyone's imagination,\" O'Rourke said in an interview with The Associated Press shortly after his announcement. \"What's exciting is taking back the Senate, and as far as I can tell the only way to do that is through Texas.\" \n Such an approach could allow O'Rourke to tap into some of the grassroots energy and small-dollar donations that fueled Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign. He recently got attention for going on a 36-hour bipartisan road trip from Texas to Washington with GOP Rep Will Hurd when a snowstorm canceled their flights. They livestreamed much of the journey, causing an internet stir while enduring traffic jams, making fast-food runs and expressing mutual opposition to Trump's proposed border wall. \n O'Rourke said the attention the road trip garnered was a sign of voters' hunger for a bipartisanship that's increasingly rare in Washington. \n The congressman speaks fluent Spanish and switched between it and English in his kickoff speech, pledging support for \"comprehensive immigration reform\" and opposition to Trump's refugee travel ban. He talked about wooing both Democrats and Republicans in Texas, and his support for congressional term limits. \n O'Rourke is the kind of rising political star Democrats hope can help begin turning red Texas blue, aided by a booming Hispanic population and state politics pushed even farther right by Trump and Cruz. He first made a name for himself playing guitar for Foss, an El Paso rock band that included drummer Cedric Bixler-Zavala, who went on to play for the Grammy Award-winning act The Mars Volta. \n He has advocated for legalizing marijuana and wrote a book decrying the federal government's war on drugs. Today, he talked about the opioid addiction crisis sweeping much of the country, noted that many states have stopped filling prisons by \"locking up marijuana convictions\" and said, \"We have an opportunity to end this failed war on drugs.\" \n O'Rourke was elected to the El Paso City Council at age 32 but remained little-known until the 2012 Democratic primary, when he stunned eight-term Rep. Silvestre Reyes, a former House Intelligence chairman. \n O'Rourke was arrested in 1995 for breaking and entering after jumping a fence at the University of Texas at El Paso during what he now says was a prank, but prosecutors declined the case. Three years later, O'Rourke was arrested for drunken driving and received deferred adjudication to avoid conviction, an incident he has called a mistake. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dem congressman kicks off bid to unseat Cruz in Texas"}

