{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Green party presidential candidate Jill Stein meets her supporters during a campaign stop at Humanist Hall in Oakland, Calif. \n RICHMOND, Va. >> Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein has wasted no time trying to swoop in on Bernie Sanders' political revolution. \n She saw a fresh opportunity to woo progressives, climate activists and young radicals when Sanders left the race and threw his support behind Hillary Clinton. \n But Stein has largely been unable to draw crowds quite matching the throngs of angry voters that flocked to her outside the Democratic National Convention. \n The 66-year-old Stein is a doctor by training who's only ever been elected as a town meeting member in Lexington, Massachusetts \u2014 a position requiring a few hundred votes. \n In 2012, her presidential bid couldn't crack 500,000 votes. \n Stein acknowledges she's not really hoping to win the presidency. Instead, she wants to continue to build the legitimacy of the Green Party. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Stein brings activism, but no wins, to outsider 2016 contest"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Snow falls around a sign in Barrow, Alaska. Residents in Barrow, the nation's northernmost community, have voted to change the name of their city back to its traditional Inupiaq name of Utqiagvik. \n ANCHORAGE, Alaska >> Residents in the nation's northernmost community have voted to change the name of the Alaska town to its traditional Inupiat Eskimo name. \n A slight majority of voters in the largely Inupiat city of Barrow approved efforts to change the community's name to Utqiagvik (oot-GHAR-vik) in their local election Oct. 4. The vote was tight, with 381 in favor of the name change and 375 against it. \n \"Basically, it reinforces the cultural identity of the people,\" said Mayor Bob Harcharek, who is not Native. He noted that early day missionaries set up schools in the area where students were forbidden to speak in their native language and were punished if they did so. \"It caused some social psychological problems.\" \n Barrow City Council member Qaiyaan Harcharek, the mayor's son, introduced a local ordinance in August that began the process ratified by voters. The younger Harcharek is Inupiat on his mother's side. \n \"We are now in an era where the reclamation of tradition is critical to the perpetuation of identity as I\u00f1upiat,\" he wrote in an email Friday to The Associated Press. \"The people of Utqiagvik voted to regain our traditional name. Hopefully, it signifies the beginning of a decolonizing revolution. Regaining our traditional names is just one step towards that healing!\" \n Another Alaska community in recent years to change its name is the western Alaska village now known as Numan Iqua, which was known as Sheldon Point until voters approved the new name in 1999. \n Barrow's vote follows a high profile name change in Alaska. Last year, the Obama administration decided to bestow the traditional Alaska Native name to North America's tallest mountain, from Mount McKinley to Denali, an Athabascan word meaning \"the high one.\" \n There's also an ongoing effort to rename Devils Tower National Monument, a giant rock butte in northeast Wyoming. Local American Indians and others are seeking to have it switched to Bear Lodge. \n Among those unhappy with the Barrow change is William Phillips, a non-Native local married to an Inupiat woman. Phillips, who voted against the change, owns the Barrow Souvenirs and Gifts shop and is a 22-year resident of the town located more than 700 miles north of Anchorage. \n \"I think it's stupid,\" he said Friday. \"I do understand how it got passed.\" \n He hasn't decided if he'll change the shop's name as well. \n Philips believes the name change will come with enormous cost to the city to make a slew of changes reflecting the new name. It also will be a huge inconvenience to residents who will now have to change passports, drivers' licenses and other documents. \n Phillips said he understands why people voted in favor of the change, but he doesn't believe everyone knew exactly what the practical impact will be. \n \"Most of the yes votes probably were proud Native people who think they're going to revitalize their culture,\" he said. \"And in fact there's other ways to do that instead of putting all the expenditures right back in the community that we can't afford already.\" \n The city is following state code to implement the change in the Arctic Ocean coastal town of nearly 5,000. Bob Harcharek said a notification was mailed as required to the lieutenant governor's office this week, noting the name change becomes official 45 days after notification. \n Claire Richardson, spokeswoman for Lt. Gov. Byron Mallott, said the paperwork has not yet been received. \n The town was named in 1826 for Sir John Barrow, 2nd Secretary of the British Admiralty, according to the state's community database and other sources. \n It's not immediately clear what the city's new Inupiat name means. \n Some say it means \"a place where snow owls are hunted\" while others say it essentially means a place for gathering potatoes, even though potatoes are not native to the area. \n With the name change, the town also is seeking state approval to change it stop signs to the Inupiat word: \"Nutqagin,\" the mayor said. If necessary, the English word \"Stop\" also will be added, but it will be much smaller than the Native word on the red octagonal sign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Alaska town votes to change its name to Inupiat Eskimo one"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n U.S Secretary of State John Kerry disembarks from his aircraft upon his arrival at the airport in Kigali, Rwanda on Thursday where he is due to attend the 28th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry delivers a speech to the 28th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, in Kigali, Rwanda on Friday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry, center-left at podium, delivers a speech to the 28th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, in Kigali, Rwanda on Friday. \n KIGALI, Rwanda \u00bb Nearly 200 nations have reached a deal to limit the use of greenhouse gases far more powerful than carbon dioxide in a major effort to fight climate change. \n The talks on hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, were called the first test of global will since the historic Paris Agreement to cut carbon emissions was reached last year. HFCs are described as the world's fastest-growing climate pollutant and are used in air conditioners and refrigerators. \n The agreement announced Saturday morning, after all-night negotiations, caps and reduces the use of HFCs in a gradual process beginning by 2019 with action by developed countries including the United States, the world's second-worst polluter. More than 100 developing countries, including China, the world's top carbon emitter, will start taking action by 2024, when HFC consumption levels should peak. \n A small group of countries including India, Pakistan and some Gulf states pushed for and secured a later start in 2028, saying their economies need more time to grow. That's three years earlier than India, the world's third-worst polluter, had first proposed. \n Environmental groups had hoped that the deal could reduce global warming by a half-degree Celsius by the end of this century. This agreement gets about 90 percent of the way there, said Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development. \n Zaelke's group said this is the \"largest temperature reduction ever achieved by a single agreement.\" \n The new agreement is \"equal to stopping the entire world's fossil-fuel CO2 emissions for more than two years,\" David Doniger, climate and clean air program director with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement. \n Experts said they hope that market forces will help speed up the limits agreed to in the deal. \n \"Compromises had to be made, but 85 percent of developing countries have committed to the early schedule starting 2024, which is a very significant achievement,\" Clare Perry, UK Climate Campaign Leader with the Environmental Investigation Agency, said in a statement. \n HFCs were introduced in the 1980s as a substitute for ozone-depleting gases. But their danger has grown as air conditioner and refrigerator sales have soared in emerging economies like China and India. HFCs are also found in inhalers and insulating foams. \n Major economies have debated how fast to phase out HFCs. The United States, whose delegation was led by Secretary of State John Kerry, and Western countries want quick action. Nations such as India want to give their industries more time to adjust. \n Small island states and many African countries had pushed for quick action, saying they face the biggest threat from climate change. \n \"It may not be entirely what the islands wanted, but it is a good deal,\" the minister-in-assistance to the president of the Marshall Islands, Mattlan Zackhras, said in a statement. \"We all know we must go further, and we will go further.\" \n The U.N. says the next meeting in 2017 will determine just how much of the billions of dollars needed to finance the reduction of HFCs will be provided by countries. \n HFCs are less plentiful than carbon dioxide, but Kerry said last month that they currently emit as much pollution as 300 coal-fired power plants each year. That amount will rise significantly over the coming decades as air conditioning units and refrigerators reach hundreds of millions of new people. \n HFCs don't harm the ozone layer like chlorofluorocarbons and similar gases that were eliminated under the 1987 Montreal Protocol. The entire world ratified that agreement, helping to repair holes in the ozone that helps shield the planet from the harmful rays of the sun. The aim of this meeting was to attach an amendment to that treaty dealing specifically with HFCs. \n \"This is about much more than the ozone layer and HFCs. It is a clear statement by all world leaders that the green transformation started in Paris is irreversible and unstoppable,\" Erik Solheim, executive director of the U.N. Environment Program, said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Global deal reached to limit powerful greenhouse gases"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hand crews finish up work on the Emerald Fire along Highway 89, Friday, Oct. 14, 2016 near Lake Tahoe, Nev. A wind-whipped wildfire raged out of control Friday in northern Nevada, destroying more than a dozen homes, forcing evacuations, closing roads and schools, and triggering power outages, officials said. \n RENO, Nev. >> A trio of wind-whipped wildfires burning along the Sierra Nevada destroyed 22 homes north of Carson City, forced hundreds of evacuations at Lake Tahoe and temporarily closed a major highway connecting Reno to the mountain lake. \n Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval declared a state of emergency as hundreds of firefighters battled the most dangerous fire, which is still threatening hundreds of structures in the Washoe Valley along Interstate 580 and U.S. Highway 395 between Reno and Carson City. \n No serious injuries have been reported but four firefighters were treated for smoke inhalation Friday, said Tia Rancourt, spokeswoman for the Sierra Front Interagency Fire Dispatch Center. \n The wildland blaze that continued to burn out of control Friday night has charred about 3 square miles of brush and timber. It forced the closures of numerous schools and roads, and triggered widespread power outages. \n Federal disaster funds were approved late Friday to help cover firefighting costs in the parched area that has only recently shown signs of recovering from a five-year drought \n About 500 firefighters were on the scene Friday night at the so-called Little Valley fire, which broke out about 1:30 a.m. in the mountains between Lake Tahoe and Washoe Valley about 8 miles north of Carson City \n Fire officials reported zero containment, but said crews working in difficult terrain were aided by afternoon rains, and the winds that were gusting in excess of 50 mph died down as the afternoon wore on. \n \"We've made good progress on the homes we are currently protecting,\" said Truckee Meadows Fire Battalion Chief Alex Kukulus. \n But \"we are not out of the woods,\" he told reporters. \"We have active fire in the whole area and still no real containment.\" \n More crews were on their way from as far away as the San Francisco Bay Area. \n \"When we ramp this thing up this evening, we hope to have 1,000 firefighters in the area,\" Kukulus said Friday afternoon. \n In addition to the homes, 17 outbuildings have burned. A fire engine also suffered significant damage. \n Truckee Meadows Fire Protection District Chief Charles Moore said the cause of the blaze was under investigation. But he said it started in an area where a controlled burn was conducted earlier this week. \n The powerful winds fanning the flames reached gusts in excess of 100 mph over the top of the Sierra early Friday. Nearly 10,000 residents were without power at one point. NV Energy said it was restored to all but about 1,000 by 7 p.m. \n Moore said emergency dispatchers received a report of \"a glow\" in hills west of Washoe Valley at 1:38 a.m. \n Crews arrived to find about 5 acres burning. But he said it \"grew rapidly and quickly spread to 50 acres\" in the winds gusting in excess of 70 mph at the time. \n \"It was surreal to wake up to a mountain that was on fire,\" resident Kevin Elvrum told KTVN-TV. \n More than 100 homes and ranches are scattered throughout the rural valley bordering Washoe Lake. The ones that have burned are along the forested edge of the valley where it meets the eastern front of the Sierra just west of the lake. \n One belonged to Dennis Hof, who owns the Moonlite Bunny Ranch brothel east of Carson City. He's running for the state Assembly as a Libertarian in the November election. \n Hof told the Reno Gazette-Journal he wasn't there at the time but neighbors phoned to tell him his house was burning in the forest south of Reno. He posted photos of it reduced to rubble on his Twitter account Friday afternoon. \n Kukulus was hopeful the winds would subside enough early Saturday to allow for the use of some helicopters or air tankers. \n \"We have lots of air ordered up, but yet to put any up because of the wind,\" Kukulus said. \"They are ready at a moment's notice.\" \n Evacuation centers were set up in Reno and Carson City for displaced residents as well as pets and livestock. \n The governor issued an emergency declaration shortly after he left a special session of the Legislature in Carson City around noon to get a briefing on the situation. The fire delayed the start of the session. \n Officials for the Federal Emergency Management Agency authorized the use of U.S. fire management assistance to cover as much as 75 percent of the eligible firefighting costs because the threats posed would constitute a major disaster. \n The fire that prompted the evacuation of 500 homes on the south end of Lake Tahoe was estimated to be 25 percent contained, thanks in part to rain showers from the storm packing the powerful winds. That fire has burned about 200 acres and forced the closure of part of California Highway 89 but fire officials said they were getting the upper hand on the blaze Friday evening. \n Firefighters also snuffed out another fire that destroyed at least one structure and had temporarily closed the Mount Rose Highway connecting Reno to Lake Tahoe. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "22 homes destroyed in northern Nevada wildfire"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "RALEIGH NEWS & OBSERVER / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n President Obama stumps for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in Greensboro, N.C., on Tuesday. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Hillary Clinton is counting on Barack Obama to win her the White House, as the one Democrat who can draw reluctant young voters, African Americans and Hispanics to the polls.  \n But history shows that when his name isn't on the ballot, Obama doesn't always deliver. \n Obama hit the campaign trail for seven Democratic gubernatorial candidates in 2014; five of them lost. And turnout in five neighborhoods where he appeared that year was lower than in the 2010 midterm election. \n In Maryland, one of the most heavily Democratic states in the nation, more than 8,000 people stood in line for hours before packing a high school gym in 2014 to hear Obama stump for Anthony Brown, then the state's lieutenant governor, who was running for governor. \n \"You've got to vote,\" Obama told the cheering crowd in Prince George's County, where he had won 90 percent of the vote two years earlier. \"No excuses.\" \n Two weeks later on Election Day, the crowd had vanished. The same high school was a polling place, but turnout dipped 2.7 percentage points from four years earlier, to 30 percent. It was half what it was when Obama himself was first elected in 2008. Brown lost to Larry Hogan, who became only the second Republican governor in the state in nearly 50 years. \n \"The notion is that Obama is the best surrogate to speak to his strongest supporters to turn out in the support of others,\" Lara Brown, interim director at George Washington University's Graduate School of Political Management, said in an interview. \"But part of his coalition are voters who are not necessarily reliable voters, so I think it is a higher bar for him to try to turn out his voters.\" \n Obama is more popular today than in 2014, with an approval rating that's hovered near or above 50 percent this year. And he's more invested in the 2016 election, which he considers a referendum on his presidency. He plans to spend one to two days a week campaigning for Clinton until Election Day, the White House has said. \n Part of Obama's mission is to increase enthusiasm among \"African Americans, young people, and people of all ages who need an extra boost to remember what is at stake,\" said White House spokeswoman Jennifer Friedman. \n Part of Obama's challenge is that while much of his base turned out for him, personally, the voters have no particular attachment to politics. First-time voters \"caught up in the zeitgeist of electing and re-electing the first African-American president\" are less likely to cast ballots in 2016 than habitual voters, said Andra Gillespie, who teaches political science at Emory University in Atlanta and has studied Obama's effect on turnout. An Obama rally isn't enough to get them to the polls for Clinton, she said. \n \"Rallies are great but rallies don't vote,\" Gillespie said. \"What is important for campaigns to do is work on their ground game.\" \n As Obama's approval ratings dipped to all-time lows in the fall of 2014, many Democratic candidates in competitive races kept the president at arm's length, especially after he announced that his policies \"were on the ballot\" that November. Republicans hammered Democrats with television ads highlighting that remark.  \n The candidates that did invite Obama onto the campaign trail deployed the president specifically to boost turnout among the Democratic base. In each of his seven campaign appearances, Obama visited heavily Democratic communities where he had won at least 85 percent of the vote in 2012 \u2014 including wards in Milwaukee and Chicago that went 99 percent for the president. \n Obama traveled to college campuses and held rallies in predominantly black neighborhoods in Chicago, Philadelphia, Detroit and Bridgeport, Connecticut, to gin up enthusiasm among the young people and minorities that had voted for him in droves. His 2014 campaign sprint offers some insight into how the Clinton team plans to utilize him over the next three weeks as it battles voter apathy. \n After campaigning for Brown in Maryland in October 2014, Obama flew to his home town, where some 6,000 people awaited his arrival at Chicago State University. At the mostly black school, Obama urged voters to get their politically inactive relatives to the polls for then-Gov. Pat Quinn, who was running for re-election. \n \"You've got to find cousin Pookie,\" he said. \"He's sitting on the couch right now watching football; hasn't voted in the last five elections. You've got to grab him and tell him to go vote.\" \n Pookie stayed on the couch. Turnout in Chicago's 9th Ward, where the university is located, fell slightly from 2010, and the city saw an overall 7 percent decline in voting. Quinn lost to venture capitalist Bruce Rauner, who became the first Republican governor of Illinois since 2003. \n In Philadelphia's Ward 47, where Obama led a November rally for gubernatorial contender Tom Wolf, voter turnout fell to 24 percent, with fewer than half the people who backed Obama in 2012 casting ballots. Wolf still managed to defeat incumbent Republican Tom Corbett, whose approval ratings at the time were among the nation's lowest. \n To be sure, Obama faced historic odds as he tried to motivate voters during a midterm election in which the majority of Americans stayed home. Nationwide, turnout fell to a 72-year low, as only 36 percent of eligible voters cast ballots. \n As is typical during recent midterm elections, Republicans were more likely to vote than Democrats. Even in Portland, Maine, which saw an increase in turnout after Obama's 2014 visit, the Democratic candidate for governor lost amid a Republican wave. Republicans also picked up the governorship in heavily Democratic Massachusetts, where Obama held no campaign events. \n The political dynamic has turned sharply in Clinton's favor over the past two weeks, though, after she bested Republican Donald Trump in their first debate and a 2005 video emerged of Trump boasting about groping women. After he said, in his second debate with Clinton, that he never committed the acts described in the video, at least five women came forward with accusations that he had groped or otherwise assaulted them. \n Trump has denied the allegations. With his campaign in turmoil, he's resorting to a turnout strategy of his own: an attempt to suppress enthusiasm and votes for Clinton by focusing on her husband Bill Clinton's infidelities, in the hope that young, socially liberal voters unfamiliar with the former president's sex scandals will become disillusioned. \n Obama could be particularly effective at persuading black voters to cast ballots for Clinton, said Alexsis Rodgers, political director for the Virginia Young Democrats. In 2012, blacks voted at a higher rate than whites for the first time, according to Census figures. \n Some young people and black voters are \"a little apathetic\" about this election, Rodgers said, but could be motivated by a personal appeal from Obama. Other Clinton surrogates including first lady Michelle Obama and Sen. Bernie Sanders are also trying explicitly to reach disaffected voters. \n It's especially difficult to project turnout this year, said Geoffrey Skelley, associate editor of Sabato's Crystal Ball, the University of Virginia Center for Politics newsletter on campaigns. Polls show Americans are watching the race more closely than previous ones, but are also more turned off by what they see, he said. \n When Obama was on the ballot, Obama-driven turnout was crucial, helping decide close elections in 2008 and 2012 in competitive states like North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania, said William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution in Washington. \n Frey ran a model of the 2012 election, adjusting the turnout to 2004 levels, that determined former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney may have won if the Obama coalition stayed home. \n \"It was pretty close,\" he said in a telephone interview. \"Turnout made a difference.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n (With assistance from Joshua Green)  \n \u2014\u2014  \n \u00a92016 Bloomberg News  \n ", "author": "By Toluse Olorunnipa Bloomberg News", "title": "Obama's persuasive power put to test as Clinton seeks turnout"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Customers walk into a Wells Fargo bank in Pembroke Pines, Fla. \n NEW YORK >> It's going to get worse for Wells Fargo before it gets better. \n In the wake of the biggest scandal in the bank's 164-year history, distrustful customers are not opening as many checking accounts or applying for credit cards, and branch visits and meetings between customers and bankers are down, too. \n Wells has also been hit with several lawsuits from customers, employees and shareholders. There are calls from politicians for fraud charges against the bank. And Wells almost surely faces settlements and fines way beyond the $185 million it agreed to pay regulators when the scandal broke wide open last month. \n Or, as Wells Fargo executives put it to Wall Street analysts, using what has become a remarkably common term in this age of corporate malfeasance, the bank's legal expenses are likely to be \"lumpy.\" \n Wells Fargo executives, including newly appointed CEO Tim Sloan, are having trouble quantifying what the long-term effect on the bottom line will be. \n Investors expect Wells to walk away from this crisis mostly intact, but it is apparent that the bank's recovery will be long and arduous. \n For now, \"our immediate priority is restoring trust in Wells Fargo,\" Sloan said in a conference call with investors Friday. \n The San Francisco-based bank is engulfed in a crisis that started in mid-September, when Wells reached a settlement over allegations that its employees opened up to 2 million bank and credit card accounts without customers' authorization in order to meet high sales goals. \n Under pressure from politicians and investors, CEO John Stumpf abruptly retired on Wednesday. \n On Friday, Wells reported third-quarter earnings of $5.6 billion, down from $5.8 billion a year earlier. That is not a good measure of the effects of the scandal, which didn't break until the quarter was nearly over. \n But at Wells' 6,000 U.S. branches, there are signs that customers are backing away, even though the bank says it clamped down on the abuses over a year ago. \n Wells reported a drop in what it calls banker and teller \"interactions\" in September from both a year ago and from August. Also, consumer checking account openings dropped 25 percent in September from a year earlier and 30 percent from August. Consumer applications for Wells credit cards also fell sharply in September. \n In addition, referrals for mortgages from Wells' retail branches were down 24 percent from August. Wells is the nation's biggest mortgage lender. \n What all of this could mean for Wells' balance sheet is difficult to quantify. Not every credit card application will result in an opened credit card account. Not every account opened will get used, carry a balance, and get charged interest. \n \"We are beginning to try to calculate whether there will be a trend at all,\" Wells Fargo CFO John Shrewsberry said in an interview. \"The income implications for us, if at all, are down the road.\" \n To help recover from the scandal, Wells has announced a series of changes in how it deals with customers. Every customer will get an email after an account is opened to confirm the person opened it, and electronic signatures will be required on all new checking, savings and credit card account applications. \n The bank is also eliminating sales goals for its employees and announced a new \"mystery shopper\" program in which people will go undercover as customers to make sure employees are doing their jobs right. \n Wells is also taking steps to ensure that employees who call the bank's ethics hotline to report abuses are not retaliated against, something that is said to have happened in the past. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "After the scandal, Wells Fargo's damage becomes apparent"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thai people line up to pay their respects to King Bhumibol Adulyadej during a memorial at Wat Thai Temple in the North Hollywood section of Los Angeles on Friday. The world's longest-reigning monarch died at 88 on Thursday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thai Buddhist Monks line up to pay their respects during a memorial for Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej, at Wat Thai Temple in the North Hollywood section of Los Angeles on Friday. The world's longest-reigning monarch died at 88 on Thursday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Thai woman holds a picture of the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej while waiting to pay respect to him outside the Grand Palace in Bangkok, Thailand on Saturday. Thais in their thousands, dressed in somber black and white, descended on the Grand Palace complex on Saturday to mourn the death of King Bhumibol, but were met with the unexpected closure of the palace. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People pay their respects during a memorial for Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej during a memorial at Wat Thai Temple in the North Hollywood section of Los Angeles on Friday. The world's longest-reigning monarch died at 88, on Thursday. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Thai woman cries as she clasps hands with others to pay her last respects to a van carrying the body of the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej driving past outside Grand Palace in Bangkok, Thailand on Friday. Bhumibol, the world's longest reigning monarch, died on Thursday at the age of 88. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Thai Royal Guard march outside the Grand Palace on Friday prior to a religious ceremony for the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej in Bangkok, Thailand. Bhumibol, the world's longest reigning monarch, died on Thursday at the age of 88. \n BANGKOK \u00bb Thais in their thousands, dressed in somber black and white, descended on the Grand Palace in Bangkok on Saturday to mourn the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, but were met with the unexpected closure of the complex. \n The crowds lining outside since dawn were subdued and orderly despite the swelling numbers. People shared food and handed each other water and wet towels to cope with the Southeast Asian heat. Around midmorning, police announced the palace was closed for seven days. Still, most people waiting remained outside and authorities soon announced entry would be allowed into the palace's Sala Sahathai Samakhom Hall as a place to pay respects for limited hours in the afternoon. \n \"I left home at 6 a.m to come here,\" said Rakchadaporn Unnankad, a Bangkok office worker. \"We were queuing for so long before they told us that we can't go inside the palace. There were people who have been here since 4-5 a.m.,\" she said. \n \"My tears started flowing out of me without my realizing,\" the 24-year-old said, recalling the news of Bhumibol's death. \"I didn't even want to hear the announcement.\" \n Buddhist funeral ceremonies began at the Grand Palace on Friday after a royal motorcade led by a van carrying Bhumibol's body and monks drove to the palace from nearby Siriraj Hospital, where the king died Thursday aged 88. \n People sat four to five rows deep on both sides of the road, sobbing openly and bowing as the convoy passed. Most held portraits of the king in regal yellow robes. Some pulled currency notes from their wallets: all bank notes carry the king's face. Many had camped 24 hours since Thursday. \n Bhumibol's death after 70 years on the throne was a momentous event in Thailand, where the monarch has been glorified as an anchor for a fractious society that for decades has been turned on its head by frequent coups. Thailand suffered particularly intense political turmoil in the past 10 years that pitted arch-royalists against forces seeking a redistribution of economic and political power. \n But in recent years, Bhumibol had suffered from a variety of illnesses and seemed far removed from the upheavals of Thai politics, including the 2014 coup that brought Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, an army general, to power. \n \"His death means that the Thai political system must find an alternative focal point around which to unite the country's factionalized population,\" said Tom Pepinsky, a Southeast Asia expert at Cornell University. \n He said one challenge that royalists will face is the possibility that the monarchy's popularity would be undermined by the crowning of heir apparent Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, who does not command the same respect his father did. \n The government on Thursday unexpectedly announced that the crown prince did not want to be immediately named king to give the nation time to mourn. \n Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam said that the head of the Privy Council, which is an advisory body to the king, is automatically the regent until a new monarch is crowned. \n There was no official statement that the council's head, 96-year-old Prem Tinsulanonda, had been named regent, creating uncertainty, but Wissanu said an announcement wasn't needed because the process is mandated by Thailand's Constitution. \n For ordinary Thais, the focus was on mourning Bhumibol not the succession. \n \"I haven't even started to think about that, I'm still in mourning over the king,\" said Rakchadaporn, the office worker. \n Another mourner, 48-year-old Suchart Warachawanwanich, said it was \"appropriate\" to not immediately accept the crown and let the nation grieve first. \n A one-year mourning period for the government has been declared together with a 30-day moratorium on state and official events. But no substantial demands have been made of the private sector. \n The government has only urged people to refrain from organizing entertainment events for a month, apparently mindful of the need to ensure that the sputtering economy, which relies heavily on tourism, does not suffer too much. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Somber Thais flock to palace to honor dead king"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / JAQUINO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A man tends to a section of railing Monday as security officials over see the operation at Ala Moana Center. Two men fell four stories after the railing gave way Sunday night. One man died, the other was in critical condition. \n The city issued a Notice of Violation to GGP Ala Moana LLC, the owner of Ala Moana Center, today after Department of Planning and Permitting inspectors found rust and spalling in metal railings at the mall, which was the site of a fatal fall Sunday. \n A man was killed and another critically injured after they fell four stories when a railing collapsed near the Hookipa Terrace Sunday night. Following the incident, DPP inspected Hawaii's largest mall Monday and Tuesday. \n Inspectors found evidence of rust where the collapsed rail was embedded in the concrete, as well as on other railings in the general vicinity, the city said in a press release this afternoon. \n The notice was issued to GGP Ala Moana, an affiliate of General Growth Properties. \n GGP has 30 days to obtain a building permit and repair the deteriorated posts, the city said. Failure to do so could lead to an initial fine of $100 and $100 each day the violation is not corrected. \n \"The evidence indicates a safety issue with the railings and we issued a Notice of Violation, which requires the owner to apply for a building permit to repair or replace the damaged railings,\" said Art Challacombe, the city's acting director of planning and permitting. \"Our top priority is the health and safety of the public.\" \n Francis Cofran, Ala Moana Center general manager, said in a statement that \"Ala Moana will comply with all requirements as indicated in the notices in a timely manner.\" \n Desman Design Management, a structural engineering firm, has begun an additional assessment of all railings on the property, Cofran said. \"As previously stated, all necessary repairs will be made,\" he said. \n \"The safety and welfare of our customers and employees is a matter that we take very seriously and always address as a priority,\" Cofran said. \"Our hearts go out to the families and all those affected by this tragic event.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "City cites Ala Moana Center for rusted railings after fatal fall"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / JUNE 22, 2012 \n The Coast Guard cutter Kittiwake enters Honolulu Harbor in this 2012 photo. \n The Coast Guard says a search is on for a missing free diver near Maui. \n The Coast Guard says the diver is 40-year-old Josh Goodwin. He was last seen on shore in Hana. He was expected to swim out to a friend about 200 yards offshore but never arrived. \n Goodwin is 6 feet 2 inches with dark hair. He was last seen wearing a blue shirt. \n The Coast Guard is sending a helicopter crew and the crew of the vessel Kittiwake to look for Goodwin. Divers and aircraft from the Maui fire and police departments are also looking. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Coast Guard searching for missing diver near Maui"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "SEDGWICK COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE VIA AP \n This Friday booking photo provided by the Sedgwick County Sheriff's Office in Wichita, Kan., shows Patrick Eugene Stein, left, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen. \n THE WICHITA EAGLE VIA AP \n FBI Special Agent in Charge Eric Jackson talks about the FBI's roll in stopping a bomb plot. Acting U.S. Attorney Tom Beall, left, announced Friday a major federal investigation stopped a domestic terrorism plot by a militia group to detonate a bomb at a Garden City apartment complex where a number of Somalis live. \n WICHITA, Kan. \u00bb Three members of a Kansas militia group are accused of plotting to bomb an apartment complex that's home to Somali immigrants in the western Kansas meatpacking town of Garden City, a thwarted attack prosecutors say was planned for the day after the November election. \n A complaint unsealed Friday charges Curtis Wayne Allen, 49; Patrick Eugene Stein, 47; and Gavin Wayne Wright, 49, with conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction. The men are members of a small militia group that calls itself \"the Crusaders,\" and whose members espouse sovereign citizen, anti-government, anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant extremist beliefs, according to the complaint. \n Prosecutors said the men don't yet have attorneys. Publicly listed phone numbers for the men couldn't immediately be found. Their first court appearance is Monday. \n The arrests were the culmination of an eight-month FBI investigation that took agents \"deep into a hidden culture of hatred and violence,\" Acting U.S. Attorney Tom Beall said. \n The complaint alleges group members chose the target based on their hatred for Muslims, people of Somali descent and immigrants \u2014 and out of a desire to inspire other militia groups and \"wake people up.\" \n The FBI began a domestic terrorism investigation of the group in February, and a confidential source attended its meetings in southwestern Kansas. \n In a June meeting, Stein brought up the Orlando nightclub shooting and proposed carrying out a similar attack against Muslim refugees in Garden City, according to the complaint. They ultimately decided to target the apartment complex because of the number of Somalis who lived there and the fact that one of the apartments was used as a mosque. The complex houses about 120 Somali residents, Beall said. \n The complaint said Stein discussed the explosives used in the 1995 bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City by Timothy McVeigh. \n The men, who were arrested in Liberal on Friday morning, performed surveillance of the apartment building and prepared a manifesto, Beall said. \n In a profanity-laced conference call that law enforcement monitored, Stein said the only way \"this country's ever going to get turned around is it will be a bloodbath,\" according to the complaint. \n If convicted, the men could be sentenced to up to life in federal prison without parole. \n Heidi Beirich, director of the Southern Poverty Law Center's Intelligence Project, called the details of the plot disturbing, saying it \"should serve as a warning to those who traffic in the politics of fear and bigotry.\" \n Garden City is home to a Tyson Foods beef slaughterhouse that has drawn a diverse immigrant population to the area. \n Dr. John Birky, who's helping to create a clinic and working with refugees on a language program, said some local residents fear the refugees, mistakenly associating them with militants in Somalia. \n \"People do express more of a general sentiment of, 'Why are we letting these refugees in here? Why are we? They're taking our jobs, plus they're Muslim,'\" he said. \n Garden City Mayor Chris Law said in a statement that he was shocked by the planned attack, and Birky called it \"crazy.\" \n Birky said between 300 and 500 Somali refugees live in the area. The state Department for Children and Families said that of the 906 refugees who arrived in Kansas from October 2014 through January 2016, 68 were from Somalia, or 7.5 percent. \n Birky said most are fleeing militants in Somalia and want to assimilate once they reach Kansas. \n \"They're trying to make a better life for their families here,\" he said. \"They want to pursue the American dream.\" \n The case is the latest involving militia groups in the state. Earlier this year, a planned armed protest outside a Wichita mosque prompted the Islamic Society of Wichita to cancel an appearance by a speaker whom protesters believed supported terrorism. \n The Justice Department's National Security Division created a new position a year ago to help coordinate investigations into violent homegrown extremism. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 militia men accused of plotting to bomb Somalis in Kansas"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "WENDY OSHER / OCT. 19, 2009 \n A sign warning of a shark sighting was posted following an attack on a surfer near Kihei, Maui. \n A 66-year-old Washington state woman was injured in a suspected shark attack in waters off Charley Young Beach in Kihei this morning. \n Maui County Fire Services Chief Edward Taomoto said the woman sustained injuries to her lower leg, and was transported to Maui Memorial Medical Center in serious condition after the attack, which occurred shortly before 10 a.m. \n The woman, a part-time Kihei resident, had been snorkeling in waters about 40 feet from the shore at a depth of seven feet when the attack occurred, according to a state Department of Land and Natural Resources news release. \n A nearby stand-up paddleboarder heard the woman yell for help an responded to the scene. The paddler pulled the woman onto the board and brought her to shore. Also, a visitor from Washington state swam out to assist her. \n Two nurses and a firefighter from the mainland who were on vacation treated the woman on the beach before lifeguards arrived, according to a Maui County Fire Department news release. \n There were no witnesses to confirm a shark sighting, but the woman's injuries are consistent to that of a shark bite, officials said. Ocean conditions at the time of the attack were described as calm but \"somewhat murky,\" according to the state Department of Land and Natural Resources. \n Lifeguards patrolled waters by jet ski to warn ocean users about the incident. Also on the scene were staff members with DLNR's Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement and Division of Aquatic Resources. \n Shark warning signs were posted along the coastline from Kalama Park to Kamaole Beach Park III. Signs will remain posted until noon Saturday when waters will be reassessed. \n According to the state's website on shark incidents in Hawaii waters, today's incident marks the fifth apparent shark attack that has occurred on Maui this year. \n >> Aug. 6 \u2014 A stand-up paddler was paddling about one mile off of Hamakuapoko Beach in Paia when a tiger shark, estimated at 10 feet long, bit the hydrofoil of the paddleboard. There was no report of injury. \n >> May 3 \u2014 A swimmer was floating in the water about 40 yards from the shore at Wailea Beach when a shark attacked the swimmer. The swimmer suffered minor lacerations to the right shoulder. The length and species of the shark was unknown. \n >> March 3 \u2014 A snorkeler was about 450 yards off of Olowalu Beach when an eight-foot tiger attacked her. The snorkeler suffered minor lacerations to her left foot. \n >> Jan. 23 \u2014 A stand-up paddler was about 150 to 200 yards off of Wailea Beach when a 10-to-12 foot tiger shark bit the tail of the board. The paddler was uninjured. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Woman suffers leg injuries in Maui shark attack"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "KAUAI POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Jeffrey Simpson \n A Kapaa man was charged for allegedly shooting his roommate at their home on Kauai. \n Jeffrey Scot Simpson, 57, was charged with second-degree attempted murder, two counts of first-degree reckless endangering and carrying or use of a firearm in the commission of a separate felony. \n He pleaded not guilty to the charges before Kauai District Judge Jonathan Chun Thursday. Simpson is being held in lieu of $53,000 cash bail, and is scheduled to make his initial appearance on Oct. 26 at Fifth Circuit Court. \n The shooting occurred Sunday at a home on Kamalu Road. Officers found a 52-year-old man lying on the floor in his bedroom with gunshot wounds to his face and chest. \n He was transported to Wilcox Hospital and flown to Queen's Medical Center in serious but stable condition. \n Police said Simpson lives at the home with the victim and several other roommates. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kapaa man charged in shooting of roommate"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / MAY 2012 \n Then-Honolulu police officer Jody Buddemeyer placed a candle on a memorial honoring fallen HPD officers during the 2012 Honolulu Police Department Police Week Memorial Service in May 2012 at the State Capitol rotunda. Hawaii County police say Buddemeyer was on duty last year while driving in South Kohala when he hit Jeffrey Surnow of West Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. \n HILO \u00bb A former officer with the Hawaii Police Department has been indicted for negligent homicide, evidence tampering and making a false report after allegedly hitting and killing a bicyclist from Michigan with his car. \n Jody Buddemeyer was on duty last year while driving in South Kohala when the vehicle he was driving struck avid bicyclist Jeffrey Surnow of West Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, police said. \n Firefighters found Surnow, a real estate developer, lying face-down near a severely damaged bike. The fire department called it a hit-and-run. \n Buddemeyer was later terminated from the department for removing evidence from a crime scene and providing false information after being in a traffic collision, according to an annual police misconduct report provided to state lawmakers. \n The Hilo newspaper asked Roth why it took so long to charge Buddemeyer. \n \"With these cases, oftentimes there's forensic evidence and oftentimes cases go back and forth between the police and the prosecutors,\" Roth said. \"Prosecutors are asking for further evidence and things like that.\" \n Buddemeyer couldn't immediately be reached for comment. It's not clear if he has an attorney. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-Big Isle police officer indicted in bicyclist's death"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Summer Zervos, foreground left, alongside her attorney Gloria Allred, foreground center, address the media during a news conference in Los Angeles, Friday Oct. 14, 2016. Zervos, a former contestant on \"The Apprentice\" says Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump made unwanted sexual contact with her at a Beverly Hills hotel in 2007. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Summer Zervos, right, reads a statement alongside her attorney Gloria Allred during a news conference in Los Angeles, Friday. Zervos, a former contestant on \"The Apprentice\" says Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump made unwanted sexual contact with her at a Beverly Hills hotel in 2007. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump spoke during a campaign rally, today, in Greensboro, N.C. \n LOS ANGELES \u00bb Two more women came forward Friday to accuse Donald Trump of unwanted sexual touching, including a former contestant from a reality show that starred the Republican presidential nominee. \n The latest accounts come after several women reported in recent days that Trump groped or kissed them without their consent. \n At a campaign rally in North Carolina on Friday, Trump sought to discredit his accusers. He said because there were no witnesses to the interactions, the allegations were not credible. \n \"Right now I am being viciously attacked with lies and smears,\" Trump said at an outdoor amphitheater. \"It's a phony deal. I have no idea who these women are.\" \n Trump also suggested the women who have come forward to accuse him were not physically attractive enough to merit his attention. \"Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you,\" he said when speaking of one of the women. \n Summer Zervos, a former contestant on \"The Apprentice,\" said Trump made unwanted sexual advances toward her at a Beverly Hills hotel in 2007, while photographer Kristin Anderson alleged Trump sexually assaulted her in a New York nightclub in the early 1990s. \n Zervos, 41, appeared at a news conference Friday with Gloria Allred, a well-known Los Angeles attorney. Zervos was a contestant on \"The Apprentice\" in 2006 and said she later contacted Trump to inquire about a job with one of his businesses. \n Zervos said she had an initial meeting with Trump, where he discussed a potential job with her. When they parted, he kissed her on the lips and asked for her phone number, she said. \n She said weeks later Trump called to invite her to meet him at the Beverly Hills Hotel, where she said she was expecting to have dinner with the New York billionaire. Instead, she described a series of unwanted kisses and touching by Trump, which she said she repeatedly rejected. \n \"He tried to kiss me again \u2026 and I said, 'Dude, you're tripping right now,' attempting to make it clear I was not interested,\" she said. \n Zervos said Trump eventually stopped and began talking as if they were in a job interview. She said she was later offered a low-paying job at a Trump-owned golf course. \n At the time, Trump had recently married his third and current wife, Melania Trump, and the couple had an infant son. \n Zervos said she is a Republican and has no political agenda in coming forward. Allred said her client told her parents and others about the incident shortly after it occurred. \n In a statement released by his campaign, Trump denied he was ever alone in a hotel room with Zervos and claimed to have only a vague recollection of meeting her. He lashed out at the media for creating \"a theater of absurdity that threatens to tear our democratic process apart and poison the minds of the American public.\" \n Late Friday, the Trump campaign released a statement in which a cousin of Servos said he was \"shocked and bewildered\" by her account. \n John Barry of Mission Viejo, California, said in the statement that Zervos \"wishes she could still be on reality TV, and in an effort to get that back she's saying all of these negative things about Mr. Trump.\" \n In a story published online Friday, Anderson told The Washington Post that she was sitting on a couch with friends at a New York nightclub in the early 1990s when someone's hand reached up her skirt and touched her through her underwear. \n Anderson, then in her early 20s, said she pushed the hand away, turned around and recognized Trump as the man who had groped her. Then recently divorced, Trump was then a frequent presence in the New York tabloids, and he was regular presence on the Manhattan club scene. \n \"He was so distinctive looking \u2014 with the hair and the eyebrows. I mean, nobody else has those eyebrows,\" Anderson, 46, told the newspaper. She said the assault was random and occurred with \"zero conversation.\" \n Anderson did not respond to a phone message from The Associated Press. She told the newspaper said she does not back Trump or Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee. \n The Post said it contacted Anderson after a friend she had told about the incident recounted it to a reporter. Other friends also told the Post that Anderson recounted the same story to them years ago. \n Zervos' and Anderson's decisions to speak publicly about her experience follows last week's disclosure by the Post of a 2005 video in which Trump boasted that his celebrity gave him the ability to grab women \"by the p\u2014\u2014. You can do anything.\" Trump apologized for those remarks, but also dismissed them as \"locker-room talk.\" \n Also Friday, Melinda McGillivray, 36, of Palm Springs, Florida, told the AP that Trump's denial in last Sunday's presidential debate that he had ever groped women prompted her to come forward after years of brushing off an incident from 2003. \n She told The Palm Beach Post for a story published on Thursday that while she was backstage at a concert at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort, when he grabbed her buttocks. \n \"I wanted to do this so I can be a role model for my daughter,\" McGillivray said. \"I wanted to be that courageous woman that she sees every day, but in that moment she saw vulnerability and she saw a scared little girl.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump denounces 'lies and smears' as more women come forward"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Delta Air Lines planes were parked at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, in Washington, on Aug. 8. \n DETROIT \u00bb At first, all Dr. Tamika Cross wanted to do was get home to Houston after a wedding in Detroit. \n But while on a Delta Air Lines flight Sunday, Cross also wanted to act on the ideals of her profession \u2014 and assist a man a few seats ahead of her who was having a health crisis. Yet \u2014 as she relates on her Facebook page \u2014 Cross, who is African-American, got an unexpected rebuff from a flight attendant who doubted she was a physician. \n The in-flight encounter, according to Cross, began when the sick man, after some initial yells for help, became unresponsive, prompting a flight attendant to shout, \"Call overhead for a physician onboard.\" As Dr. Cross recounts on her Facebook posting: \n \"I raised my hand to grab her attention. She said to me, 'Oh no, sweetie. Put your hand down. We are looking for actual physicians or nurses or some type of medical personnel. We don't have time to talk to you.' \n \"I tried to inform her that I was a physician but I was continually cut off by condescending remarks. Then, overhead they paged 'any physician onboard, please press your button.' I stare at her as I go to press my button. She said, \"Oh, wow, you're an actual physician?' I reply yes. She said, 'Let me see your credentials. What type of doctor are you? Where do you work? Why were you in Detroit?' \n \"(Please remember, this man is still in need of help and she is blocking my row from even standing up while bombarding me with questions.) \n \"I respond, ob-gyn, work in Houston, in Detroit for a wedding, but believe it or not, they DO HAVE doctors in Detroit. Now excuse me so I can help the man in need.\" \n By that time, however, a white man approached the area and announces that he is a doctor, according to Cross' posting. \n \"She says to me, 'Thanks for your help but he can help us, and he has his credentials.' Mind you, he hasn't shown anything to her. Just showed up and fit the 'description of a doctor.' I stay seated.\" According to her posting the attendant later apologized and offered her sky miles. \n Cross is a fourth-year resident in the obstetrics-gynecology department of the University of Texas Health System in Houston, according to the school's website \u2014 meaning she is licensed to practice medicine although not fully certified in her specialty. She did not respond Wednesday to email inquiries apparently because she was too busy, according to the health system's media relations manager Deborah Lake. \n \"Dr. Cross has been in surgery or on the floor of the hospital all day,\" Lake said. \n Delta spokeswoman Liz Savadelis, reached at the airline's headquarters in Atlanta, said the company was aware of the complaint by Dr. Cross and released the following statement: \"Discrimination of any kind is never acceptable. We've been in contact with Dr. Cross and one of our senior leaders is reaching out to assure her that we're completing a full investigation.\" \n ", "author": "By Tribune News Service", "title": "Doctor charges bias on Delta flight from Detroit"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ROSEMARIE BERNARDO / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Firefighters pulled an 88-year-old man out of a burning Waipahu home early this morning. \n An 88-year-old man was taken to the hospital in critical condition after a fire broke out in his Waipahu home early today. \n At 5:52 a.m., firefighters responded to a two-alarm fire at the single-story home on Kipou Street. Thirty-one firefighters responded and observed smoke and flames emanating from the Ewa side of the home, according to Honolulu Fire spokesman Capt. David Jenkins. \n Neighbors informed firefighters the resident was still inside the home. Firefighters located the man inside his living room, trying to escape the fire. \n They brought him outside and treated him. Honolulu Fire Battalion Chief John Pacheco said he was breathing and conscious at the time yet was transported to the hospital by Emergency Medical Services in critical condition. \n The blaze was extinguished at 6:24 a.m. Pacheco said the fire was confined to the living room. It's believed the fire started at the corner of the room. \n The cause of the fire and damage estimate to the home has yet to be determined. \n Neighbor Madelyn Guieb said she heard her dog incessantly barking and peered outside her window. She saw smoke coming from her neighbor's living room window and flames inside. \n She woke up her husband who jumped out of bed after she alerted him of the fire next door. He grabbed the garden hose and shot water toward the window in attempt to control the fire. Meanwhile, Guieb called 911. \n She often would see her 88-year-old neighbor tending to his plants and front lawn. \n \"I'm praying he's going to be OK,\" said Guieb. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Waipahu man in critical condition after rescue from burning home"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for a male suspect who allegedly shot in the direction of a 60-year-old man in Kalihi after an altercation. \n At approximately 7:30 p.m. Thursday, police said the suspect damaged the victim's property valued at more than $500. An altercation occurred between the two men and the suspect fired a handgun in the direction of the victim before he fled in a vehicle, police said. \n There were no injuries reported. Police said there are no arrests at this time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Kalihi shooting prompts attempted murder investigation"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A worker selected cigars, in March 2013, at the H. Upmann cigar factory, where people can take tours as part of the 15th annual Cigar Festival in Havana, Cuba. The Obama administration announced today, it is eliminating a $100 limit on the value of Cuban rum and cigars that American travelers can bring back from the island. \n The Obama administration announced today that it is eliminating a $100 limit on the value of Cuban rum and cigars that American travelers can bring back from the island. \n The administration is also lifting limits on cargo ship travel between the U.S. and Cuba and easing U.S. and Cuban researchers' ability to conduct joint medical research. The measures are contained in a package of relatively small-scale regulatory changes meant to ease U.S. trade with Cuba. \n The Obama administration has now made six sets of changes loosening the U.S. trade embargo on Cuba in the hopes that the normalization of relations with the island will not be reversed by a future administration. This round is expected to be the last before President Barack Obama leaves office. \n Cuban rum and cigars will now be subject to the same duties as alcohol and tobacco from other countries, meaning most travelers will be able to bring back as many as 100 cigars and several bottles of rum. Because high-end Cuban cigars can sell for more than $100 apiece outside Cuba, every U.S. traveler can now legally bring back many thousands of dollars of Cuban products, potentially generating hundreds of millions of dollars in new annual revenue for the Cuban state. \n The change does not mean that Cuban rum and cigars will be available for sale in the U.S. \u2014 the change is aimed at tobacco and alcohol brought home for personal use. \n The previous limit restricted travelers to a combined value of $100 in rum and cigars, although enforcement of the limit notably declined after President Barack Obama declared detente with Cuba on Dec. 17, 2014. \n The administration has described its policy goal as aimed at helping the Cuban people improve their lives by winning greater economic and political freedom from the single-party state. \n \"Challenges remain \u2013 and very real differences between our governments persist on issues of democracy and human rights \u2013 but I believe that engagement is the best way to address those differences and make progress on behalf of our interests and values,\" Obama said in a statement announcing the changes. \n Rum and cigar production is entirely government-run under Cuba's centrally planned communist economy. While the first regulatory changes focused narrowly on helping Cuba's growing private sector, today's new rules are almost entirely aimed at similarly state-run industries including shipping and medical products. \n The package of regulatory changes announced today also allows cargo ships to visit U.S. ports directly after docking in Cuba. They had been barred from U.S. ports for 180 days after visiting Cuba. Cuba blamed that measure for harming its ability to import and export and dampening hopes that a new military-run port in the city of Mariel could serve as a major link in the regional cargo shipping system. \n A senior Obama administration official said the new regulations' focus on Cuban state enterprise should not be interpreted as a shift away from helping ordinary Cubans. \n \"We have designed the policy very much to have the maximum benefit to the Cuban people, broadly, but in so doing we are not restricting engagement with the Cuban state. That has been clear since Dec. 17, 2014,\" the official said in a conference call with reporters held on condition of anonymity. \"The Cuban people continue to be at the center of everything we're doing.\" \n More than 160,000 American travelers visited Cuba last year and that figure is expected to double this year. Hundreds of thousands of Cuban-Americans visit family on the island each year and will also be able to take advantage of the new measure, which comes a month and a half before the restart of commercial flights to Havana after more than 50 years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.S. removes limits on bringing in Cuban rum, cigars"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Remnants of the old shrimping village sat along the shore, on Sept. 29, at China Camp State Park in San Rafael, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A small memorial to Frank Quan was seen, on Sept. 29, outside the snack stand he ran at China Camp State Park in San Rafael, Calif. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n China Camp State Park at dawn in San Rafael, Calif. on Sept. 29. When the last resident of a ramshackle Chinese shrimping village died, so did a living link to a bit of history little known outside the hikers and bikers who frequent this sparkling spot in Northern California's Marin County. \n SAN RAFAEL, Calif. \u00bb When the last resident of a ramshackle Chinese shrimping village died, so did a link to a history little known outside the hikers and bikers who visit this shoreline park in Northern California's Marin County. \n Frank Quan was days from his 91st birthday when he died of natural causes in August at China Camp State Park. His fishing village was among more than two dozen around the San Francisco Bay Area that provided sanctuary for immigrants fleeing growing anti-Chinese sentiment in the 19th century. \n In his long life, Quan watched as the village that once housed hundreds dwindled in size, eventually becoming a state park that had to fight off closure. \n The World War II veteran is scheduled to be honored Saturday at a public memorial featuring Chinese lion dancers, a U.S. Navy flag ceremony and music from the 1940s, his favorite. \n Friends and family described Quan as the embodiment of the historic village, a reticent man who became the face of a place nurtured and destroyed by prejudice. In doing so, he helped preserve its legacy. \n \"He had to fight his shyness. But he tried because he was in the public eye, and he served the public and the park, and he had to be outgoing,\" says Georgette Quan Dahlka, a cousin who also grew up in China Camp and later ran a small snack shack with Quan at the park. \n At its peak in the 1880s the camp north of San Francisco housed about 500 people and had general stores, a marine supply store and barber shop. Residents caught and shipped shrimp back to China. \n By the time Quan was born, however, the village was declining. The 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act shut out new immigrants. Later, lawmakers banned shrimp exports as well as the net bags used by Chinese. \n \"We used to pull out 3 million pounds of shrimp a year around here. One boat could bring in two tons a day,\" Quan told The Associated Press in 2011. \"It's hard to see this all go to hell in a lifetime.\" \n Quan was the oldest of four children born to Henry and Grace Quan, a white woman who had to marry her husband in Nevada because California prohibited mixed-race marriages at the time. \n Quan's grandfather had come from China and opened a general store at the camp. Henry and his brother George grew up to operate the family's shrimping business, boat rentals and cafe. Their six children helped out after school. \n Frank wanted to be an architect, says sister Bertha Quan Chew, but he returned to the village after their father died in 1950. He became the shrimper, helping support their mother and aunt, also widowed. \n \"He knew he couldn't do what he wanted to do. He had to take care of the family,\" she said on a recent Saturday, the park crowded with picnickers and sunbathers. \n Quan was generous and kind, his friends say, a doting older brother and fabulous cook who presided over holiday meals with gourmet lamb roasts and dressing. Except for his time as a Navy signalman in World War II, he lived his life at China Camp. He never married. \n Quan played a key role in turning China Camp into a state park in the 1970s after a developer donated the land as a memorial to the Bay Area's Chinese-American history. \n Statewide budget cuts in 2011 almost closed the park, but a group called Friends of China Camp mounted a grassroots campaign to keep it open. Operating China Camp costs about $600,000 a year ate, said the nonprofit's executive director, Martin Lowenstein. The money comes from user fees and donations, not the state. \n It's unclear what will happen to the snack shop or to Quan's house. \n Outside the snack shop is a small memorial. Flowers surround a framed photo of Quan on a lace-topped table. Taped to the window above are sheets of white paper filled with handwritten goodbye notes. They thank Quan for his clam chowder, for the memories, for protecting a special part of history. \n \"I thought I just saw you in the sparkle on the water,\" reads one note. \n Cyclists buy drinks from the shop before going out on the pier. Marin native Lilli Ferguson and other visitors wander through a small museum, marveling at what used to be there. \n \"If you didn't have all this interpretation, you would never have known about this community being here way back when,\" she says. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Shrimper kept alive history of California Chinese community"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Shavonne Henry, right, greets her 7-month-old son, Jordan, as her husband, Michael Henry, brings him into the kitchen after a nap at their apartment in Vancouver, Wash. \n NEW YORK >> Young Americans with even just $1 saved for retirement are ahead of the pack. \n Forty-eight percent of all Americans aged 18 to 30 have zero in retirement savings and no access to a traditional pension, according to a GenForward poll by the Black Youth Project at the University of Chicago with the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. \n The youngest in that group are more likely to still be in school, but the trend also holds for those in their late 20s. More than 4 in 10 of those aged 25 to 30 have nothing for retirement. \n These same Americans are part of a generation whose future retirements, if they happen at all, will be more dependent on their personal savings. That's because traditional pensions are becoming more and more rare. Only 7 percent of those surveyed say they're in line to get the coveted benefit, which promises to pay a set amount monthly after retirement. \n Plus, young Americans are likely to get less in Social Security benefits than their parents or grandparents. The age to receive full Social Security benefits is climbing, up to 67 from 66. And most young Americans don't have much faith in the Social Security system to begin with. Only 5 percent say they're very confident in it, and 28 percent say they're somewhat confident. \n Despite all that, a majority of young Americans still say they are confident that they'll have enough to retire when they want to. African Americans, Asian Americans and white Americans have similar levels of confidence, between 53 percent and 56 percent. Latinos are an exception. Only 43 percent say they're very or somewhat confident. \n \"I feel pretty good about our future,\" says Shavonne Henry, a 26-year-old who lives in Vancouver, Washington, with her 25-year-old husband and children. They have some saved up in a 401(k) through her husband's work and a rolled-over 401(k) account from her old job. \n \"The reason we got to saving at all was I took a finance class in college, and part of the course was: If you want to have the kind of retirement you want to have, you should start saving at 20,\" she says. \"I don't think that's talked about enough.\" \n More employers are looking to give their workers, young and old, a nudge to start saving for retirement by automatically enrolling them in 401(k) plans. At plans administered by Vanguard, 41 percent of employers did so last year, up from 27 percent five years earlier. \n But to get that benefit, a worker needs a job that offers a 401(k) in the first place, and some younger Americans say it's difficult finding such a benefit. \n Allison Riley, a 25-year-old in Monroeville, Alabama, has built up her savings account at the bank by working nights waitressing. But when she asked if the job came with a 401(k) benefit, \"they said '401 what?'\" she says. \"I took that as a 'no.'\" \n She's using her savings now to help pay for classes she's taking, and she hopes to become a high-school teacher. She also says she's confident about the future. \"Once I get to a better job, I know how I like to squirrel away money,\" she says. \"I think I'll be OK.\" \n There is no magic answer for how much a person needs to have saved for retirement. Two people with identical ages and incomes could need very different amounts, depending on how long they expect to work, how much they want to spend in retirement and other variables. Fidelity suggests saving 15 percent of your income each year. Financial advisers suggest saving enough so that your nest egg at retirement is 25 times the annual expenses you'll need to cover. \n The GenForward poll did not ask how much young Americans had saved for retirement, only whether they had done so. \n Aisha Ahmouda, a 30-year-old registered nurse, is optimistic about her future despite having little in retirement savings and less faith in the future of Social Security. \n She's pursuing a master's degree to become a nurse practitioner, a job that comes with loan-assistance programs if she goes on to work in a medically underserved area. She also hopes that it puts her on a career track that will allow her to continue working into her late 60s or early 70s, even if her mobility starts to wane, giving her time to build up savings. \n \"Not everything is certain, even when you're putting away savings,\" she says. \"I'm going to do the best I can and leave the rest up to a higher power.\" \n The poll of 1,851 adults age 18-30 was conducted Sept. 1-14 using a sample drawn from the probability-based GenForward panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. young adult population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 3.8 percentage points.  \n The survey was paid for by the Black Youth Project at the University of Chicago, using grants from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and the Ford Foundation.  \n ", "author": "", "title": "Nearly half of young adults lack retirement savings, pension"}

{"date": "October 14, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillary Clinton's campaign manager John Podesta, second from right, pauses while speaking with senior aide Huma Abedin aboard Clinton's campaign plane while traveling to Miami, Tuesday for a rally. \n Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign reiterated concerns on Thursday about ties between Donald Trump and Russia in light of hacked emails from the account of John Podesta, Clinton's presidential campaign chairman. \n The thousands of emails, published by Wikileaks on Monday, include an email from Clinton supporters to U.S Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, criticizing her for stepping down from the Democratic National Committee in February to support Bernie Sanders' presidential bid. \n \"We now know the FBI believes the Russians are behind this hack and that a Trump campaign associate was back-channeling with Julian Assange,\" said Clinton spokesman Glen Caplin, in response to questions about the Gabbard email. \"On Day 5 of the WikiLeaks propaganda campaign the question is what did the Trump campaign know and when did they know it? The fact that Donald Trump refuses to condemn this intrusion by a foreign government, cheers it on, and even says it didn't happen is yet another reason why he is unfit to be president of the United States.\" \n Caplin said the campaign is not confirming the authenticity of any individual emails. \n Reporters have been mining thousands of emails from Podesta's account that are easily searchable on Wikileaks' web site. \n In the Feb. 29 email to Gabbard, two Clinton supporters, including a former director of the Clinton Foundation, tell the Hawaii congresswoman that she has disrespected Clinton and not to expect any help from them in raising campaign funds. \n \"When we met over dinner a couple of years ago I was so impressed by your intellect, your passion, and commitment to getting things done on behalf of the American people. For you to endorse a man who has spent almost 40 years in public office with very few accomplishments, doesn't fall in line with what we previously thought of you,\" the email reads, in part. \"Hillary Clinton will be our party's nominee and you standing on ceremony to support the sinking Bernie Sanders ship is disrespectful to Hillary Clinton. A woman who has spent the vast majority of her life in public service and working on behalf of women, families, and the underserved.\" \n The email was then forwarded to Podesta and longtime Clinton aid Huma Abedin with the note \"Hammed dropped!\" \u2014 apparently meaning to write hammer. \n Trump has denied any association with the hacked emails, while also relishing their release. \n \"I hope people are looking at the disgraceful behavior of Hillary Clinton as exposed by WikiLeaks,\" he tweeted earlier this week. \"She is unfit to run.\" \n ", "author": "By Sophie Cocke scocke@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Clinton campaign links Trump to leaked email rebuke of Gabbard"}

