{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "An 18-year-old man was seriously injured Sunday evening after he apparently took a misstep while taking photos and fell 60 feet onto the side of a cliff and into the ocean at Spitting Cave in Portlock. \n People at the scene pulled the man from the water and onto a surfboard just after 6 p.m., then transferred him to a rocky ledge, according to a Honolulu Fire Department report. \n Emergency Medical Services spokeswoman Shayne Enright said the rescuers were a pair of high school students. \n HFD personnel airlifted the man to a landing zone at Kokee Mini Beach Park, where paramedics took over. The man was transported with multiple injuries to a hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man hurt falling off cliff into ocean"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "Honolulu Fire Department rescue personnel assisted two hikers lost along the Maunawili Falls Trail on Sunday. \n The man and woman called for help shortly after 7 p.m. and HFD responded with four fire companies staffed with 12 personnel. \n The firefighters located the hikers around 7:39 p.m. and escorted them to the trail head within 10 minutes. \n No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Michael Tsai mtsai@staradvertiser.com", "title": "HFD rescues two hikers along Maunawili Falls Trail"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "SEOUL, South Korea >> North Korea today fired a projectile into the waters off its east coast, South Korea's military said, in an apparent missile test that comes days after Washington and Seoul began huge military drills that Pyongyang insists are an invasion rehearsal. \n It was not immediately clear what was fired, but Pyongyang has staged a series of missile test-launches of various range in recent months. The ramped-up tests come as leader Kim Jong Un pushes for a nuclear and missile program that can deter what he calls U.S. and South Korean hostility toward the North. \n Seoul and Washington call their military drills on the Korean Peninsula, which remains in a technical state of war because the 1950-53 Korean War ended with an armistice and not a peace treaty, defensive and routine. \n The South's Joint Chief of Staff said in a statement that Monday's launch was made in the Tongchang-ri area in North Pyongan province. The area is the home of the North's Seohae Satellite Station where it has conducted prohibited long-range rocket launches in recent years. \n The North hates the military drills, which run until late April and which analysts say force its impoverished military to respond with expensive deployments and drills of their own. An unidentified spokesman for the North's General Staff of the Korean People's Army said last week that Pyongyang's reaction to the southern drills would be the toughest ever but didn't elaborate \n North Korea test-launched a new intermediate-range missile in February and conducted two nuclear tests last year. There has also been widespread worry that the North will conduct an ICBM test that, when perfected, could in theory reach U.S. shores. Washington would consider such a capability a major threat. \n The United States has 28,500 troops stationed in South Korea as a deterrent against a potential aggression from the North. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul: North Korea fires unidentified projectile into ocean"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man wears a head covering with the stars and stripes of a U.S. flag as he attends Sunday services at the Gurudwara Singh Sabha of Washington, a Sikh temple in Renton, Wash., Sunday, March 5, 2017, south of Seattle. \n KENT, Wash. >> Fear, hurt and disbelief weighed on the minds of those who gathered at a Sikh temple Sunday after the shooting of a Sikh man who said a gunman approached him in his suburban Seattle driveway and told him \"go back to your own country.\" \n \"Everybody who is part of this community needs to be vigilant,\" Satwinder Kaur, a Sikh community leader, said as several hundred people poured into a temple in Renton for worship services about one mile from Friday night's shooting. \n \"It is scary,\" she added. \"The community has been shaken up.\" \n Authorities said a gunman approached the 39-year-old Sikh man as he worked on his car in his driveway in the city of Kent, about 20 miles south of Seattle. The FBI will help investigate the shooting, authorities said. \n Kent Police Chief Ken Thomas said no arrests have been made yet after the victim was shot in the arm but that he did not believe anyone was in imminent danger. \n \"This is a top priority investigation, and we are doing everything possible to identify and arrest the suspect,\" Thomas said in an email, adding that residents in the city of about 125,000 should \"be vigilant\" but also not let the shooting hurt their quality of life. \n The FBI's Seattle office said in a statement Sunday that it is \"committed to investigating crimes that are potentially hate-motivated,\" the Seattle Times reported. \n The shooting comes after an Indian man was killed and another wounded in a recent shooting at a Kansas bar that federal agencies are investigating as a hate crime after witnesses say the suspect yelled \"get out of my country.\" \n Friday night's shooting was on the minds of many who poured into a Sikh Temple in nearby Renton Sunday morning for worship. Women in colorful saris and headscarves and men in turbans and beards sat on the floor on opposite sides inside the worship space. \n As they entered and left the services, many expressed fear that one of their own was targeted and said they're scared to go to the store or other public places. Some said they have noticed an uptick in name-calling and other racist incidents in recent months. Still others expressed hurt and disbelief at the lack of understanding and ignorance. \n \"Sikhism teaches about equality and peace,\" said Sandeep Singh, 24. \"It's sad to see that's what it has come to,\" he said of the violence. \"This is our country. This is everyone's country.\" \n Gurjot Singh, 39, who served in the Marine Corps and is an Iraq war veteran, said he was dismayed that people think others who look different aren't equal or don't contribute equally to the community. \n \"This is equally my country as it is your country,\" he said. \"It doesn't anger me. It hurts me.\" \n Hira Singh, a Sikh community leader, said there have been increasing complaints recently from Sikhs near Seattle who say they have been the target of foul language or other comments. \n \"This kind of incident shakes up the whole community,\" he said, adding that about 50,000 members of the faith live in Washington state. \n Kent Councilwoman Brenda Fincher went to the temple Sunday to show support for the community. \"When a hate crime happens, we have to stand up and make sure everyone knows it's not acceptable,\" she said. \n Kent police have not identified the man or released other information. But India's foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, identified the victim on Twitter early Sunday, saying, \"I am sorry to know about the attack on Deep Rai, a U.S. national of Indian origin.\" \n She said she had spoken to Rai's father, who told her Rai is out of danger and recovering in a hospital. \n Rai told police a man he didn't know came up to him Friday night and they got into an argument, with the suspect telling Rai to go back to his homeland. He described the shooter as 6 feet tall and white with a stocky build, police said. He said the man was wearing a mask covering the lower half of his face. \n \"All of the information that I have available at this time suggests that the information provided by the victim is credible,\" Thomas, the police chief, wrote. \n Sikhs have previously been the target of assaults in the U.S. After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the backlash that hit Muslims around the country expanded to include those of the Sikh faith. Men often cover their heads with turbans, which are considered sacred, and refrain from shaving their beards. \n In 2012, a man shot and killed six Sikh worshippers and wounded four others at a Sikh temple near Milwaukee before killing himself. \n The Sikh Coalition, a national civil rights group, on Sunday said everything must be done \"to confront this growing epidemic of hate violence.\" \n \"We are all accountable for what happened in Kent, Washington on Friday night,\" Jasmit Singh, a Seattle-area community leader, said in a statement. \n Raj Singh Ajmani, who lives in Bellevue, said he was shocked by the shooting. \n \"When it happens in your own community, you realize the danger and the times we're living in,\" he said before heading to service. \"Some people worry that more such violence will occur because of President Trump.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI helping investigate Sikh man's shooting near Seattle"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "A 49- year- old man was arrested Saturday after he forced a woman at knife- point to drive him to Kaneohe, police said. \n The woman, 45, said the man, whom she knows, sent a threatening text message to her Friday, police said. The woman also told police the man threatened her with a knife and made her drive him to Kaneohe where he let her go without injury. \n Police said the incident happened between 3:20 p.m. Friday and 6 a.m. Saturday. \n The man, who gave police no address, was arrested at Kualoa Regional Park at 9:40 a.m. Saturday for investigation of kidnapping and two counts of terroristic threatening. He also had three outstanding warrants. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man arrested after kidnapping woman with a knife"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "Police are looking for two suspects who robbed two people Saturday and took their rental car on the North Shore. \n A 33- year- old man and a 27- year-old woman told police two men used a weapon to take their rental vehicle and other property at about 8:30 p.m. in the Kawela area, police said. \n Police opened a first- degree robbery investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD searching for North Shore robbery suspects"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "COURTESY USGS \n A flurry of small earthquakes shook the Big Island Sunday morning. \n The U.S. Geological Survey's Hawaiian Volcano Observatory reported today that about 31 small earthquakes struck Kilauea's Upper East Rift Zone on the Big Island beginning at 6 a.m. and lasting for about 41 minutes. \n There were no reports of damages to buildings or structures. \n The earthquakes were concentrated about 3 to 4 miles southeast of Kilauea's summit between Hi'iaka and Ko'oko'olau Craters, officials said in a statement. \n The eight largest earthquakes recorded magnitudes between 1.7 and 3.9 at depths of about 1 to 2 miles beneath the earth's surface, which were too weak to cause any significant damage, according to officials. \n At least six of the earthquakes were felt on the Big Island, primarily in the Ka'u and Puna Districts. USGS officials said they received more than 30 reports of weak to light shaking in the area within an hour of the biggest earthquake. \n Scientists suspect the size and location of the earthquakes could be related to the ongoing pressurized magma storage beneath the Kilauea summit. \n The earthquakes caused no significant changes to the volcano's ongoing eruptions or ground surfaces, said Tina Neal, HVO Scientist-in-Charge. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flurry of earthquakes shakes Big Island"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "NOAA HAWAII \n A flood advisory was issued for the island of Oahu until 11:30 a.m. \n Update 1:05 p.m. \n The high surf advisory has been extended through 6 a.m. tomorrow. \n Surf along north facing shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui and north and west facing shore of Niihau and Kauai are expected to be between 10 to 15 feet, while surf along west facing shores of Oahu, Molokai and Lanai are expected to be between 8 and 12 feet. Surf along west facing shores of the Big Island is expected to between 7 and 10 feet. \n Update:Monday 5:30 a.m. \n The high surf advisory has been extended through 6 p.m. today. \n \"Beachgoers, swimmers and surfers should heed all advice given by ocean safety officials and exercise caution,\" the National Weather Service said in the advisory. \n Update 11:45 a.m. \n The National Weather Service canceled a flood advisory issued for the island of Oahu. \n A high surf advisory is still in effect for Oahu, Niihau, Kauai, Molokai, Maui and the Big Island until 6 a.m. tomorrow. \n A west-northwest swell spreading down the island chain will continue to produce elevated surf along north and west facing shores through the night. \n Previous coverage \n The National Weather Service at 8:28 a.m. today issued a flood advisory for the island of Oahu until 11:30 a.m. but may extend if the heavy rain persists. \n Doppler radar at 8:23 a.m. showed a line of heavy, nearly stationary showers over southeast Oahu falling at a rate of three inches per hour. \n Locations of the advisory include but aren't limited to Hawaii Kai, Hanauma Bay, Aina Haina, Kalama Valley, Waialae, Hawaii Loa Ridge, Koko Crater, Kahala, Waialae Iki, Sandy Beach, Makapuu Point and Kuliouou. \n Weather officials are advising the public to stay away from streams, drainage ditches and low-lying areas prone to flooding and to not cross fast flowing or rising water. \n Weather officials also issued a high surf advisory for north and west facing shores of Oahu, Niihau, Kauai and Molokai, north facing shores of Maui and west facing shores of the Big Island until 6 a.m. tomorrow. \n Surf along north facing shores of Oahu, Molokai and Maui are expected to rise to between 10 and 15 feet, while surf along west facing shores of Oahu and Molokai are rising to between 8 and 12 feet. The north and west facing shores of Niihau and Kauai are expected to have surf between 14 and 18 feet, weather officials said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Flood advisory canceled for Oahu; high surf advisory still in effect"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRES \n Former competitive speedskater Bridie Farrell poses in New York with a pair of her skates and photos of herself as a young skater. Farrell, who says that as a 15-year-old she was sexually abused repeatedly by a 33-year-old teammate, is hoping, like other survivors of child molestation, that this may be the year New York passes a law lifting one of the nation's tightest statutes of limitations on filing criminal charges and lawsuits against their abusers. \n ALBANY, N.Y. >> New York legislation to relax one of the nation's most restrictive statutes of limitations on child molestation victims continues to stall under pressure from the Roman Catholic Church and other opponents. \n The bill has circled the drain in Albany for a decade, but victims and advocates are optimistic this year because they've gained a key supporter, Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. The fate of the Child Victims Act could rest with Senate Leader John Flanagan, a Long Island Republican, who supporters say has refused to meet to discuss the bill. \n \"They are denying us our day in court,\" said Bridie Farrell, 35, a former competitive speed skater and a leading advocate for the bill. \n Four years ago Farrell publicly accused a former teammate and mentor of repeatedly abusing her when he was 33 and she was 15 \u2014 too long ago to file charges or a civil suit. \"They are protecting the institutions of the abusers.\" \n Currently, under New York law, victims of child sexual abuse have until age 23 to bring either criminal charges or file a lawsuit against their alleged abusers. It's one of the tightest statutes of limitations in the country, a distinction that advocates say puts New York in the company of states like Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama and Michigan. \n Massachusetts, another heavily Catholic state, gives victims up to 35 years to sue. Ohio and Pennsylvania both give victims until age 30. \n The proposal before lawmakers would eliminate the statute of limitations on abuse cases going forward and create a one-year window to allow for lawsuits no matter when the abuse occurred. Supporters say it often takes victims of child sex abuse years or even decades to report their abusers or pursue criminal or civil cases. \n A similar law in California, passed in 2002, resulted in Catholic dioceses there paying $1.2 billion in legal settlements \n The Roman Catholic Church is the most vocal opponent of the New York bill, saying the one-year window for civil suits alleging abuse would financially devastate the church, already reeling from the expense of earlier legal settlements. The New York Archdiocese is seeking to mortgage land it owns near St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan to raise $100 million for settlements. \n Instead, the state's Catholic Conference supports alternative legislation that would eliminate the criminal statute of limitations on child sex crimes and give victims until they are 28 to file civil suits. It would not create a window for civil molestation lawsuits now barred by the statute of limitations. \n \"The bishops feel strongly that we need to do more to protect children from abuse and give survivors of abuse more time to seek justice,\" said Dennis Poust, spokesman for the Catholic Conference. \"Our only objection is with that retroactive window which comes without any caps on either time or dollars. Any organization that deals with children would be looking at potential catastrophic liability when you're looking at cases from the '50s and '60s.\" \n Supporters, however, say many potential plaintiffs could be people in their late 20s, 30s and 40s whose abusers may still be in a position of power over minors. They say their requests for a meeting with Flanagan to discuss his concerns have been ignored. \n Flanagan's spokesman, Scott Reif, said advocates have met with senior staff and other lawmakers. He said Senate Republicans continue to examine the issue. \n Cuomo included a proposal similar to the legislation sought by advocates in his annual list of legislative goals this year. \n \"These survivors deserve justice, plain and simple,\" Cuomo said in a statement to The Associated Press. \"Giving victims the opportunity to advance their claims in court is the right thing to do, and I urge the Legislature to join me and pass this measure once and for all.\" \n Kathryn Robb says she was molested in a Catholic school on Long Island as a child. Now a mother of five and living in Massachusetts, Robb helped pass reforms in that state. She returned to New York this month to work on the effort here. \n She noted that lawmakers often tout their work to toughen penalties for sex offenders, and the Senate has voted to adjust the statute of limitations when it comes to exposure to environmental contaminants or Agent Orange. \n \"Don't victims of child sexual abuse have the same right?\" she said. \"I'm willing to fight as long as it takes.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Victims, Roman Catholic Church spar over NY sex abuse bill"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A third-grader practices his cursive handwriting at P.S. 166 in the Queens borough of New York. \n NEW YORK >> Cursive writing is looping back into style in schools across the country after a generation of students who know only keyboarding, texting and printing out their words longhand. \n Alabama and Louisiana passed laws in 2016 mandating cursive proficiency in public schools, the latest of 14 states that require cursive. And last fall, the 1.1 million-student New York City schools, the nation's largest public school system, encouraged the teaching of cursive to students, generally in the third grade. \n \"It's definitely not necessary but I think it's, like, cool to have it,\" said Emily Ma, a 17-year-old senior at New York City's academically rigorous Stuyvesant High School who was never taught cursive in school and had to learn it on her own. \n Penmanship proponents say writing words in an unbroken line of swooshing l's and three-humped m's is just a faster, easier way of taking notes. Others say students should be able to understand documents written in cursive, such as, say, a letter from Grandma. And still more say it's just a good life skill to have, especially when it comes to signing your name. \n That was where New York state Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis drew the line on the cursive generation gap, when she encountered an 18-year-old at a voter registration event who printed out his name in block letters. \n \"I said to him, 'No, you have to sign here,'\" Malliotakis said. \"And he said, 'That is my signature. I never learned script.'\" \n Malliotakis, a Republican from the New York City borough of Staten Island, took her concerns to city education officials and found a receptive audience. \n Schools Chancellor Carmen Farina distributed a handbook on teaching cursive writing in September and is encouraging principals to use it. It cites research suggesting that fluent cursive helps students master writing tasks such as spelling and sentence construction because they don't have to think as much about forming letters. \n Malliotakis also noted that students who can't read cursive will never be able to read historical documents. \"If an American student cannot read the Declaration of Independence, that is sad.\" \n It's hard to pinpoint exactly when cursive writing began to fall out of favor. But cursive instruction was in decline long before 2010, when most states adopted the Common Core curriculum standards, which say nothing about handwriting. \n Some script skeptics question the advantage of cursive writing over printing and wonder whether teaching it takes away from other valuable instruction. \n Anne Trubek, author of \"The History and Uncertain Future of Handwriting,\" said schools should not require cursive mastery any more than they should require all children to play a musical instrument. \n \"I think students would all benefit from learning the piano,\" she said, \"but I don't think schools should require all students take piano lessons.\" \n At P.S. 166 in Queens, Principal Jessica Geller said there was never a formal decision over the years to banish the teaching of cursive. \"We just got busy with the addition of technology, and we started focusing on computers,\" she said. \n Third-graders at the school beamed as they prepared for a cursive lesson this past week. The 8-year-olds got their markers out, straightened their posture and flexed their wrists. Then it was \"swoosh, curl, swoosh, curl,\" as teacher Christine Weltner guided the students in writing linked-together c's and a's. \n Norzim Lama said he prefers cursive writing to printing \"'cause it looks fancy.\" Camille Santos said cursive is \"actually like doodling a little bit.\" \n Added Araceli Lazaro: \"It's a really fascinating way to write, and I really think that everybody should learn about writing in script.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Flip the script: Cursive sees revival in school instruction"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "DENNIS ODA / DODA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n The Hawaii Legislature is nearing the halfway point of the 2017 session. \n The Hawaii Legislature is nearing the halfway point of the 2017 session. All bills have to pass out of their original chamber by Thursday. \n Lawmakers are likely to take up proposals that aim to preserve coral reefs and the fish that call the reefs home. They're also planning to consider bills that would make presidential candidates reveal their federal tax returns. \n A bill to make it a felony to harm indigenous birds also may come up for a vote. Another bill in the mix would require cosmetologists to complete a training program on recognizing the signs of domestic violence. \n Most of the action will be on Tuesday when lawmakers are planning long floor sessions to pass hundreds of bills ahead of the deadline. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii lawmakers to take up several bills before deadline"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speaks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. Trump is accusing former President Barack Obama of having Trump's telephones \"wire tapped'' during last year's election, but Trump isn't offering any evidence or saying what prompted the allegation. \n While Trump claimed, without evidence in a series of tweets Saturday, that his predecessor had tapped the telephones at Trump Tower, Obama's director of national intelligence said no such action was carried out against the New York businessman as a candidate or against his campaign. \n \"Absolutely, I can deny it,\" said James Clapper, who left his job when Trump took office Jan. 20. \n An Obama spokesman has said Trump's accusation was \"simply false.\" Lawmakers from both parties appealed for Trump to provide proof for the startling claim, yet the White House said there would be no further comment until \"such oversight is conducted\" by the congressional intelligence committees. \n \"It's called a wrap-up smear. You make up something. Then you have the press write about it. And then you say, everybody is writing about this charge. It's a tool of an authoritarian,\" said House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi. \n White House press secretary Sean Spicer announced the request for a congressional inquiry in a statement that referred to \"very troubling\" reports \"concerning potentially politically motivated investigations immediately ahead of the 2016 election.\" \n He did not elaborate or respond to inquiries about those reports. \n Trump said the wiretapping happened in October at the New York skyscraper where he ran his campaign and transition. \n Spicer said the White House wants the committee to \"exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.\" \n Spicer's chief deputy, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said she thinks Trump is \"going off of information that he's seen that has led him to believe that this is a very real potential.\" \n Josh Earnest, who was Obama's press secretary, said presidents do not have authority to unilaterally order the wiretapping of American citizens, as Trump has alleged was done to him. FBI investigators and Justice Department officials must seek a federal judge's approval to investigate by demonstrating that probable cause exists. \n Earnest accused Trump of leveling the allegations to distract from the attention being given to campaign-season contacts by Trump aides with a Russian official, including campaign adviser Jeff Sessions before he resigned from the Senate to become attorney general. The FBI is investigating those contacts, as is Congress. \n Rep. Devin Nunes, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement that the committee \"will make inquiries into whether the government was conducting surveillance activities on any political party's campaign officials or surrogates.\" \n The committee's top Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, said Trump was following \"a deeply disturbing pattern of distraction, distortion and downright fabrication.\" \n Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he had seen no evidence to back Trump's allegations, but was sure the committee would include the matter in its Russia investigation. \n The office of House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., referred questions to Nunes, while a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said McConnell would not tell the Senate committee how to do its work. \n Trump's call for Congress to investigate Obama has risks, though, particularly if damaging information about him or his associates is uncovered. Lawmakers are promising to follow the evidence wherever it takes them. \n In his tweets, Trump compared the alleged wiretapping to \"Nixon/Watergate\" and \"McCarthyism!\" And he called Obama a \"Bad (or sick) guy.\" \n Trump said in the tweets that he had \"just found out\" the information, though it was unclear whether he was referring to a briefing, a conversation or a media report. The president in the past has tweeted about unsubstantiated and provocative reports he reads on blogs or conservative websites. \n The tweets stand out, given the gravity of the charge and the strikingly personal attack on the former president. Trump spoke as recently as last month about how much he likes Obama and how much they get along, despite their differences. \n \"How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!\" he tweeted, misspelling 'tap.' \n Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis said Saturday that a \"cardinal rule\" of the Obama administration was that no White House official ever interfered in Justice Department investigations, which are supposed to be conducted free of political influence. \n Lewis said neither Obama nor any White House official had ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen. \"Any suggestion otherwise is simply false,\" Lewis said. \n Trump has been trailed for months by questions about his campaign's ties to Russia. Compounding the situation is the U.S. intelligence agencies' assessment that Russia interfered with the election to help Trump triumph over Hillary Clinton, along with disclosures about his aides' contacts with a Russian official. \n Clapper appeared on NBC's \"Meet the Press,\" Sanders and Earnest were on ABC's \"This Week,\" Pelosi was on CNN's \"State of the Union,\" and Cotton was on \"Fox News Sunday.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ex-intel chief denies wiretapping; White House pushes ahead"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Roxanne Quimby, the founder of Burt's Bees, poses next to white pine in Portland, Maine. Maine Gov. Paul LePage has asked Republican President Donald Trump to undo Democratic former President Barack Obama's designation of a national monument and give back the land that was donated for it. \n PORTLAND, Maine >> Republican leaders in Maine and Utah are asking President Donald Trump to step into uncharted territory and rescind national monument designations made by his predecessor. \n The Antiquities Act of 1906 doesn't give the president power to undo a designation, and no president has ever taken such a step. But Trump isn't like other presidents. \n Former President Barack Obama used his power under the act to permanently preserve more land and water using national monument designations than any other president. The land is generally off limits to timber harvesting, mining and pipelines, and commercial development. \n Obama created the Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument in Maine last summer on 87,500 acres of donated forestland. The expanse includes part of the Penobscot River and stunning views of Mount Katahdin, Maine's tallest mountain. In Utah, the former president created Bears Ears National Monument on 1.3 million acres of land that's sacred to Native Americans and is home to tens of thousands of archaeological sites, including ancient cliff dwellings. \n Trump's staff is now reviewing those decisions by the Obama administration to determine economic impacts, whether the law was followed and whether there was appropriate consultation with local officials, the White House told The Associated Press. \n Maine Republican Gov. Paul LePage is opposed to the designation, and says federal ownership could stymie industrial development; and Republican leaders in Utah contend the monument designation adds another layer of unnecessary federal control in a state where there's already heavy federal ownership. \n The Utah Legislature approved a resolution signed by the governor calling on Trump to rescind the monument there. In Maine, LePage asked the president last week to intervene. \n Newly sworn-in Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has said he'll fight the sale or transfer of public lands. But he also believes states should be able to weigh in. The National Parks Conservation Association has vowed to sue if Trump, the Interior Department or Congress tries to remove the special designations. \n \"Wherever the attack comes from, we're ready to fight, and we know the public is ready to fight if someone comes after our national parks and monuments,\" National Parks Conversation Association spokeswoman Kristen Brengel said. \n In Maine, the prospect of undoing the designation is further complicated by deed stipulations requiring the National Park Service to control the land and a $40 million endowment to support the monument, said Lucas St. Clair, son of Burt's Bees co-founder Roxanne Quimby, who acquired the land. \n Three of the four members of Maine's congressional delegation want the monument to stand to avoid reopening a divisive debate in towns surrounding the property. \n \"Rather than re-ignite controversy in a region that is beginning to heal and move on, I hope we can allow the monument to continue to serve as one important part of a multifaceted economic revitalization strategy which is already underway,\" said independent Sen. Angus King. \n Utah Republicans, however, appear to be ready for a scrap. Rep. Jason Chaffetz raised the issue when he met with Trump and he asked the House Appropriations Committee to cut funding for the monument. \n \"Not one elected official in Utah that represents the Bear Ears region supports the designation of a national monument. With the stroke of a pen, President Obama, having never visited the area, created a monument the size of Delaware, Rhode Island and Washington, D.C., combined,\" he said. \n In the region near Maine's Mount Katahdin, both supporters and many opponents want to see the monument work. They hope it will help revitalize the economy. \n Millinocket Town Council Chairman Michael Madore once described the park as a \"foolish dream.\" Now, he says, \"We have accepted it as part of our landscape. Until such time as it's overturned, we're going to work with the people who're involved with it to help the local economy.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republicans in Maine, Utah want Trump to undo monuments"}

{"date": "March 5, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 2016 file photo, then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, together with his family, waves part of a ribbon after cutting the ribbon during the grand opening of Trump International Hotel in Washington. Trump's $200 million hotel inside the federally owned Old Post Office building has become the place to see, be seen, drink, network, even live, for the still-emerging Trump set. It's a rich environment for lobbyists and anyone hoping to rub elbows with Trump-related politicos, despite the veil of ethics questions that hangs overhead. \n WASHINGTON >> At a circular booth in the middle of the Trump International Hotel's balcony restaurant, President, President Donald Trump dined on his steak \u2014 well-done, with ketchup \u2014 while chatting up British Brexit politician Nigel Farage. \n A few days later, major Republican donors Doug Deason and Doug Manchester, in town for the president's address to Congress, sipped coffee at the hotel with Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif. \n After Trump's speech, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin returned to his Washington residence \u2014 the hotel \u2014 and strode past the gigantic American flag in the soaring lobby. With his tiny terrier tucked under an arm, Mnuchin stepped into an elevator with reality TV star and hotel guest Dog the Bounty Hunter, who particularly enjoyed the Trump-stamped chocolates in his room. \n It's just another week at the new political capital of the nation's capital. \n The $200 million hotel inside the federally owned Old Post Office building has become the place to see, be seen, drink, network \u2014 even live \u2014 for the still-emerging Trump set. It's a rich environment for lobbyists and anyone hoping to rub elbows with Trump-related politicos \u2014 despite a veil of ethics questions that hangs overhead. \n \"I've never come through this lobby and not seen someone I know,\" says Deason, a Dallas-based fundraiser for Trump's election campaign. \n For Republican Party players, it's the only place to stay. \n \"I can tell you this hotel will be the most successful hotel in Washington, D.C.,\" says Manchester, adding that he would know because he has developed the second-largest Marriott and second-largest Hyatt in the world. Manchester says Trump's hotel will attract people based on its location near the White House and Congress, the quality renovation and the management team. \n Then there's also the access. \n Although Trump says he is not involved in the day-to-day operations of his businesses, he retains a financial interest in them. A stay at the hotel gives someone trying to win over Trump on a policy issue or political decision a potential chit. \n That's what concerns ethics lawyers who had wanted Trump to sell off his companies as previous presidents have done. \n \"President Trump is in effect inviting people and companies and countries to channel money to him through the hotel,\" said Kathleen Clark, a former ethics lawyer for the District of Columbia and a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis. \n She said the \"pay to play\" danger is even greater than it would be if people wanted to donate to a campaign to influence a politician's thinking. Spending money at a Trump property \"is about personally enriching Donald Trump, who happens to be the president of the United States.\" \n The White House strongly disputes there's any ethical danger in Trump's business arrangements. \n Trump can see his hotel from the White House. When a Fox News interviewer mentioned that to him recently, Trump responded, \"Isn't that beautiful?\" But while the interviewer pointed out that he can see the property from his desk in the Oval Office, Trump said, \"I'm so focused on what I'm doing here that I don't even think about it.\" \n Still, Trump couldn't resist the short trip over there for dinner on his only weekend night out in Washington since becoming president. \n A reporter for the website Independent Journal Review was tipped off about Trump's dining plans and sat at a table near him. He noted the president's dinner fare and companions, who also included daughter Ivanka Trump and her husband, Trump adviser Jared Kushner. \n On other nights, the posh hotel is the kind of place where on a mid-February evening, you could bump into Trump television personality Katrina Pierson having cocktails with Lynne Patton, a former Trump Organization executive who's now working at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Trump campaign and inauguration hands Tom Barrack, Boris Epshteyn, Nick Ayers and Rick Gates are among the many who have stayed there in recent weeks. \n Rooms start at above $500 most nights, according to the hotel's website and a receptionist. That's up hundreds of dollars from when the hotel first opened, not long before Election Day. Patricia Tang, the hotel's director of sales and marketing, declined to answer questions about how business is going. \n The hotel has become a staging area for big political events. \n Eric and Donald Trump Jr. posed for dozens of selfies with admirers the hotel that bears their name before attending their father's White House ceremony in late January to announce Judge Neil Gorsuch as the president's pick for the Supreme Court. \n Deason ran into the Trumps and fellow Texas donor Gentry Beach while at a meeting at the hotel that day with Trump's campaign adviser Rudy Giuliani. During inauguration week, when Trump himself repeatedly visited, the hotel was \"literally the center of the universe,\" Deason said. \n Last Tuesday, as Trump gave his first address to Congress, lobbyists and politicos watched the four large flat-screens above the bar, two tuned to Fox news and two to CNN. In what hotel staff said was an effort to avoid some of the obvious politics of the place, the TVs were muted, so people followed along on their own devices. \n As Trump wrapped up, applause rose through the lobby and bar. Mnuchin waved to admirers gathered in the bar as he strolled through after Trump's speech. \n Mnuchin is one of the New Yorkers working in Washington who call it home during the week. White House economic adviser Gary Cohn is another. Linda McMahon, who heads the Small Business Administration, also has been staying there. \n Administration officials \"have been personally paying a fair market rate\" for their accommodations, White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said. \n Even Trump's closest friends pay to stay. \n Billionaire Phil Ruffin, Trump's partner for his Las Vegas residential tower, said he shelled out $18,000 per night while he was in town for the inauguration, which he said surprised him since he'd given $1 million to Trump's inauguration committee. Ruffin says he lightly complained about the high rate to the president. \n \"He said, 'Well, I'm kind of out of it.' So I didn't get anywhere, didn't get my discount,\" Ruffin recalled. \n Trump's continued ownership of his hotel and other businesses has spawned lawsuits and ethics complaints, but so far no action on any of them. One accommodation Trump says he is making on the ethics front is to donate profits from foreign governments that spend money at his hotels. \n Last week, Kuwait's ambassador, Salem Al-Sabah, and his wife hosted a reception in the hotel's presidential ballroom, in what was one of the first known instances of foreign money changing hands with the hotel division of the Trump Organization since he became president. A spokeswoman for the Trump Organization did not respond to questions about whether the money from the Kuwait Embassy has been or will be donated. \n Mnuchin attended. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump hotel may be political capital of the nation's capital"}

