{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Malnourished baby Ali Hassan, 9-months-old, left, is held by his mother Fadumo Abdi Ibrahim, who fled the drought in southern Somalia, at a feeding center in a camp in Mogadishu, Somalia. On Saturday, Somalia's prime minister said that 110 people have died from hunger in the past 48 hours in a single region as a severe drought threatens millions of people. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Displaced Somali girls who fled the drought in southern Somalia stand in a queue to receive food handouts at a feeding center in a camp in Mogadishu, Somalia. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Displaced Somalis who fled the drought in southern Somalia sit in a camp in the capital Mogadishu, Somalia. \n MOGADISHU, Somalia >> Somalia's prime minister announced Saturday that 110 people have died from hunger in the past 48 hours in a single region as a severe drought threatens millions of people across the country. \n It was the first death toll announced by Somalia's government since it declared the drought a national disaster on Tuesday. The United Nations estimates that 5 million people in this Horn of Africa nation need aid, amid warnings of a full-blown famine. \n Prime Minister Hassan Ali Khaire spoke during a meeting with the Somali National Drought Committee. The death toll he announced is from the Bay region in the southwest part of the country alone. \n Somalia was one of four regions singled out by the U.N. secretary-general last month in a $4.4 billion aid appeal to avert catastrophic hunger and famine, along with northeast Nigeria, South Sudan and Yemen. All are connected by a thread of violent conflict, the U.N. chief said. \n The U.N. humanitarian coordinator, Stephen O'Brien, was expected to visit Somalia in the next few days. \n Thousands have been streaming into Somalia's capital, Mogadishu, in search of food aid, overwhelming local and international aid agencies. Over 7,000 internally displaced people checked into one feeding center recently. \n The drought is the first crisis for Somalia's newly elected Somali-American leader, President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed. Previous droughts and a quarter-century of conflict, including ongoing attacks by extremist group al-Shabab, have left the country fragile. Mohamed has appealed to the international community and Somalia's diaspora of 2 million people for help. \n About 363,000 acutely malnourished children in Somalia \"need urgent treatment and nutrition support, including 71,000 who are severely malnourished,\" the U.S. Agency for International Development's Famine Early Warning Systems Network has warned. \n Because of a lack of clean water in many areas, there is the additional threat of cholera and other diseases, U.N. experts say. Some deaths from cholera already have been reported. \n The government has said the widespread hunger \"makes people vulnerable to exploitation, human rights abuses and to criminal and terrorist networks.\" \n The U.N. humanitarian appeal for 2017 for Somalia is $864 million to provide assistance to 3.9 million people. But the U.N. World Food Program recently requested an additional $26 million plan to respond to the drought. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Somalia: 110 dead from hunger in past 48 hours in drought"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A court-ordered DNA test shows a man who has long claimed to be the father of the late boxing champ Johnny Tapia, left, is not his dad after all, in the latest saga involving the troubled boxer after his death. \n ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) >> A court-ordered DNA test shows a man who has long claimed to be the father of the late boxing champ Johnny Tapia is not his dad after all, in the latest saga involving the troubled boxer after his death. \n The results come after a state district judge ordered the DNA test in connection with a lawsuit filed by Tapia's widow, Teresa. She sued Padilla in 2015, saying he used photos of the Albuquerque-born boxer without permission and used his name to \"promote various ventures and enterprises.\" \n Padilla said he couldn't comment until the results were verified and examined by a third party. \n \"This matter is far from over. My relationship with Johnny Tapia, as his father, will never change, or be taken away,\" Padilla said in a statement. \n Tapia's widow has long claimed that Padilla was not the boxer's biological father despite a 2010 at-home test that said he was. \n Johnny Tapia died in 2012 at his Albuquerque home. Investigators found one hydrocodone tablet, a painkiller, on the floor beside his body. They said there were no indications of an overdose or alcohol use but said the 45-year-old former fighter likely developed medical complications from past illegal drug use. \n Teresa Tapia said her husband was taking medication for his bipolar disorder and high blood pressure. \n During his professional career, Johnny Tapia won several championships in three weight classes. But he was banned from boxing for 3 1/2 years in the early '90s because of his cocaine addiction. Yet Tapia remained a hero among Albuquerque's Mexican Americans. \n Shortly after the boxer's death, Teresa Tapia married Padilla's son, Jeffrey, but the two divorced within weeks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DNA test shows man not biological father of late boxer Tapia"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "COURTESY I.M. HEALTHY-BRAND SOYNUT BUTTER \n SPRINGFIELD, Ill. >> A peanut butter substitute sold by an Illinois company is being recalled because 12 cases of E. coli have been linked to the product. \n Glenview-based I.M. Health SoyNut Butter Co . is voluntarily recalling its SoyNut Butter products. \n E. coli cases in Arizona, California, Maryland, New Jersey and Oregon have been linked to the nut-free product. \n Illinois public health Director Dr. Nirav Shah says some E. coli infections are mild but others may be life-threatening. Young children are particularly vulnerable. \n Health officials recommend people not eat any variety or size of I.M. Healthy-brand SoyNut Butter products or granola coated with the company's SoyNut Butter. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Peanut butter substitute recalled after E. coli outbreak"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "HILO >> A University of Hawaii at Hilo professor is working to get an entire curriculum at the university taught in Hawaiian to supplement the language courses taught to children across the state. \n \"We're trying to convince our state \u2014 the University of Hawaii is part of the state \u2014 that we need to continue Hawaiian native education at the college level as well,\" Kimura said. \n He said having college courses such as math and chemistry taught in Hawaiian would benefit students and help make Hawaiian one of two official languages of the state. \n Kimura discussed his plans this week at the He Olelo Ola Hilo Field Study, a two-day gathering of people from around the globe who are trying to save indigenous languages. Attendees visited Hawaiian language immersion classes on Monday and Tuesday to learn how they can incorporate the Big Island programs into their own schools. \n Participants came from Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the mainland, including from states such as Arizona, Minnesota, New Mexico, Alaska and California. \n Kimura said they learned how to deal with \"new concepts \u2014 in a language that has been sleeping for quite a while.\" \n \"It's not only about traditional things,\" he said. \"The hardest thing is understanding how our traditions and laws are going to transition into today.\" \n The field study participants are hoping their efforts save indigenous languages and the information passed down through the languages with each passing generation. \n \"It really shows that when a dedicated small group of people comes together for the language with purpose, great things are possible \u2014 and great things are happening,\" said Victoria Wells of the Nuuchaknulth Nation, indigenous people from the Canadian Pacific Coast. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "UH professor wants more college classes taught in Hawaiian"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left, and U.S. President Donald Trump walked together to a news conference at the White House in Washington on Feb. 10. \n TOKYO >> Japan's ruling party approved a change in party rules Sunday that could pave the way for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to become the country's longest-serving leader in the post-World War II era. \n It is a remarkable turnaround for Abe, who lasted only a year during an earlier stint as prime minister, and in a country that had six prime ministers in the six years before Abe returned to office in December 2012. \n Analysts say that Japan's 62-year-old leader learned from his first term in office, when he focused on divisive issues such as constitutional revision and patriotic education that contributed to his early downfall. This time, he has made an expansionary economic policy with a catchy name, \"Abenomics,\" front and center at election time. \n \"The interesting thing is that formerly Abe did not seem to be interested in economic policy,\" said Yu Uchiyama, a professor of politics at Tokyo University. \"Abe was a very conservative politician, and he was interested in a more right-wing agenda like constitutional amendment. But right after he got power for the second time, he did not put forth such a right-wing agenda. Instead he introduced and emphasized the economic issue.\" \n That doesn't mean Abe has given up on goals such as revising the constitution, which was drafted by a U.S.-led occupation force after World War II. However, Abe needs to win over a reluctant public \u2014 any amendment requires approval by two-thirds of the legislature and a national referendum \u2014 and that will take time. \n His Liberal-Democratic Party, at an annual convention Sunday, rubber stamped a decision by its leaders last fall to allow the head of the party to run for a third 3-year term, rather than be limited to two. In Japan's parliamentary system, the ruling party leader generally becomes the prime minister. The change would allow Abe to stay until 2021, if he can maintain the support of his party and voters, rather than step down in September 2018. \n Abe, now in his fifth year in office, is Japan's sixth longest serving prime minister. The record-holder is Eisaku Sato, who led the country for more than seven years from 1964 to 1972. He is also the brother of Abe's grandfather, Nobusuke Kishi, who was prime minister from 1957 to 1960. If Abe can hold on, he would surpass Sato in August 2020. \n Uchiyama said that Abe has maintained his hold on power in part by taking advantage of electoral and administrative reforms that strengthened the prime minister's control of both his party and the bureaucracy. \n Jeff Kingston, a Japan expert at Temple University's Japan campus in Tokyo, called Abe the most powerful prime minister in the postwar era. \n \"There has been an incredible concentration and centralization of power in the prime minister's office under Abe, unlike his predecessors, where power was widely distributed and the prime minister was one among many,\" he said. \n Still, given public opinion, Kingston gave Abe only a 50-50 chance of achieving constitutional revision: \"Polls suggest he has got a long battle to get the public with him.\" \n A third term would also give Abe more time to try to resolve a thorny territorial dispute with Russia that has kept the two countries from signing a peace treaty to end World War II hostilities. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Rule change could make Abe longest-serving leader in Japan"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "Speed appeared to be a factor in a single-moped crash that left a 30-year-old man in critical condition this morning in Kaneohe, police said. \n The man, who was not wearing a helmet, was speeding south-bound on Kahekili Highway near Hui Iwa Street when he lost control and was ejected from the moped at about 2:30 a.m., police said. A passerby found the driver and called police. \n The man was taken to the hospital. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man in critical condition after moped crash in Kaneohe"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Honolulu police closed off Moanalua Road between Aiea Heights Drive and Puakala St. near Aiea Shopping Center today to investigate a possible shooting. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Honolulu police closed off Moanalua Road between Aiea Heights Drive and Puakala St. near Aiea Shopping Center today to investigate a possible shooting. \n ROB SHIKINA / RSHIKINA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police were investigating on Aiea Heights Drive after a reported shooting today. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police closed off Moanalua Road between Aiea Heights Drive and Puakala to investigate a possible shooting. \n Honolulu police were investigating a shooting, believed to be motivated by road rage, that left one person dead today in Aiea. \n The incident happened on Moanalua Road near Aiea Shopping Center just before noon and forced police to close a stretch of the roadway for about four hours to investigate. \n Michelle Yu, Honolulu Police Department spokeswoman, said two drivers got into a possible traffic-related argument. Witnesses reported the suspect exited a vehicle, shot the other driver, and then drove away. \n The victim, a 31-year-old man, was taken to a hospital where he died. \n The suspect, a 72-year-old man, barricaded himself in his home off Aiea Heights Drive, and police talked him into surrendering, Yu said.  \n He was arrested for investigation of second-degree murder. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fatal shooting in Aiea possibly related to road rage"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "Honolulu firefighters were extinguishing a grease trap fire this morning at a Ko Olina eatery. \n Honolulu Fire Capt. Michael Jones said firefighters were dispatched at about 10 a.m. to 92-1083 Olani St. and found the fire at Monkeypod Kitchen, a first-floor restaurant in a two-story commercial building. \n The fire caused a large amount of smoke to exit from a roof vent, prompting building management to evacuate the property, Jones said. \n Firefighters doused the smoldering grease with water and were still mopping up around noon. No one was hurt. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters respond to fire at Ko Olina eatery"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Supporters and opponents of president Donald Trump face off in front of the Ohio state house in Columbus, Ohio on Saturday, March 4, 2017. The extraordinary clash of several hundred people in one of America's most closely-divided battleground states featured chanting and name-calling as well as opposing activists leaning in to try to hear each other out on the unconventional president. \n From Colorado's state Capitol to Trump Tower in New York and the Washington Monument, groups of hundreds of people rallied for President Trump today, waving \"Deplorables for Trump\" signs and even carrying a life-size cutout of the president. \n The March 4 Trump demonstrations were planned around the country, and supporters clashed with generally smaller groups of counter protesters. \n Six people protesting the rally in St. Paul, Minnesota, were arrested on felony riot charges after they lit fireworks inside the Minnesota State Capitol and fled, police said. About 400 people attended the St. Paul event, and about 50 showed up to protest it. Some other minor scuffles between the dueling demonstrators were quickly defused. \n In Nashville, two people were arrested as protesters clashed with Trump supporters at the Tennessee Capitol. The groups at times cursed at each other and made physical contact, which state troopers broke up, WPLN reported. \n Near Mar-a-Lago, the Palm Beach Post reported that people on both sides exchanged profanity. Trump's motorcade briefly stopped so he could wave at supporters. \n In Ohio, Trump supporter Margaret Howe, 57, of Pataskala, said she increasingly fears civil war. \n \"We did not want to have something like this happen,\" she said, adding, \"We came out today because Trump deserves to see he still has people for him. It's just all sad.\" \n Outside the state Capitol in Denver, hundreds gathered, listening to speakers including former U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo on the West Steps facing the mountains. Many in the crowd held American flags or wore red, white and blue and held signs with messages like \"Veterans before Refugees.\" \n Chelsea Thomas, an accountant from Thornton, Colorado, brought her family to the rally \u2014 and a life-size cardboard cutout of Trump. She said the family has taken it with them on camping trips, boat rides and a country music festival. \n \"It's nice to be surrounded by people who share your morals and opinions,\" said Thomas, as her son walked back and forth across the grass with a Trump flag. A group of counter protesters gathered nearby, separated from the rally by police tape. They chanted \"No Trump. No KKK. No fascist USA\" and held signs with messages like \"Your vote was a hate crime.\" \n Hundreds gathered in rallies on both ends of Pennsylvania to show support for Trump. \n Supporters waved signs and flags and listened to speeches during Saturday's \"Spirit of America\" rally in Bensalem's Neshaminy State Park in eastern Pennsylvania's Bucks County. \n \"They love their country and they love what Donald Trump represents, which is about making America first,\" organizer Jim Worthington said. \"\u2026 We are here to meet and make sure all Americans are prospering.\" \n In northwestern Pennsylvania, the Erie Times-News reported that about 100 people gathered at a square in downtown Erie for a similar demonstration. \"We've got to get the whole country united behind this man,\" said Richard Brozell, 75, who along with his wife braved the mid-20s temperatures and stiff wind chill to attend \n In Augusta Maine, more than 100 people turned out for the event that was supposed to last three hours, but ended early because of freezing temperatures. In Miami, supporters continued a rally while sipping espressos outside a Cuban restaurant, the Miami Herald reported. \n At a North Carolina rally, speakers said the dishonest media and left wing politicians were bordering on sedition in their opposition to the Republican president. Some men were seen walking through the Raleigh crowd carrying a Trump flag as well as a Confederate flag. Gathered just behind the rally was a handful of protesters, some of whom blew air horns in an attempt to disrupt the event. \n \"We're gonna take our country back and we're gonna establish borders and have legal immigration and law and order,\" said Cherie Francis, of Cary, North Carolina. \"And if you're against all that, then you should be afraid. 'Cause we're going to take the country in the direction it should be going, instead of the direction it has been going for at least the last 16 years.\" \n In Indianapolis, about 30 Trump supporters rallied at the Indiana Statehouse in Indianapolis to denounce what they see as unfair treatment of the Republican. \n A local organizer, 61-year-old Patty Collins, of Indianapolis, said Trump's critics \"aren't giving him a chance.\" A 34-year-old, James Arbogast, added about Trump detractors that it's \"not business as usual in Washington, and they can't stand it.\" \n One attendee held a sign saying, \"The silent majority stands with Trump.\" Some passing cars honked in support. Others shouted disapproval. \n In Lansing, Michigan, about 200 Trump supporters rallied on one side of the state Capitol while 100 critics gathered on another side. At one point, the president's fans shouted \"get on the bus\" and \"go back to Mexico,\" The Detroit News reported. \n \"Agree with President Trump or not, he is our president, and I think what I see happening in D.C. and with the Democrats \u2014 it can't stand,\" said Gary Taylor, 60. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump supporters declare pride in president, slam opponents"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Facing a new wave of questions about his ties to Russia, President Donald Trump is telling advisers and allies that he may abandon, at least temporarily, his plan to pursue a deal with Moscow on the Islamic State group and other national security matters, according to administration officials and a Western diplomat. \n WASHINGTON >> President Donald Trump is telling advisers and allies that he may shelve, at least temporarily, his plan to pursue a deal with Moscow on the Islamic State group and other national security matters, according to administration officials and Western diplomats. \n In conversations with diplomats and other officials, Trump and his aides have ascribed the new thinking to Moscow's recent provocations. But the reconsideration of a central tenet of his foreign policy underscores the growing political risks in forging closer relations with Russia, as long as the FBI investigates his campaign associates' connections to Moscow and congressional committees step up their inquiries into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election. \n The controversy has already led to the firing of Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, who misled officials about his contacts with the Russian ambassador, and to calls by Democrats for Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign after he failed to disclose his own meetings with the envoy. \n Trump's new skepticism about brokering a deal with Moscow also suggests the rising influence of a new set of advisers who have taken a tougher stance on Russia, including Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and new national security adviser H.R. McMaster. During his first meeting with National Security Council staff, McMaster described Russia \u2014 as well as China \u2014 as a country that wants to upend the current world order, according to an administration official who attended the meeting. \n Michael McFaul, who served as President Barack Obama's ambassador to Russia, said that while Trump has been open about wanting warmer relations with Russia, \"he hasn't picked people to the best of my knowledge at senior levels that share that view.\" \n European allies also have been pushing the Trump administration not to make any early concessions to Russia. To bolster their case, European officials have tailored their rhetoric to appeal to Trump's business background, including emphasizing the risks of negotiating a bad deal, rather than more nuanced arguments, according to one Western diplomat. Given Trump's \"America First\" mantra, foreign officials emphasize how U.S. standing in the world could be diminished by making concessions to Russia instead of focusing on the importance of the U.S. and Europe sticking together to counter Moscow. \n Trump, who spoke favorably about Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout the campaign, is said to have shown interest in a broad deal with Russia that could address cooperation in fighting the Islamic State, nuclear arms control agreements and Russia's provocations in Ukraine. But in recent days, the administration has signaled that the moment for such a deal may not be right. \n In an Oval Office meeting last week, Trump told advisers that Russia's recent violation of a Cold War-era arms control treaty was among the complicating factors. In February, the Trump administration accused Russia of violating the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by deploying a cruise missile. \n A White House official confirmed the discussion, saying that Trump believes the treaty violation is making a diplomatic and security agreement with Russia \"tougher and tougher to achieve.\" Top administration officials have also echoed that message in conversations with some allies, according to diplomats. \n The president and his advisers have yet to settle on a formal approach to Russia and discussions about how to proceed are still in early phases, a second White House official said. \n The officials and Western diplomats insisted on anonymity in order to discuss private discussions and deliberations. \n Trump has been trailed by questions about his possible ties to Russia for months. He's taken an unusually friendly posture toward Russia, praising Putin's leadership and, at times, appearing to echo Kremlin positions on Ukraine and other matters. He's also repeatedly said that it would be better for the U.S. and Russia to have a stronger relationship, particularly in fighting terrorism. \n While Trump has continued to talk about a detente with Russia since taking office, there have been some signs of his administration taking a more traditional approach. \n U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley hit Russia hard last month over its actions in Ukraine, saying U.S. sanctions imposed after Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 will remain in place until the peninsula is returned to Ukraine. Trump also sent letters to Eastern European leaders, who worry Russia might set its sights on their borders next, underscoring his commitment to their security. \n \"Your support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine is important for our shared goal of enhancing European and regional security,\" Trump wrote to the Estonian president in a letter dated Feb. 15 and obtained by The Associated Press. \n Trump has insisted that he has no nefarious connections or financial ties to Russia. He's also said he's not aware of any contacts his campaign advisers had with Russia during the 2016 campaign, a period in which U.S. intelligence agencies assess Russia was interfering with the election to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. \n Still, the suggestions of wrongdoing have followed Trump to the White House, in part because of his own team's missteps. Flynn was fired for misleading Vice President Mike Pence and other top White House officials about the nature of his conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, even as the FBI was interviewing Flynn about those contacts. \n This week, Sessions acknowledged that he had contacts with Kislyak during the campaign. He said the discussions happened in his capacity as a U.S. senator and he was not misleading a Senate panel when he volunteered that he had no contacts with Russians as a Trump campaign surrogate. \n After the disclosures, Sessions said he would recuse himself from any Justice Department investigations related to Russia and the campaign. Democrats are demanding a special prosecutor to oversee such investigations. \n Trump, in a news conference after Flynn's firing, suggested the firestorm could hamper his ability to make a deal with Russia. \n \"It would be unpopular for a politician to make a deal,\" Trump said. \"It would be much easier for me to be so tough \u2014 the tougher I am on Russia, the better.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump wary of Russian deal; new advisers urge tougher stand"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER \n At the state's largest prison, the Halawa Correctional Facility on Oahu, nearly one in six inmates is over the age of 55. \n Hawaii's prisons are grappling with rising health care costs brought on by an aging population of inmates. \n At the state's largest prison, the Halawa Correctional Facility on Oahu, nearly one in six inmates is over the age of 55. About 5 percent of the facility's more than 1,000 inmates are disabled due to age, mobility and cognitive issues. \n The state Department of Public Safety says age-related medical costs and a growing inmate population are driving up its $24 million health care budget for correctional facilities. \n Some say inmates with severe medical conditions should not be kept behind bars, while others argue there is no place for them to go. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii prisons struggle to deal with aging inmate population"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Louis Tomlinson of One Direction performs at the American Music Awards at the Microsoft Theater on in Los Angeles. \n LOS ANGELES >> One Direction star Louis Tomlinson has been arrested for allegedly attacking a photographer at Los Angeles International Airport, an incident the singer's lawyer described as \"provoked\" by paparazzi. \n The incident happened Friday after Tomlinson, arriving on a flight with his girlfriend, Eleanor Calder, asked a photographer to stop filming. After an alleged scuffle, the photographer made a citizen's arrest on Tomlinson. \n Tomlinson was released, and a court date was set for March 29. \n Martin Singer, his lawyer, in a statement said the paparazzi \"provoked and caused the altercation\" and that Tomlinson came to his girlfriend's defense after she was being \"attacked.\" \n One Direction, which formed in 2010, has had hits including \"Drag Me Down,\" \"Story of My Life,\" \"What Makes You Beautiful,\" \"Perfect\" and \"Best Song Ever.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "One Direction's Louis Tomlinson arrested in airport scuffle"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. listens at left as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. speaks to reporters outside the White House in Washington, after meeting with President Donald Trump. \n WASHINGTON >> Republicans seem set to start muscling legislation through Congress reshaping the country's health care system after seven years of saber-rattling. \n Don't confuse that with GOP unity or assume that success is guaranteed. Unresolved disputes over taxes and Medicaid rage and conservatives complaining that Republican proposals don't go far enough could undermine the effort, or at least make GOP leaders' lives difficult. \n Two House committees \u2014 Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means \u2014 plan to begin voting Wednesday on their portions of the legislation, barring late problems. Leaders want to push the package through the House this month and hope the Senate can consider it by Congress' early April recess. \n It's an ambitious calendar for what could be the year's most momentous congressional battle. \n Repealing President Barack Obama's 2010 health care overhaul has long been the GOP holy grail. It helped elect President Donald Trump and has driven the Republican agenda in Congress, given GOP office-seekers a rationale for their candidacies and fueled countless fundraising appeals. \n Yet Republicans have never rallied behind an alternative and spent years settling for dozens of bills scuttling the law that went nowhere. Now, with a GOP president and party control of the House and Senate, voters expect Republicans to deliver and party leaders are banking on it. \n \"If you're a Republican who votes against 'Obamacare' repeal, you're going to have a lot of explaining to do to your constituents,\" said Doug Badger, a GOP health care adviser. \n There are few hard-line conservatives on the two committees poised to vote this week, so the panels will likely approve the legislation over unified Democratic opposition. \n Rockier problems loom in the full House and Senate. If 22 House Republicans or three Senate Republicans join united Democrats and oppose health legislation, it would fail. \n Highlighting an unabated push to influence the legislation, some GOP governors asked lawmakers last weekend to let states choose to continue receiving unlimited federal money to treat all who qualify for Medicaid, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. Currently, the GOP bill would instead give states set amounts for each Medicaid recipient \u2014 a pathway to gradually cutting the federal-state health program for the poor. \n It seems counterintuitive that Congress' conservatives would derail such a major, early priority for Trump and GOP congressional leaders. But they have the numbers and anti-establishment temperament to do just that. \n Many in the hard-right House Freedom Caucus, which claims around 40 members, oppose the GOP bill's proposal for tax credits to help pay medical expenses for people not covered at work or through the government. They object that the credit, geared to age not income, would even go to people who owe no taxes. \n They also oppose a proposal by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., to tax part of the value of expensive employer-provided coverage. That's an abomination for many Republicans, aware that about half of Americans get health insurance at work. \n \"A new plan that actually taxes the very workers that voted for Donald Trump and voted for many of our members is not moving in the right direction,\" said Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., who chairs the caucus and says the bill lacks the votes to pass. \n Across the Capitol, the magic number of three conservative GOP senators \u2014 Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Utah's Mike Lee \u2014 are causing headaches. They want the GOP to start with a bill Obama vetoed last year that annulled more of his statute than does the current Republican plan. \n Cruz tweeted Friday: \"When you spend 6 yrs promising, 'If only we get elected, we'll repeal #Obamacare,' you can't renege,\" \n Conservatives want Republicans to quickly repeal Obama's expansion of Medicaid to more lower-income people, complaining that the GOP leaders' measure does that too slowly. There's also a battle between GOP-run states that accepted federal money to expand Medicaid and Republican-dominated states that didn't expand but want extra funds anyway. \n The legislation remained a work in progress over the weekend, but the plans would repeal the tax penalties Obama's statute impose on people who don't buy insurance and end the federal subsidies most get for purchasing policies on the online exchanges the law created. Taxes on higher-income people, the insurance industry and other health industries that pay for the overhaul's expansion of coverage to 20 million Americans would be voided. \n The measure would expand tax-advantaged health savings accounts and end the overhaul's requirement that insurers cover 10 specific types of care, like maternity care. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n AP Congressional Correspondent Erica Werner and Thomas Beaumont in Des Moines, Iowa, contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republican health care push coming; success a question mark"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Hillsboro mayor Drew Hastings is interviewed at his offices in Hillsboro, Ohio. The small Ohio city is trying to recover from what a local newspaper calls Hillsboro's \"lost year.\" \n HILLSBORO, Ohio >> A local newspaper called it this little Ohio city's \"lost year.\" \n It was a year of subpoenas, search warrants, depositions and whispers. Hillsboro's mayor, a standup comedian long before he became a politician, was the focus of it all. \n Drew Hastings, who has appeared on Comedy Central and \"The Tonight Show\" with Jay Leno, dubbed it \"The Year of Living Strangerously,\" playing off the 1982 Mel Gibson-Sigourney Weaver movie \"The Year of Living Dangerously.\" \n The police chief who thought Hastings should have been ousted quit soon after the mayor's acquittal last November on four felony charges alleging official misconduct. The safety and services director, who was a prosecution witness against Hastings, was fired. \n People in the city of some 6,600, nearly 60 miles east of Cincinnati, use words such as \"divided\" and \"fractured\" to describe the impact of the probes that began in December 2015. \n \"It was hell \u2026 very stressful,\" said Debbie Sansone, the mayor's executive assistant, whose home was visited last year by investigators who seized her and her husband's personal computers and related items after search warrants were carried out around the city building. \n \"I'm sure there are hard feelings across the board,\" said Justin Harsha, a councilman and owner of a monument business his family started in Hillsboro in 1854. \"Basically, everything was kind of put on hold, everything was just up in the air. Now we're just trying to move forward and put the past in the past.\" \n Hastings, served with search warrants both at his farm outside the city and apartment in town, had everything from the contents of his refrigerator to those of his and his wife's underwear drawers examined, photographed and recorded. \n Investigators from the sheriff's department and Ohio auditor's office were trying to prove he falsified his residence, illegally obtained a $500 vacant building fee refund, and improperly used the city's trash bins. \n Hastings called it a \"witch hunt,\" and blamed the \"established political structure\" when indicted last July. \n Hastings, who settled in Hillsboro a decade ago for a better respite from life on the road than Los Angeles had been, is a Republican Donald Trump supporter who was something of a smaller-scale forerunner of the president. He's an entertainer and property investor who challenged the political establishment and won, and he scoffs at political correctness or niceties, with blunt, sometimes profane, language. \n \"I like Drew, but sometimes he should rephrase things before he says them,\" said Joe Mahan, president of the Uptown Business Association. \n The investigations began soon after Hastings won re-election to a second four-year term with nearly 60 percent of the vote in November 2015. Supporters praised the spruced-up downtown and improved city finances; foes didn't like his brash, heavy-handed style, and saw signs of ethical conflicts. \n The extensive investigation that resulted, led by a special prosecutor from the Ohio auditor's office, compiled volumes of investigatory files but, in the end, not convincing evidence of a crime. \n \"The jury did not believe we met the standard of proof, and we accept that,\" auditor's spokesman Benjamin Marrison said in response to a question about the costs and time spent on the case. \n Investigative expenses were relatively slight. Hillsboro is driving distance from the Columbus capital, and expense reports obtained through a public records request show that the few times local accommodations were needed, a budget hotel and low-priced restaurants were used. \n \"Besides, the potential cost of prosecution should not deter auditors and investigators from seeking justice,\" Marrison added. \n Hastings called his acquittal \"a victory for the little guy\" while adding he expects his opponents will simply change their tactics. He jokes in his routine about getting served with an indictment while waiting for his Bob Evans restaurant order, but overall, he said; \"I haven't really found that much funny about it.\" \n Times-Gazette Publisher Gary Abernathy pondered in a recent column whether Hastings could be more helpful to his adopted hometown as a private citizen. Hastings acknowledged that he often faces perceptions of ethics conflicts when he pushes for downtown improvements that could help his property values. \n The case's aftermath is a time to consider change, he said. He suggests discussion about moving local government to a system with a city manager and other professional administrators to reduce local political intrigue. \n \"I think our community realizes that just me being exonerated didn't fix our problems,\" he said. \"It's more endemic.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Small town led by comedian tries to recover from 'lost year'"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maryland U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein in Greenbelt, Md. Some Democrats worry the appointment of a Jeff Sessions subordinate to oversee any federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election won't be a clean enough break from the embattled attorney general. Rosenstein, who faces his confirmation hearing next week for the role of deputy attorney general, was appointed top federal prosecutor in Maryland by President George W. Bush and remained in the political post for the entire Obama administration. \n WASHINGTON >> Some Democrats worry the appointment of a Jeff Sessions subordinate to oversee an investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election won't be a clean enough break from the embattled attorney general. \n But the veteran prosecutor in line for the job may be uniquely politically palatable. \n Rod Rosenstein, who faces his confirmation hearing next week for the role of deputy attorney general, was appointed top federal prosecutor in Maryland by George W. Bush and remained in the post for the entire Obama administration. That staying power, extraordinary for a position that routinely turns over with changes in the White House, lends weight to the reputation he's cultivated as an apolitical law enforcement official. \n \"He is so well-respected. He cannot be influenced, he cannot be bought, he cannot be pressured because of outside political forces,\" said Baltimore criminal defense attorney Steven Silverman, who has known Rosenstein for years. \n Sessions recused himself from any Trump-Russia investigation Thursday after the Justice Department acknowledged he had spoken twice with the Russian ambassador last year and had failed to disclose the contacts during his Senate confirmation process. Sessions said he had not tried to mislead anyone but could have been more careful in his answers. He planned to file amended testimony on Monday, a Justice Department spokesman said. \n The new attorney general's recusal handed authority for an investigation \u2014 for now \u2014 to his deputy, Dana Boente, another longtime federal prosecutor who has the post in an acting capacity. Boente was appointed U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia in 2015 by Barack Obama and was elevated to acting attorney general in January after Trump fired Obama holdover Sally Yates. When Sessions won confirmation, Boente stepped to the No. 2 position. \n Once Rosenstein is confirmed, he'll take over responsibility for any probes touching the Trump campaign and Russian meddling. \n He arrives at the Justice Department with experience in politically freighted investigations, having earlier in his career been part of the Clinton-era Whitewater independent investigation. \n When he was a U.S. attorney, his office also led the leak prosecution of Thomas Drake, the former National Security Agency official who pleaded guilty to a minor misdemeanor after more serious charges of mishandling documents were dropped. He more recently oversaw the probe of James Cartwright, the former Joint Chiefs of Staff vice chairman who admitted making false statements during a separate leak investigation and was ultimately pardoned by Obama. \n \"It's hard to imagine a more challenging environment in which to come in as the deputy attorney general than what we have now,\" said Jason Weinstein, who served under Rosenstein in the U.S. attorney's office in Maryland. \"Having said that, I can't imagine a better person for the job right now than Rod.\" \n Regardless, the Sessions recusal did little to assuage demands from some Democrats that the investigation be placed in the hands of a special prosecutor. \n Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, called the Sessions recusal \"deeply inadequate\" and said he was troubled by the number of Trump associates who he contended have either made misleading statements or concealed communications with Russia. \n \"I also think for the public to have confidence that any prosecutorial decision is made truly independent of the administration, that the extra remedy of a special counsel is really warranted here,\" Schiff said in an interview. \n There is precedent for the selection of a special counsel by the Justice Department for especially sensitive investigations, though there's no indication yet that federal officials are planning to seek such an appointment. \n One prominent example was in 2003, when the Bush Justice Department turned to Patrick Fitzgerald, then the top federal prosecutor in Chicago, to investigate who leaked the identity of Valerie Plame, a covert CIA officer. That appointment was made by James Comey, who at the time was deputy attorney general and now is director of the FBI. \n \"I think if the decision is made to bring someone in from the outside, it's not because the department can't do it and can't do it well,\" said Weinstein, now a Washington lawyer. \"It's because in this politicized environment, the public's faith in the integrity of the investigation is so important and the department will want to bend over backward to put in place measures to ensure that the results of the investigation weren't questioned.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Veteran prosecutor in line to oversee Russia probe"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump is accusing former President Barack Obama of having Trump's telephones \"wire tapped'' during last year's election, but Trump isn't offering any evidence or saying what prompted the allegation. \n PALM BEACH, Fla. >> President Donald Trump today accused former President Barack Obama of having Trump Tower telephones \"wire tapped\" during last year's election, a claim that an Obama spokesman said was false. \n Trump did not offer any evidence or details, or say what prompted him to make the allegation. \n Trump, whose administration has been under siege over campaign contacts with Russian officials, said in a series of early morning tweets that he \"just found out that Obama had my 'wires tapped' in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!' \n Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my \"wires tapped\" in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! \n Is it legal for a sitting President to be \"wire tapping\" a race for president prior to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW! \n I'd bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election! \n How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy! \n Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis said a \"cardinal rule\" of the Obama administration was that no White House official ever interfered in any Justice Department investigations, which are supposed to be conducted free of political influence. \n \"As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen,\" Lewis said, adding that \"any suggestion otherwise is simply false.\" \n The White House did not immediately reply to inquiries about what prompted the president's tweets. \n Trump compared the alleged activity to behavior involving President Richard Nixon and the bugging of his political opponents. \n \"How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!\" he tweeted, misspelling 'tap.' \n Trump said the wiretapping occurred in October. He ran the presidential transition largely out of Trump Tower in New York, where he also maintains a residence. \n Trump's tweets came days after revelations that Attorney General Jeff Sessions, during his Senate confirmation hearing, didn't disclose his own campaign-season contacts with Russia's ambassador to the United States. Sessions, a U.S. senator at the time, was Trump's earliest Senate supporter. \n Trump's opening tweet Saturday mentioned Sessions and claimed the first meeting Sessions had with the Russian diplomat was \"set up by the Obama Administration under education program for 100 Ambs \u2026\" \n U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia interfered in the campaign with the goal of helping elect Trump over Democrat Hillary Clinton \u2014 findings that Trump has dismissed. The FBI has investigated Trump associates' ties to Russian officials. Congress is also investigating. \n Trump has blamed Democrats for leaks of information about the investigation and the contacts. \n It was unclear what prompted Trump's new charge. The president often tweets about reports he reads on blogs and conservative-leaning websites. \n The allegations may be related to anonymously sourced reports in British media and blogs, and on conservative-leaning U.S. websites, including Breitbart News. Those reports claimed that U.S. officials had obtained a warrant under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to review contacts between computers at a Russian bank and Trump's New York headquarters. \n The AP has not confirmed these contacts or the investigation into them. Steve Bannon, Trump's chief strategist in the White House, is a former executive chairman of Breitbart News. \n FISA is a 1978 law that created a system to hear requests to surveil foreign intelligence agents. It differs from a regular criminal warrant because it does not require the government to provide probable cause that a crime has occurred. Instead, under FISA, the government must simply provide evidence that the target of an investigation is an agent of a foreign power. \n Such targetable agents would include Russian diplomats such as Sergei Kislyak, the ambassador who spoke with a number of Trump aides. But a FISA warrant could also include others for whom investigators could muster probable cause, potentially including entities directly connected to Trump. \n Obama could not order a FISA warrant. Obtaining one would require officials at the Justice Department to seek permission from the FISA court, which is shrouded in secrecy. Judges could order prosecutors to share FISA information with defendants if they deem it necessary for challenging a search's legality, but courts have consistently agreed with the government that disclosing the material could expose sensitive intelligence secrets. \n One exception to this practice is the president himself, who has the authority to declassify records. In Trump's case, he could confirm any such surveillance of his campaign or business undertaken before he took office in January. \n Trump is spending the weekend at his waterfront estate in Palm Beach, Florida, after highlighting his education agenda and support for school choice on Friday by visiting a Catholic school in Orlando. Trump had no public events scheduled during the weekend. \n After tweeting Saturday about Obama, as well as about Arnold Schwarzenegger's decision to leave \"The New Celebrity Apprentice,\" Trump went to his golf club in nearby West Palm Beach. Schwarzenegger replaced Trump as host of the show while the president remained its executive producer. \n Trump is also scheduled to have dinner Saturday with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross at Trump's estate, Mar-a-Lago. \n The president planned to return to the White House late Sunday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama spokesman says Trump's wiretapping allegation is false"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "COURTESY DISNEY \n Josh Gad as Le Fou, left, and Luke Evans as Gaston in a scene from, \"Beauty and the Beast,\" opening nationwide on March 17. \n HENAGAR, Ala. >> An Alabama drive-in theater won't show a new re-telling of the classic fairy tale \"Beauty and the Beast\" because one of its characters is portrayed as homosexual. \n A Facebook post for the Henagar Drive-In Theatre says its operators are \"first and foremost Christians\" and will not compromise on what the Bible teaches. They said they will show family-oriented films so customers can \"watch wholesome movies.\" \n The post said the owners were taking a stand and making a choice not to show the film, which includes manservant Le Fou, who plays the sidekick to the story's villain Gaston and, according to director Bill Condon, \"is confused about his sexuality.\" \n Theater operators did not immediately respond to emails or phone messages to confirm the Facebook posting. \n The Disney film releases March 17. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Gay moment nixes 'Beauty and the Beast' at Alabama drive-in"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 2016, file photo, relatives of Jordanian writer Nahed Hattar hold up signs protesting his death, in front of Jordanian Prime Ministry in Amman, Jordan. Nahad Hattar, the writer, had been on trial for posting a cartoon deemed offensive to Islam on social media when an assailant killed him outside the courthouse. The shooter was a former mosque prayer leader motivated by anger over the cartoon, officials said at the time. \n AMMAN, Jordan >> Jordan on Saturday executed 10 men convicted in a series of bombings and shooting attacks since 2003 that killed a British tourist, an outspoken critic of Islamic extremism and members of the Jordanian security forces, the government spokesman said. \n It was the largest round of executions in recent memory, and the first since pro-Western Jordan launched a crackdown on Islamic extremists two years ago, after the killing of a captured Jordanian fighter pilot by the Islamic State group. \n Jordan is a part of a U.S.-led military coalition against IS, which holds territory in Syria and Iraq. \n The prisoners were hanged at dawn Saturday at Swaqa Prison, about 75 kilometers (47 kilometers) south of the capital of Amman, said government spokesman Mohammed Momani. \n Five others were executed for other crimes, including incest, Momani said in a statement carried by the state news agency Petra. \n The assailants executed Saturday for terror convictions had been involved in six different incidents, from a 2003 bombing attack that killed 19 at Jordan's embassy in Iraq to the September 2016 shooting of local writer Nahed Hattar on the steps of an Amman courthouse. \n Also listed were a 2006 shooting attack on a group of tourists at a Roman theater in Amman in which a 30-year-old British man was killed; a December 2015 shooting attack that killed two police officers; a March 2016 shootout between police and IS militants at their hideout in which an officer was killed; and a June 2016 attack by a lone gunman on an office of Jordan's intelligence agency that killed five. \n Nahad Hattar, the writer, had been on trial for posting a cartoon deemed offensive to Islam on social media when an assailant killed him outside the courthouse. The shooter was a former mosque prayer leader motivated by anger over the cartoon, officials said at the time. \n Saad Hattar, a cousin of the victim, said Saturday that while the killer was punished, those who instigated such attacks with hateful rhetoric were not. \n \"The murderer was just a tool, and our society needs the uprooting of the ideology and the culture behind him,\" Hattar, a journalist, told The Associated Press. \n Analyst Labib Kamhawi said he believes the executions were meant to send a triple message. They signaled to potential attackers that they can expect harsh punishment and reminded ordinary Jordanians buckling under price increases that their country faces a serious security threat, he said. \n The message to the outside world, particularly the Trump administration, is that \"Jordan is on top of things and that Jordan can be considered one of the allies in fighting terrorism,\" Kamhawi said. \n Jordan intensified its campaign against suspected Islamic extremists after IS released a video in early 2015, showing its militants as they burned to death the fighter pilot trapped in a cage. In response to the video, Jordan executed two prisoners linked to the al-Qaida terror network, a precursor of IS. \n Hundreds of Jordanians have been detained or sentenced to prison since then, including those expressing support for IS on social media. \n Jordanian authorities have dismissed support for IS in the kingdom as a fringe phenomenon and said security forces can contain any threat. However, there has been a rise in attacks in Jordan linked to Islamic extremists over the past year. \n Previously, Jordan had executed 11 people in December 2014, in cases involving murder. This ended what had been a de facto eight-year moratorium on the death penalty, the international group Human Rights Watch said at the time. \n The rights group Amnesty International said the \"horrific scale and secrecy\" surrounding Saturday's executions was shocking. \n \"This is a major step backward for both Jordan and efforts to end the death penalty, a senseless and ineffective means of administering justice,\" said Samah Hadid, deputy director of the London-based group's regional office in Beirut. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Jordan hangs 10 for attacks, some tied to Islamic extremism"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, center, member of Congress's bipartisan task force combating anti-Semitism, spoke with a reporter after holding a press conference to address bomb treats against Jewish organizations and vandalism at Jewish cemeteries on Friday at the Park East Synagogue in New York. \n NEW YORK >> A former journalist fired for fabricating details in stories made at least eight of the scores of threats against Jewish institutions nationwide, including a bomb threat to the Anti-Defamation League, as part of a bizarre campaign to harass and frame his ex-girlfriend, federal officials said. \n Juan Thompson was arrested in St. Louis and appeared there in federal court Friday on a cyberstalking charge. He answered questions and told the judge he had enough money to hire a lawyer. \n A crowd of supporters who attended said Thompson had no criminal record. His lawyer didn't comment. \n Federal officials have been investigating 122 bomb threats called in to Jewish organizations in three dozen states since Jan. 9 and a rash of vandalism at Jewish cemeteries. \n A criminal complaint said Thompson started making threats Jan. 28 with an email to the Jewish History Museum in New York written from an account that made it appear as if it were being sent by an ex-girlfriend. \n \"Juan Thompson put 2 bombs in the History Museum set to go off Sunday,\" it said. \n Authorities said he followed that up with similar messages to a Jewish school in Farmington Hills, Michigan, and to a school and community center in Manhattan. \n In another round of emails and phone calls, he gave the woman's name, rather than his own, the court complaint said. The Council on American-Islamic Relations received an anonymous email saying the woman put a bomb in a Dallas Jewish center. \n Thompson, who's black, then took to Twitter: \"Know any good lawyers?\" he wrote. \"Need to stop this nasty/racist #whitegirl I dated who sent a bomb threat in my name.\" He later tweeted to the Secret Service: \"I'm been (sic) tormented by an anti-Semite. She sent an antijewish bomb threat in my name. Help.\" \n But police say it was a hoax created to make the woman look guilty. Thompson also made threats in which he identified the woman as the culprit, authorities said. It's unclear why Jewish organizations were targeted. \n Republican President Donald Trump suggested in a meeting Tuesday with state attorneys general the threats against Jewish community centers may have been designed to make \"others look bad,\" according to Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro. Trump also has condemned violence against Jewish organizations. \n Thompson was fired from the online publication The Intercept last year after being accused of fabricating several quotes and creating fake email accounts to impersonate people, including the Intercept's editor-in-chief. One of the stories involved Dylann Roof, the white shooter of black worshippers at a Charleston, South Carolina, church. \n Thompson had written that a cousin named Scott Roof claimed the gunman was angry that a love interest chose a black man over him. A review showed there was no cousin by that name. The story was retracted. \n The Intercept wrote Friday it was \"horrified\" to learn of Thompson's arrest. \n Thompson had been accused of bizarre behavior before. \n Doyle Murphy, a reporter at the Riverfront Times, an alternative weekly in St. Louis, said he was subjected to social media harassment after writing about Thompson's troubled past in the fallout from his firing at The Intercept. \n Murphy said Thompson set up anonymous accounts on Twitter and other social media posing as a woman who claimed she had been sexually assaulted by Murphy. Murphy said he contacted Twitter but every time one fake account was taken down a new one popped up. He said he contacted police but there was little they could do. \n \"It was a nightmare, and there's not a whole lot I could do about it,\" Murphy said. \n The Federal Communications Commission said Friday it will grant an emergency waiver allowing Jewish community centers and their phone carriers to track the numbers of callers who make threats, even if the callers try to block the numbers. It said Democratic U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer had requested such a waiver earlier in the week. \n According to the criminal complaint, Thompson and the ex-girlfriend, a social worker, broke up last summer. The following day, her boss received an email purporting to be from a national news organization saying she'd been pulled over for drunken driving. \n The harassment got worse, authorities said. She received an anonymous email with nude photos of herself and a threat to release them. Her company, a nonprofit that works to end homelessness, got faxes saying she was anti-Semitic. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children got a note saying she watched child porn. \n Thompson's IP address was used for the emails, but he told police his computer had been hacked, the complaint said. \n The ADL said Thompson had been on its radar since he fabricated the story about Roof. According to ADL research, Thompson also claimed he wanted to dismantle the system of \"racial supremacy and greedy capitalism that is stacked against us.\" He said he was going to run for mayor of St. Louis to \"fight back against Trumpian fascism and socio-economic terrorism.\" \n FBI Director James Comey met with Jewish community leaders Friday to discuss the recent threats, the agency said. \n University City, Missouri, police Lt. Fredrick Lemons told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that detectives will question Thompson about the 154 headstones toppled last month at a Jewish cemetery there. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Former journalist threatened Jewish centers to frame, harass ex"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "U.S. regulators Friday approved the first drug to reduce nighttime trips to the bathroom. \n The treatment is a nasal spray intended for adults who wake up at least twice a night to urinate. The Food and Drug Administration said the spray, called Noctiva, is not approved to treat all causes of frequent nighttime urination, so doctors must determine the cause and best treatment for each person. \n Noctiva is approved specifically for a common condition caused by such things as chronic heart failure, poorly controlled diabetes and bladder and prostate problems, as well as some medications. \n The nasal spray is used daily about 30 minutes before bedtime. It works by making the kidneys absorb more water, which reduces the amount of urine. \n Noctiva carries the FDA's strongest warning, a so-called black box, because the drug can cause dangerously low levels of sodium in the blood. Other side effects include colds, bronchitis, increased blood pressure, dizziness, back pain and nose bleeds. \n Before using the spray, patients must undergo testing to confirm they produce excess urine at night. \n The treatment was tested for three months in about 1,000 people 50 and older with the condition, called nocturnal polyuria. The half who used Noctiva had more nights with one or no trips to the bathroom, compared to the group that got a dummy nasal spray, according to the FDA. \n The active ingredient in Noctiva, desmopressin acetate, is included in some other drugs, including an injected version for bleeding disorders. The FDA said the nasal spray version is the first approved treatment for frequent nighttime urination. \n Noctiva was developed by partners Serenity Pharmaceuticals LLC of Milford, Pennsylvania, and Allergan PLC, which is headquartered in Dublin. Allergan could not immediately provide information on the drug's price or when it will be available. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FDA approves first drug to limit frequent waking to urinate"}

{"date": "March 4, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n United States Courts shows Judge James Robart has granted an extension to the Justice Department in a lawsuit alleging that President Donald Trump's immigration order is blocking efforts by legal residents to reunite with their children who are trapped in war-torn countries. Robart also said he understood the frustrations of plaintiffs over Trump administration statements that seemingly contradict those made by federal government lawyers. After being repeatedly postponed, a White House official said Thursday, a replacement order now won't be unveiled until next week at the earliest. \n SEATTLE >> A federal judge in Seattle on Friday granted a two-week extension to the Justice Department in a lawsuit alleging that President Donald Trump's immigration order is blocking efforts by legal residents to reunite with their children who are trapped in war-torn countries. \n U.S. District Judge James Robart, who halted enforcement of Trump's immigration order nationwide in February in a separate case brought by the states of Washington and Minnesota, said in his order that the federal government could have more time before responding to plaintiff's efforts to have the case certified as a class-action lawsuit. \n The Justice Department argued that Trump intends to rescind the order and replace it with a new, substantially revised executive order that may \"influence the shape of the legal issues \u2026 in ways relevant to the class certification question.\" \n After being repeatedly postponed, a White House official said Thursday a replacement order now won't be unveiled until next week at the earliest. \n Robart also said he understood the frustrations of the parents and Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, who filed the lawsuit, over Trump administration statements that seemingly contradict those made by federal government lawyers. \n \"The court understands Plaintiffs' frustrations concerning statements emanating from President Trump's administration that seemingly contradict representations of the federal government's lawyers in this and other litigation before the court,\" the order said. \n Nevertheless, Robart said, the court will continue to rely on statements coming from the federal attorneys. \n The lawsuit filed in Seattle's U.S. District Court in late January claims Trump's order barring people from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. is unconstitutional. It asked for a judge to intervene and stop the application of the part of the order that suspends visas to citizens of those seven countries. \n Juweiya Abdiaziz Ali, one of the plaintiffs, is a U.S. citizen living in Seattle who started the process in August of bringing her son from Somalia. But Trump's order has her worried that her son's visa process will be indefinitely suspended, she said. \n Like thousands of others, those named in the lawsuit pursued the immigrant visa process that includes hundreds of dollars in filing fees, security screenings, medical examinations and interviews, Matt Adams, the group's legal director said previously. \n The Trump administration has defended the order, saying more restrictions are needed to protect the U.S. from future terrorist attacks. \n The new deadline for federal government attorneys to respond to the motion is March 20. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Judge gives extension to Trump lawyers in travel ban suit"}

