{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Scorched cars and trailers burned by the Blue Cut fire line a residential street in Phelan, Calif. \n PHELAN, Calif. >> The most successful day yet in fighting a massive and ferocious wildfire in Southern California also came with news of the blaze's destruction. \n The blaze was 40 percent contained by the end of Friday and many evacuees were allowed to return to their homes in the city of Phelan, officials said. \n \"It's looking very good,\" said fire spokesman Brad Pitassi, adding that they expect more big gains and more residents returning home on Saturday. \n It was revealed, however, that 96 homes and 213 outbuildings were destroyed by the blaze, most of them in its first fierce days on Tuesday and Wednesday. \n More damage might still be discovered as firefighters pore through the aftermath of the fire that had burned 58 square miles about 60 miles east of Los Angeles in San Bernardino County. \n Johanna Santore was among those left homeless. She was running an errand Tuesday when the fire charged through her neighborhood. She tried to rush home to rescue the family's four dogs, six cats and hamster but was blocked by closed roads. \n A group of animal rescue volunteers found the house in smoldering ruins \u2014 with no signs of the pets. \n \"I'm actually feeling numb,\" said Santore, who fled with her husband and granddaughter to an evacuation center. \"It's like a nightmare.\" \n A prolonged drought has transformed swaths of California into tinderboxes, ready to ignite. Several other wildfires were burning in the state, including a blaze in rural Santa Barbara County that prompted the evacuation of a pair of campgrounds. \n In the southern Sierra Nevada, another blaze feeding on dense timber in Sequoia National Forest forced the evacuation of several tiny hamlets. \n Another blaze burned in Santa Barbara County and forced the evacuation of a pair of campgrounds during the height of the summer season. \n In mountains north of San Francisco, a 6-square-mile blaze was 75 percent contained after destroying 299 structures, including 175 homes and eight businesses, in the working-class community of Lower Lake. All evacuation orders have been canceled. \n At the height of the fire east of Los Angeles, some 82,000 people were under evacuation orders. Many residents have been allowed to return home, but fire officials could not say when all the evacuations would be lifted. \n No deaths have been reported and the cause of the fire was under investigation. Crews continued to sift through burned regions to tally the damage. \n The Santores weren't as lucky. Volunteers who drove to their house found a moonscape. Some of the neighbors' homes were still standing, seemingly intact. \n Before the fire roared through, Johanna Santore had redecorated her granddaughter's room in a zebra pattern and added a loft bed. \n \"We don't plan on rebuilding,\" she said. \"We plan on leaving.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Big gains but news of 96 homes burned by California wildfire"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n First lady Hillary Clinton addresses the panel of women's health and security before addressing the U.N. World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. \n Flying across the Pacific on an Air Force jet bound for Beijing, first lady Hillary Clinton huddled deep into the night with a few aides and advisers, honing her speech for the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women. \n It was 1995, and it had been a bruising first few years in the White House: Troopergate, Travelgate, Whitewater. Not to mention the failure of her own high-profile efforts \u2014 unprecedented for a first lady \u2014 to reform the nation's health care. \n Even her trip to China had provoked controversy. There were objections in some quarters to a first lady wading into tricky diplomatic waters and addressing issues like human rights abuses. Some in Congress called the conference \"anti-family\" and felt the United States shouldn't be attending at all. Some feared offending the Chinese with criticism; others feared the hosts might use the U.S. participation \u2014 and the first lady's \u2014 as propaganda. \n In the end, Clinton decided to make the trip, hoping to \"push the envelope as far as I can on behalf of women and girls.\" \n \"All eyes were now on Beijing, and I knew that all eyes would be on me, too,\" she writes in her memoir, \"Living History.\" \n But as she rose to the podium, and even after she had stepped down to thunderous applause, Clinton had no idea the impact the moment would have, she says. More than two decades later, that 21-minute speech \u2014 with its declaration that \"Human rights are women's rights, and women's rights are human rights\" \u2014 remains one of her signature moments in public life. \n It also stands out as a moment Clinton began to truly forge an identity as a public figure on the world stage, apart from her husband. \n \"It gave her a platform that was instantly recognizable, one that she could utilize in a very efficacious way to make a difference,\" says Melanne Verveer, Clinton's chief of staff at the time. \n And while Clinton was no stranger to the subject she addressed \u2014 she had long been an advocate for women and children \u2014 the Beijing speech would set a course for the issues with which she would be involved for the rest of her career, especially as secretary of state, says Verveer, who later served as the first U.S. ambassador-at-large for global women's issues. \n \"It played a major role in who she would become. It really was one of those evolutionary, transformative moments.\" \n And it almost didn't happen. A few months earlier, Chinese-American dissident Harry Wu had been arrested upon entering China and charged with espionage, throwing the participation of the U.S. delegation and Clinton, its honorary chair, into limbo. He was finally released less than a month before the conference; Clinton writes that there was \"never a quid pro quo.\" \n She and her aides flew from Hawaii, where President Clinton was speaking on the anniversary of V-J Day at Pearl Harbor. Working on the draft while others slept, the group was keenly aware that \"one wrong word in this speech might lead to a diplomatic brouhaha,\" Clinton writes. \n Hours later, she took the microphone in the large hall. She began by telling the delegates that when women are healthy, educated and free from violence, with a chance to work and learn, their families flourish, too. About halfway through, she declared: \"It's time to break the silence. It's time for us to say here, for the world to hear, that it is no longer acceptable to discuss women's rights as separate from human rights.\" \n With emphasis on the word \"human\" each time, she listed abuses against women \u2014 and called them human rights violations (she did not mention China by name). Then came her most famous line: \"If there is one message that echoes forth from this conference, let it be that human rights are women's rights, and women's rights are human rights, once and for all.\" \n Once the words had been translated for all to digest, the reaction was thunderous. \"People have tears running down their cheeks, they're stomping their feet,\" Verveer recalls. In her memoir, Clinton writes that despite the reaction, she still had no idea \"that my 21-minute speech would become a manifesto for women all over the world.\" \n It's difficult to understand, in 2016, just how new Clinton's message felt, says Kathy Spillar, executive director of the Feminist Majority Foundation. \n \"We look back 21 years later, and we go, 'duh' \u2014 but it was groundbreaking at the time,\" she says. \"It was huge \u2014 the first lady of the United States saying this, just outright. Many women were coming from countries where discrimination against women disguised as cultural practice was widely happening. Even the UN as a whole hadn't embraced this agenda \u2026 it was just an extraordinary moment in the centuries-long struggle for women's full human rights around the world.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Clinton's 1995 Beijing speech: A 'transformative' moment"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's first-of-its-kind campaign ad begins with a warning: \"In Hillary Clinton's America, the system stays rigged against Americans.\" \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's newest campaign ad begins with a warning: \"In Hillary Clinton's America, the system stays rigged against Americans.\" \n The commercial, which aired Friday as part of his $5 million swing state ad buy, harkens back to a claim Trump has been hammering for weeks \u2014 that the general election is rigged against him. The questionable claim looks to mobilize Republicans, with the all-important start of early voting in some states just weeks away. \n The presidential nominee has voiced strong support for North Carolina's stringent voter ID law \u2014 struck down as discriminatory, but to be appealed \u2014 saying without it, voters will cast ballots \"15 times\" for Democrat Hillary Clinton. He also launched a new effort on his website last week seeking volunteers to root out fraud at the polls. \n Things to know about voting fraud: \n WHAT ARE VOTER ID LAWS? \n That ID law Trump referred to had involved a broader package of restrictions \u2014 among them, reducing early in-person voting, which is popular among blacks in particular. At the same time, it exempted tough photo ID requirements for early mail-in voters, who were more likely to be white and Republican. \n In all, 17 states were set to have restrictions for the first time in a presidential election, pending final appeals, such as voter ID or cuts to voter registration or early in-person voting. Among them: the battlegrounds of North Carolina, Virginia, Ohio, Wisconsin and Georgia. Florida and Iowa had restrictions in place since 2012. \n The potential impact is significant: Barack Obama's strength among early voters in 2012 helped him capture Florida and Iowa despite losing the election-day vote in those states, according to voting data compiled by The Associated Press. He narrowly lost North Carolina by 92,000 votes; in 2008, Obama had won all three states plus Colorado, thanks to early voters. \n IS VOTING FRAUD A PROBLEM? \n Not the type that Trump is referring to. \n While fraud can occur, the number of cases is very small and the type that voter IDs are designed to prevent \u2014 voter impersonation at the ballot box \u2014 is virtually non-existent. \n News21, a reporting project affiliated with Arizona State University, in 2012 found 2,068 cases of election fraud nationwide since 2000. Of those, just 10 involved voter impersonation \u2014 or one out of every 15 million prospective voters. More common was absentee mail-in ballot fraud, with 491 cases. None affected the outcome of an election. \n Lorraine Minnite, a political science professor at Rutgers University-Camden, says voter impersonation fraud is rare because it's difficult to do on a large-enough scale to tip an election. \n \"It's so irrational to even try just for one or two more votes,\" said Minnite, author of \"The Myth of Voter Fraud.\" \n In court cases that temporarily invalidated some of the ID laws, including North Carolina, Wisconsin and North Dakota, election officials could barely cite a case in which a person was charged with in-person voting fraud. \n But Trump continued his warnings, calling last week for \"election observers\" on his official website to \"stop Crooked Hillary from rigging this election.\" Volunteers who sign up are directed to a donation page. \n A new Pew Research Center report released Friday found that 38 percent of registered voters who support Trump are very confident their vote will be accurately counted. This view stands in contrast to the 2004 and 2008 elections, when substantial majorities of voters who backed Republicans George W. Bush and John McCain expressed confidence in the count of their votes. \n The survey found that 67 percent of Clinton supporters have a high degree of confidence that their vote will be counted accurately. \n WHAT CAN WE EXPECT WITH EARLY VOTING? \n North Carolina is the first to kick off early voting on Sept. 9, when its residents may request and submit mail-in absentee ballots through election day for any reason. It will be followed by Georgia, Wisconsin, Virginia and Iowa. \n A total of 37 states also offer in-person early voting, typically in mid to late October. \n Over the years, mail-in early voters usually have been older, better educated and more likely white, while in-person early voters were often young people and black Americans, according to University of Florida professor Michael McDonald, an expert in election statistics. \n As a result, early voting will likely be concentrated heavily among registered Republicans initially before turning in the Democrats' favor in late October to early November. Those initial numbers will offer clues as to the depth of Trump's support among his biggest partisans, who vote right away, McDonald said. Meanwhile, in North Carolina, a potential wild card is its voter ID law. An appeals court recently invalidated restrictions that cut in person early voting from 17 to 10 days, but the governor has vowed to appeal, creating uncertainty about the extent of early voting this fall. \n Voter mobilization is a key part of Clinton's strategy to winning North Carolina, as it was for Obama. \n WILL RULINGS INVALIDATING VOTER ID INCREASE THE DEMOCRATIC VOTE? \n Not necessarily. More likely, it will prevent a net loss of would-be Democratic voters \u2014 the black Americans, young people and the poor, whom recent rulings said would be less able to vote if newly passed state voter ID laws remained. \n Based on rulings as they stand now, voters in North Carolina and North Dakota are ultimately unlikely to face new ID requirements, while those in Wisconsin and Texas will in some form. \n A number of factors can influence voter turnout, beyond ID laws, such as voter excitement for a candidate, as was seen in 2008 and 2012, when voters rushed to the polls to help elect the first-ever black president, said Richard Hasen, a law professor at the University of California at Irvine. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "In-person voting fraud is rare, doesn't affect elections"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "FOTOLIA / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n A new way to measure how humans age suggests that Latinos withstand life's wear and tear better than non-Latino Caucasians. \n A new way to measure how humans age suggests that Latinos withstand life's wear and tear better than non-Latino Caucasians, and that they may have their Native American ancestors to thank for their longer lives.  \n The new findings offer some insight into a longstanding demographic mystery: that despite having higher rates of inflammation and such chronic diseases as obesity and diabetes, Latinos in the United States have a longer average lifespan than do non-Latino whites. \n Those findings emerge from an intriguing effort to devise a biological clock \u2014 a standard measure of age more revealing than birthdays, walking speed, wrinkled skin or twinkly eyes. By doing so, researchers hope to glean why some people die young while others live long, to understand what chronic diseases have to do with aging, and to predict and increase patients' lifespans. A reliable measure of biological age could also set a standard by which to judge the effectiveness of anti-aging therapies. \n At the University of California, Los Angeles, bioinformatician Steve Horvath has devised a measure of aging that reflects the activity level of the epigenome, the set of signals that prompts an individual's genes to change their function across the lifespan in response to new demands. \n Horvath's \"epigenetic clock\" captures a key feature of aging: that as we grow older, there are complex but predictable changes in the rate at which our genes are switched on and off by a chemical process called DNA methylation. To arrive at a single measure of a person's biological age and then compute his or her speed of aging, Horvath has proposed to measure epigenetic activity at 353 sites in a person's genome. \n Earlier efforts to devise an epigenetic clock suggested that biological age, and the speed of aging, not only differ among populations and from person to person: The tissues in each of us may age at different rates. That may explain, for instance, why some organs and tissues are more vulnerable than others to such age-related diseases as cancer. \n The new study, published this week in the journal Genome Biology, set out to refine and test that clock. To do so, Horvath and his colleagues analyzed blood, saliva and lymphoblastoid samples collected from 5,162 participants in a wide range of studies. \n Those participants included not only black, white and Latino Americans but also Han Chinese, members of the Tsimane Amerindian tribe in South America, and two separate groups of Central Africans: rain-forest-dwelling hunter-gatherers and agrarians living in grasslands and open savannas. \n The Tsimane, an indigenous people who forage and cultivate crops in the lowlands of Bolivia, offer an especially good test of the epigenetic clock: constantly bombarded with bacterial, viral and parasitic infections, the Tsimane typically experience high rates of inflammation, which has widely been seen as a marker for aging. But they rarely show risk factors for heart disease or develop Type 2 diabetes as they age, and obesity, high blood pressure and problematic cholesterol are virtually nonexistent. \n The epigenetic clock found that the Tsimane aged even more slowly than Latinos. The biological clock calculated the age of their blood as two years younger than Latinos and four years younger than Caucasians. \n But that finding was despite strong evidence that, over the age of 35, a Tsimane's immune system was close to exhausted and his inflammation levels \"make him look like a 90-year-old,\" said Horvath. \n \"This result sheds light on what is frequently called the Hispanic paradox,\" said Horvath. \"It suggests that what gives Hispanics their advantage is really their Native American ancestry, because they share ancestry with these indigenous Americans.\" \n Horvath emphasized that Latinos' slower aging rate cannot be explained by lifestyle factors such as diet, socioeconomic status, education or obesity, because researchers adjusted such factors. \n The study may also shed light on a different demographic oddity: that once African-Americans have reached the age of 85, they tend to live longer than Caucasians of the same age. Using a new gauge of biological aging, the authors of the latest research found that older African-Americans age more slowly than do Caucasians of the same chronological age. \n The measure also finds that women age more slowly than men, and that aging is accelerated in those with less education and slows with higher educational attainment. Those findings, too, may help explain longstanding observations that stir curiosity: that despite suffering more illness, women statistically live longer than men, and that more education is linked to longer lifespan.  \n Because they track nicely with such baffling demographic patterns, the new study's findings offer some validation of the epigenetic clock. Several other studies have begun to validate the clock's accuracy and reliability, testing it in populations known to age differently from the norm, including people with Down syndrome, HIV infection and Parkinson's disease. In three separate studies, the clock has been found to accurately predict mortality from any cause in large populations, even after researchers adjusted for chronological age and a range of factors that can erode health and hasten death. \n \"This effort is very novel and exciting,\" said Max Guo, chief of the division of aging biology at the National Institute of Aging, which has funded Horvath's research. Guo said that, ultimately, biological clocks that use large panels of markers \u2014 not just epigenetics but other measures of well-being \u2014 would likely be needed to capture the complexity of aging. \"But this is promising,\" he said.  \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Melissa Healy Los Angeles Times", "title": "Scientists unlock secret to Latinos' longevity, with hopes of slowing aging for everyone"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "Maui firefighters extinguished a brush fire caused by a a homeless person attempting to cook food in an area near the Lahaina Fire Station today. \n The fire was reported at 4:19 p.m. \n Arriving firefighters quickly brought the 10-by-40-foot fire under control and had it fully extinguished within a half hour. \n A homeless man told firefighters that he had started a fire to cook food and that gusty winds caused it to spread to the nearby brush. \n No injuries were reported. A Maui Electric Co. utility pole sustained minor damage. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Small brush fire ignited when homeless person tries to cook food near Lahaina station"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE VIA AP \n This undated photo provided by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice shows death row inmate Jeffery Wood. \n AUSTIN, Texas \u00bb A court halted the execution of a Texas man who was scheduled to die for a fatal 1996 robbery in which he wasn't the person who pulled the trigger.  \n The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals ruled 7-2 today to put Jeffery Wood's execution on hold. Wood, 43, was scheduled to die by lethal injection Wednesday. \n The case has drawn highly unusual opposition from Republican lawmakers. It also has captured attention across the U.S. over Wood's culpability in the shooting of a convenience store clerk, his mental competence and criticism surrounding his original trial. \n In a two-page opinion, the appeals court said it was sending the case back to a lower court to review defense claims that the death sentence was based on false testimony and false scientific evidence. Those claims were based on the testimony of a since-discredited psychiatrist that Wood would certainly pose a future risk to public safety. \n Wood's attorney, Jared Tyler, who had sought the stay last month, said \"the court did the right thing\" in halting the execution and returning the case to a state district court in Kerrville, Kerr County, to have the claims resolved. \n Wood and his friend Daniel Reneau were convicted in the shooting death of a 31-year-old store clerk during a robbery in the Texas Hill Country. Wood waited in a car while Reneau shot the clerk in the face. Wood was convicted of capital murder under what's known as the Texas law of parties, which makes a participant in a capital murder case equally culpable. \n Reneau was executed in 2002. \n \"Justice is not served by executing Mr. Wood, who was outside the building when it happened and who had no criminal history,\" Tyler said in a statement Friday. \"Three former jurors have said they feel the government's presentation to them of a discredited psychiatrist who predicted with certainty, and without evaluating Mr. Wood, that Mr. Wood would be criminally violent in the future was unfair. \u2026 The jurors no longer support a death sentence.\" \n One Republican legislator already had formally asked the Texas Board of Pardon and Paroles to recommend commuting Wood's death sentence to life imprisonment, and GOP state Rep. Jeff Leach had said before the ruling that he was collecting a bipartisan set of signatures for a similar letter to be sent this weekend. \n Leach, who said he still supports capital punishment, is part of a Republican-controlled Legislature that has long made efforts by Democrats to abolish the death penalty a non-starter in Texas. But he says Wood doesn't deserve to die. \n Leach, however, said that's not what troubles him. He instead pointed to concerns about Wood's mental competency and the handling of his trial. A federal judge halted the original execution date in 2008 so that Wood \u2014 who was once found to have been mentally incompetent to stand trial \u2014 could be tested to determine whether he understood why he would be put to death. \n Tests showed Wood was competent, and courts have upheld those findings. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Execution halted for Texas accomplice who wasn't triggerman"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "PALM BEACH POST / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Michelle Karen Mishcon and John Joseph Stevens III were killed at their home in Tequesta, Fla., on Monday by Austin Kelly Harrouff. \n PALM BEACH POST / TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Austin Harrouff is seen in these 2015 Suncoast High School yearbook photos during his senior year. Harrouff played nose tackle for the varsity football team and was a member of the wrestling team. \n FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. \u00bb A Florida sheriff's office said today that a college student caught biting a victim's face after stabbing the man and his wife in a random attack will be charged with two counts of first-degree murder, raising the possibility of the death penalty. \n Austin Harrouff, 19, also will be charged with attempted first-degree murder in the stabbing of the couple's neighbor Jeff Fisher, according to a statement from Trisha Kukuvka, a spokeswoman for Martin County Sheriff William Snyder. Fisher suffered multiple stab wounds when he tried to intervene before calling 911. \n Harrouff also will be charged with burglary, the statement said. That's because he's accused of entering private property to initiate the attack. Neighbors said John Stevens III, 59; and his wife Michelle Mishcon, 53, enjoyed sitting in the evenings with their garage door open. Their bodies were found in the garage and driveway. \n The Florida State University student, who according to his mother had been acting strangely for about a week before the attack, is conscious but heavily sedated and under armed guard in a hospital, according to the sheriff's office. Snyder suggested earlier in the week that he's in no hurry to make the charges official, since the man's family or insurance must pay his hospital bills until he's formally charged. \n Snyder also has said that investigators \"know the who, the what, the when, the where and the how\" of the attack, but the why remains a mystery. \n Solving that mystery doesn't matter so much to Stevens' son and daughter. They said they want him to face execution. \n Ivy Stevens agreed: \"I hope he makes a full recovery so he can be put through the justice system.\" \n Harrouff's parents, Wade and Mina Harrouff, issued a statement Friday expressing their condolences to the Stevens family and their apologies to Fisher \"for the pain and suffering caused by Austin.\" \n \"There are no words we can offer to give any real comfort for this tragic loss,\" the statement says. \"We love our son and know that he is not the person some are making him out to be.\" \n A surveillance video released Friday, shows Harrouff walking calmly as he leaves Duffy's restaurant in nearby Jupiter about 45 minutes before the attack. Snyder has said Harrouff left in apparent anger after an argument with his father at their table. But in the video, he seems calm as he passes other diners and a waiter on the way out. \n Snyder said tests for substances in Harrouff's system may help explain why the student with no history of criminal behavior became extraordinarily violent. \n Hospital blood tests showed no signs of methamphetamine, cocaine, heroin or other common drugs; it will take longer to test for less common hallucinogenic drugs such as flakka or bath salts, whose abusers have been known to become suddenly and irrationally violent. \n In a video he recently posted online, Harrouff suggested he may have taken steroids in the past, but said he doesn't use them now. \n \"Roid rage usually happens during a period when a user is not actively on the drug,\" said Jim Hall, an epidemiologist at Nova Southeastern University who tracks illegal narcotics usage. \n Hall cautioned that no one should jump to conclusions until the testing is complete, but he said steroid use seems more likely than flakka, a drug that the sheriff has suggested was a possibility. \n Flakka has virtually disappeared since the Chinese government cracked down on its manufacture last year, Hall said. Also, the body temperature of flakka users usually spikes to about 105 degrees when they experience \"excited delirium,\" while Harrouff's temperature at the hospital was a normal 97 degrees. \n His mother, still unaware of the attack, called 911 late Monday night to report her son missing. She told Jupiter Police Officer Luis Rocha that he had been acting strangely for about a week, claiming he had superpowers and that he was \"here to protect people.\" She also said her son had no history of mental illness, nor heavy drug use. \n Mishcon's screams alerted Fisher, who told investigators they were both alive when he tried to intervene, but that he ran home to call 911 after Harrouff stabbed him repeatedly. Fisher was released from the hospital on Thursday, his brother-in-law told news outlets. \n The sheriff said Harrouff was growling like an animal and was abnormally strong. Despite being stunned by a Taser, it took multiple deputies and a police dog to pull him off Stevens' body. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Sheriff: Face-biting attacker to be charged with murder"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "NASA VIA TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICE \n Satellite data is helping scientists track countries' wealth. \n You can get a pretty good idea of a country's wealth by seeing how much it shines at night \u2014 just compare the intense brightness of China and South Korea to the dark mass of North Korea that's sandwiched between them.  \n But nighttime lights don't tell you which neighborhoods or villages within a large region are merely poor and which are home to people living in abject poverty. That's the level of detail policymakers need when they decide where to deploy their economic development programs. \n You could get that detail by sending legions of survey-takers into crowded slums and sparsely populated rural areas. But that would be hugely time-consuming and cost tens of millions of dollars or more. \n So researchers at Stanford came up with a way to get computers and satellites to do the work for them. \n Their computer model, described Thursday in the journal Science, isn't perfect. But its predictive power is at least as good as \u2014 or better than \u2014 methods that rely on data from old and out-of-date surveys. \n The Stanford approach requires a few key ingredients. \n First, you need to have some kind of data that covers every single place where people live. You get bonus points if that data is in the public domain. \n You also need a smaller amount of data that you know is pretty accurate. \n Finally, you need a powerful computer that can calibrate the trove of \"noisy\" data to the smaller amount of reliable data. \n The Stanford researchers tested their system with five African countries: Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Malawi and Rwanda. They started with nighttime images captured as part of the U.S. Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program. Places that were brighter at night were presumed to be more economically developed than places that were dim. \n Then they had their computer program compare the nighttime images to higher-resolution daytime images available via Google Static Maps. The program was able to recognize certain shapes in the daytime pictures that were correlated with economic development. \n \"Without being told what to look for, our machine learning algorithm learned to pick out of the imagery many things that are easily recognizable to humans \u2014 things like roads, urban areas and farmland,\" study lead author Neal Jean, a computer science graduate student at Stanford's School of Engineering, said in a statement. \n Other recognizable features included waterways and buildings. The computer even learned to distinguish metal rooftops from those made of grass, thatch or mud, according to the study. \n To bring it all together, the Stanford team used statistical methods to determine how the presence (or absence) of items identified in the daytime pictures related to income data collected in surveys. The type of roofing material on a building was directly related to income, for instance. So was a location's distance from an urban area. \n The final computer model was \"strongly predictive\" of two important measures of poverty \u2014 average spending by households and average household wealth. In Rwanda, for instance, the model predicted average household wealth more accurately than data from cellphone records, according to the study. (Another problem with cellphone records: They're proprietary, and companies aren't always willing to share them.) \n When a computer program churned through satellite data from just one of the five countries, the resulting model worked best in that country. But in some cases, it did a pretty good job of making predictions in other countries as well. That should make it a valuable tool, they wrote, since the method \"is straightforward and nearly costless to scale across countries.\" \n Jean and his colleagues aren't the only ones excited about the prospect of using satellites and computers to fight poverty. \n In an essay that accompanies the study, Joshua Blumenstock of UC Berkeley's Data Science and Analytics Lab said that making use of daytime satellite data \u2014 which contains far more information than nighttime images \u2014 can \"make it possible to differentiate between poor and ultrapoor regions.\" This, in turn, \"can help to ensure that resources get to those with the greatest need.\" \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Los Angeles Times  \n ", "author": "By Karen Kaplan Los Angeles Times", "title": "How to track poverty from space"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "Board of Water Supply crews restored water service to 24 customers affected by an 8-inch main break Friday and reopened Pupupuhi Street after fixing the roadway today. \n The break on the main at 94-113 Pupupuhi Street that occurred at 11 a.m. Crews fixed the pipe and restored water service at about 10 p.m. and reopened the road by about 10 a.m. today. \n BWS said it took at least an hour for crews to get to the scene and slowly turn the water off in order to prevent other breaks or other problems. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Water restored, road opened in Waipahu after main break"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "WASHINGTON STATE PATROL VIA THE DAILY HERALD VIA AP \n This July 30 image made from a video provided by Washington State Patrol via The Daily Herald shows Allen Ivanov in the back of a patrol car in a police camera video shortly after his arrest on Interstate 5 in Lewis County, Wash. \n EVERETT, Wash. \u00bb A 19-year-old man accused of shooting three former high school classmates to death at a house party in suburban Seattle last month sent his friends text messages alluding to his plans, including one in which he wrote, \"I'm killing everyone at a huge party,\" court documents said. \n He tried to get back together with his former girlfriend the day before the July 30 attack, but she refused, Snohomish County deputy prosecutor Adam Cornell wrote in new charging papers filed today. \n Ivanov texted one friend 12 hours before the attack, saying he was going to take a gun safety class before the shooting because he didn't want to \"mess up,\" according to the court documents. \n The friend told him to go deer hunting instead and stop dwelling on his ex-girlfriend. Investigators said that Ivanov responded: \"No. I'm killing everyone at a huge party.\" \n Later that night, Ivanov sent another text to the friend that read, \"I'm 2 minutes from shooting,\" the documents said. \n About 90 minutes after that, Ivanov began firing his newly purchased assault-style rifle, police said. He was so unfamiliar with the weapon that he read the instruction manual outside the party just before the attack, authorities said. \n Jake Long, Jordan Ebner and Ivanov's ex-girlfriend, Anna Bui, all 19, were killed. \n \"For two hours prior to the shootings, he surveilled guests at the house party, read an instruction manual for his weapon, and texted a friend about the impending killings,\" Cornell, the prosecutor, wrote in court papers about Ivanov. \"Soon after he spotted Ms. Bui and a male partygoer interacting, he decided to approach the home with his weapon.\" \n Will Kramer, 18, also was shot in the back but ran to safety in a nearby wooded area. He called 911 and police took him on the hood of a patrol car to waiting medics, who stayed away from the scene because officers didn't know if the shooter was still there. Kramer was released from the hospital earlier this week. \n Tim Leary, a lawyer for Ivanov, did not immediately return a call from The Associated Press seeking comment today. He previously noted his client's age and relative immaturity. Leary also has questioned why Ivanov was allowed to buy a rifle when he would have been turned away if he tried to buy a six-pack of beer. \n Ivanov was expected to be arraigned Monday. He is being held without bail. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man texted, 'I'm killing everyone' at party, documents say"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ANCHORAGE, Alaska \u00bb A brown bear mauled two wilderness guides who were leading a hiking excursion in Alaska after the group came between the female animal and her cub in the Tongass National Forest, state troopers said today. \n The guides \u2014 a man and a woman \u2014 were rescued by the Coast Guard after being injured Thursday on a trail on Chichagof Island about 30 miles north of Sitka in southeast Alaska. Troopers said the bears left the area after one of the victims used pepper spray. \n Authorities said they have no plans to hunt down the bear, and the guides' employer said their injuries were not life-threatening though one of the two was airlifted to Seattle and undergoing treatment in intensive care. \n Forest Service law enforcement officers and state wildlife troopers have determined the attack was a defensive, non-predatory move and the bear will not be pursued at this time, said Sitka District Ranger Perry Edwards. \n Bears are common in the area near a stream filled with salmon at this time of the year who have headed to the area to spawn and die, he said. \n \"We're right in the middle of the season,\" Edwards said. \"The bears are going to go to that protein source.\" \n The names of the guides were not immediately made public. \n Officials said they are crew members of the 74-passenger cruise vessel Wilderness Explorer and were leading 22 people on the hike in southeast Alaska. \n The injured woman was flown to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, where she was listed today in serious condition in intensive care, according to hospital spokeswoman Susan Gregg, who said she could not provide details about the woman's injuries. \n Both guides were initially transported by helicopter to Sitka for emergency medical treatment for multiple injuries and severe lacerations, the Coast Guard said. \n The male guide was treated at a Sitka hospital and released, according to Sarah Scoltock, a spokeswoman with Seattle-based UnCruise Adventures, the vessel operator. No one else was injured, Scoltock said. \n She also would not provide details about the injuries suffered by the guides except to say they were not life-threatening. \n Travel blogger Patti Morrow of Greenville, South Carolina, hiked the island on Aug. 10 when her tour group spotted a mother bear and her cub. They hiked down to get a better view of them and observed them from across a stream. \n \"I was never worried, I was totally in awe!\" she said. \"I felt safe the whole time \u2014 the bears never so much as raised their heads to look at us.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Troopers: Bear mauls guides after group got close to cub"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump arrives onstage to speak at a rally in Dimondale, Mich., today. \n DIMONDALE, Michigan \u00bb Republican Donald Trump again made a direct appeal to black voters tonight, urging them to abandon the Democratic Party and give him a chance. \n Speaking at a rally in Dimondale, Michigan, an overwhelmingly white suburb outside of Lansing, the GOP nominee argued that Democrats, including his rival Hillary Clinton, have taken advantage of African-American voters and taken their votes for granted. \n \"Tonight, I'm asking for the vote of every single African-American citizen in this country who wants to see a better future,\" Trump told the crowd. \n \"What do you have to lose by trying something new, like Trump?\" he asked them. \"You're living in your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed \u2014 what the hell do you have to lose?\" \n He also made a bold prediction: \"At the end of four years, I guarantee you that I will get over 95 percent of the African-American vote. I promise you.\" \n Most polls show Trump trailing Clinton significantly among black voters. President Barack Obama won roughly 93 percent of black voters in his re-election campaign in 2012. \n But Trump once again accused Clinton of \"bigotry,\" claiming she sees African-Americans \"only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future,\" \n And he painted a dismal role of life for African-Americans in the workforce, declaring that, in cities like Detroit, they \"have become refugees in their own country.\" \n On Twitter, the Clinton campaign responded, \"This is so ignorant it's staggering.\" \n The Clinton campaign's Marlon Marshall added in a statement: \"Donald Trump asks what the African-American community has to lose by voting for him. The answer is everything from a man who questions the citizenship of the first African-American President, courts white supremacists, and has been sued for housing discrimination against communities of color.\" \n Marshall said, \"Trump painting the entire community as living in poverty with no jobs continues to show he is completely out of touch with the African-American community.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump to black voters: 'What the hell do you have to lose?'"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "NASA VIA AP \n This image provided by NASA shows American astronauts Jeffrey Williams, left, and Kate Rubins taking a spacewalk to hook up a docking port outside the International Space Station today. The docking port will be used by future commercial crew capsules. SpaceX delivered this new gateway last month. \n CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. \u00bb Spacewalking astronauts installed a new front door for visitors at the International Space Station today, the crucial first step in welcoming commercial crew capsules as soon as next year. \n The two Americans, Jeffrey Williams and Kate Rubins, hooked up the docking port \u2014 their major objective \u2014 in just a few hours. \n They were about to tackle some extra chores, but a problem cropped up with the right earpiece in Williams' helmet and he had trouble hearing. Mission Control decided to play it safe and bring them inside about a half hour early. The spacewalk concluded at the six-hour mark. \n \"We're done for the day,\" Mission Control advised the crew. \n Williams assured flight controllers that his helmet was dry. The last NASA spacewalk in January was cut short because of a small water leak in one helmet. A much bigger leak, from the suit's cooling system, almost led to a spacewalker's drowning in 2013. \n The station's new gateway arrived last month, packed in the trunk of a SpaceX Dragon cargo capsule. \n Americans haven't rocketed into orbit from their home turf since NASA's last shuttle flight in 2011. SpaceX and Boeing expect to resume human launches from Cape Canaveral in another year or two. But their crew capsules can't dock without this new-style parking spot, which replaces the now obsolete shuttle setup and is meant to be internationally compatible. \n Today's success paved the way for these future spaceships. \n \"Thanks for your help in getting the front door on the space station,\" Mission Control radioed. \n SpaceX is shooting for a test flight of its souped-up Dragon with two astronauts as early as a year from now. Boeing is aiming for a two-person shakedown of its Starliner capsule in early 2018. Until then, Russia will keep providing all the rides \u2014 at a hefty price for U.S. taxpayers. \n NASA started using private U.S. companies to carry out cargo shipments a few years back. Commercial crew launches will be an even bigger advance. This commercial handoff is freeing up NASA to focus on true outer-space exploration; the space agency is working to get astronauts to Mars in the 2030s. \n This is actually NASA's second new docking ring. The first was destroyed in a SpaceX launch accident last summer. NASA ultimately wants two of these 3 1/2-foot-by-5-foot-on-the-inside parking places at the lab. Another one \u2014 cobbled together from spare parts \u2014 should fly up in about a year. \n Flight controllers in Houston set the spacewalking stage earlier in the week, using a robot arm to move the docking port to within a few feet of its intended lock-down position \u2014 the very spot where Atlantis undocked on July 19, 2011, to close out the shuttle era. An hour into Friday's spacewalk, the mechanical arm let go, and Williams and Rubins took over, connecting a slew of hooks and cables. The last of the 12 hooks were driven into place, firmly securing the port, as the 250-mile-high complex soared over the Indian Ocean. \n The space station is currently home to two Americans, one Japanese and three Russians. Up there for five months, Williams and two of the Russians will return to Earth in a couple weeks. Williams will conduct one more spacewalk with Rubins on Sept. 1 to retract a radiator. \n A newcomer to spacewalking, Rubins is only the 11th American woman to conduct a spacewalk and the 12th in the world. The first professional virus-hunter in space, she has been experimenting with a DNA decoder also delivered last month. \n SpaceX's crew Dragon ship will fly on the company's own Falcon rocket from a former shuttle launch pad at Kennedy Space Center and, at mission's end, splash down off the Florida coast. Boeing's Starliner, meanwhile, will launch aboard the United Launch Alliance's trusty Atlas V rocket and parachute down somewhere in the American Southwest, possibly New Mexico. These test flights \u2014 intended to go all the way to the space station and dock \u2014 will last about two weeks. NASA will provide most if not all of the initial test pilots. \n One of four NASA astronauts training for these test flights, Robert Behnken noted last week that the space agency has come a long way since 2011, when he kept being asked, \"Hey, now that they've retired the shuttle, is there still a NASA?\" \n \"We can't tell you exactly what month this launch is going to be,\" Behnken said during a visit to Kennedy Space Center. \"But we're well on a track to actually get launches off the Florida coast happening again.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Spacewalking astronauts install new front door for visitors"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amanda Burge looks at flood damaged items with two of her three children Aiden, left, and Hudson, center, in Denham Springs, La., today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Amanda Burge looks at flood damage with two of her three children Aiden, right, and Hudson, left, at her home in Denham Springs, La., today. \"Everything is gone. School is gone. Home is gone. Church is gone,\" said Burge, president of the Parent Teacher Organization at Denham Springs Elementary School. \n DENHAM SPRINGS, La. \u00bb Michelle Parrott's children hear thunder when there is no storm. When rain does fall, they ask their mother if the floodwaters are rising again. \n In flood-ravaged pockets of south Louisiana, mental scars are already showing on the youngest victims of a disaster that prompted more than 30,000 rescues and left an estimated 40,000 homes damaged. \n Children who endured harrowing rescues are returning home to a jarring landscape that even their parents can scarcely grasp: Homes filled with ruined possessions need to be quickly gutted. Damaged schools and daycare centers are closed indefinitely. Parents juggling jobs and cleanup work must also line up caretakers for their kids. \n Parrott, her husband and her six children, ages 6 to 17, have slept in cars, a shelter and a hotel room in the week since they had to be rescued by boat. The flooding wrecked their home in Livingston Parish, where one official has estimated that three-quarters of the residences are a total loss after more than 2 feet of rain fell in three days. \n \"The emotional toll on the kids has been heavy. They're all in a bit of shock and stress and having meltdowns and tantrums,\" Parrot said. \"Trying to get back into their routine is going to be difficult when we don't know what the future holds for us.\" \n Routines are particularly important for her 17-year-old son, Blake, who is autistic and attends special needs classes at one of the many Denham Springs schools damaged in the floods. \n \"He feels unsafe constantly. He's had a lot of breakdowns,\" she said. \"We've had trouble getting his medications in. The therapist flooded, so he's lacking the emotional support he needs from professionals.\" \n Parrott homeschools her other five children, but she watched more than $10,000 in school materials float away. \n \"I have to start over,\" she said. \n Thirteen deaths have been attributed to the storm and its flooding, and nearly 4,000 people remain in shelters. \n But signs of recovery emerged Friday. \n Gov. John Bel Edwards announced that FEMA will start paying for hotel rooms for storm victims staying in cars, hotels, shelters or their workplaces. A disaster food stamp program will begin Monday. And the state intends to start consolidating shelters this weekend as more of the displaced return home or find other places to stay. \n The floods hit just as the school year was starting in many districts, reminiscent of how Hurricane Katrina abruptly ended a New Orleans school year that had barely begun in 2005. With the city under water for weeks and much of its population scattered for months or even years, the first public school didn't open in New Orleans until three months after the storm as officials tried to revamp a system that was widely considered to be failing long before Katrina. \n For most parents in the flood zone this week, patience is their only option. Some school districts, including in East Baton Rouge Parish, are making plans to reopen their doors next week. \n But in Livingston Parish, it could take several weeks for some schools to open up. \n All told, Louisiana Superintendent of Education John White says 22 of the state's public schools were so heavily damaged by flooding that they can't be opened by next week. \n Denham Springs High School was in session for six days before the flooding. Andrew Hunter, the school's band director, said he and his students won't wait for the school to reopen to resume practicing. Hunter said they plan to meet Thursday in a field next to the school for their first rehearsal since the storms. \n \"I have seen a lot of firm jaws, ready to get back to work,\" Hunter said. \"We control how we respond to adversity.\" \n Amanda Burge, 35, said one of her friends from Denham Springs plans to temporarily enroll her daughter at a school in Covington while they stay there with a relative. Burge said she can't move her three sons to another district because her husband's job is rooted here, but they haven't had time to weigh their options. On Thursday, the couple was racing to clean out their flooded home before mold sets in. \n \"Everything is gone. School is gone. Home is gone. Church is gone,\" said Burge, president of the Parent Teacher Organization at Denham Springs Elementary School. \n Her 11-year-old son, Logan, smiled at the prospect of a \"second summer.\" \n \"At the same time, I'm starting to miss my teachers and my friends,\" he said. \"I'm wondering if they're all OK from the storm.\" \n Even in crisis mode, Burge made sure Logan didn't miss his rehearsal for a play at a drama program for kids on Louisiana State University's campus. \n \"This is the only normal thing that he gets to do,\" she said. \n Bonnie Nastasi, a professor at Tulane University in New Orleans specializing in school psychology, said addressing the disruption of children's lives is as important as helping them with the initial trauma they experienced during the flooding. Many had to be rescued in the darkness of night, plucked from their homes and packed together in crowded shelters. \n \"Re-establishing the routine of school is going to be important for children. If they can resume normal routines, that helps them to feel more safe and more secure,\" Nastasi said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mental scars showing on youngest victims of Louisiana floods"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / MAY 2014 \n In this file photo, rescue workers take 12-year-old stabbing victim Payton Leutner to an ambulance in Waukesha, Wis. \n MILWAUKEE JOURNAL-SENTINEL VIA AP \n Morgan Geyser is led into the courtroom at Waukesha County Court today in Waukesha, Wis. Geyser, one of two girls accused of trying to kill a 12-year-old classmate to please horror character Slender Man two years ago pleaded not guilty today by reason of insanity. \n WAUKESHA, Wis. \u00bb After an appellate court declined to move their cases to juvenile court, two Waukesha girls charged in the 2014 Slender Man stabbing were back in court today, where one girl entered a plea of not guilty by reason of mental disease, and lawyers for the second would not rule it out for their client. \n Attorneys for both girls also announced they would seek a change of venue for what are likely to be separate trials that haven't been scheduled by wouldn't be held until March or April. \n Morgan Geyser, now 14, was diagnosed with early-onset schizophrenia in 2014, during an examination of her competency to proceed in the case. She and Anissa Weier, also 14, are charged as adults with attempted first-degree intentional homicide for the May 31, 2014, attack on a sixth-grade classmate. Peyton Leutner was stabbed 19 times and left for dead in a Waukesha park but managed to crawl near a path, where she was found by a passing bicyclist. \n Both defendants later told police they were trying to either impress or avoid the wrath of Slender Man, a fictional internet bogeyman the girls said they believed would harm them or their families if they didn't kill their friend. \n Competency reviews, extended preliminary hearings and challenges to adult court jurisdiction, including the recent appeal, have delayed the case to the point where both girls now look like young teens, not the 12-year-old girls the world first saw in 2014. They would be starting high school this fall. \n As adults, they face up to 45 years in prison if convicted. As adjudicated juvenile delinquents, they could be incarcerated at the Copper Lake School for Girls, part of the state's troubled juvenile prison complex for up to three years, then moved to intensive community supervision until they turned 18. \n Each has been held at a West Bend juvenile jail since their arrests May 31, 2014, except for stints at a state mental facility for competency examinations and restoration, and, in the case of Geyser, treatment for early onset schizophrenia, under a civil commitment order. \n Today, Waukesha County Circuit Judge Michael Bohren declined to appoint the preferred psychologist of Gesyer's attorney to perform the evaluation for the insanity plea. Bohren agreed with prosecutors that because Deborah Collins had been retained by the defense earlier, it could present an appearance of a conflict of interest. Bohren instead appointed Kent Berney, a Madison psychologist who has had no involvement in the case so far, and ordered that his report on whether Geyser's condition could support the not guilty by reason of mental disease finding be returned in 45 days. \n At the urging of Geyser's attorney, Anthony Cotton, Bohren did appoint a second doctor, Brooke Lundbohm, to assist in the report. Cotton said he thought it was important that an evaluator have some familiarity with Geyser's condition closer in time to the incident, and not just how she appears now after months of treatment and medication at the Winnebago Mental Health Institute. Lundbohm had seen Geyser previously, but not as extensively as Collins. \n Assistant District Attorney Kevin Osborne asked Bohren to inquire whether Weier would also be entering an insanity plea. Her attorney, Maura McMahon, said she no such plans at the moment, but would not rule it out. \n The next hearing the case was set for Oct. 13, when Bohren will consider various motions, and announce the findings of Geyser's NGI evaluation. \n Parents of all three girls involved, the victim and the defendants, were in court for today's hearing. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel  \n ", "author": "By Bruce Vielmetti Milwaukee Journal Sentinel", "title": "Insanity plea entered in Slender Man stabbing case"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "An accident overnight in Lihue knocked down a telephone pole and closed Kaumualii Highway in both directions. \n Shortly before midnight Thursday, police said a Ford pickup truck driven by a 52-year-old Kalaheo woman veered off the highway while traveling north and struck the pole on the shoulder between Anonui Street and Puhi Road. \n The woman was not seriously hurt, but the pole fell over the roadway, blocking lanes in both directions. \n The highway has been closed since 12:30 a.m. while a Hawaiian Telcom crew works to replace the pole. \n Police said the highway was expected to reopen by 9 a.m. today. Meanwhile, traffic was diverted onto Puhi Road and the Kipu Bypass Road. \n Motorists are advised to expect traffic delays and to proceed with caution in the area. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Accident knocks down telephone pole, closes Kaumualii Highway in Lihue"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In a June 6 photo, a Southwest Airlines jet is seen as it prepares to land. \n PITTSBURGH >> A western Pennsylvania man has been charged with fondling a sleeping woman who sat next to him on a flight from Las Vegas. \n Wei-Ming Shi, 58, of Mount Lebanon, ran from the federal courthouse in downtown Pittsburgh to avoid questions following his initial appearance before a magistrate. His public defender declined comment. \n Shi is charged with one count of unlawful sexual contact on an aircraft during flight and a second, related count of knowingly engaging in sexual contact without another person's permission. \n Shi was returning from Las Vegas on a Southwest Airlines flight on Thursday when he put his hands under the sleeping woman's dress and on her thigh and buttocks, the FBI said in a four-page criminal complaint. The woman woke up during the alleged incident and alerted a flight attendant who had police meet the plane at Pittsburgh International Airport and take Shi into custody. \n Shi \"committed a sexual assault against a sleeping person in the next seat,\" U.S. Attorney David Hickton said after the brief court appearance. \"It appears that he did not know her.\" \n Prosecutors released little information about Shi, an accountant, who was questioned by a member of the judge's staff about property he owns in Las Vegas. The nature and extent of that property could not immediately be determined Friday. \n Hickton said Shi cooperated with the FBI and the criminal complaint said he acknowledged putting his hand under the woman's dress. \n Shi was allowed to remain free on bond until a preliminary hearing Aug. 28. Prosecutors must present probable cause for the charges at the hearing which will then grant them another 30 days to bring a formal indictment with the charges. \n The sexual contact during flight charge carries up to three years in prison; the non-consensual contact charge carries up to two years. Each charge also carries up to a $250,000 fine. \n Hickton said such charges are \"very uncommon\" and that his staff had never previously filed them in his six years in office. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "FBI: Man fondled sleeping woman on flight from Las Vegas"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "NOAA / GOES WEST \n This satellite image shows Tropical Storm Kay off the coast of Mexico this morning. \n Tropical Storm Kay, the 11th named storm of the East Pacific hurricane season, formed off Mexico overnight. \n The storm could strengthen today, but is expected to move over cooler waters this weekend and degenerate into a remnant low next week as it moves northwest into the open ocean. \n It's not a threat to land and shouldn't have an impact on Hawaii's weather. \n At 11 a.m., Kay had sustained winds of 45 mph and was moving northwest at 7 mph, about 45 miles west of Socorro Island and 305 miles south-southwest of Baja California. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Kay becomes 11th named storm in East Pacific this season"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "A 43-year-old homeless man, accused of grabbing the steering wheel of a moving bus in downtown Honolulu, was charged Thursday night with interfering with a bus driver. \n Prosecutors charged Erik D. McHenry, who has no local address, with interference of an operator of a public transit vehicle. \n At about noon Wednesday, police said McHenry grabbed and jerked the wheel of bus, causing the bus to veer into the next lane near the intersection of South Beretania Street and Queen Emma Street. The bus driver regained control of the wheel, bringing it safely to a stop. \n McHenry's bail is set at $11,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Man accused of grabbing steering wheel of moving bus is charged"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD \n A 45-foot Response Boat-Medium crew from Coast Guard Station Honolulu relieved the Kittiwake in towing the vessel at the entrance of the Port of Honolulu and brought the boat safely to the pier. \n COURTESY U.S. COAST GUARD \n A 45-foot Response Boat-Medium crew from Coast Guard Station Honolulu relieved the Kittiwake in towing the vessel at the entrance of the Port of Honolulu and brought the boat safely to the pier. \n The Coast Guard rescued three people stranded aboard a disabled 46-foot commercial fishing vessel about 115 miles south of Honolulu Harbor today. \n The crew of the Lily Kaileia notified watchstanders at the Coast Guard Sector Honolulu command center on Wednesday that they were disabled and adrift. \n With the vessel drifting an no commercial or private vessel assistance available, the Coast Guard launched the USGC Kittiwake, a Marine Protector Class patrol boat home-ported in Honolulu, to tow the Lily Kaileia back to Honolulu Harbor. \n A 45-foot Response Boat-Medium crew from Coast Guard Station Honolulu relieved the Kittiwake in towing the vessel at the entrance of the Port of Honolulu and brought the boat safely to the pier. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard rescues 3 from disabled fishing boat south of Honolulu"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "Hawaii's unemployment rate for July rose to 3.5 percent, up from the revised rate of 3.4 percent in June and the highest it has been in nearly a year. \n The unemployment rate has be gradually ticking up since it reached a recent low of 3.1 percent in February and March. \n Statewide, 660,650 were employed and 23,650 unemployed in July, for a total seasonally adjusted labor force of 684,300, the state Department of Labor & Industrial Relations reported today. \n Nationally, the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 4.9 percent in July, the same as in June. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Hawaii's unemployement rate rises to 3.5%"}

{"date": "August 19, 2016", "text": "BLOOMINGTON, Ind. >> Indiana University says the threat is no longer imminent after issuing a campus alert of a person with a handgun reported near its Bloomington campus. \n The alert, issued early Friday on the school's website, called for those on campus to take shelter in the nearest available room and lock their door if possible. Those on campus were advised to stay in place until police or a campus administrator known to them gave the all clear. \n Later, through its verified Twitter account, the university said the \"threat is no longer imminent\" and to resume normal routine but stay vigilant. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Indiana University issues campus alert after gunman reported"}

