{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rapper Meek Mill looks on during the second half of an NBA basketball game between the Atlanta Hawks and the Philadelphia 76ers in Philadelphia. \n WALLINGFORD, Conn. >> Police say two are dead and two injured after a shooting outside a Connecticut theater late Friday night following a concert. \n A Wallingford police spokeswoman tells the Record Journal (http://bit.ly/2hVKvqz ) that officers responded to reports of shots fired outside the Oakdale Theatre after rapper Meek Mill performed. Officers found two dead and say the other two with non-life-threatening injuries were taken to hospitals. \n Police haven't released the names and ages of the four victims. \n The spokeswoman says no one is in custody. Authorities didn't immediately release information on suspects or vehicles. \n Lt. Cheryl Bradley says the show had just ended and the Oakdale was closing when the shooting occurred. Authorities haven't linked violence to the performance or the rapper. \n Mill, whose real name is Robert Williams, was recently under house arrest after violating probation for the fourth time in eight years. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "2 dead, 2 injured in shooting after Meek Mill concert"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Christmas tree and skyscrapers illuminated for the New Year celebrations are seen in downtown Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, Russia. \n As 2016 draws to a close, revelers around the world are bidding a weary adieu to a year filled with political surprises, prolonged conflicts and deaths of legendary celebrities. \n How people are ushering in the new year: \n AUSTRALIA \n After a year that saw the deaths of a seemingly endless parade of entertainers, Sydney will honor some of the most beloved. The city's famed fireworks display over the harbor will pay homage to Prince and David Bowie, and will be set to a music medley inspired by the late singers. \n \"We are hoping to make it rain purple this year for the first time, not only off the barges, but also off the Sydney Harbour Bridge,\" fireworks director Fortunato Forti said, referencing Prince's hit \"Purple Rain.\" \n The 7 tons of fireworks launched from barges on the harbor will also include a \"Willy Wonka moment\" in tribute to the late actor Gene Wilder's most famous role, fireworks co-producer Catherine Flanagan said. And there will be a nod to the Bowie classic \"Space Oddity,\" with Saturn, moon and star-shaped fireworks. Bowie lived in Sydney for about 10 years during the 1980s and '90s. \n \"This year, sadly, we saw the loss of many music and entertainment legends around the world,\" Flanagan said. \"So celebrating their music as part of Sydney New Year's Eve fireworks displays is an opportunity to reflect on the year that has been and what the future may hold.\" \n Around 1.5 million revelers are expected to ring the harbor to join in the festivities. An extra 2,000 police will be on duty and buses will be used to block off certain pedestrian areas following the deadly truck-driving attacks in Berlin and Nice, France. \n Officials urged residents to carry on celebrating as normal, despite the threats of extremist attacks across the globe and in Australia. On Friday, a man was arrested after police say he posted threats on social media related to Sydney's New Year's Eve celebrations. New South Wales police said he was acting in isolation and had no known links to extremist groups. \n \"Ultimately the best way that we can respond to the threats around the world is to fight for our freedoms, enjoy our freedoms, and part of that is ensuring that we go about and celebrate New Year's Eve,\" state Premier Mike Baird said. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n LAS VEGAS \n More than 300,000 visitors are expected to descend on Las Vegas for an extravagant New Year's Eve celebration. \n Nightclubs are pulling out all the stops with performances from DJ Calvin Harris, rappers T-Pain and Kendrick Lamar and artists Drake and Bruno Mars. The city's celebrity chefs have crafted elaborate prix fixe menus complete with caviar and champagne toasts. \n An eight-minute fireworks show will kick off at the stroke of midnight, with rockets launching from the tops of half a dozen casinos. \n Federal officials have ranked the celebration just below the Super Bowl and on par with the festivities in Times Square. FBI and Secret Service agents will work alongside local police departments that are putting all hands on deck for the big night. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n JAPAN \n Temple bells will echo at midnight as families gather around noodles and revelers flock to shrines for the biggest holiday in Japan. \n \"I feel this sense of duality,\" said Kami Miyamoto, 21, an economics student at Meiji University in Tokyo, who traveled home in Hakusan, Ishikawa prefecture, for the holiday. \n \"The world is heading toward conservative insular policies,\" she said of the U.S. election, Brexit and what she believes lies ahead for elections in Europe in 2017. \"We learned about how valuable it is to get correct information.\" \n One of the most memorable experiences for Miyamoto in 2016 was a three-week study program in South Korea. She was surprised and moved by the friendship she formed with South Korean students, and she has decided to focus her studies on relations with South Korea. \n \"Studying about the U.S. and Europe seems to be about looking at the past, but East Asian studies are focusing on the future,\" she said. \n Miyamoto's mother is preparing soba noodles, a standard New Year's Eve dish in Japan, except in their home it will be filled with green onions and shrimp. As the new year rolls in, the entire family, including her younger brother and sister, will drive to a nearby shrine, which, like temples all over Japan, will be filled with those praying for good fortune in the Year of the Rooster, according to the Chinese zodiac. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n CHINA \n Residents in Beijing and Shanghai, China's two largest cities, will pass New Year's Eve in a relative state of security lockdown, according to Chinese media reports citing police. \n The Bund waterfront in Shanghai will not have any celebrations, authorities announced this week, while the sale, use and transportation of fireworks in central Shanghai will be prohibited altogether. Large buildings that often display light shows will also stay dark. More than 30 people died two years ago in a deadly stampede on Shanghai's waterfront, where 300,000 people had gathered to watch a planned light show. \n Beijing police also said countdowns, lightshows, lotteries and other organized activities will not be held in popular shopping districts such as Sanlitun and Guomao. Beijing police advised citizens to avoid crowded areas, closely watch elderly relatives and children, and be aware of exit routes in venues. \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n SOUTH KOREA \n Hundreds of thousands of South Koreans will usher in the new year with a massive protest demanding the resignation of disgraced President Park Geun-hye. It will be the ninth straight weekend of protests that led to Park's impeachment on Dec. 9 over a corruption scandal. \n The evening rally will overlap with Seoul's traditional bell-tolling ceremony at the Bosinkgak pavilion at midnight, which was also expected to be a political statement against Park. \n The city's mayor, Park Won-soon, invited as guests a man whose teenage son was among more than 300 people who died during a 2014 ferry sinking, and a woman who was forced into sexual slavery by Japan's World War II military. \n Park came under heavy criticism over the way her government handled the ferry disaster. \n \"So many unbelievable things happened in 2016. It didn't feel real; if felt like a movie,\" protester Lee Huymi said about the bizarre scandal that brought Park down. \"So I hope 2017 brings a movie-like ending to the mess. Everything getting solved, quickly and all at once, leaving us all happy.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n INDIA \n For most people in India, New Year's Eve is a time for family. In New Delhi and many other cities, newspapers are full of big advertisements for lavish parties at upscale hotels and restaurants. The big draws at the hotel parties are song and dance performances from Bollywood and television stars. \n Police with breath analyzers check for drunk driving, and security is tightened in malls and restaurants. \n The western city of Mumbai will host big street parties with thousands of people at the iconic Gateway of India, a colonial-era structure on the waterfront overlooking the Arabian Sea. There'll be music and dancing and occasional fireworks. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Revelers bid adieu to a year of conflicts, celebrity deaths"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "U.S. COAST GUARD \n The Coast Guard cutter Kittiwake plies the waters off Molokai in search of a downed small aircraft. This is a view from the cutter. \n U.S. COAST GUARD \n The Coast Guard cutter Kittiwake plies the waters off Molokai in search of a downed small aircraft. This is a view of the bow from the bridge. \n GOOGLE MAPS \n A Cessna is believed to have crashed about 4 miles northwest of Ilio Point, the northwestern tip of Molokai, Friday night. \n The U.S. Coast Guard expanded its search today for a missing Cessna aircraft that reportedly went down north of Molokai last night with three people on board. \n The Coast Guard also identified the missing as pilot Michael Childers and two passengers: John Mizuno and Whitney Thomas. State Rep. John Mizuno confirmed he was not on the plane. \n The search was extended to 17 miles northeast of Ilio Point, the northwestern tip of the island. \n Coast Guard rescuers were searching with an HC-130 Hercules airplane, an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter, and the cutter Kittiwake. The Maui Fire Department was assisting with air and surface assets, the Coast Guard said. \n Coast Guard Petty Officer 2nd Class Tara Molle said this morning that searchers had not found any evidence of the wreckage. \n \"The search continues today and we are covering as much area out on the water as we can,\" she said by phone. \n Winds in the area were reported to be 23 mph with 6- to 8-foot seas and scattered showers. \n The Hawaii Patrol Facility at Honolulu Airport notified the Coast Guard at about 7 p.m. Friday that a Cessna 172 had left Molokai Airport for Oahu and disappeared off the radar. The Cessna had the tail number N174LL. \n The Cessna is believed to have crashed about 4 miles east of Ilio Point. \n Bad weather hampered the search late Friday night with visibility at near zero, forcing the Coast Guard's helicopter and aircraft crews to return to Oahu. The Kittiwake remained on scene, searching overnight. \n The helicopter and airplane crews returned at first light this morning, Molle said. \n Last night, winds at the scene were reported to be about 19 mph with 4- to 6-foot seas. \n ", "author": "By Rob Shikina rshikina@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Coast Guard expands search for plane missing off Molokai, identifies missing"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Orange County firefighters rescued Knott's Berry Farm patrons who were stuck on a ride Friday, Dec. 30, 2016, in Buena Park, Calif. \n BUENA PARK, Calif. >> Firefighters using ropes and harnesses safely lowered 21 people from an amusement park ride stuck 100 feet in the air for more than six hours at Southern California's Knott's Berry Farm, officials said. \n The riders, both children and adults, were harnessed to firefighters and hugging them tightly as they were lowered one-by-one from the Sky Cabin tonight. \n One girl who appeared to be about 10 years old could be seen smiling as she descended, her turquoise Converse sneakers dangling high above the crowd of onlookers. \n Firefighters briefly pulled a large, cherry-picker crane up to the ride but decided not to use it and returned to using the ropes. \n The tourists and fun-seekers on the slow-moving ride are most likely hungry, claustrophobic and badly in need of a bathroom, but Orange County Fire authorities and park officials have both said they are not in danger. \n \"We're visiting from Oregon,\" rider Gave Javage told KNBC-TV via cellphone. \"There's nine in our group. \"My son and his cousin are down below. They elected not to go on the ride. Good choice for them, huh?\" \n All three of Eddie Kim's daughters were stuck on the ride while he waited below for them to be rescued. \n He told KTTV-TV that all three were fine, but \"my little girl, 8-year-old girl, she came down, and she's crying.\" \n The Sky Cabin is a slow-moving attraction where riders in a circular tram travel up a large cylinder, which firefighters had to climb to begin saving the passengers. The ride is fully enclosed and is more like being in a room than on a ride. The Knott's website calls it \"mild\" and says it's meant to give \"a 360 degree panoramic view of Orange County, Catalina Island, and the LA basin.\" \n It was 100 feet high when it stopped at about 2 p.m., Knott's said in a statement. Park mechanics made several attempts to bring it down before calling the fire department. An operator was among the 21 on the ride and was in constant contact with the ground. \n There was no immediate word on the cause of the breakdown. Knott's said in a statement that the ride would remain closed until an investigation was completed. \n In a much more frightening incident at Knott's, a group of 20 people in 2013 were stuck 300 feet high on a ride that left them exposed with their legs dangling out. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Firefighters rescue 21 stuck on Knott's Berry ride"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin holds a sword while listening an explanations from the head of Russian First Channel Konstantin Ernst, during his meeting with the historical action film Viking's crew, in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Dec. 30, 2016. \n Stung by new punishments, Russia is looking straight past President Barack Obama to Donald Trump in hopes the president-elect will reverse the tough U.S. stance toward Moscow of the last eight years. In a stunning embrace of a longtime U.S. adversary, Trump is siding with Russian President Vladimir Putin.  \n Whether Trump steers the U.S. toward or away from Russia upon taking office is shaping up as the first major test of his foreign policy disposition and his willingness to buck fellow Republicans, who for years have argued Obama wasn't tough enough. Now that Obama has finally sanctioned Russia over hacking allegations, Putin has essentially put relations on hold till Trump takes over. \n \"Great move on delay (by V. Putin),\" Trump wrote Friday on Twitter. \"I always knew he was very smart!\" \n He was referring to Putin's announcement that Russia won't immediately retaliate after Obama ordered sanctions on Russian spy agencies, closed two Russian compounds and expelled 35 diplomats the U.S. said were really spies. Though Putin reserved the right to hit back later, he suggested that won't be necessary with Trump in office. \n Brushing off Obama, Putin said Russia would plan steps to restore U.S. ties \"based on the policies that will be carried out by the administration of President D. Trump.\" Not only would Russia not kick Americans out, Putin said, he was inviting the kids of all U.S. diplomats to the Kremlin's New Year's and Christmas parties. \n \"At this point, they're trolling Obama,\" said Olga Oliker, who directs the Russia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. \n The Obama administration said it had seen Putin's remarks but had nothing more to say. \n Trump's move to side with a foreign adversary over the sitting U.S. president was a striking departure from typical diplomatic practice. In a sign he wanted maximum publicity, Trump pinned the tweet to the top of his Twitter page so it would remain there indefinitely. \n Russia denies the U.S. intelligence community's assessment that in an attempt to help Trump win the presidency, Moscow orchestrated cyber breaches in which tens of thousands of Democrats' emails were stolen and later made public. Trump, too, has refused to accept that conclusion and insisted the country should just \"move on,\" though he has agreed to meet next week with intelligence leaders to learn more. \n Notably, after the U.S. on Thursday issued a report it said exposed Russia's cyber tactics, Putin's aides didn't offer any specific rebuttal. The report included detailed technical information like IP addresses and samples of malware code the U.S. said Russia uses. \n One utility company, Burlington Electric Department in Vermont, reported Friday that it had detected the malware on a company laptop that was not connected to its grid systems. Burlington said, \"We took immediate action to isolate the laptop and alerted federal officials of this finding.\" \n There's little certainty about how Trump will actually act on Russia once he takes office Jan. 20. Though he's praised Putin as a strong leader and said it would be ideal for the two countries to stop fighting, he also suggested this month the U.S. might mount a new nuclear arms race, triggering fresh anxieties about a return to Cold War-style tensions. \n Ambassador Michael McFaul, Obama's former envoy to Russia, said while Trump has defined his top objective as \"getting along with the Kremlin,\" Putin has higher goals, including the lifting of economic sanctions and, ideally, U.S. recognition of Russia's annexation of Crimea. \n \"Obviously, Putin's not responding because he's waiting for Jan. 20,\" McFaul said in an interview. \"He's got these much more important objectives to him than getting into a tit-for-tat response with the outgoing administration.\" \n Trump's warm outreach to Putin, combined with picks for secretary of state and national security adviser who are seen as friendly to Russia, have left hawkish Republicans with a particularly unpleasant choice: look hypocritical for backtracking on their own tough talk, or risk a public rift with their party's new president. \n In the House, many Republicans who have long called for tougher sanctions have been silent or vague about Obama's penalties and Trump's positions. But a handful of GOP senators have shown they have no intentions of letting up pressure on the Kremlin. \n \"We intend to lead the effort in the new Congress to impose stronger sanctions on Russia,\" said Republican Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. McCain, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee, scheduled a hearing next week on \"foreign cyber threats\" in an attempt to further spotlight Russia's actions. \n Even if Trump opts to pull back Obama's sanctions and overlook hacking allegations, he may find rapprochement with Russia isn't that simple. The past two presidents both tried to reach out to Russia early in their terms but left office with relations in no better shape. \n Though Trump has suggested the U.S. and Russia should align strategies in Syria by focusing on their mutual enemy, the Islamic State group, Russia's military campaign has almost exclusively targeted American-backed Syrian rebels, the U.S. has said. Nor is it clear whether Trump and Putin share a common approach to Europe's security issues. \n And if Trump follows through on his vow to renegotiate the Iran nuclear deal, he won't find a receptive audience in Moscow. Putin's government brokered the deal with the U.S., Iran and other world powers and has no intention of slapping sanctions back on Iran. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia, brushing off Obama, looks to friendlier Donald Trump"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "HONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Lance Bermudez \n Police are looking for a 25-year-old man wanted on a $500,000 warrant of arrest for first-degree hindering prosecution in the Christmas Day shooting of 20-year-old Stevie Feliciano at Ala Moana Center. \n Lance Bermudez is the second man accused of hindering prosecution in the shooting at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. \n Prosecutors charged William K.C. Kan today with first-degree hindering prosecution. His bail was set at $25,000. Police arrested the 21-year-old Honolulu man Wednesday on suspicion of first-degree hindering prosecution at his Punchbowl area home. \n Police said Bermudez, alleged shooter Dae Han Moon, and their friends argued with Feliciano and his friends in the parking structure of Ala Moana Center. \n Moon allegedly retrieved a firearm from his vehicle and shot Feliciano, police said. The suspect and his friends fled before police arrived. \n Moon turned himself in to police today and has been charged with second-degree murder and other offenses. \n Bermudez is 5 feet 9 inches, 150 to 160 pounds and has black hair and brown eyes. \n Anyone with information is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 955-8300 or *CRIME on a cell phone. \n ", "author": "By Leila Fujimori lfujimori@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Police seek suspect who allegedly aided Ala Moana Center shooter"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Osama Abu Zeid of the Free Syrian Army talked about the five-point cease-fire agreement for Syria during a news conference in Ankara, Turkey, on Thursday. \n UNITED NATIONS >> The U.N. Security Council scheduled a vote for Saturday on a resolution that would endorse the cease-fire agreement in Syria brokered by Russia and Turkey, and reiterate support for a roadmap to peace that starts with a transitional government. \n The Russian-sponsored resolution also calls for \"rapid, safe and unhindered\" access to deliver humanitarian aid throughout the country. And it looks forward to a meeting in late January between the Syrian government and opposition in Kazakhstan's capital Astana \"as an important part of the Syrian-led political process facilitated by the United Nations.\" \n Russia and Turkey are on opposing sides of the Syrian conflict: Moscow along with Iran provides crucial military support to Syrian President Bashar Assad, while Turkey has long served as a rear base and source of supplies for the rebels. \n Divisions in the Security Council between Russia and the veto-wielding Western powers \u2014 the U.S. Britain and France who support the moderate opposition and demand that Assad steps down \u2014 have blocked action to end the war, now in its sixth year. \n Russia and Turkey sent the cease-fire agreement and the draft resolution to Security Council members Thursday night. After closed discussions in the council today, Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin circulated a revised draft, urged council members to support it, and called for a vote on Saturday. \n The Security Council needs to participate \"in this important process,\" Churkin said. \n The council is scheduled to meet at 11 a.m. EST. Russia's U.N. Mission said members would hold closed consultations and then vote. \n The cease-fire agreement, if it holds, would mark a potential breakthrough in a conflict that began in 2011 with an uprising against decades of rule by President Bashar Assad's family and has left over 250,000 dead and more than 13.5 million people in need of urgent assistance, and triggered a refugee crisis across Europe. \n The draft resolution reiterates \"that the only sustainable solution to the current crisis in the Syrian Arab Republic is through an inclusive and Syrian-led political process based on the Geneva communique of June 30, 2012,\" which was endorsed by the Security Council. \n The communique, adopted by key nations, calls for the formation of a transitional government with full executive powers \"on the basis of mutual consent\" and steps leading to elections. \n Churkin told reporters \"there is no competition\" between the talks in Astana and negotiations that the U.N. special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, hopes to arrange between the government and opposition in Geneva on Feb. 8. \n \"As you know Staffan de Mistura had trouble reconvening the talks, so Russia and Turkey obviously decided to give the United Nations a hand in pushing things forward, and this is what we see happening,\" Churkin told reporters. \n He said de Mistura has been in contact with the Russian government and \"indicated his eagerness to help organize the Astana meetings. \u2026 So we expect the United Nations to be fully involved in the preparations of the meetings.\" \n Churkin said Russia's understanding is that seven major rebel groups have joined in the cease-fire, representing 60,000 fighters, \"and they control a large chunk of the territory of Syria.\" \n As with previous failed cease-fire attempts, the current agreement excludes both the al-Qaida-affiliated Fatah al-Sham Front, which fights alongside other rebel factions, and the Islamic State group. \n If the Astana meetings are successful, Churkin said, \"they could move on to Geneva as far as I am concerned, so we don't see any competition there or overlapping of the two processes.\" \n Churkin said Russia and Turkey have made clear they want other countries to participate in the Astana meetings. \n He said Iran will definitely participate \"actively\" in preparing the Astana meeting and in Russia's view Egypt can also join the preparatory process right now. \n Churkin said there are other very important players who are welcome including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar \u2014 and \"we do expect the Trump administration after it comes into the White House on Jan. 20 will be an important participant.\" \n The United States was left out of the cease-fire agreement, reflecting the deterioration of relations between Moscow and the Obama administration after the failure of U.S.-Russian diplomatic efforts to halt the fighting in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "U.N. Security Council to vote on Syria cease-fire agreement"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "Diners, one of the longest-running plate-lunch restaurants to feed local customers, is closing its last location on Sunday. \n That final restaurant, housed at Waimalu Plaza in Aiea, will open tomorrow for its last day of business from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m., according to staff and a sign posted on site. \n Established in 1963, the eatery is well known by its familiar orange lettering spelling out \"Diners.\" \n Some of its popular plates over the years have included chicken katsu, teri beef, roast pork and hamburger steak. \n ", "author": "By Joleen Oshiro joshiro@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Diners at Waimalu Plaza closing"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n NHP and Metro Police officers block off the entrance off Flamingo Road to the Rio Hotel & Casino after reports of smoke coming from the 21st floor of the Masquerade Tower led to guests being evacuated Thursday, Dec. 29, 2016. The Rio casino in Las Vegas scrambled to find alternate lodging for guests Thursday after a power outage led to the evacuation of 900 rooms just before the busy New Year's Eve weekend, officials said. Nobody was injured, but emergency responders helped some guests with disabilities get to the bottom of the tower. \n LAS VEGAS >> The busy New Year's holiday weekend is likely to come and go before a Rio casino hotel tower in Las Vegas fully recovers from a power outage that prompted a 900-room evacuation, officials said Friday. \n Spokesman Richard Broome of the Rio's parent company, Caesars Entertainment, said the company is testing to see whether rooms on the lowest 20 floors can be occupied Friday. That could mean about 500 rooms would reopen in time for the holiday, when hotel rooms are scarce. \n Broome said about 400 rooms on the upper floors of the Masquerade Tower will likely be unoccupied for several more days. \n The chain of events that triggered the outage and evacuation started Wednesday, when a sink in a service area overflowed and shorted a fuse in the tower's power system. The hotel moved to a backup generator, but that had been compromised by water from a fire sprinkler and it gave out on Thursday morning. \n Guests in the near-capacity tower were transferred to other rooms in casinos owned by Caesars, but also to competitors' rooms. \n \"Naturally, they're frustrated,\" Broome said at a news conference on Friday. \"We're trying to bend over backward to try to make that frustration as small as possible by giving them free food, by giving them as much information as we can, making sure we transport them over to the other property they'll be staying at.\" \n The 2,500-room Rio, which was built in 1990 and is a short drive from the Las Vegas Strip, is one of the more affordable resorts in Las Vegas, with rooms that run less than $100 on an off-peak night. It's home to magicians Penn and Teller, the Chippendales male revue and Food Network personality Guy Fieri's restaurant El Burro Borracho. \n The timing of the outage is particularly problematic because it comes at one of the busiest and most lucrative weekends of the year for Las Vegas. More than 300,000 visitors are expected to ring in the new year in Sin City, which is welcoming big-name musical acts and putting on an eight-minute pyrotechnic show that features fireworks launched from casino rooftops. \n Broome said Caesars hasn't estimated how much the outage is costing them. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Power won't be fully back at Vegas casino for days"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "COURTESY DLNR \n State officials closed shoreline access at Ahihi-Kinau Natural Area Reserve in South Maui today after a humpback whale carcass came ashore. \n State officials closed shoreline access at Ahihi-Kinau Natural Area Reserve in South Maui today after a humpback whale carcass came ashore. \n Maui County lifeguards and officers from the state's Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement posted warning signs because carcasses often attract sharks, officials said. \n State, county and National Marine Fisheries Service officials are trying to determine the best way to dispose of the carcass, which was found in a remote cove at Ahihi-Kinau. Officials said they are also consulting with Hawaiian cultural experts. \n Additional closures or warnings may be imposed at Makena State Park and other areas, state officials said. \n The state Department of Land and Natural Resources said this is the fifth whale carcass report since Nov. 11 in Hawaii, including two on Oahu, one on Molokai, and one earlier this week off the Pacific Missile Range Facility on Kauai. \n DLNR officials caution beachgoers and ocean users to avoid whale carcasses. Humpback whales are protected by federal and state marine mammal laws, they said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Whale carcass prompts closure of remote Maui beach"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Oct. 4 photo provided by the Samoa News, Dean Fletcher, left, is escorted by a police officer after his initial appearance in the District Court of American Samoa in Pago Pago, American Samoa. \n A U.S. citizen detained in Honolulu and facing extradition to Tonga where he's accused of beating his wife to death has asked the U.S. government to return cash he had amassed from other countries including Canada and New Zealand. \n A public defender for Dean Jay Fletcher filed a motion Thursday saying the government is illegally keeping the currency. \n U.S. marshals brought Fletcher to Honolulu last month after he allegedly escaped from a Tonga jail and sailed to American Samoa. \n Court documents say he was indicted on a murder charge in the July death of his wife, Patricia Linne Kearney. \n Assistant U.S. Attorney Larry Butrick says the government seized the money in accordance with a treaty with Tonga. He says the cash is worth about $10,000. \n Fletcher's federal public defender Melinda Yamaga did not return a call today seeking comment. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Man charged with wife's death in Tonga wants his cash back"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama spoke during a Dec. 16 news conference in the briefing room of the White House in Washington. Obama will strategize next week with Democratic lawmakers about how to prevent Republicans from destroying his Affordable Care Act. He'll also give a speech in Chicago on Jan. 10 that is expected to be his closing message as president. \n Eager to stop Republicans from destroying his signature health care law, President Barack Obama and Democratic lawmakers will meet next week to try to forge a common strategy. Obama also plans a major valedictory speech in Chicago, his hometown, shortly before his presidency ends. \n Obama will travel to the Capitol on Wednesday morning for the meeting with House and Senate Democrats, according to an invitation sent to lawmakers. The White House is casting it as an effort to unite Democrats behind a plan to protect the law, known as the Affordable Care Act, before Republicans have a chance to settle on their own plan for repealing it. \n Democrats are on edge over the future of the ACA, given the GOP's disdain for \"Obamacare\" and President-elect Donald Trump's vows to gut it. Though Republicans are united behind the notion of repealing the law, they're split over how best to replace it. Some want to strip out unpopular provisions while leaving others intact, while other Republicans prefer a start-from-scratch approach. \n It's that lack of unanimity among Republicans that Obama and Democrats hope can be exploited, if they can lay the groundwork even before Trump takes office. To that end, Obama also planned to answer questions about the future of the health care law next Friday during a livestreamed event at Blair House, just across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. \n Initially stunned by the defeat of Hillary Clinton, Democrats are now trying to organize a counter-attack to preserve the ACA, among the most significant expansions of the social safety net since Medicare and Medicaid were created 50 years ago. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi has urged her lawmakers to make health care their focus at the start of the year. \n Defenders of the law have also launched a political coalition called \"Protect Our Care,\" bringing together more than 20 groups, including the NAACP and the Service Employees International Union. \n One of their objectives is to try to prevent Republicans from repealing the ACA without also enacting a replacement. (Currently Republicans plan to quickly vote on repealing the law, and delay the effective date to give them time to craft a replacement.) Another goal for Democrats is to pre-empt bigger health care changes to Medicare and Medicaid long sought by Republicans. \n Since the ACA passed, about 20 million people have gained coverage and the uninsured rate has dropped to a historic low of around 9 percent. Some of the coverage gains are due to employers offering jobs with health care in a stronger economy, but most experts mainly credit Obama's law. \n A recent poll suggests that defenders of the law may get a receptive hearing from the public. Only about 1 in 4 Americans want Trump and the GOP-led Congress to completely repeal the ACA, according to a post-election survey by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. \n \"Republicans don't fully appreciate the implications of even a partial repeal of the ACA,\" said Rob Restuccia, executive director of Community Catalyst, one of the advocacy groups in the coalition trying to preserve the law. \"People use the analogy of the dog that caught the car.\" \n Obama's speech in Chicago on Jan. 10 is expected to serve as his closing words to the nation as president. His appearance will be open to the public and followed by a \"family reunion\" for alumni of Obama's former campaigns, according to a save-the-date notice sent to Obama alumni and obtained by The Associated Press. \n The White House has not confirmed Obama's speech or trip to Chicago. \n White House Correspondent Julie Pace and AP writer Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama's last month: 'Obamacare' defense, Chicago speech"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS HONOLULU \n Police arrested Dae Han Moon, 20, today in connection with the shooting death of Steve Feliciano at Ala Moana Center's parking lot. \n COURTESY CARINE FELICIANO \n Stevie Feliciano in 2015. Feliciano died Wednesday at Queen's Medical Center after he suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the back of the head Sunday night at the Ala Moana Center parking lot. \n Honolulu police arrested a 20-year-old man today in connection with the shooting death of Steve Feliciano at Ala Moana Center's parking lot Christmas night. \n Dae Han Moon turned himself in this morning after a Honolulu grand jury indicted him Thursday for second-degree murder. \n Moon was arrested at 10:15 a.m. at the Honolulu Police Department headquarters on Beretania Street. In addition to the second-degree murder charge, Moon was also arrested on three weapons counts, one auto theft count and one count on use of a firearm. \n His bail is set at $2 million. \n Feliciano died Wednesday at Queen's Medical Center after he suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the back of the head Sunday night at the Ala Moana Center parking lot. \n Police and prosecutors said Feliciano and some friends went to the parking structure at Ala Moana Center at about 7:30 p.m. Sunday to get some marijuana from another person. \n Before they could pick up marijuana, Moon and his friends showed up in a vehicle. Deputy Prosecutor Chasid Sapolu said one of Moon's friends started a fight with Feliciano and that others joined in. \n After the fight, Moon returned to his car and grabbed a firearm. He pointed it \"and struck the victim once on the head with the firearm and pointed it and fired a shot into the back of the victim's head,\" Sapolu told the court Thursday. \n Police said the shooting happened on the fifth floor of the center's Ewa wing parking structure. \n Feliciano was taken to Queen's in critical condition. He was unresponsive and put on life support before he died Wednesday. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Suspect in fatal Ala Moana shooting turns himself in"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "A vehicle collision in Moiliili this morning sent an 81-year-old woman to the hospital in serious condition. \n The collision occurred at the intersection of S. King St. and Hausten streets shortly after 10 a.m., according to Emergency Medical Services. \n Paramedics also treated and transported a man, 56, to the hospital in minor condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Vehicle crash in Moiliili seriously injures woman, 81"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This undated photo provided by the Geary County Detention Center In Junction City, Kan., shows Tomas Martinez-Maldonado. Records show that Martinez-Maldonado, a Mexican national accused of raping a 13-year-old girl on a Greyhound bus that traveled through Kansas, had been deported 10 times and voluntarily removed from the U.S. nine times since 2003. \n WICHITA, Kan. >> A Mexican man accused of raping a 13-year-old girl on a Greyhound bus that traveled through Kansas had been deported 10 times and voluntarily removed from the U.S. another nine times since 2003, records obtained by The Associated Press show. \n Three U.S. Republican senators \u2014 including Kansas' Jerry Moran and Pat Roberts \u2014 demanded this month that the Department of Homeland Security provide immigration records for 38-year-old Tomas Martinez-Maldonado, who is charged with a felony in the alleged Sept. 27 attack aboard a bus in Geary County. He is being held in the Geary County jail in Junction City, which is about 120 miles west of Kansas City. \n U.S. Sen. Charles Grassley, from Iowa and chairman of the judiciary committee, co-signed a Dec. 9 letter with Moran and Roberts to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, calling it \"an extremely disturbing case\" and questioning how Martinez-Maldonado was able to re-enter and remain in the country. \n U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said it has placed a detainer \u2014 a request to turn Martinez-Maldonado over to ICE custody before he is released \u2014 with Geary County. ICE declined to discuss his specific case beyond its October statement regarding the 10 deportations. \n Court filings show Martinez-Maldonado has two misdemeanor convictions for entering without legal permission in cases prosecuted in 2013 and 2015 in U.S. District Court of Arizona, where he was sentenced to serve 60 days and 165 days respectively. \n A status hearing in the rape case is scheduled for Jan. 10. Defense attorney Lisa Hamer declined to comment on the charge, but said, \"criminal law and immigration definitely intersect and nowadays it should be the responsibility of every criminal defense attorney to know the possible ramifications in the immigration courts.\" \n Nationwide, 52 percent of all federal prosecutions in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 were for entry or re-entry without legal permission and similar immigration violations, according to Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University. \n It's not unusual to see immigrants with multiple entries without legal permission, said David Trevino, a Topeka immigration attorney who has provided legal advice to Martinez-Maldonado's family. Most of Martinez-Maldonado's family lives in Mexico, but he also has family in the United States, and the family is \"devastated,\" Trevino said. \n \"(President-elect Donald Trump) can build a wall 100 feet high and 50 feet deep, but it is not going to keep family members separated. So if someone is deported and they have family members here \u2026 they will find a way back \u2014 whether it is through the air, under a wall, through the coast of the United States,\" Trevino said. \n He declined to comment on his client's criminal history and pending charge. \n Records obtained by AP show Martinez-Maldonado had eight voluntary removals before his first deportation in 2010, which was followed by another voluntary removal that same year. He was deported five more times between 2011 and 2013. \n In 2013, Martinez-Maldonado was charged with entering without legal permission, a misdemeanor, and subsequently deported in early 2014 after serving his sentence. He was deported again a few months later, as well as twice in 2015 \u2014 including the last one in October 2015 after he had served his second sentence, the records show. \n ICE said in an emailed statement when it encounters a person who's been deported multiple times or has a significant criminal history and was removed, it routinely presents those cases to the U.S. attorney's office for possible criminal charges. \n Cosme Lopez, spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office for the District of Arizona, declined comment on why prosecutors twice dismissed felony re-entry after deportation charges against Martinez-Maldonado in 2013 and 2015 in exchange for guilty pleas on misdemeanor entry charges. \n Arizona ranks third in the nation \u2014 behind only the Southern District of Texas and the Western District of Texas \u2014 for the number of immigration prosecutions among the nation's 94 federal judicial districts for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, TRAC records show. \n Moran told the AP in an emailed statement that the immigration system is \"broken.\" \n \"There must be serious legislative efforts to address U.S. immigration policy, and we must have the ability to identify, prosecute and deport illegal aliens who display violent tendencies before they have an opportunity to perpetrate these crimes in the United States,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mexican man charged with rape of girl, 13, had 19 deportations"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The Chinese government said in a statement released on Friday Dec. 30, 2016, it will shut down its official ivory trade at the end of 2017 in a move designed to curb the mass slaughter of African elephants. \n JOHANNESBURG >> China says it plans to shut down its ivory trade by the end of 2017 in a move designed to curb the mass slaughter of African elephants. \n The Chinese government will end the processing and selling of ivory and ivory products by the end of March as it phases out the legal trade, according to a statement released on Friday. \n China had previously announced it planned to shut down the commercial trade, which conservationists described as significant because China's vast, increasingly affluent consumer market drives much of the elephant poaching across Africa. \n \"This is a game changer for Africa's elephants,\" said Aili Kang, the Asia director for the New York-based Wildlife Conservation Society. \n China, which has supported an ivory-carving industry as part of its cultural heritage, said carvers will be encouraged to change their activities and work, for example, in the restoration of artifacts for museums. More efforts will be made to stop the illegal trade, the statement said. \n China has allowed trade in ivory acquired before a 1989 ban on the ivory trade by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, which seeks to regulate the multi-billion-dollar trade in wild animals and plants. \n China also permits trade from a one-time, CITES-approved purchase by China and Japan of an ivory stockpile from several African countries in 2008. \n Conservation groups say China's illegal trade has since flourished and that criminal syndicates have used the legal Chinese market as cover for their illicit business in tusks. \n The number of Africa's savannah elephants dropped by about 30 percent from 2007 to 2014, to 352,000, because of poaching, according to a study published this year. Forest elephants, which are more difficult to count, are also under severe threat. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China says it will shut down ivory trade by end of 2017"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "Hawaii County police warn the public of a sweepstakes scam after a culprit stole over $12,000 from a 70-year-old Keaau woman who fell prey to the caller's scheme. \n Police said the woman received a phone call on Dec. 22 from the caller with an 876 area code number who told her she had won a sweepstakes prize. \n When the woman became suspicious, the caller asked for her personal account information so he can pay off her balance \"in an act of good faith,\" according to Hawaii County police in a news release. \n The suspect then told her to contact her bank to confirm. Police said a bank representative informed her there was a pending deposit to her account. \n Police said the scammer called back claiming tax and lottery laws require Hawaii residents to pre-pay taxes before receiving the prize. \n Big Island Maj. Sam Thomas said he convinced her to send over $12,000 money to an address he gave her. \n The victim later learned the pending deposit was never processed. \n Police warn residents not to provide any personal account information or fall prey to any requests for payments via telephone or the internet. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Big Isle police warn residents of lottery scam"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Capt. Michael Mullen of the U.S. Coast Guard answered questions during a news conference today at Burke Lakefront Airport in Cleveland. The U.S. Coast Guard said there were been no sign of debris or those aboard a plane that took off from the airport on the shores of Lake Erie and went missing overnight. \n CLEVELAND >> The chief executive of a beverage distribution company was piloting a plane carrying his wife, two sons and two other people when it quickly lost altitude after takeoff from Cleveland's lakeshore airport and vanished from radar, according to his family and a flight-tracking service today. \n The parents of Superior Beverage Company executive John T. Fleming confirmed he was piloting the Columbus-bound plane when it disappeared late Thursday about 2 miles over Lake Erie. \n Fleming's father said the other five people on the plane were Fleming's wife, two teenage sons, a neighbor and the neighbor's daughter. John W. Fleming also described his son as \"an experienced pilot.\" \n Crews combing Lake Erie for the plane today remained hopeful that the occupants could be found alive, and were in search-and-rescue mode, not recovery mode, as they plied waters about 50 feet deep, said Capt. Michael Mullen, the chief of response for the Ninth Coast Guard District. \n Tracking service FlightAware logged only three location pings for the plane after takeoff from Burke Lakefront Airport, and the last one indicated rapid altitude loss. Authorities have said there were no distress signals from the pilot. \n The aircraft took off westward from Burke, then turned north across the lake, according to the tracking service flightradar24.com. The departure procedure at Burke could take an aircraft north over the lake before turning south toward a destination, Mullen said. \n The plane, which had made the roughly half-hour trip from Columbus earlier in the day, is registered to a limited liability company under the same Columbus address as Superior Beverage. Messages seeking comment were left today for a Superior Beverage representative. \n Authorities have detected \"faint hints\" but no strong pulse from an emergency locating transmitter, a beacon that could help find the plane, Mullen said. Searchers have found no sign of debris. \n \"We're very hopeful. We will be very hopeful up until the point that we have to turn the search off and we switch over to assisting with recovery,\" Mullen said at news conference today. \n But when asked about the possibility of the two-engine jet landing safely on Lake Erie, Mullen said, \"Aircraft are not designed to float, especially in 12-foot seas.\" \n The search overnight was made difficult by snow squalls, high seas and darkness, Mullen said. Weather prevented smaller Coast Guard boats in the Cleveland area from launching. A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter and a Royal Canadian Air Force plane were used along with a Coast Guard ship from Detroit began the search overnight that has continued in the daylight hours today. \n It would have been the pilot's responsibility to determine whether it was safe to fly, Mullen said. \n The Federal Aviation Administration said the Cessna Citation 525 plane left Burke at 10:50 p.m., and the Coast Guard said it was notified about the missing plane by air traffic control at Burke about 30 minutes later. Investigators from the FAA and National Transportation Safety Board were expected to arrive in Cleveland today. \n The aircraft was headed to Ohio State University Airport northwest of downtown Columbus. \n Associated Press writers Kantele Franko in Columbus, Ohio, and David Koenig in Dallas contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Business exec was pilot of plane that vanished with 6 aboard"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "The 30-year-old motorcyclist who died in Kaneohe Wednesday has been identified as Kalani Fu Yin Bell of Kailua. \n Bell died of multiple blunt trauma after he slammed into a wooden utility pole, according to the Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office. \n At approximately 12:45 a.m. Wednesday, Bell was traveling eastbound on Kaneohe Bay Drive when he lost control of his motorcycle. He veered onto a grassy shoulder and crashed into the pole. \n Bell was thrown from his motorcycle and pronounced dead at the scene. \n Police said he wearing a helmet at the time of the crash. Speed and alcohol were not involved. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Motorcyclist in fatal crash in Kaneohe identified"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man leaft the headquarters of Uber in San Francisco in Dec. 2014. A Sacramento Uber driver is being credited for helping save a 16-year-old girl from child sex trafficking. \n SACRAMENTO, Calif. >> A Sacramento Uber driver is being credited for helping save a 16-year-old girl from child sex trafficking. \n Once Avila dropped them off at a hotel, he called police and began streaming live on Facebook. \n Elk Grove Police spokesman Officer Chris Trim says police detained 25-year-old Destiny Pettway and 31-year-old Maria Westley. They were later arrested and charged. \n Police found the teen with 20-year-old Disney Vang in a hotel room. Vang was arrested on suspicion of sexual activity with a minor, and has been released. The victim was a runaway. Authorities are trying to locate her parents or guardians. \n Uber thanked Avila for his quick thinking. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "California Uber driver saves teen girl from sex trafficking"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "An 84-year-old Waipahu woman was taken to a hospital after she was struck by a pickup truck in Waipahu. \n At about 12:45 p.m. Wednesday, police said a 67-year-old Waipahu man operating a 2005 Toyota pickup truck was making a left turn from Leokane Street onto Farrington Highway when he struck the pedestrian. \n Police said the motorist didn't see the pedestrian who was in a marked crosswalk on the highway. \n The 67-year-old man immediately stopped when the accident occurred. \n Emergency Medical Services Spokesman Dustin Malama said she suffered injuries to her legs and feet. \n There are conflicting reports on her condition. Malama said the pedestrian was transported to a trauma hospital in serious condition while police said she was in critical condition. \n Police are continuing their investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pickup truck hits Waipahu woman, 84, in marked crosswalk"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / SEPT. 2015 \n High surf pounded Makapuu. A larger-than-expected north-northeast swell prompted weather officials to issue a high surf warning for north and east shores of Oahu and Kauai this morning. \n A larger-than-expected north-northeast swell prompted weather officials to issue a high surf warning for north and east shores of Oahu and Kauai this morning. \n Surf up to 10 to 15 feet is expected along affected shore. The warning is in effect through 6 p.m. today. \n A modified high surf advisory for the north shores of Oahu, Maui, Hawaii island, Kauai County and Molokai, and the east shore of Maui are covered in the advisory, effective through 6 p.m. today. Forecasters expect surf up to 10 to 15 feet along north-facing shores, and 6 to 10 feet along east-facing shores of affected islands. \n \"Beachgoers, swimmers and surfers should heed all advice given by ocean safety officials and exercise caution,\" the National Weather Service said in an advisory. \"Large breaking surf, significant shorebreak and dangerous currents make entering the water very hazardous.\" \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "High surf warning in effect for east shores of Oahu, Kauai"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "Firefighters extinguished a fire that fully engulfed a home in Pahoa. \n At approximately 1:10 p.m. Thursday, firefighters responded to the fire at a 1,300-square-foot abandoned home located on Nanawale Boulevard. \n Firefighters brought the fire under control at 1:35 p.m. and extinguished it at 2 p.m., according to a news release by the Hawaii County Fire Department. \n The cause of the fire is under investigation. Damage to the structure is estimated at $130,000. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Fire destroys abandoned home in Pahoa"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Tributes left outside the home of British musician George Michael in London on Dec. 26. Michael, who rocketed to stardom with WHAM! and went on to enjoy a long and celebrated solo career lined with controversies died Sunday. He was 53. \n LONDON >> Police say an initial autopsy of George Michael has been \"inconclusive\" and more tests must be carried out to establish a cause of death. \n Thames Valley Police said today the results of further tests will not be known for several weeks. \n Michael's death on Christmas Day is being treated as \"unexplained but not suspicious.\" This is an indication that police found no evidence of foul play. \n The 53-year-old's manager said the singer died of apparent heart failure at his country home. \n The post-mortem examination was conducted Thursday. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "More tests needed to establish George Michael cause of death"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke at a Dec. 26 meeting in St.Petersburg, Russia. President Vladimir Putin said, today, that Russia will not be expelling U.S. diplomats in response to a new round of U.S. sanctions. \n MOSCOW >> President Vladimir Putin castigated the United States today for trying to punish Russia but said his country will not immediately retaliate and instead will wait for a new U.S. approach by Donald Trump. The president-elect praised Putin's move and called him \"very smart.\" \n Putin said no U.S. diplomats will be ousted in retaliation for President Barack Obama's decision to impose sanctions and expel Russian diplomats over allegations of Russian meddling in the American presidential election. The Russian leader said he reserves the right to hit back in the future, but suggested it will be unnecessary because he expects to work with Trump's administration to improve U.S.-Russia ties. \n Still, Putin called Obama's move a \"provocation aimed at further undermining Russian-American relations\" less than a month before Trump takes office. In addition to sanctions targeting Russian spy agencies, the U.S. kicked 35 Russian diplomats out of the U.S. and said they were spies. \n Trump's reaction, as it often does, came via Twitter. \"Great move on delay (by V. Putin),\" Trump tweeted. \"I always knew he was very smart!\" \n He pinned the tweet to the top of his Twitter page so that it would remain there prominently and indefinitely even after other tweets are sent. \n The move by the incoming president to side with a foreign adversary over the sitting president was a dramatic departure from typical diplomatic practice, further fueling the burgeoning controversy over what the Obama administration says was a cyberattack against America's political system. \n Putin's decision to hold off on retaliation came as a surprise; tit-for-tat expulsions are common practice, and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had suggested hours before that Russia would oust 31 American diplomats. \n \"The Russian diplomats returning home will spend the New Year holidays with their relatives and dear ones,\" Putin said in a statement published on the Kremlin website. \"We will not create problems for U.S. diplomats. We will not expel anybody.\" \n He added: \"Moreover, I am inviting all children of U.S. diplomats accredited in Russia to the New Year and Christmas parties at the Kremlin.\" \n New Year's Eve has been the main holiday in Russia since Soviet times. Russians celebrate Christmas on Jan. 7. \n Putin appeared to aim at playing a long game and made a barbed reminder that Obama is a lame duck. \n Dmitry Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, called the response \"a different kind of tit-for-tat\" in a tweet: \"Even as Obama seeks to constrain Trump in his Russia policy, Putin counters that step with a show of magnanimity.\" \n The diplomatic confrontation between Washington and Moscow, which had been festering even before Trump won the Nov. 8 presidential election, puts pressure on the billionaire businessman not to let Russia off the hook after he takes office on Jan. 20. \n Russia's government had threatened retaliation, and it continues to deny U.S. accusations that it hacked and stole emails to try to help Trump win. \n Trump said the U.S. should move on, but in a sign he was no longer totally brushing off the allegations, he said he plans to meet with U.S. intelligence leaders next week to learn more. \n Obama's sanctions targeted the GRU and FSB, the Russian intelligence agencies the U.S. said were involved in the hacking attacks. In an elaborately coordinated response by at least five federal agencies, the Obama administration also sought to expose Russia's cyber tactics with a detailed technical report and hinted it might still launch a covert counterattack. \n \"All Americans should be alarmed by Russia's actions,\" said Obama, who was vacationing in Hawaii. \n Yet the sanctions could easily be pulled back by Trump, who has insisted that Obama and Democrats are merely attempting to delegitimize his election. \n Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev charged earlier today that Washington has become immersed in \"anti-Russian death throes.\" \n Medvedev, who focused on improving U.S.-Russia ties when he was president from 2008-2012, called the latest diplomatic breach \"sad\" in a Twitter post. \n U.S. relations with Russia have suffered during Obama's presidency as he and Putin tussled over Ukraine, Edward Snowden and Russia's support for Syrian President Bashar Assad. Maria Zakharova, a Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman, took to Facebook to call the Obama administration \"a group of foreign policy losers, angry and ignorant.\" \n As part of the punishment leveled against Moscow, the U.S. kicked out 35 Russian diplomats in response to Russia's harassment of U.S. diplomats. Russian recreational compounds in New York and Maryland that U.S. officials said were being used for intelligence were also shut down. \n It was the strongest action the Obama administration has taken in response to an alleged cyberattack, and it was more comprehensive than last year's sanctions on North Korea after the hacking of Sony Pictures Entertainment. The new penalties add to existing U.S. sanctions over Russia's annexation of Crimea and support for separatists in eastern Ukraine. \n Senior Obama administration officials said that even with the penalties, the U.S. had reason to believe Russia would hack other nations' elections and might well try to hack American elections in 2018 or 2020. The officials briefed reporters on a conference call on condition of anonymity. \n Though the FBI and Department of Homeland Security issued a joint report on \"Russian malicious cyber activity\" the government still has not released a broader report Obama has promised detailing Russia's efforts to interfere with U.S. elections. \n The report has been eagerly anticipated by those hoping to make it politically untenable for Trump to continue questioning whether Russia was really involved. \n Associated Press writers Tami Abdollah in Washington, Jill Colvin in Palm Beach, Florida, and Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed to this story. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Putin says Russia won't expel diplomats; Trump offers praise"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Alan Pasquesi listens to music at his home in Darian, Ill. Pasquesi has primary progressive aphasia, a condition that has taken away his ability to speak or understand language. \n DARIEN, Ill. >> Alan Pasquesi has a vacant look on his face as his wife puts the white headphones over his ears. \n The 65-year-old Darien man has primary progressive aphasia, a condition that during the past 12 years has taken away his ability to speak or understand language. \n But when the music \u2014 maybe some Bruce Springsteen or the Eagles \u2014 starts playing, something changes. \n His feet start tapping and his head bobs a little. His eyes gain some sparkle. He smiles ever so slightly. \n Pasquesi and his family are part of a national program run locally by a DuPage County service agency that introduces families caring for a loved one with memory loss to the wonders music can have on the brain, even if it can't remember much else. \n Music is a \"back door\" to the parts of the brain that are still working, said Dan Cohen, founder and executive director of the New York-based nonprofit Music and Memory. \n \"Our love of music is really connected with our emotional system, which is still intact no matter how advanced someone's dementia is,\" he said. \n Debbie Pasquesi, Alan's wife and full-time caregiver, says music has allowed her husband to take part in activities she previously avoided doing with him, things as simple as visiting a pumpkin farm with their kids and grandkids this fall. \n Previously, she said, \"He would have been crazed there and he couldn't have handled all the stimuli. We brought him, but we put his earphones on, and he was fine. He was very relaxed.\" \n Music therapy is being introduced to seniors who take part in Metropolitan Family Services DuPage in-home respite program, launched in 2002. \n Two years ago, Jody Kanikula, director of the agency's music and memory program, was deeply moved by \"Alive Inside: A Story of Music and Memory.\" The documentary explored the benefits of giving seniors with memory loss iPods equipped with a personalized playlist of music they enjoyed earlier in life. It inspired her to apply for a grant to purchase the movie to air at public events. A donor who saw it was so moved he offered to provide the funds for the launch of the initiative this fall. \n Respite volunteers interview the seniors and their caregivers about the music they like and their lifestyle, asking questions such as where they used to go dancing, what some of their favorite movies were and what their wedding song was, while also sifting through their albums, CDs and cassettes. \n \"After the volunteer gathers all the information then we have our chair of music and memory, a retired music teacher from Naperville, put together playlists,\" Kanikula said. \"We've seen some really great results. The initial reaction generally is wonder or joy. When you put the music on you can see them come back. Their eyes will open, they'll sit up a little bit. Depending on where they are in their disease, some people will start singing, some people will start talking about music.\" \n Volunteer Cathy Johnston introduced Alan Pasquesi to Music and Memory in October. \n \"It's music you're familiar with, that you loved. It is your type of music, not just any music,\" Johnston said. \"It has a definite effect. There is a calming there and it does help the patients focus. With the music they are more focused on everything they're doing, rather than not knowing where to focus.\" \n Johnston witnessed that with Pasquesi when she presented him with a playlist of about 150 songs compiled from his music collection, much of which is rock from the 1970s and 1980s. \n As his condition has progressed, Pasquesi has lost his personality and every day has revolved around his basic needs \u2014 sleeping, bathing and eating. He also became compulsive with food, snatching up any morsel he comes near. \n When Johnston put his headphones on for the first time, the change was immediate. \n He had a leisurely, 40-minute lunch; before that, the meal would have been devoured in a matter of minutes. \n Music also has helped during car rides, which Pasquesi could hardly handle \u2014 making it difficult for Debbie to take him anywhere on her own. \n \"If he's calmer, I feel better,\" she said, adding that she feels it is important her husband gets out of the house, to expose dementia and his condition to others and help fight the stigma that surrounds it. \n Some of Pasquesi's symptoms can be treated with antipsychotic drugs, but Debbie said that since being introduced to the music therapy, she has not had to elevate his dosages. \n Cohen, the Music and Memory founder, hopes his program gets a chance at every health system in the nation. Until then, he suggests people make an effort to introduce it to elders in their family on their own, by making personalized playlists with them. \n \"They'll benefit now,\" he said, \"and it will have extra rewards later on, when they can't remember what music they love.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Music therapy makes memory-loss patients calmer, more joyful"}

{"date": "December 30, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korea's Constitutional Court holds a preparatory meeting to review the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye on corruption charges centered on an influence-peddling scandal involving a confidante in Seoul. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korea's Constitutional Court on Friday said it cannot require President Park Geun-hye to testify in her impeachment trial that enters the argument phase next week, dismissing demands by lawmakers who voted to remove her over a corruption scandal. \n The nine-justice court also confirmed the dates when some witnesses will testify but delayed a decision on whether to make companies answer whether they were really forced into sponsoring foundations controlled by the president's jailed friend, Choi Soon-sil. Lawmakers, who are the prosecutors in an impeachment trial, argued it could pressure companies. \n Park's lawyers, however, said the court needed to verify facts independent of the findings by state prosecutors, who accused Park of allowing Choi to interfere with government affairs and of colluding with Choi to extort money and favors from the country's largest companies. \n The court said there was no way to force Park to appear and the trial can proceed without her. \n South Korea's opposition-controlled parliament voted to impeach Park on Dec. 9 over the corruption scandal, and the court has up to six months to decide whether she should permanently step down or be reinstated. \n During the impeachment trial, the court will also review lawmakers' accusations that Park was responsible for media restrictions and government inaction during a 2014 ferry sinking that killed more than 300 people, mostly teenagers on a school trip. \n State prosecutors have passed the investigation to a special prosecution team, which on Friday summoned an arrested former presidential aide for the second time this week as they focus on bribery suspicions between Park and the Samsung Group. \n Ahn Jong-beom, Park's former senior secretary for policy coordination, allegedly directed former Health Minister Moon Hyung-pyo to pressure the National Pension Service to support a merger between two Samsung affiliates last year. \n The deal reduced the pension fund's stake in one of the companies by an estimated hundreds of millions of dollars in value, but allowed Samsung scion Lee Jae-yong to promote a generational transfer of leadership and increase corporate wealth at the group. \n Samsung is one of the main companies that gave a combined 77.4 billion won ($64 million) to two non-profits Choi allegedly controlled and abused to expand her personal wealth. \n Choi, Ahn and Jung Ho-sung, another arrested presidential aide accused of passing on confidential government information to Choi, will be called to testify Jan. 10. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korea court says Park won't testify in impeachment trial"}

