{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "Honolulu police this morning reopened Farrington Highway in both directions after the Makua Cave in Makaha after closing it last night due to a vehicle accident. \n Paramedics treated four men, ages 21, 22, 25 and 34, for multiple injuries after a possible head-on collision around 7:15 p.m, according to Emergency Medical Services. \n All four men were transported to a trauma center in serious condition. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD reopens Farrington Highway near Makua Cave after accident"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "Update 8:50 a.m. \n Honolulu police reopened all east and westbound lanes of the H-1 freeway between Kualakai Parkway and Kamokila Boulevard interchanges. \n A portion of the freeway was closed earlier today so that Hawaiian Electric crews could replace a high-voltage power line, which crossed the freeway, that fell on Jan. 21 due to high winds. \n Previous coverage \n Officials are warning West Oahu drivers that the H-1 freeway is closed in both directions this morning between the Kualakai Parkway and Kamokila Boulevard interchanges. \n The closure will take place from 6 to 10 a.m. and will allow utility crews to replace a high-voltage power line, which crosses the freeway, that fell during a windstorm on Jan. 21, according to Hawaiian Electric Co. The freeway will reopen earlier if crews finish ahead of schedule. \n Traffic will be detoured onto Kualakai Parkway and Farrington Highway. Honolulu police will be stationed along the detour route. \n Officials are asking residents to plan ahead, expect delays and consider postponing travel until the work is completed. HECO plans to post live updates on the work to its Facebook and Twitter accounts. \n Working during the daylight hours would allow crews to finish the work more quickly than if it was scheduled at night, according to HECO. \n For updates, visit facebook.com/HawaiianElectric or twitter.com/hwnelectric. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "All lanes of H-1 freeway in Kapolei reopened after power line replacement"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "The 26-year-old soldier whose body was discovered about 11 hours after he crashed a motorcycle on the H-1 freeway was identified by the Army today as Spec. Patrick James Rodgers, of Willis, Texas. \n Rodgers was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, the Army said in a statement. \n \"Our thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of Specialist Rodgers at this difficult time,\" said Maj. Gen. Christopher Cavoli, commander of the 25th Infantry Division, in a statement. \"The safety of each and every soldier within the 25th is of paramount importance, and it is a terrible tragedy to lose one of our own.\" \n Rodgers was a wheeled vehicle mechanic and enlisted in the Army in March 2010. He previously served in Oklahoma and South Carolina, and moved to Schofield Barracks in July 2014, the Army said. \n He deployed to Kuwait for 12 months in 2012. He was a recipient of two Army Achievement Medals, the Army Good Conduct Medal, and the National Defense Service Medal, among others. \n Police responded to the crash at about midnight Friday, but Rodgers' body \u2014 concealed by the westbound freeway guardrail near the Palama Street offramp \u2014 was not found until about 11 a.m. Friday, police said. \n Responding officers found the motorcycle at the scene, but couldn't find its operator in the dark. A traffic collision report was created, and police were trying to determine why the motorcyclist's body was not found. \n Lt. Carlene Lau of the Honolulu Police Department's Traffic Division said Rodgers' body was located a far distance from the crash. \n Police said Rodgers was wearing a helmet, and excessive speed is believed to be a factor in the crash. It was unknown whether he was still alive when police arrived at the scene the first time. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Army identifies motorcyclist found dead hours after H-1 crash"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Protesters assemble at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on Saturday after two Iraqi refugees were detained while trying to enter the country. \n A U.S judge temporarily blocked the Trump administration from enforcing an executive order that would have led to the deportation of refugees and visa-holders from seven mostly Muslim countries. \n The ruling by U.S. District Ann Donnelly in Brooklyn came at an emergency hearing Saturday night, hours after the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups sued to halt the Jan. 27 order. The order halts efforts to deport refugees and visa holders from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. \n The executive order, aimed at stopping would-be terrorists from entering the country, led to people being detained at airports from Dallas to Atlanta to New York, and sparked an outcry by foreign officials, Democrats in Congress, executives in Silicon Valley, and immigration lawyers, who said it violated the U.S. Constitution. Protests erupted at airports across the country. \n The ACLU and other groups filed the suit on behalf of two refugees barred entry at New York's John F. Kennedy Airport, including Hameed Khalid Darweesh, an interpreter who had worked for the U.S. military in Iraq. He was later allowed to enter the country. The groups also brought an emergency request \"to prevent the imminent repatriation of dozens and dozens of refugees, visa-holders, and other individuals from nations subject to the January 27 executive order.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Judge blocks Trump's halt on immigration from Muslim nations"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A protester raises her fist and shouts as she joins others assembled at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Saturday, after two Iraqi refugees were detained while trying to enter the country. \n WASHINGTON >> Confusion, worry and outrage grew Saturday as President Donald Trump's crackdown on refugees and citizens from seven majority-Muslim countries took effect. Airlines blocked people traveling to the United States, legal challenges were underway and doubts abounded about whether the order would make America safer. \n The immediate fallout from Trump's order meant that an untold number of foreign-born U.S. residents now traveling outside the U.S. could be stuck overseas for at least 90 days \u2014 despite holding permanent residency \"green cards\" or other visas. And some foreign nationals who were allowed to board flights before the order was signed Friday were being detained at U.S. airports, told they were no longer welcome. \n Trump billed his sweeping executive order as a necessary step to stop \"radical Islamic terrorists\" from coming to the U.S. Included is a 90-day ban on travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia or Yemen and a 120-day suspension of the U.S. refugee program. \n Trump's order singled out Syrians for the most aggressive ban, indefinitely blocking entry for anyone from that country, including those fleeing civil war. \n The directive did not do anything to prevent attacks from homegrown extremists who were already in America, a primary concern of federal law enforcement officials. It also omitted Saudi Arabia, home to most of the Sept. 11 hijackers. \n As a candidate Trump pledged to temporarily ban Muslims from coming to the U.S., then said he would implement \"extreme vetting\" for people from countries with significant terror concerns. \n Trump told reporters Saturday the order is \"not a Muslim ban.\" \n \"It's working out very nicely,\" Trump said of the implementation of his order. \"We're going to have a very, very strict ban and we're going to have extreme vetting, which we should have had in this country for many years.\" \n The order sparked protests at several of the nation's international airports, including New York's Kennedy and Chicago's O'Hare and facilities in Minneapolis and Dallas-Forth Worth. In San Francisco, hundreds blocked the street outside the arrival area of the international terminal. Several dozen demonstrated at the airport in Portland, Oregon, briefly disrupting light rail service while hoisting signs that read \"Portland Coffee Is From Yemen\" and chanting anti-Trump slogans. Among the dozens showing support for refugees at Denver's airport were those who sang \"refugees are welcome here.\" \n U.S. lawmakers and officials around the globe also criticized the move. Sen. Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said while Trump is right to focus on border security, the order is \"too broad.\" \n \"If we send a signal to the Middle East that the U.S. sees all Muslims as jihadis, the terrorist recruiters win by telling kids that America is banning Muslims and that this is America versus one religion,\" Sasse said. \"Our generational fight against jihadism requires wisdom.\" \n In Tehran, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said Iran would stop issuing new visas to U.S. citizens in response to Trump's ban, but that anyone already with a visa to Iran wouldn't be turned away. \n Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took to Twitter Saturday afternoon to say that refugees were welcome in Canada, \"regardless of your faith.\" \n Two of the first people blocked from entering the United States were Iraqis with links to the U.S. military. \n Hameed Khalid Darweesh and Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi were detained by immigration officials after landing at New York's Kennedy airport Friday night. Both had been released by Saturday night after their lawyers intervened. \n Darweesh had worked as an interpreter for the U.S. Army when it invaded Iraq in 2003 and later worked as a contract engineer. In their court filing, his lawyers said Alshawai's wife had worked for a U.S. security contractor in Iraq. Members of her family had been killed by insurgents because of their association with the U.S. military. \n The government can exempt foreign nationals from the ban if their entry is deemed in the national interest. But it was not immediately clear how that exemption might be applied. \n Diplomats from the seven countries singled out by Trump's order would still be allowed into the U.S. \n Those already in the U.S. with a visa or green card would be allowed to stay, according to the official, who wasn't authorized to publicly discuss the details of how Trump's order was being put in place and spoke only on condition of anonymity. \n Trump's order also directed U.S. officials to review information as needed to fully vet foreigners asking to come to the U.S. and draft a list of countries that don't provide that information. That left open the possibility that citizens of other countries could also face a travel ban. \n The U.S. may still admit refugees on a case-by-case basis during the freeze, and the government would continue to process requests from people claiming religious persecution, \"provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual's country.\" \n The Council on American-Islamic Relations said it would challenge the constitutionality of Trump's order. \n \"There is no evidence that refugees \u2014 the most thoroughly vetted of all people entering our nation \u2014 are a threat to national security,\" said Lena F. Masri, the group's national litigation director. \"This is an order that is based on bigotry, not reality.\" \n John Cohen, a former Department of Homeland Security counterterrorism official who worked under Democratic and Republican administrations, said the order didn't address America's \"primary terrorism-related threat\" \u2014 people already in the U.S. who become inspired by what they see on the internet. \n Trump's order drew support from some Republican lawmakers who have urged more security measures for the refugee vetting program, particularly for those from Syria. \n \"We are a compassionate nation and a country of immigrants. But as we know, terrorists are dead set on using our immigration and refugee programs as a Trojan Horse to attack us,\" House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul said in a statement Friday. \"With the stroke of a pen, he is doing more to shut down terrorist pathways into this country than the last administration did in eight years.\" \n It is unclear how many people would be immediately impacted by the non-refugee travel ban. According to the statistics maintained by the Homeland Security Department, about 17,000 students from the seven designated countries were allowed into the U.S. for the 2015-2016 school year. In 2015 more than 86,000 people from those countries arrived in the U.S. on other, non-immigrant visas and more than 52,000 others became legal permanent residents. \n Last year the U.S. resettled 85,000 people displaced by war, political oppression, hunger and religious prejudice, including more than 12,000 Syrians. Before leaving office President Barack Obama announced that the U.S. would accept 110,000 refugees in the coming year, but Trump's order cut that by more than half to 50,000. \n No refugees were in the air when the travel ban was signed Friday, but about 350 people were in transit in Nairobi, Kenya, and were now stuck there, said Melanie Nezer, vice president of policy and advocacy for HIAS, a refugee resettlement aid agency. She said several hundred more people who were booked on U.S.-bound flights in the next week were now stranded around the globe. \n \"This in effect could be a permanent ban,\" she said. \"Many of these people may never be able to come.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump order on refugees, Muslims sparks confusion, worry"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "Firefighters rescued a hiker who injured his back today while jumping at the falls on Maunawili Falls Trail, a Honolulu Fire Department spokesman said. \n Firefighters were summoned to the Kailua trail at about 12:15 p.m. and reached the injured hiker about a half-hour later, said fire Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. \n Firefighters packaged the man and lifted him by helicopter to Maunawili Community District Park where paramedics were waiting. \n Mokulehua urged hikers to know their capabilities and avoid unnecessary risks, such as climbing waterfalls or jumping from them. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Hiker injured while jumping at Maunawili Falls"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Firefighters rescued a man in his 70s having difficulty breathing today at the bottom of a large hill off Aapi Place in Pearl City. \n Firefighters encountered a wild boar today while rescuing a man in his 70s suffering from a medical condition in Pearl City, a fire department spokesman said. \n The man caught the boar in a trap he had set near a garden he was tending at the bottom of a hill behind his Aapi Place home, said Honolulu Fire Capt. Kevin Mokulehua. \n While checking on the garden, the man found the boar, which was about 80 to 100 pounds, ensnared in the trap. The man began having difficulty breathing and used a cell phone to call a family member who called firefighters. \n Firefighters found the pale-looking man at about 10 a.m., some 150 feet down a hill behind his home, and had difficulties getting to him because of the snared wild boar near him, Mokulehua said. \n About eight firefighters carried the man up the hill on a canvas mat and turned him over to paramedics. \n It was unknown what happened to the boar. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Firefighters rescue Pearl City man, avoid wild boar"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "A 31-year-old man has been charged with entering a woman's home and assaulting her in Ewa, police said. \n Dane Mizusawa, of Ewa Beach, was charged Friday night with burglary and assault. His bail was set at $50,000. \n Police said Mizusawa entered the home of a 36-year-old woman who has a protective order against him sometime before noon Thursday. Mizusawa and the woman argued inside the home, and he assaulted her, police said. \n Mizusawa was arrested Thursday at his home. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Ewa man charged for alleged assault"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "A 28-year-old worker was crushed to death Thursday while unloading construction material in the Waipio commercial area, police said. \n Xue Zhong Yu, of Honolulu, died of asphyxia due to compression of the neck and chest, said the Honolulu Medical Examiner's office. The office ruled his death an accident. \n Police said Yu was unloading construction material from a shipping container when he was crushed at about 9:15 p.m. \n Police opened an unattended death investigation. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Worker crushed to death in Waipio, police say"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "Honolulu Police closed off Kipaepae Street in Aiea in both directions between Lulu Street and Holopuni Street due to a water main break. \n Board of Water Supply officials are responding to the 8-inch main break which affected area homes only. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "HPD closes part of Kipaepae Street in Aiea due to water main break"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau reacted to Trump's ban of Muslims from certain countries by tweeting Saturday: \"To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada.\" \n TORONTO >> Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has a message for refugees rejected by U.S. President Donald Trump: Canada will welcome you. \n He says he also intends to talk to Trump about the success of Canada's refugee policy. \n Trudeau reacted to Trump's visa ban for people from certain Muslim-majority countries by tweeting Saturday: \"To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada.\" \n Trudeau also posted a picture of him greeting a Syrian child at Toronto's airport in late 2015. Trudeau oversaw the arrival of more than 39,000 Syrian refugees soon after he was elected. \n A spokeswoman for Trudeau said he has a message for Trump. \n \"The Prime Minister is looking forward to discussing the successes of Canada's immigration and refugee policy with the President when they next speak,\" spokeswoman Kate Purchase told The Associated Press. \n Trudeau is expected to the visit the White House soon. \n The prime minister has refrained from criticizing Trump to avoid offending the new president. More than 75 percent of Canada's exports go to the U.S. \n Toronto Mayor John Tory also weighed in, noting that the city is the most diverse in the world. \n \"We understand that as Canadians we are almost all immigrants, and that no one should be excluded on the basis of their ethnicity or nationality,\" Tory said in a statement. \n Trump signed a sweeping executive order Friday that he billed as a necessary step to stop \"radical Islamic terrorists\" from coming to the U.S. Included is a 90-day ban on travel to the U.S. by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia or Yemen and a 120-day suspension of the U.S. refugee program. \n Trump's order singled out Syrians for the most aggressive ban, ordering that anyone from that country, including those fleeing civil war, are indefinitely blocked from coming to the United States. \n The Syrian refugee crisis became a major issue in Canada's election in late 2015 because of the haunting image of a drowned 3-year-old Syrian boy washed up on a Turkish beach. The boy had relatives in Canada. \n Trudeau's tweet quickly received more than 150,000 likes. \"Welcome to Canada\" trended in Canada. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "PM Trudeau says Canada will take refugees"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Firefighters notified the Coast Guard at 2 a.m. today that a man had fallen off the Pokowai Sea Arch and was last seen floating on his back. \n The Coast Guard recovered today the body of a 48-year-old fisherman who disappeared after falling into the ocean from a rock formation off South Maui on Friday night, Maui firefighters said. \n At about 9:22 a.m., the Coast Guard found the man's body floating about a mile west from where he fell into the water and about 1.5 miles offshore, said Maui Fire Department spokesman Edward Taomoto. A Coast Guard boat picked up the body and brought it to Maalaea Boat Harbor. \n Firefighters first responded to a call about the missing fisherman at about 11:20 p.m. Friday in the Kahikinui area near the Pokowai Sea Arch, a hole in the lava rock over the ocean at Huakini Bay. \n Firefighters arrived at about midnight and spoke with the victim's fishing partner who said the victim fell about 10 feet from the rocks where they were fishing to the water and could not climb back up. \n An initial search by firefighters was not successful. \n Firefighters notified the Coast Guard about the incident at 2 a.m. and said the man had fallen from the sea arch and was last seen floating on his back, the Coast Guard said. \n The Coast Guard launched an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter, a 45-foot response boat-medium, and the cutter Ahi to assist. Firefighters resumed searching at first light with ground crews, a helicopter, and a rescue boat with divers, firefighters said. \n Winds were about 15 mph with surf at about 5 feet in the area. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard finds body of fisherman missing off Maui"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Victoria firefighters respond to a fire at the Islamic Center of Victoria on Saturday, Jan. 28 in Victoria, Texas. The early-morning fire Saturday destroyed the mosque that was a target of hatred several years ago and experienced a burglary just a week ago. \n VICTORIA, Texas >> An early-morning fire today destroyed a Texas mosque that was a target of hatred several years ago and experienced a burglary just a week ago. \n A clerk at a convenience store spotted smoke and flames billowing from the Islamic Center of Victoria at around 2 a.m. and called the fire department. \n \"It's sad to stand there and watch it collapse down, and the fire was so huge,\" Shahid Hashmi, the Islamic center's president, said. \"It looks completely destroyed.\" \n Victoria Fire Marshal Tom Legler asked for help from the Texas Fire Marshal's Office and federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to determine what caused the blaze. Hashmi said authorities have told him it was too early to speculate. \n \"None whatsoever right now,\" the center director said. \"We don't have any lead or information as to what started the fire and what happened. So I'm sure it's going to be a few days, they told us, before they can come up with any answers for us.\" \n The congregation's pastor, known as an imam, was awake in the early morning hours and checked online surveillance of the mosque and found no alarm active and the doors unlocked, Hashmi said. On Jan. 21, someone broke in and stole some electronics, including laptops. \n \"He was worried about it and drove over there,\" Hashmi said. \"By that time, fire engines were already there pouring water on the fire.\" \n The structure was built in 2000. \n No injuries were reported. It took about four hours to extinguish the blaze. \n Hashmi, who's lived in Victoria 32 years, said the congregation of about 140 has had few other problems and has enjoyed support from the city of about 115 miles southwest of Houston. He already has received offers of temporary quarters for the congregation to worship. \n \"When 9/11 happened, Muslims and non-Muslims, we all got together,\" he said. \"Of course, we will rebuild.\" \n On Jan. 7, a mosque under construction near Lake Travis in Austin was burned to the ground. \n The Texas office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations said like that blaze, it would monitor the investigation of the Victoria fire. \n \"Because of growing anti-Muslim bigotry in our nation, and because of the recent spike in hate incidents targeting Islamic institutions and individuals, we urge investigators to keep the possibility of a bias motive for this fire in mind,\" CAIR-Houston Executive Director Mustafaa Carroll said. \n There's been no determination yet for the Austin blaze, Diane Kanawati, with CAIR-Austin, said. \n In December, a man was sentenced to four years in prison for setting fire to a Houston mosque where he worshipped. Gary Nathaniel Moore pleaded guilty to arson and using a fire as a deadly weapon in a Dec. 25, 2015, blaze that caused significant damage at the Islamic Society of Greater Houston mosque. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Texas mosque destroyed in early-morning blaze; cause unknown"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judges William Pryor, left, Neil Gorsuch and Thomas Hardiman. \n A look at Neil Gorsuch, Thomas Hardiman and William Pryor, the federal appeals court judges who are seen as the leading candidates to be President Donald Trump's nominee for the Supreme Court. Each was appointed to the appellate bench by President George W. Bush, appeared on Trump's list of 21 possible choices that he made public during the campaign and has met with Trump to discuss the vacancy that arose when Justice Antonin Scalia died nearly a year ago. Trump plans to announce the nominee on Thursday. \n GORSUCH \n Gorsuch, 49, serves on the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver, where he has made a name for himself as a facile writer. Gorsuch is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, and served as a law clerk to Justices Anthony Kennedy and fellow Coloradan Byron White. If chosen, he would be the first justice to serve with a colleague for whom he once worked. \n With a clear, colloquial writing style, Gorsuch has written in favor of courts' second-guessing government regulations, in defense of religious freedom and skeptically about law enforcement. He has contended that courts give too much deference to government agencies' interpretations of statutes. He sided with two groups that mounted religious objections to the Obama administration's requirements that employers provide health insurance that includes contraception for women. \n He is the son of The son of President Ronald Reagan's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Anne Gorsuch. He worked for two years in Bush's Justice Department before Bush appointed him to his appeals court seat. He was confirmed by a voice vote in 2006. \n Gorsuch has written 175 majority opinions and 65 concurrences or dissents in his decade on the 10th Circuit, according to Rebecca Love Kourlis, a former Colorado Supreme Court justice. \n Gorsuch also is a notable advocate for simplifying the justice system to make it more accessible, Kourlis said. \n Gorsuch is also an avid skier, fly fisherman and horseback rider, Kourlis said. He teaches at the University of Colorado's law school in Boulder. \n Hardiman, 51, works in Pittsburgh as a judge on the Philadelphia-based 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. He drove a taxi to support himself during his undergraduate years at the University of Notre Dame. He received his law degree from Georgetown University. Hardiman became a partner in a major law firm at age 30 and a federal district judge at 38. \n The Senate confirmed him 95-0 to his current job in April 2007. His prominent opinions on the appeals court include siding with jails seeking to strip search inmates arrested for even minor offenses and backing the collection of genetic evidence from people at the time of their arrest. Hardiman has supported gun rights, dissenting in a 2013 case that upheld a New Jersey law to strengthen requirements to carry a handgun in public. \n Hardiman last year joined two 3rd Circuit colleagues in affirming the $1 billion settlement of NFL concussion claims, rejecting complaints that men with depression and mood disorders that some link to football concussions were left out of the deal. In earlier oral arguments. The Supreme Court later refused to hear the challengers' appeal. \n Hardiman was raised in Waltham, Massachusetts, and eventually settled in Pittsburgh, where his wife comes from a family of prominent Democrats. The Hardimans have three children. \n PRYOR  \n Pryor, 54, has his office in Birmingham, Alabama, where his sits as a judge on the Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. He's been on the court since 2004, when Bush gave him a temporary recess appointment to get around Democratic opposition in the Senate. He was confirmed by a 53-45 vote in 2005, part of a bipartisan deal to limit Senate delays of appellate nominations. \n Pryor has a reputation as staunch conservative. He once called the 1973 landmark Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion the \"worst abomination in the history of constitutional law.\" \n On the bench, Pryor has often ruled against criminal defendants. He authored a majority opinion upholding a border patrol agent's decision to stop a SUV filled with Hispanic passengers because the vehicle was driving erratically and the occupants appeared nervous. He also ruled that a Supreme Court decision banning automatic life sentences for juvenile defendants should not be applied to older cases. The high court later disagreed, ruling that the decision did apply retroactively. \n On religious freedom, in 2014, he wrote a separate opinion in favor of a Catholic television station that objected to the contraception coverage mandate of the Affordable Care Act. \n The son of two teachers, Pryor traced the roots of his conservatism to his staunch Catholic upbringing. He said the abortion ruling, handed down when he was a boy, influenced his decision to become a Republican and a lawyer. Pryor grew up in Mobile, Alabama, and graduated from Tulane Law School in New Orleans. He was a law clerk to Judge John Minor Wisdom, whose rulings helped end segregation. \n Pryor was appointed Alabama's attorney general at age 34. He succeeded Jeff Sessions, the Alabama senator nominated to be Trump's attorney general. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "A look at the reported top contenders for the Supreme Court"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Ken Hartle at Veterans Day ceremonies at Webb Park in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Hartle, believed to be the oldest surviving Navy salvage diver who worked the wreckage left after the Japanese attack on Pearl harbor in World War II, died Tuesday, Jan. 24, 2017. \n SAN DIEGO >> Ken Hartle, who as a Navy diver during World War II had the grim task of retrieving bodies from ships sunk by the Japanese at Pearl Harbor, has died. He was 103. \n Hartle may have been the oldest surviving Pearl Harbor salvage diver, said David Ball of San Diego, an officer with the Navy Divers Association. \n Hartle and his fellow Seabees worked in the days before scuba diving equipment was commonplace. His heavy canvas diving suit and brass helmet weighed more than 200 pounds. \n Japan's Dec. 7, 1941 surprise attack on Pearl Harbor sank or beached 18 ships. Among them was the battleship Arizona, which went down with 1,177 crew members. \n Hartle was working as a civilian ship-fitter at a Navy yard in the San Francisco Bay Area when the war broke out but he wasn't allowed to enlist until 1943 because his job was deemed too important to the war effort. \n Hartle was proud of the work he performed over the next two years, his children said. He risked death by towing away unexploded torpedoes and salvaging ships and planes, first at Pearl Harbor and later from Maine to the Philippines. \n He suffered the bends \u2014 painful and dangerous bubbles in his bloodstream from improper decompression \u2014 and was nearly killed when an anchor chain cracked and spewed metal shards. \n But he avoided mentioning one task: recovering the long-submerged bodies of sailors who went to the bottom at Pearl Harbor. \n \"He just didn't like talking about it,\" said his son, Ken W. Hartle, 64, of Montana. \"He would only say that the hardest part of the job was 'bringing up our boys.' \" \n Ambert Kenneth Hartle was born in 1913 in Bakersfield, California. His mother, a brother and a sister died from illness or accidents before he was 10 and his father was sent to a tuberculosis sanitarium in 1916, according to Hartle's children. \n Hartle and his siblings were sent to Los Angeles to live with relatives but he hitchhiked to the San Francisco Bay Area. He worked as a prune-picker, a ranch hand and a cook for mining camps and resorts, earned a high school diploma and studied commercial art in college, where he also managed the basketball team. \n His son said Hartle managed to cheat death several times, beginning at age 3 when a mule kicked him in the face and knocked him unconscious for 20 hours. \n At 9, he was stabbed in the neck during a schoolyard brawl. In college, he was flung hundreds of feet when his car was crushed by a truck. He was bitten by a rattlesnake and a scorpion while working alone at a mining camp. \n He had colon and prostate cancer, six heart bypass surgeries, and broke his shoulder falling from a ladder while trimming trees when he was 97. \n \"He was from a generation of people who were amazingly tough,\" said his daughter and longtime caregiver, Karen Dahl, 66. \"He had a lot of problems with pain from the work he did in his younger life, but he never complained.\" \n After the war, he settled in Buena Park, California, and later became a chicken breeder in Valley Center in northern San Diego County. \n His second wife, Jeanne, died in 2008. \n \"He was a great storyteller. He could talk for hours about his life in the most amazing detail,\" his daughter said. \"He loved his life and he had a wonderful one.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Pearl Harbor Navy salvage diver dies at 103"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pope Francis delivers his blessing during his meeting with Grand Master of the Knights of Malta Matthew Festing, left, at the Vatican. \n ROME >> Pope Francis has reassured the Knights of Malta, an ancient Catholic lay order, about its sovereignty, even as a special papal delegate will work to ensure the \"spiritual renewal\" of its members, after revelations its charity component had distributed condoms. \n The order's Sovereign Council in Rome on Saturday accepted the resignation of Grand Master Fra' Matthew Festing, who had sacked the order's foreign minister, Albrecht von Boeselager. The minister was removed as grand chancellor following revelations that condoms were distributed in Myanmar under his watch. \n But the Vatican intervened on the minister's behalf. \n On Saturday, the council scrapped the disciplinary procedures launched against von Boeselager, who immediately resumed his post, a statement from the Knights of Malta said. The Knights say Francis in his letter Friday stressed the order's sovereignty. \n The sovereignty tussle was a touchy matter, since the Vatican is a sovereign entity as is the Knights of Malta order. Each side has diplomatic relations with scores of countries worldwide. \n Until Festing's successor is elected, Fra' Ludwig Hoffmann von Rumerstein serves as its interim leader. Francis in his letter noted that the interim leader \"assumes responsibility over the Order's government, in particular regarding relationships with other States.\" \n But the pontiff also made clear his special delegate \"will be operating on the spiritual renewal\" of the order, according the statement. \n The statement also said it would \"ensure its full collaboration with the Special Delegate whom the Holy Father intends to appoint.\" \n Earlier in the week, Festing met with the pope and said he would resign, after losing an internal power struggle. The Vatican said Francis had accepted his resignation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Knights of Malta: Pope writes to stress order's sovereignty"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Jesus Cardenas Jr., 2, carries a football as he walks through an exhibit at the NFL Experience Saturday, Jan. 28, 2017, in Houston. \n HOUSTON >> In May 2013, when Houston was awarded the right to host this year's Super Bowl, the city's economy was booming as many of the oil and gas companies that call Houston home and have earned it the nickname \"the energy capital of the world\" were riding high on a wave of oil selling at more than $100 a barrel. \n But that wave soon collapsed. Oil plummeted \u2014 bottoming out at around $26 a barrel \u2014 energy firms declared bankruptcy and more than 80,000 local workers lost their oil-related jobs over the last two years. While this wasn't as bad as the infamous oil bust of the 1980s and the city's economy is now more diversified, it still hit Houston hard. Office space and newly built apartments stood empty, car sales fell and local tax revenues dropped. \n Economists say the worst seems to be over and the Super Bowl will be a welcomed addition to the ongoing recovery as the game is expected to provide up to a $350 million economic impact as well as a psychological boost as local leaders and residents get a chance to show off Houston and highlight that the city is no longer only about oil and traffic, with a much more diverse economy and population. \n \"Houston is demonstrating that we are so much more than the current price of oil,\" said Jeff Shellebarger, the locally-based president of Chevron North America Exploration and Production Co. \n Stephen Klineberg, a sociology professor at Rice University in Houston, said the Super Bowl spotlight will also help show people how Houston has become the most ethnically diverse major city in the U.S. About one in four residents are foreign-born and minorities make up more than 70 percent of the population, according to Census figures. \n \"Most Americans have no idea about Houston,\" he said. \"We're not the city that is part of the image that so many people have of cow town and rodeos. The city is happy to have the world come to Houston and see what we've done.\" \n Sallie Sargent, president & CEO of the Houston Super Bowl Host Committee, said the game will also be \"a great way to put a shot in the arm of the people of Houston \u2026 By showcasing Houston on a world stage, it gives people a change to have a point of pride and really bolster them around how things are turning around.\" \n About 140,000 visitors are expected to come and fill up most of the city's 84,000 hotel rooms. More than 1 million people are expected to stop by downtown's Discovery Green, a nearly 12-acre park that will be hosting the free Super Bowl Live fan festival. \n Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said about $1.5 billion has been spent on various downtown projects to get ready for the Super Bowl, including a new 1,000-room hotel and a refurbishment of the convention center. \n \"I'm just excited (for) all the people in this city and I know we are going to be a super host for the Super Bowl,\" he said. \n Former NFL player Owen Daniels said after retiring last year, it made sense for him to return to Houston, where he spent eight seasons as a tight end with the Texans, to raise his family. \n \"It's a super-friendly city,\" said Daniels, who also played with Baltimore and Denver. \"There is the country Texas flavor to it. But then you have people from all over the world, a melting pot of people here. Hopefully the people that are traveling (to the Super Bowl) recognize that. It's awesome.\" \n As the city made final preparations this past week for the game and its festivities, some local residents were still trying to rebound from the recent oil downturn. In a church in west Houston, nearly 200 people took part in the weekly meeting of the Energy Job Search Team, created to help unemployed energy workers. \n Kevin Leaverton, one of the leaders of the group and a former information technology director for a chemical company, said people with the group seem to be more hopeful about their prospects in 2017. \n \"It's great that the Super Bowl is coming to Houston,\" said Leaverton, 58, who's still looking for full-time employment since leaving his previous job 16 months ago ahead of layoffs. \"That activity is a positive thing for the city and anything that's positive for the city is going to be positive for those of us who live in the city, regardless of whether we are in a job or whether we are looking for a job.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Super Bowl comes as Houston recovering from latest oil bust"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks about healthcare. \n WASHINGTON >> Republican lawmakers are fearful about the potential political fallout if their eventual replacement of President Barack Obama's health law doesn't deliver, and they didn't hold back at their recent policy conference. \n \"We'd better be sure that we're prepared to live with the market we've created,\" Rep. Tom McClintock, R-Calif., was quoted as saying in Saturday's Washington Post, one of the media organizations that obtained an audio recording of a private session at last week's GOP strategy retreat in Philadelphia, \n \"That's going to be called 'Trumpcare.' Republicans will own that lock, stock and barrel, and we'll be judged in the election less than two years away.\" \n Rep. Tom MacArthur, R-N.J., worried that Republican plans could strip health insurance from many of the 20 million people who gained covered through the Affordable Care Act, including through the expansion of Medicaid. \n \"We're telling those people that we're not going to pull the rug out from under them, and if we do this too fast, we are in fact going to pull the rug out from under them,\" MacArthur was quoted as saying. \n The Post said the remarks made by McClintock and others were confirmed by their offices or the congressmen themselves. \n The concerns focused on how to quickly repeal Obama's program and replace it without depriving people of coverage or driving up premiums. \n Rep. John Faso, R-N.Y., warned against eliminating federal money for Planned Parenthood, as many Republicans hope to do with the repeal. \"We are just walking into a gigantic political trap if we go down this path of sticking Planned Parenthood in the health insurance bill,\" he said. \n Faso's remarks drew tepid applause, according to the account. \n The Post said Congress has been left without explicit guidance from Trump or his administration. Andrew Bremberg, who heads Trump's domestic policy council, attended the session but offered few details about what legislative proposals the president favors, the report said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Republican lawmakers worry if 'Trumpcare' doesn't deliver"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A homeless man drinks water while sitting on the beach at Ala Moana Beach Park located near Waikiki in Honolulu. \n As an emergency room doctor, Hawaii Sen. Josh Green sees homeless patients suffering from diabetes, mental health problems and an array of medical issues that are more difficult to manage when they are homeless or do not have permanent housing. \n That's why Green says he wants homelessness classified under Hawaii state law as a medical condition. \n If homelessness is a disease, he reasons, then doctors should be able to write prescriptions for the cure: Housing. \n \"It is paradigm shift for sure, but the single best thing we can do today is to allow physicians and health care providers in general to write prescriptions for housing,\" Green said. \n Green last week introduced a bill in the Hawaii Legislature to classify chronic homelessness as a medical condition and require insurance companies to cover treatment of the condition. \n But if a doctor wrote a prescription for six months of housing, where would the patient fill the prescription? \n That's where Green wants Medicaid to step in. \n He wants to redirect some of Hawaii's $2 billion annual Medicaid budget to pay for housing. \n He says the state could spend less Medicaid money by dedicating some of it to housing instead of paying for frequent visits by homeless people to emergency rooms. A recent University of Hawaii survey found health care costs for chronically homeless people dropped 43 percent when they had decent housing for an uninterrupted six-month period. \n \"Housing is health care, because it does afford a person a much greater chance of sustaining their health,\" said Connie Mitchell, executive director for the Institute for Human Services, Hawaii's largest homeless services provider. \n But she cautioned that choosing who qualifies would be a challenge. \n \"You need to really look at when that's appropriate, because there's a lot of people that become homeless,\" Mitchell said. \"Just because they become homeless doesn't mean it entitles them to write a prescription for a unit.\" \n Hawaii had the highest rate of homelessness of all U.S. states in 2015, with 53 homeless people for every 10,000 residents, according to The National Alliance to End Homelessness. \n The isolated state's high food and housing costs have prompted thousands of locally-born residents and transplants to erect tents and makeshift structures for homes in parks and sidewalks on Oahu, the state's most populated island. \n Concerned about impacts on tourism, city officials have banned sitting and lying down in public spaces in the beachfront neighborhood of Waikiki and other parts of Honolulu. \n The prospect of Green's proposal passing is unclear, but Hawaii officials appear receptive to offbeat solutions. State officials last year directed more money than ever to homeless support services. \n And this week, 20 state senators proposed issuing $2 billion in state-backed bonds to build affordable housing, public housing renovations and homeless shelters. \n Representatives from the state's two largest insurers \u2014 Kaiser Permanente and Hawaii Medical Services Association \u2014 and the chairwoman of the legislative committee that will first consider the bill declined comment, saying they have not had time to review it. \n National homelessness experts said they are unaware of any other U.S. state attempt to classify homelessness as a medical condition. \n But more than a dozen states \u2014 including California, Louisiana, New York and Texas \u2014 have found alternative ways to use Medicaid money for social services to help people stay in housing, like employment services or counseling, according to the Corporation for Supportive Housing, a New York-based group. \n And New York is searching for ways to redirect the state-funded portion of its Medicaid budget toward housing payments. \n \"To date, no one is able to pay for rent using Medicaid. That's the line in the sand,\" said Barbara DiPietro, senior director of policy at the National Health Care for the Homeless Council, referring to federal Medicaid money. \n Green's idea is in line with an ongoing push in in Hawaii to expand Medicaid coverage so it will pay for services such as social workers who help people secure housing. \n \"The state realizes there's a strong intersection between housing and health care, and I think that really is a critical component of our efforts to address homelessness here locally,\" said Scott Morishige, the homelessness coordinator for Gov. David Ige, a Democrat. \n Illness and injuries can lead to homelessness, through loss of income or inability to pay medical bills. When people become homeless, chronic diseases such as high blood pressure, asthma, diabetes and mental health problems are more difficult to manage, according to the National Health Care for the Homeless Council. \n \"If you don't have stable housing, if you don't have a stable place to live, how are you managing medications and going to doctor appointments?\" said Marcella Maguire, a director at Corporation for Supportive Housing. \n The Queens' Health System, a Honolulu hospital, billed $80 million for treating homeless people in 2014 and $89 million in 2015, said Lyndsey Garcia, a hospital legislative analyst. More than $10 million goes uncompensated annually, she said. \n Some homeless patients visit emergency rooms dozens of times per year, Green said. \n \"I've heard it described as you go to Queens as a two-day vacation,\" he said. \"It's going to cost probably $2,000 to $3,000 per day, so Queens is going to eat that cost, just for basic shelter.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii bill would classify homelessness as medical condition"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump signs an executive order on extreme vetting during an event at the Pentagon. \n WASHINGTON >> The fallout grew Saturday from President Donald Trump's immigration crackdown as U.S. legal permanent residents and visa-holders from seven Muslim-majority countries who had left the United States found they could not return for 90 days. \n It was a period of limbo for an unknown number of non-American citizens from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia or Yemen now barred from the country where they were studying or had lived, perhaps for years. \n A federal law enforcement official who confirmed the temporary ban said there was an exemption for foreigners whose entry is in the U.S. national interest. It was not immediately clear how that exemption might be applied. \n Trump's order exempts diplomats. \n Those already in the U.S. with a visa or green card will be allowed to stay, according to the official, who wasn't authorized to publicly discuss the details of how Trump's order was being put in place and spoke only on condition of anonymity. \n Customs and Border Protection was notifying airlines about passengers whose visas had been canceled or legal residents scheduled to fly back to the U.S. Airlines were being told to keep them off those flights. \n Trump's order barred all refugees from entering the U.S. for four months, and indefinitely halted any from Syria. He said the ban was needed to keep out \"radical Islamic terrorists.\" \n The next group of refugees was due to arrive in the U.S. on Monday, but the official said they would not be allowed into the country. \n The president's order immediately suspended a program that last year resettled in the U.S. roughly 85,000 people displaced by war, political oppression, hunger and religious prejudice. Trump indefinitely blocked those fleeing Syria, where a civil war has raged, and imposed a 90-day ban on all immigration to the U.S. from the seven Muslim majority nations. \n \"We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas,\" Trump said as he signed the order at the Pentagon. \"We only want to admit those into our country who will support our country and love deeply our people.\" \n Trump said the halt in the refugee program was necessary to give agencies time to develop a stricter screening system. While the order did not spell out what additional steps he wants the departments of Homeland Security and State to take, the president directed officials to review the refugee application and approval process and find any more measures that could prevent those who pose a threat from using the refugee program. \n The U.S. may admit refugees on a case-by-case basis during the freeze, and the government will continue to process requests from people claiming religious persecution, \"provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual's country.\" \n In an interview with CBN News, Trump said persecuted Christians would be given priority in applying for refugee status. \n \"We are going to help them,\" Trump said. \"They've been horribly treated.\" \n The order was signed on Trump's most robust day of national security and foreign policy at the start of his presidency. He met with British Prime Minister Theresa May and had a lengthy phone call with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto. \n As a candidate, Trump called for a temporary ban on all Muslim immigration to the U.S. He later shifted his focus to putting in place \"extreme vetting\" procedures to screen people coming to the U.S. from countries with terrorism ties. \n The State Department said the three-month ban in the directive applied to Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen \u2014 all Muslim-majority nations. \n The Council on American-Islamic Relations said it would challenge the constitutionality of the executive order. \n \"There is no evidence that refugees \u2014 the most thoroughly vetted of all people entering our nation \u2014 are a threat to national security,\" Lena F. Masri, the group's national litigation director. \"This is an order that is based on bigotry, not reality.\" \n During the past budget year, the U.S. accepted 84,995 refugees, including 12,587 people from Syria. President Barack Obama had set the refugee limit for this budget year at 110,000. \n According to Trump's executive order, he plans to cut that to 50,000. Refugee processing was suspended in the immediate aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and restarted months later. \n The president was applauded by House Speaker Paul Ryan, who said it was \"time to re-evaluate and strengthen the visa-vetting process.\" \n But many Democrats cast the measures as un-American. \n \"Tears are running down the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty tonight as a grand tradition of America, welcoming immigrants, that has existed since America was founded has been stomped upon,\" said Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Growing fallout from Trump's new immigration crackdown"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Donald Trump speak in the East Room of the White House in Washington. A day ahead of Trump's weekend call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the fight within the Republican Party over the direction of U.S. policy toward Moscow intensified. \n WASHINGTON >> Will President Donald Trump usher in a new era for U.S.-Russian relations, or are the two powers going to continue down the path as geopolitical foes? \n Now that Russian President Vladimir Putin has held his first conversation with America's newly inaugurated leader, attention turns to the fate of U.S. sanctions against Moscow and whether the two will look to enhance military cooperation against the Islamic State group. \n Trump was noncommittal about whether he was considering lifting the economic sanctions ahead of the call, telling reporters Friday, \"We'll see what happens. As far as the sanctions, very early to be talking about that.\" \n While the White House has yet to comment on Saturday's phone call, the Kremlin released a statement hinting that the two men discussed the sanctions, implemented by the Obama administration as a consequence of Russia's actions in Ukraine. \n The two leaders emphasized the importance of \"restoring mutually beneficial trade and economic ties between business circles of the two countries, which could additionally stimulate the incremental and sustainable development of the bilateral relationship,\" the Kremlin said. \n Putin and Trump will also maintain \"regular personal contact\" and will begin preparations for a face-to-face meeting. \n The Kremlin has applauded Trump's promises to rebuild U.S.-Russian relations, which have been pushed to their worst level since the Cold War by the Ukraine crisis, war in Syria and allegations of Russian meddling in U.S. elections. \n The Kremlin said that Putin and Trump spoke in particular about international issues, including the fight against terrorism, the Arab-Israeli conflict, Iran's nuclear program, the situation on the Korean peninsula and the Ukraine crisis. \n \"The presidents spoke out in favor of the establishment of real coordination of Russian and American actions with the aim of destroying the Islamic State,\" according to the statement. \n In 2014, Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea region and backed separatists fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, drawing widespread condemnation in Europe and the United States. \n In response, sanctions were implemented against sectors of Russia's economy, including financial services, energy, mining and defense. The Obama administration also sanctioned people in Putin's inner circle. \n Shortly before leaving office, President Barack Obama also ordered sanctions on Russian spy agencies, closed two Russian compounds in the United States and expelled 35 diplomats that he said were really spies. These sanctions followed an assessment by U.S. intelligence that Moscow meddled in the 2016 election to help Trump become president. \n Trump's tempered approach to U.S.-Russia relations has already raised concern among several European allies who believe keeping Russia in check is essential to regional security. \n British Prime Minister Theresa May, whose country \u2014 as part of the European Union \u2014 also has punished Russia for its provocations in Ukraine, voiced the view of many in Europe, telling reporters in Washington on Friday: \"We believe the sanctions should continue.\" \n Vice President Mike Pence and other senior advisers joined Trump for the call with Putin, including his national security adviser, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, chief of staff Reince Priebus and senior strategist Steve Bannon. Trump also spoke on Saturday with the leaders of Japan, Germany, France and Australia. \n Two Republican senators \u2014 Arizona's John McCain, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and Ohio's Rob Portman, a member of the Foreign Relations Committee \u2014warned the White House about easing any punishments on Moscow and they pledged to turn the sanctions into law. \n \"I hope President Trump will put an end to this speculation and reject such a reckless course,\" McCain said in a statement. \"If he does not, I will work with my colleagues to codify sanctions against Russia into law.\" \n Portman said lifting the sanctions \"for any reason other than a change in the behavior that led to those sanctions in the first place would send a dangerous message to a world already questioning the value of American leadership and the credibility of our commitments after eight years of Obama administration policies.\" \n McCain has emerged as a frequent critic of Trump among Capitol Hill Republicans. He takes a dim view of trying to reset relations with Moscow and says Trump should remember that Putin is \"a murderer and a thug who seeks to undermine American national security interests at every turn.\" \n \"For our commander in chief to think otherwise would be naive and dangerous,\" McCain said. \n McCain and Portman are part of a bipartisan group of senators who have introduced legislation designed to go beyond the punishments against Russia already levied by Obama and to demonstrate to Trump that forcefully responding to Moscow's meddling isn't a partisan issue. \n The bill would impose mandatory visa bans and freeze the financial assets of anyone who carries out cyberattacks against public or private computer systems and democratic institutions. \n The legislation also mandates sanctions in Russia's all-important energy sector and on investments in the development of civil nuclear projects to rebuke Moscow for its provocations in eastern Ukraine and military support for Syrian President Bashar Assad. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump, Putin discuss 'mutually beneficial' trade, security"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A fake news story is positioned near ads from major global corporations on The Red Elephants website. It may not be intentional, but major corporations are helping prop up sites that publish false news stories. Experts say it's not so easy for brands to make sure they don't end up on websites that publish false stories. \n NEW YORK >> Wittingly or not, major global corporations are helping fund sites that traffic in fake news by advertising on them. \n Take, for instance, a story that falsely claimed former President Barack Obama had banned Christmas cards to overseas military personnel. Despite debunking by The Associated Press and other fact-checking outlets, that article lives on at \"Fox News The FB Page,\" which has no connection to the news channel although its bears a replica of its logo. \n And until recently, the story was often flanked by ads from big brands such as the insurer Geico, the business-news outlet Financial Times, and the beauty-products maker Revlon. \n This situation isn't remotely an isolated case, although major companies generally say they have no intention of bankrolling purveyors of fake news with their ad dollars. Because many of their ads are placed on websites by computer algorithms, it's not always easy for these companies to steer them away from sites they find objectionable. \n Google, the biggest player in the digital ad market, places many of these ads. The company says it bars ads on its network from appearing against \"misrepresentative content\" \u2014 its term for fake news \u2014 yet Google spokeswoman Andrea Faville acknowledged that the company had sold ads on the site with the Christmas-card story. Those ads vanished after The Associated Press inquired about them. Faville declined to comment on their disappearance. \n ADS THAT GO WHERE THEY WILL \n Media advertising was much simpler when companies had only to buy ad space in newspapers or magazines to reach readers in a particular demographic category. Digital ads, by contrast, can wind up in unexpected places because they're placed by automated systems, not sales teams, and targeted at individuals rather than entire demographics. \n In effect, these ads follow potential customers around the web, where a tangle of networks and exchanges place them into ad slots at online publications. These middlemen have varying standards and levels of interest in helping advertisers ensure that their ads avoid controversy. \n \"A brand wouldn't have a real foolproof way of not getting on sites that have issues like this,\" said Joseph Galarneau, CEO of the New York City startup Mezzobit, which helps publishers and marketers manage advertising technology. \n AUTOMATIC FAKE-NEWS FUNDING \n Such automated ads are a major income source for fake news stories, which may have influenced voters in the U.S. presidential election. False stories can undermine trust in real news \u2014 and they can be dangerous. A widely shared but untrue story that pegged a Washington, D.C., pizzeria as part of a Hillary Clinton-run child sex trafficking ring led a man to fire a gun in the restaurant. \n This largely invisible web of automated exchanges and ad networks funds millions of online sites, from niche, small-traffic blogs to professional news and entertainment sites with audiences in the tens of millions. By tracking web users to smaller sites, advertisers can reach them more cheaply than by limiting themselves to \"premium\" websites like the Washington Post, CBS or ESPN. \n The megaphone of social media can give marginal sites a big lift. When a fake-news story spreads on Facebook, lots of people end up on the article's original site \u2014 and ads follow. The result: Big companies help fund some low-rent websites trafficking in conspiracy theories and other unverified claims, at the measly rate of a fraction of a cent per person per ad. \n WHERE \"FAKE\" FALLS THROUGH THE CRACKS \n While advertising technology vendors have safeguards in place to help mainstream advertisers avoid porn or hate speech, those don't always work for spoof news sites, said Marc Goldberg, CEO of Trust Metrics. Advertisers pay him to keep them off unwanted sites. \n That's partly because \"fake news\" can be hard to define. And while advertisers can come up with \"blacklists\" of sites to avoid, there's no guarantee that ad-tech vendors farther down in the food chain will honor it, said Susan Bidel, an advertising analyst for research firm Forrester. \n Many publishers and advertisers use Google's ad technology without having Google sell their ads. In those cases, Google's misrepresentative-content policy doesn't apply. \n BRANDS IN A BIND \n When the AP pointed out that a Chrysler Ram truck ad popped up on a story saying that the United Nations was making the U.S. pay reparations to African-Americans \u2014 it's not \u2014 Fiat Chrysler said it works with ad companies to scour individual sites and block them from loading its ads if it finds them \"harmful.\" \n An ad for would-be Amazon rival Jet.com, owned by Walmart, showed up on a misleading story claiming California had legalized child prostitution . The company said in an emailed statement that it has filters that stop its ads from loading \"on these kinds of sites,\" but wouldn't provide more detail or explain its criteria. \n Walgreens ads also popped up next to the child prostitution story on the site The Red Elephants, but the drugstore chain has since prevented its ads from appearing there, a company spokesman said. \n A person who responded to an email sent to The Red Elephants declined to discuss the site's advertising, but insisted that the child-prostitution story was true. The person declined to provide their name. \n A Financial Times spokeswoman said in an emailed statement that the media company was \"frustrated\" to learn that its ads appeared next to fake news like the Christmas-card story, saying the situation underscored the \"very real risk\" of using automated ads. \"We think the ad technology ecosystem could, and should, do more to improve brand safety,\" she said. \n Revlon declined to comment. A Geico spokeswoman said the company didn't know about its ad that ran on the spoof Fox News site. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Intentionally or not, big brands help fund fake news"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French foreign minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, right, greets his newly appointed German counterpart, Sigmar Gabriel, before talks at the French Foreign Ministry in Paris, France. \n PARIS >> France and Germany formed a united front Saturday in the face of President Donald Trump's halt in the U.S. refugee program, with the German foreign minister noting that loving thy neighbor forms part of America's Christian traditions. \n After meeting Saturday, the foreign ministers of both nations, Jean-Marc Ayrault and Germany's Sigmar Gabriel, said they want to meet with Rex Tillerson, Trump's nominee for secretary of state who is still awaiting confirmation. \n Ayrault said Trump's order on Friday that bars all refugees from entering the United States for four months \u2014 and those from war-ravaged Syria indefinitely \u2014 \"can only worry us.\" \n \"We have signed international obligations, so welcoming refugees fleeing war and oppression forms part of our duties,\" the French minister said. \n \"There are many other issues that worry us,\" he added. \"That is why Sigmar and I also discussed what we are going to do. When our colleague, Tillerson, is officially appointed, we will both contact him.\" \n Gabriel \u2014 on his first trip abroad since his appointment Friday \u2014 said offering refuge to the persecuted and those fleeing death are western values that Europe and the United States share. \n \"Love thy neighbor is part of this tradition, the act of helping others,\" he said. \"This unites us, we Westerners. And I think that this remains a common foundation that we share with the United States, one we aim to promote.\" \n Trump declared the ban necessary to prevent \"radical Islamic terrorists\" from entering the United States. \n The order immediately suspended a program that last year resettled to the U.S. roughly 85,000 people displaced by war, political oppression, hunger and religious prejudice. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "France, Germany unite in face of Trump refugee ban"}

{"date": "January 28, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED RPESS \n Ammar Sawan, 40, a Syrian refugee from Moadamiyeh, outside Damascus, speaks during an interview in his family's home in Amman, Jordan on Sat. Jan. 28, 2017. Sawan and his family took their first step toward resettlement in the United States three months ago, submitting to an initial round of security screenings. His dreams of a better life were crushed when President Donald Trump issued an indefinite ban on displaced Syrians entering the United States. \n AMMAN, Jordan >> Syrian refugee Ammar Sawan took a first hopeful step toward moving to the United States last fall, submitting to an initial security screening. \n His dream of a better life was abruptly crushed when President Donald Trump banned Syrian refugees from the U.S. until further notice. \n Sawan learned of the entry ban while watching late night TV news with his wife in their small apartment in the Jordanian capital of Amman. \n \"When we heard of the order, it was like a bolt of lightning, and all our hopes and dreams vanished,\" the 40-year-old said Saturday, a day after Trump's executive order. \n He and other Syrian refugees bristled at the idea that they pose a potential security threat, saying they are peaceful people fleeing persecution. \n Some warned that the new U.S. policy will be seen as targeting Muslims and further inflame anti-American sentiment in the region. \n \"This decision made the U.S. loose its reputation in the world as the biggest economy, the biggest democracy,\" said refugee Nasser Sheik, 44, who was paralyzed by a stroke two years ago and lives with his family in Amman. \n \"We are not going out to harm people of other countries,\" added his wife Madaya, 37. \n Trump on Friday suspended all refugee admissions to the U.S. for four months and banned the entry of Syrian refugees indefinitely pending a security review meant to ensure terrorists cannot slip through vetting. Trump also issued a 90-day ban on all entry to the U.S. from seven Muslim-majority countries with terrorism concerns, including Syria. \n At the time of Trump's decision, more than 27,000 Syrian refugees from 11 Middle Eastern host countries were being considered for resettlement to the U.S. and were in various stages of the approval process, according to the International Organization for Migration. \n During the last budget year, the U.S. accepted 84,995 refugees, including 12,587 from Syria. \n Close to 5 million Syrians have fled their country since an uprising against President Bashar Assad erupted in 2011 and escalated into civil war. \n Most refugees have settled in neighboring countries, including Jordan and Lebanon where their struggle for survival gets tougher every day. \n Savings have run out, jobs are poorly paid and refugee children learn in crowded classrooms. Many refugees prefer to return home, but that's not an option as long as the war continues. Eager to escape tough conditions in the host countries, resettlement to the West now seems the best alternative. \n Ammar Sawan fled the Damascus suburb of Moadamiyeh in 2012, after he was roughed up by pro-Assad militiamen and feared eventual arrest. \n His wife Sanaa, 35, and three sons followed him a year later, fleeing government shelling. The couple had a fourth child, a girl, in Jordan, last year. \n The family struggles to cover rent, utilities and school transportation for the three oldest, especially during the winter when Sawan's income from his part-time work as an upholsterer drops. \n Sawan worries about his children, including bullying in school. His oldest, 15-year-old Khaled, said Jordanian students sometimes pick fights with Syrians school mates. \n Sawan said he underwent the first round of security vetting for possible resettlement to the U.S. in October. \n With a new life in America suddenly in reach, he began to dream of a decent education for his children and a stable income for the family. \n \"My dream, even before the war in Syria, was to live in America,\" he said, as the family huddled around a gas heater in the living room. \n Now he is disappointed in America. \"We are not terrorists and we don't support terrorism,\" he said. \n Refugee aid groups said Trump's ban is hurting innocent people. \n \"It will not make America safer,\" Jan Egeland, head of the Norwegian Refugee Council, said by phone from Oslo. \"It will make America smaller and meaner.\" \n He said the new U.S. policy deals a blow to international responsibility for those fleeing persecution, an idea forged in the aftermath of the Holocaust when Jews and others seeking safe haven were often let down. \n Others said U.S. security checks of refugees are already robust, involving biometric screening and up to three years of vetting. \n The suspension of the refugee admissions allows for exceptions, including for members of minority faiths claiming persecution, such as Christians in Muslim-majority countries. \n Feras Zahka, 35, a Syrian Christian who fled to Turkey, is in the final stages of vetting to immigrate to the U.S., but now fears he won't be able to go. \n \"I was going through security screenings before the (US) elections took place,\" he said by phone from Istanbul, where he works as a hotel receptionist. \"I am scared my file will be scrapped.\" \n Bashir al-Saadi, 67, a Christian in the town of Qamishli in northern Syria, said giving preferential treatment to Christians could raise tensions with their Muslim neighbors. \n \"Giving visas to Christians (only) will give the impression that the U.S. is a Christian state and is standing against Islam,\" said al-Saadi who has family in the U.S. \"This will trigger resentment, might foment religious conflict and reflect badly on us.\" \n Mohammed Hassan al-Homsi, who fled his hometown of Palmyra in Syria, said Trump's decision will serve as propaganda fodder for Islamic State, the extremist group that controls parts of Syria and Iraq. \n The entry ban will encourage Islamic State supporters, al-Homsi wrote in text messages from Syria's rebel-held province of Idlib where he found refuge. \n \"This decision proves the militant group's theory that the West, led by the United States, is an enemy of Muslims,\" he wrote. \"It's an unfortunate decision.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Syria refugees see dream of better life crushed by Trump ban"}

