{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "STAR-ADVERTISER / 2010 \n An emergency siren. \n For the second night in a row, a malfunctioning emergency siren system has sounded in the Camp Smith area at Halawa, prompting residents to complain to the Honolulu Department of Emergency Management. \n Department spokesman John Cummings said he received a call a little after 8:35 p.m. Tuesday about the sirens. \n Cummings said he was told a contractor was on the way to shut off the siren system. \n The siren system is at the Marine Corps Base at Camp Smith, where a malfunctioning siren system sounded at about midnight Monday. \n Cummings said the sirens at 120 decibels can be heard three to five miles. \n He said he didn't know what was causing the problem. \n A Department of Emergency Management alert tonight said there was a \"runaway siren\" in the Camp Smith area and no emergency. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Malfunctioning siren sounds again in Camp Smith"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY PHOTO \n Rep. Scott Saiki, House majority leader. \n  Hawaii lawmakers are pushing for energy independence, easing the high cost of living and improving working conditions in the state's commercial fishing fleet as they begin the 2017 legislative session. \n They're also facing tough battles over money. \n The state ended last year with money in the bank, but the budget proposed by Gov. David Ige relies on deficit spending as revenue is projected to come in lower than expected. The budget is already stretched tight by growing unfunded liabilities for public pensions and retiree health care costs, and lawmakers are concerned about the ballooning cost of building Honolulu's rail transit project. \n \"The state finances will be a big project for us, especially if you consider the tax revenue forecast and the big ticket items, such as the unfunded liability, infrastructure costs and the rail project,\" said Rep. Scott Saiki, House majority leader. \n The rail line, which is supposed to go from Oahu's west side into parts of Honolulu, has cost estimates ranging up to $11 billion. \n In the fishing industry, lawmakers are exploring what the state can do to help after an Associated Press investigation that found fishermen on commercial boats in Honolulu have been confined to vessels for years without basic labor protections. \n \"If there's anything we can do to stop human trafficking or unfair labor in the state, we have to do it,\" said state Rep. Kaniela Ing, chairman of the Ocean, Marine Resources and Hawaiian Affairs Committee. \"We're under a moral obligation to create a system that wouldn't allow this to happen.\" \n Ing is floating a bill to require fishing boat operators to use licensed commercial agencies to hire workers. \n The strategy would allow the state to gain access to employment contracts between the agencies and fishermen, which would permit periodic audits to make sure the boats are in compliance with those contracts, he said. \n State leaders will continue to look for solutions to the homelessness crisis and affordable housing shortage. Sen. Josh Green plans to introduce a bill to classify homelessness as a medical condition, hoping Medicaid funds could then be used to pay rent. \n \"The moment you do that, it opens up all kinds of possibilities,\" Green said. \n Ing is proposing a series of bills aimed at redistributing income from Hawaii's wealthiest residents to those most in need. A pair of his bills would cap CEO wages at 20 times the average salary of employees and create a surcharge for companies in which 50 percent or more of the employees get social assistance payments. \n \"It's my belief that if you rely on the government to pay your employees, you're anything but a success,\" Ing said. \n Ing wants Hawaii to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour in 2019 and $22 an hour by 2022. Minimum wage in Hawaii is now $9.25 an hour and set to increase to $10.10 next year. \n House Majority Leader Scott Saiki said that proposal is likely to face a battle because the latest changes to the minimum wage aren't fully implemented, so \"it may be premature to consider raising it again.\" \n Hawaii is a leader in renewable energy with its goal of getting 100 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2045. Advocates are pushing proposals to accelerate the transition. \n One way is by increasing the use of storage, so the Blue Planet Foundation and others will propose tax credits or incentives for installing batteries to speed adoption of the technology that is falling in price. \n \"The faster we can roll that out, the faster we can reduce cost for consumers and avoid the need to build additional power plants and other grid upgrades,\" said Rep. Chris Lee, chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Environmental Protection. \n Renewable energy advocates also will be pushing for a transition to clean fuel in the ground transportation sector. \n Sen. Lorraine Inouye plans to introduce a bill to reduce state tax credits for installing solar panels, and she's planning a bill to enhance state control over geothermal development. \n In health, there will be a bipartisan effort to introduce legislation to curtail opioid abuse along with a push for legislation to give patients access to aid in dying, led by former lobbyist John Radcliffe, who has cancer. \n The group wants terminally ill adults to be able to request a doctor's prescription for medication they can take to die peacefully. Several states already have such legislation. \n \"I'm not sure at this point what the support level is for it in the House, as well as in the general public,\" Saiki said. \"That's the kind of a bill that really needs to go to a public hearing.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hawaii lawmakers to eye energy, living cost, fishing labor"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n Police closed Waianae Valley Road near Mill Street tonight after a crash. \n Waianae Valley Road near Mill Street was briefly closed in both directions tonight following a two-car accident. \n The crash apparently led to a physical argument between two drivers, according to a preliminary report from police. \n The road was closed a little after 8 p.m., and police were planning to divert traffic. The road was reopened shortly afterwards. No injuries were reported. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Crash, argument closes Waianae road"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n An autonomous vehicle was driven by an engineer on a street through an industrial park last week in Boston. \n BOSTON >> Imagine you're behind the wheel when your brakes fail. As you speed toward a crowded crosswalk, you're confronted with an impossible choice: veer right and mow down a large group of elderly people, or veer left into a woman pushing a stroller. \n Now imagine you're riding in the back of a self-driving car. How would it decide? \n Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are asking people worldwide how they think a robot car should handle such life-or-death decisions. Their goal is not just for better algorithms and ethical tenets to guide autonomous vehicles, but to understand what it will take for society to accept the vehicles and use them. \n Their findings present a dilemma for car makers and governments eager to introduce self-driving vehicles on the promise that they'll be safer than human-controlled cars. People prefer a self-driving car to act in the greater good, sacrificing its passenger if it can save a crowd of pedestrians. They just don't want to get into that car. \n \"There is a real risk that if we don't understand those psychological barriers and address them through regulation and public outreach, we may undermine the entire enterprise,\" said Iyad Rahwan, an associate professor at the MIT Media Lab. \"People will say they're not comfortable with this. lt would stifle what I think will be a very good thing for humanity.\" \n After publishing research last year surveying U.S. residents, Rahwan and colleagues at the University of Toulouse in France and the University of California, Irvine, are now expanding their surveys and looking at how responses vary in different countries. \n They are also using a website created by MIT researchers called the Moral Machine , which allows people to play the role of judging who lives or dies. A jaywalking person or several dogs riding in the driverless car? A pregnant woman or a homeless man? \n Preliminary, unpublished research based on millions of responses from more than 160 countries shows broad differences between East and West. More prominent in the United States and Europe are judgments that reflect the utilitarian principle of minimizing total harm over all else, Rahwan said. \n The thought experiment is familiar to ethicists, who have grappled with such dilemmas since British philosopher Philippa Foot in the 1960s presented a similar question about a runaway trolley . But it's too unrealistic for some focused on how the vehicles act in ordinary situations. \n Just 5 miles from MIT's Media Lab in Cambridge, the first self-driving car to roll out on Massachusetts public roads began testing this month in Boston's Seaport District. \n \"We approach the problem from a bit more of a practical, engineering perspective,\" said NuTonomy CEO Karl Iagnemma, whose Cambridge-based company has also piloted self-driving taxis in Singapore. \n Iagnemma said the study's moral dilemmas are \"vanishingly rare.\" Designing a safe vehicle, not a \"sophisticated ethical creature,\" is the focus of his engineering team as they tweak the software that guides their electric Renault Zoe past Boston snowbanks. \n \"When a driverless car looks out on the world, it's not able to distinguish the age of a pedestrian or the number of occupants in a car,\" Iagnemma said. \"Even if we wanted to imbue an autonomous vehicle with an ethical engine, we don't have the technical capability today to do so.\" \n Focusing too much on the stark \"trolley problem\" risks marginalizing the study of how best to address self-driving ethics, said Noah Goodall, a scientist at the Virginia Transportation Research Council. Engineers already program cars to make moral choices, such as when they slow down and leave space after detecting a bicyclist. \n \"All these cars do risk management. It just doesn't look like a trolley problem,\" Goodall said. \n Rahwan agrees with self-driving enthusiasts that freeing vehicles from human error could save many lives. But he worries that progress could be stalled without a new social compact that addresses moral trade-offs. \n Current traffic laws and human behavioral norms have created \"trust that this entire system functions in a way that works in our interests, which is why we're willing to fit into large pieces of metal moving at high speeds,\" Rahwan said. \n \"The problem with the new system it has a very distinctive feature: algorithms are making decisions that have very important consequences on human life,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "For driverless cars, a moral dilemma: Who lives or dies?"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This image, provided by Karin van der Wiel/ NOAA/ Princeton University, shows climate change effects on patterns of mild weather. A new study said global warming is going to steal some of exceedingly pleasant weather days from our future. On average, Earth will have four fewer days of mild and mostly dry weather by 2035 and ten fewer of them by the end of the century, according to a first-of-its-kind projection of nice weather. \n WASHINGTON >> Global warming is going to steal away some of those postcard-perfect weather days in the future, according to a first-of-its-kind projection of nice weather. \n On average, Earth will have 10 fewer days of mild and mostly dry weather by the end of the century, the researchers estimate. Some places will get more days perfect for picnics or outdoor weddings, while other places will lose a lot. Rio de Janeiro, Miami and much of Africa are big losers, while Europe and Seattle will gain nicer weather. \n \"It's the type of weather where you can go outside and do something fun,\" said study lead author Karin van der Wiel, a meteorology researcher at Princeton University and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . \"It's not too cold. It's not too hot. It's not too humid.\" \n For the past three decades, the world has averaged 74 mild days a year. But by 2035 that will shrink to 70 and then 64 by the last two decades of the century, according to the study, published Wednesday in the journal Climatic Change . Mild weather was defined as between 68 and 86 degrees (18 and 30 degrees Celsius) with low humidity and no more than a trace of rain. \n Any change depends on where you live and the time of year. For example, on average, the U.S. will lose nine mild summer days by the end of the century, although most is gained back with more mild days in the winter, spring and fall. The report estimates that Washington, Chicago, New York and Dallas will lose two weeks of pleasant summer weather but some is gained back. On average, Washington loses 13 mild days; Atlanta, 12; Chicago, 9; Denver and New York, 6; and Dallas, 1. \n The biggest losers will be the tropics and nearly all of Africa, eastern South America, South Asia and northern Australia. Rio de Janeiro, on average, will see 40 mild days disappear. Miami will lose its only mild summer day and nearly a month of spring and fall mild days by 2100. \n \"The changes are more dramatic in parts of the developing world, where you have high concentrations of populations,\" said NOAA climate scientist and co-author Sarah Kapnick. \n Other places, especially northern developed ones, will gain some of what the tropics lost. England and northern Europe are big winners. Seattle should pick up nine mild days and Los Angeles, which already has a lot of nice weather, gets six extra by the end of the century. \n The scientists didn't specifically focus on whether the loss of mild days has already started globally, but they did see it happening in much of Africa and South America, Van der Wiel said. \n Climate scientists usually focus on extreme weather \u2014 record heat, tropical cyclones, droughts, floods \u2014 and how they could get worse as the world warms. Kapnick said she wanted to look at nice weather because her friends kept asking her what day to choose for good wedding weather. \n The team used a middle ground scenario for global warming \u2014 not worst-case runaway carbon pollution and not dramatic cuts in emissions of heat-trapping gases \u2014 and ran different computer simulations to see what would happen. \n It's not just fewer nice days to enjoy. Fewer mild days will also harm agricultural production and allow disease carrying insects to thrive more in more places, said University of Georgia meteorology professor Marshall Shepherd. \n Stanford University climate scientist Chris Field, who led an international study of extreme weather, questioned the purpose of the study: \"Extreme conditions are the sharp end of the climate stick. It is in the extremes when things break and damage occurs.\" \n National Center for Atmospheric Research scientist Gerald Meehl, who also studies extreme weather, said a decrease in mild weather may not quite have the economic and health costs but there are other factors such as tourism \"or simple human enjoyment.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Global warming could steal postcard-perfect weather days"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Soldiers walked inside Plaza Las Americas mall following reports of gunfire in Cancun, Mexico, today. \n CANCUN, Mexico >> Two consecutive days of shooting attacks that left a total of nine dead have put two of the jewels of Mexico's Caribbean coast on edge and spurred a warning to tourists by the U.S. government. \n As investigators worked Tuesday at the scene of a shooting the previous day that caused five deaths in the nearby beach town of Playa del Carmen, the region was stunned when gunmen assaulted the Quintana Roo state prosecutors' offices in Cancun, and four people were killed. \n Authorities attributed both incidents to organized crime, but made no comment on whether they might be linked. \n On Tuesday night, two women embraced and cried while looking at a pool of blood and a flickering candle just inside the gate of the state prosecutors' office. A police officer and three apparent attackers were killed as police repelled the afternoon attack and five suspects were detained, Quintana Roo state Gov. Carlos Joaquin said. \n The governor pleaded for calm, saying the federal government was sending more security forces to help local and state authorities. \"Cancun residents and our visitors can go about their lives,\" he said in a televised address. \"I repeat: The three levels of government protect society.\" \n But central Cancun, which is away from the hotel zone where most foreigners stay, was palpably tense. \n Shortly after the gunbattle at the prosecutors' office, a convoy of police trucks streaked toward the gleaming Plaza de las Americas mall where hundreds of fearful shoppers flooded out the exits after people reported hearing gunfire. Soldiers in full battle gear cleared the property. \n Later, an official with the prosecutor's office said the mall scare proved to be a false alarm. Although some shoppers reported hearing gunshots, investigators found no sign of any crime there, said the official, who agreed to discuss the incident only if not quoted by name because he was not authorized to speak with press. \n The U.S. Consulate in Merida issued an alert about the incidents in Cancun and urged U.S. citizens to take care and \"to follow local authorities' warnings and directives and consult with their hotels before leaving the premises.\" \n Authorities released few details about the attack on the prosecutors' office, including the number of attackers or information on those detained. \n David Franco waited anxiously with his family outside the office Tuesday night, saying they feared his brother-in-law had been wrongly detained after the shooting. He said the man had phoned his own wife saying he was caught in the middle of a shootout and his car had been hit twice by bullets. The last thing his wife heard was: \"They're taking us, they're taking us.\" But she didn't know who or where. \n Franco said the family frantically searched all over Cancun looking for his brother-in-law before learning he was inside the prosecutors' office being questioned. Franco said his brother-in-law was just on his way to work. His car was still double parked about 30 yards down the street. \n The Cancun shooting came one day after five people, including three foreigners, died during a shooting at a beachside club during the BPM electronic music festival in Playa del Carmen. \n On Tuesday, the hypothesis of drug links to that shooting was strengthened after a banner briefly appeared along a roadside, signed by the \"Old School Zetas,\" part of the fragmented Zetas cartel, suggesting the attack was carried out as part of a battle against rival gangs. \n Quintana Roo's attorney general, Miguel Angel Pech, said investigators were looking into whether the banner referred to the BPM festival or one of its organizers. \n Pech said authorities were investigating whether extortion, street-level drug sales or a murder plot was the motive behind the shooting, which also resulted in 15 people being wounded or injured. \n Standing in front of a memorial of flowers and candles at the Blue Parrot club Tuesday, Ruben Aguinaga of Mexico City tried to make sense of the shooting that had shattered an otherwise fun and happy music festival that he had attended for the third time. Asked if he would come back, Aguinaga said he would have to see. \n \"That this kind of thing happens pains me,\" he said. \"It makes me sad, it makes me feel powerless, it makes me mad.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Back-to-back shootings shake Mexico's tourism jewels"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This June 20, 2016, photo released by the City of Orlando shows bullet holes and openings where police officers breached a wall of the Pulse nightclub to free hostages trapped on June 12, 2016. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This June 20, 2016, photo released by the City of Orlando shows bullet holes and openings where police officers breached a wall of the Pulse nightclub to free hostages trapped on June 12, 2016. \n ORLANDO, Fla. >> New photos released by the city of Orlando show where officers breached one of Pulse nightclub's walls to free people trapped inside during the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history. \n The photos released today show large punctures to an exterior cinderblock wall of the nightclub. On the other side is a bathroom where patrons were trapped for more than three hours. \n Forty-nine people were killed and dozens were injured after gunman Omar Mateen entered the gay nightclub and opened fire last June. \n Mateen's wife, Noor Salman, appeared today in federal court in Oakland, California, on charges of aiding and abetting her husband, who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group during the standoff. \n Mateen was killed in a shootout with officers after the bathroom wall was breached. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Orlando releases new photos of Pulse after attack"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY HAWAII POLICE DEPARTMENT \n Derek Conway \n A Waikoloa man has been charged in connection with the seizure of more than 86 grams of suspected crystal methamphetamine, a .40-caliber pistol, and $116,000 in cash. \n Derek Conway, 40, was arrested Thursday in a vehicle at a public park in Waikoloa, after Hawaii Island police found 57.7 grams of suspected crystal methamphetamine and a loaded .40-caliber pistol, police said. \n He was charged with several felonies, including first-degree promotion of a dangerous drug and firearms offenses. \n His bail was set at $198,000. \n Police said in a search of Conway's home Saturday, police officers found 28.8 grams of suspected crystal methamphetamine and 165 prescription pills as well as smaller amounts of suspected heroin, marijuana, Suboxone, and cocaine and $116,000 in cash. \n His total bail rose to $243,000 for the additional offenses. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Waikoloa man charged with multiple drug and firearm offenses"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Lee Jae-yong, center, a vice chairman of Samsung Electronics Co. is questioned by reporters upon his arrival at the Seoul Central District Court in Seoul, South Korea, for a hearing Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2017. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> A South Korean court has begun reviewing the arrest of a Samsung Electronics vice chairman who faces allegations of bribery, embezzlement and perjury. \n Lee Jae-yong, the only son of the Samsung chairman, has arrived Wednesday for the hearing at the Seoul Central District Court but said nothing to the huge media gathering awaiting him outside the court. \n If the court approves the arrest, prosecutors will be able to detain Lee for a period of time set by the court before they formally bring charges against him. It would mark a stunning fall for a member of the business elite leading South Korea's most successful company. \n A special prosecution team investigating the influence-peddling scandal that led to the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye requested Lee's arrest, accusing the Samsung heir of bribing Park and her friend who faces a trial for secretly meddling in state affairs. \n The 48-year-old faces allegations of giving bribes worth 43 billion won ($36 million) to Choi Soon-sil, the president's confidante, and the president to win the government's backing for a 2015 Samsung merger that was crucial as Samsung prepared the leadership succession from Lee's ailing father to Lee. The younger Lee has been serving as its de facto head since his father suffered a heart attack in 2014. \n Lee also faces allegations of embezzlement and of lying under oath during a parliamentary hearing last month. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Seoul court begins reviewing arrest of Samsung heir"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange speaks on the balcony of the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. President Barack Obama's decision to commute Chelsea Manning's sentence quickly brought fresh attention to another figure involved in the Army leaker's case: Julian Assange. \n WASHINGTON >> President Barack Obama's decision Tuesday to commute Chelsea Manning's sentence brought fresh attention to another figure involved in the Army leaker's case: Julian Assange. \n On Twitter last week, Assange's anti-secrecy site WikiLeaks posted, \"If Obama grants Manning clemency Assange will agree to US extradition despite clear unconstitutionality of DoJ case.\" \n The tweet garnered little attention at the time, but quickly resurfaced on Twitter after Obama announced he would commute Manning's 35-year prison sentence. Manning leaked scores of classified documents to WikiLeaks in 2010. Obama's move will release her in May, nearly three decades early. \n But what will it mean, if anything, for Assange? \n Assange has been holed up for more than four years at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London. He has refused to meet prosecutors in Sweden, where he remains wanted on an allegation of rape, fearing he would be extradited to the U.S. to face espionage charges if he leaves the embassy. \n But the Justice Department has never announced any indictment of Assange, and it's not clear that any charges have been brought under seal. It wasn't immediately clear what case WikiLeaks and Assange were referring to in the tweet. \n The Justice Department, in refusing to turn over investigative documents sought by Manning under the Freedom of Information Act, has acknowledged in court records that the FBI is continuing to investigate the publication of national security information on WikiLeaks arising from Manning's disclosures. \n Separately, the FBI is also investigating Russian meddling through hacking in the U.S. presidential election. Hacked emails from top Democratic officials and Hillary Clinton campaign officials were posted on WikiLeaks in the final weeks of the presidential race. \n In a statement Tuesday, a lawyer for Assange said Assange welcomed the Manning commutation and believed she never should have been prosecuted. The statement did not address whether Assange intended to come to the U.S. \n \"For many months, I have asked the DOJ to clarify Mr. Assange's status. I hope it will soon,\" Assange's lawyer, Barry Pollack, said in the statement. \"The Department of Justice should not pursue any charges against Mr. Assange based on his publication of truthful information and should close its criminal investigation of him immediately.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "With clemency for Manning, attention turns to WikiLeaks head"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "GOOGLE MAPS \n A diver was reported to be missing off Pahoehoe Beach Park. \n The Coast Guard suspended a search for an overdue diver off Hawaii island today after no one had been reported missing or in distress in the area. \n A good Samaritan, who is also an experienced diver, reported the man missing at 2:11 p.m. Monday, the Coast Guard said. \n The good Samaritan saw the man, who appeared to be in his early 20s, about 150 pounds with red hair, swim out to the farthest rocks off Pahoehoe Beach Park in Kona at about 12:40 p.m. \n The diver was wearing blue board shorts and a white rash guard with blue lettering. He also wore fins, a mask, diving gear and a back up regulator. \n The good Samaritan said he noticed the diver because the man was going out alone, did not have a float or safety gear, and had what the good Samaritan estimated as enough air for 80 minutes of diving. \n After two hours, the good Samaritan reported the diver overdue. \n The Coast Guard launched a search with an MH-65 Dolphin helicopter and the cutter Kiska. The Hawaii Fire Department assisted with a helicopter, rescue boat and ground crews. \n The Coast Guard suspended the operation after conducting nine searches covering 175 square miles. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Coast Guard suspends search for overdue diver off Hawaii island"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE \n An illegal ball python was turned in over the weekend under the State's amnesty program. \n State officials recovered an illegal 4 1/2-foot ball python over the weekend, the Department of Agriculture said. \n Someone turned over the non-venomous snake, which weighs about 4 1/2 pounds, to the Hawaiian Humane Society on Friday as part of the state's Amnesty Program, which allows illegal animals to be turned in with no questions asked. \n Agriculture Department officials picked up the reptile Saturday morning and were safeguarding it at the Plant Quarantine branch. \n Snakes are illegal in Hawaii and pose a serious threat to the state's environment because they compete with native animal populations for food and habitat and have no natural predators here, the Agriculture Department said. \n Many species also prey on birds and their eggs, increasing the threat to endangered native birds, and larger snakes can pose a danger to the public and small pets, the department said. \n Ball pythons are related to boas and subdue their prey by coiling around and suffocating it. They can grow up to six-feet long. \n Anyone with information about illegal animals should call the pest hotline at 643-PEST (7378). The maximum penalty under state law for possession of illegal animals is a $200,000 fine and up to three years in prison. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Ball python recovered through Hawaii's amnesty program"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Markeith Loyd has been the focus of a weeklong manhunt since Master Sgt. Debra Clayton was killed in a Wal-Mart parking lot. \n ORLANDO, Fla. >> A suspect in the fatal shooting of an Orlando police officer was captured Tuesday after a weeklong manhunt, authorities said. \n The Orlando Police Department tweeted Tuesday night that 41-year-old Markeith Loyd was in custody, ending a manhunt that began with the Jan. 9 fatal shooting of Lt. Debra Clayton outside a Wal-Mart store. \n Local television stations showed Loyd had a bloodied face when a half-dozen officers and deputies took him into police headquarters. \n Orlando Police Chief John Mina tweeted, \"Captured and wearing Lt. Debra Clayton's handcuffs.\" \n Before Clayton's shooting, authorities had sought Loyd for questioning in the killing of his pregnant ex-girlfriend last month. \n Police arrested a former supervisor at the fried chicken restaurant where Loyd worked, an ex-girlfriend and a niece last Tuesday and Wednesday on charges of helping him in the weeks after Loyd's ex-girlfriend was fatally shot. \n While at the Wal-Mart store, Clayton was tipped off that Loyd was in the area. She approached him in the parking lot and he filed multiple shots at her. She was wearing body armor, but was hit multiple times, Orlando Police Chief John Mina said. \n Investigators found clothing belonging to Loyd that suggested Clayton returned fire after she was shot but that a bulletproof vest protected the suspect. \n A deputy then spotted Loyd fleeing in a vehicle and pursued him into a nearby apartment complex, where the suspect fired again, striking the deputy's SUV twice but missing the deputy, the sheriff's office said. \n Loyd then carjacked another vehicle and fled, abandoning the second vehicle nearby another apartment complex, which was the focus of the manhunt initially, the sheriff's office said. \n A second law enforcement officer, Orange County Sheriff's Deputy First Class Norman Lewis, was killed in a motorcycle crash after joining the massive manhunt. \n Hundreds of officers and deputies had been searching for Loyd, and a $100,000 reward was being offered for information that leads to his arrest. \n The U.S. Marshals Service had added Loyd to its list of most wanted fugitives Tuesday and added $25,000 to the reward offer. \n Clayton, 42, was a \"committed\" officer and \"a hero\" who gave her life to the community she loves, her chief said. She was married and had a college-aged son. She also grew up in the Orlando area, and enjoyed mentoring young people. \n \"She was always the first to step up and help kids,\" the chief said. \n A 17-year veteran of the force, Clayton supervised a patrol division in the neighborhood where she was shot, and previously worked in investigations and as a school resource officer, Deputy Chief Orlando Rolon said. \n \"She made a point, even outside her working hours, to do things for youth and do things for the community,\" Rolon said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Fugitive wanted in officer's fatal shooting captured"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Elaine Yates. Yates, who had been living in Houston under the name Leina Waldberg, was arrested on Monday, Jan. 16, without incident and faces arraignment Wednesday in Rhode Island on a fugitive charge. \n SCITUATE, R.I. >> Two sisters who disappeared from Rhode Island with their mother in 1985 have been located in the Houston area, and their mother was charged with snatching them, police announced Tuesday. \n An anonymous tip two days before Christmas led police to Kimberly and Kelly Yates and their 69-year-old mother, Elaine, said Rhode Island State Police Lt. Col. Joseph Philbin. Elaine Yates, who had been living in Houston under the name Liana Waldberg, was arrested on Monday without incident and faces arraignment Wednesday in Rhode Island. \n Kelly was 10 months old and her sister was 3 years old when they disappeared. Kelly, now 32, and Kimberly, now 35, were not living with their mother but are in the Houston area and are in good health, Philbin said. \n The girls' father, Russell Yates, was told of her arrest immediately after it happened and is relieved, Philbin said. His contact information was given to his daughters, Philbin said. \n \"I've always been trying to find my children. Now at least, it's up to them to get in touch with me,\" Russell Yates told reporters. \n Yates told The Providence Journal in a 1988 magazine story that his wife had discovered he had been unfaithful to her and had threatened to move out in the middle of the night with the children. He also acknowledged punching her while they argued. A few weeks later, on Aug. 27, 1985, he came home after work around 2 a.m. and found them gone. \n The case was featured on \"America's Most Wanted,\" and police received tips from all over the country, including from Colorado and Florida. Investigators reviewed the case and spoke with Russell Yates at least once a year, Philbin said. But it wasn't until they received the anonymous tip that they cracked the case. \n Authorities said they used court databases, Facebook and driver's license photos to identify the mother and daughters. He said they compared their photos with baby photos to help identify them. \n Court records show that Elaine Yates legally changed her name in Texas to Liana Lynn Waldberg seven years ago. The judge's order includes her correct birthdate and maiden and married names. \n It says the Texas Department of Public Safety had examined the petition and found she had no recorded criminal history. At the time, a felony warrant for child snatching issued in 1988 was outstanding in Rhode Island. \n The name change order was filed Aug. 26, 2009, 24 years to the day after she disappeared with her children. \n Neighbors Jesse and Fran Vaughan, who live in the same condominium development as Elaine Yates in affluent West Houston, said Tuesday that Yates seemed like a nice person. \n \"It is a shocker,\" Fran Vaughan said of the charges. \n The Vaughans, who have lived at the complex for 17 years, said Yates was in charge of putting together the newsletter for the homeowner's association, and said they weren't aware that Yates even had daughters. \n \"Come to think of it, I don't know if anyone knew her that well,\" Fran Vaughan said. \n Associated Press reporters knocked on the doors of the addresses listed in records for Yates in West Houston and her daughters in Deer Park and Baytown. No one answered at any of the three residences. \n Philbin would not comment on where the family had been since 1985 and said he did not know when they got to Houston. He said he could not comment on whether the girls knew they had been taken, or whether they knew their father was still alive, citing the ongoing investigation. \n As for the mother, Philbin said she had been successful in getting away with her crime for 31 years. \n He described her as being very cooperative with investigators since police knocked on her door Monday. As of Tuesday, she was en route to Rhode Island, after waiving extradition and being arraigned in Houston, police said. \n Asked if Elaine should be prosecuted, Russell Yates said: \"That isn't going to help me, her or anybody else at this point. I just want to see my kids.\" \n It's the second time in less than a week that police in the U.S. announced they had solved an old child disappearance. On Friday, authorities in Florida charged a woman with kidnapping a newborn from a hospital 18 years ago and raising the child as her own. The 18-year-old, Kamiyah Mobley, met her biological parents Saturday in Walterboro, the South Carolina city where she was raised under a false name. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Police: Kids taken 3 decades ago are found, mom is arrested"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Barack Obama stands with White House press secretary Josh Earnest during his last press briefing. \n WASHINGTON >> They line up near the Oval Office, down the hallway toward the Cabinet Room, with their spouses and young kids in tow. When it's their turn, the White House staffers enter for a few private moments with President Barack Obama, a photo and a farewell hug from the boss. \n There's a mass exodus underway this week at the White House, as Obama and his staff pack up their offices and turn in their BlackBerrys. For some who joined Obama's team right out of college, it's the end of the only professional experience they've ever known. \n The finals days of any president's administration are always bittersweet and heavy on nostalgia, as officials face the transition back to being \"civilians\" who will no longer have their hands on the nation's levers of power. There is added sadness for Obama staffers who, by and large, are horrified by the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump. \n \"You're always aware that it's a special privilege to work there and not something to take for granted,\" said Nate Lowentheil, who worked on Obama's National Economic Council for the last three years. \"It's particularly hard knowing the next wave of people coming are going to be working to reverse the things you were working to advance until your very last hour.\" \n As White House press secretary Josh Earnest emerged in the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room on Tuesday to give his final press briefing \u2014 his 354th as press secretary, Earnest said \u2014 there were tears on the faces of some of his deputies. In the back of the room, current and former Obama staffers gathered to witness his last round of jousting with reporters. \n \"I'm going to miss it,\" Earnest said. \"It will take some getting used to seeing somebody else standing up here doing it.\" \n \"Or not,\" he added, in a nod to the prospect that Trump's team may make changes to the daily briefing. \n In between closing out final projects and typing up reports on the work they've done, White House staffers are packing away their knickknacks, coffeemakers and photos. The boxes stack up in offices already vacated by staffers who have departed over the past few weeks. \n By Thursday night, all must be gone to make way for Trump's team. \n Before they leave the building for the final time, they'll go through a checklist that completes their formal separation from the White House: cell phones handed in, computers locked and papers properly filed to be archived. The last step, aides said, is the hardest: handing in the badge that provides access to the complex day or night. \n Then they depart the building and make what for many is a jarring transition from 18-hour workdays and little personal time to unemployment. Lowentheil said that since his last day less than two weeks ago, he'd read three novels, slept 10-12 hours a night and, for the first time in years, didn't set a morning alarm. \n Emails announcing a staffer's last day stream in at a faster and faster pace as Jan. 20 approaches. They share with colleagues a personal email address and cell phone number, a thank you and maybe a brief reflection on their time at the center of it all. \n \"It's been an honor to be a part of it. And yeah, I'm interested in what happens here. And I'll continue to follow it,\" Earnest said. \"But I will be relieved to not have the burden to follow it as closely as this job has required over the last two-and-a-half years.\" \n A few White House staffers have found new jobs already, but most are taking some time off. \n Some are going home to visit family they haven't spent much time with in years. One said he was spending two months driving across the country, unsure of what he'd do next. Others are taking long vacations to places like New Zealand and Iceland, unencumbered by the need to constantly check in with the office. \n \"This is the only world I've known,\" said Clay Dumas, who took time off from college to work for Obama's 2008 campaign, then interned at the White House before being hired four years ago. He said he was searching for a job that would allow him to continue advancing values and policies he worked on in the White House. \"Whatever I do next will be a huge continuation of that.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Teary farewells as Obama aides pack up, make way for Trump"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The University of California said President Janet Napolitano, a former U.S. Homeland Security secretary, is undergoing treatment for cancer and is hospitalized with complications. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> University of California President Janet Napolitano, a former U.S. Homeland Security secretary, has been undergoing cancer treatment for five months and has been hospitalized after suffering complications, the school system said Tuesday. \n The UC Office of the President said Napolitano, 59, was diagnosed last August but did not say what type of cancer she has or respond to inquiries seeking further details. Her condition had not previously been made public and emerged after a side effect from her treatment sent her to the hospital Monday. \n Her office said Napolitano has performed her duties at full capacity and is expected to be discharged in the next day or so. The president of the 10-campus system has kept the chairwoman of the UC Board of Regents informed throughout her treatment, which is nearly complete, the university said. \n The rest of the Board of Regents learned of Napolitano's cancer diagnosis in a phone call Tuesday morning, which was followed by an email sent by board Chairwoman Monica Lozano. \n \"As you no doubt have observed, Janet has been able to consistently perform her wide range of duties and extensive travel at full capacity,\" Lozano wrote in an email. \"Yesterday, however, she experienced side effects from her treatment that required her to be briefly hospitalized.\" \n A spokesman for Gov. Jerry Brown, Evan Westrup, confirmed that his office was contacted \"ahead of time\" about her illness, but he did not respond to a request for more specifics about when the governor was notified. \n Napolitano, who previously was treated successfully for breast cancer, was a two-term Democratic governor of Arizona before joining President Barack Obama's Cabinet. \n She served as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security from 2009 to 2013, as governor of Arizona from 2003 to 2009, as Arizona's attorney general from 1998 to 2003, and as U.S. attorney for Arizona from 1993 to 1997. \n Napolitano now oversees the 10 UC campuses, five medical centers, three affiliated national laboratories, and a statewide agriculture and natural resources program. She is among the highest-paid public employees in the state, receiving an annual $570,000 salary and benefits totaling nearly $150,000 a year. \n As president of the system since 2013, Napolitano has fought for additional funding for higher education, and she recently announced a policy saying UC employees will not assist government agencies trying to enforce federal immigration laws. Napolitano has repeatedly sought to ensure undocumented students they can feel safe on UC campuses since the election of Donald Trump, who made illegal immigration a key point of his campaign. \n In the past year, she has faced ethics scandals involving the chancellors at two of the largest schools in the system, UC Berkeley and UC Davis, both of whom eventually resigned. \n In November 2004, Napolitano had surgery to remove her right ovary and an ovarian cyst, which was benign. She resumed a normal work schedule three days later. \n Napolitano had her right breast removed in 2000 after being diagnosed with cancer. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "University of California's Napolitano in hospital for cancer"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n the Dakota Access Pipeline under construction near the town of St. Anthony in Morton County, N.D. \n BISMARCK, N.D. >> The company building the Dakota Access oil pipeline wants a federal judge to block the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from launching a full environmental study of the $3.8 billion pipeline's disputed crossing of a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota. \n Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners asked U.S. District Judge James Boasberg on Tuesday to stop the Corps from publishing a notice in the Federal Register announcing the study. Boasberg scheduled a hearing for Wednesday. \n ETP wants any further study put on hold until Boasberg, in Washington, D.C., rules on whether ETP already has the necessary permission to lay pipe under Lake Oahe \u2014 the reservoir that's the water source for the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. \n ETP wants to block further study so that the decision on the permitting, which is likely weeks away, will be \"free from the risk that its ruling will be frustrated or thwarted by new governmental actions.\" The Corps did not immediately respond to ETP's request. \n The stretch under Lake Oahe is the last big chunk of construction for the 1,200-mile pipeline. The Corps wants to look at alternate routes, the potential for a pipeline leak and tribal treaty rights in the wake of opposition by the Standing Rock Sioux and its supporters who believe a pipeline leak would contaminate the tribe's drinking water. \n ETP maintains the pipeline is safe and that the Corps gave it permission in July to proceed with the Lake Oahe stretch, but the Corps says all of the necessary steps have not yet been completed \u2014 including an easement to work on federal land and the notification of Congress. \n An environmental assessment conducted by the Corps last year determined that the Oahe crossing would not have a significant impact on the environment. However, Assistant Army Secretary for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy said in December that a broader environmental impact statement was warranted. Such a statement can take up to two years to complete, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. \n The Standing Rock Sioux tribe has been urging people to lobby the Corps to start the environmental impact study before President-Elect Donald Trump, an energy supporter, takes office Friday. The tribe in a statement Tuesday said it's confident that a full environmental study would be \"the best way to analyze the alternative routes.\" \n The MAIN Coalition, made up of agriculture, business and labor entities that benefit from Midwest infrastructure projects, issued a statement saying it's \"optimistic that the incoming Trump administration will soon issue the final easement for the Dakota Access pipeline.\" \n ETP has already drilled entry and exit holes for the Oahe crossing, all on private property, and has already put oil in the pipeline leading up to the lake in anticipation of finishing the project, ETP executive vice president Joey Mahmoud said in court documents. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Dakota Access company seeks to block pipeline study"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Maine Republican Gov. Paul LePage, right, and House Speaker Sara Gideon, D-Freeport, attended the Dec. 19 Electoral College vote at the State House in Augusta, Maine. The Republican governor today addressed Lewis' criticism that GOP President-elect Donald Trump is not a \"legitimate president.\" \n AUGUSTA, Maine >> Republican Gov. Paul LePage today offered an erroneous history lesson about racial segregation to a black Georgia congressman who risked his life to fight for civil rights, and he called on the NAACP to apologize to white people. \n Democratic U.S. Rep. John Lewis, who was beaten while marching in Selma, Alabama, with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., should be grateful to Republican presidents and shouldn't question the legitimacy of GOP President-elect Donald Trump's victory, LePage said. \n \"You know, I will just say this: John Lewis ought to look at history,\" LePage, who's white, said on WVOM-FM. \"You It was Abraham Lincoln that freed the slaves. It was Rutherford B. Hayes and Ulysses S. Grant that fought against Jim Crow laws. A simple thank you would suffice.\" \n Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863 and pushed for the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery. But historians say LePage is wrong about Jim Crow laws, which legalized racial segregation. \n Jim Crow laws didn't exist during the Grant administration and an electoral deal that put Hayes in office led to the end of Reconstruction and the removal of federal troops, setting the stage for the creation of Jim Crow laws that followed, said Colby professor Dan Shea. \n \"Paul LePage is going to give John Lewis a tutorial on the history of black oppression in the United States? That's rich,\" Shea said. \n LePage's criticism of Lewis comes on the heels of Lewis' comments last week that he would not attend Trump's inauguration. \n \"You know, I believe in forgiveness. I believe in trying to work with people. It will be hard. It's going to be very difficult. I don't see this president-elect as a legitimate president,\" Lewis said in an interview with NBC's \"Meet the Press\" that aired Sunday. \n Lewis' spokeswoman said today that the facts of history refute LePage's statements about the Jim Crow laws. \n Later in the afternoon, the governor tried to clarify his remarks to the Portland Press Herald by saying he felt all white people were being lumped together. He said that the \"NAACP should apologize to the white people, to the people from the North for fighting their battle.\" \n The governor also said that \"the blacks, the NAACP\" paint white people with one brush and added that \"to say every white America is a racist is an insult.\" The governor has said a racist \"is the absolute worst, most vile thing you can call a person\" and last summer left an expletive-laced voicemail for a Democratic legislator that he thought called him a racist. \n LePage said he knows many Maine families who had ancestors who fought in the Civil War. Maine, the nation's whitest state, is 95 percent white, according to 2015 census estimates. \n The head of the Portland branch of the NAACP says it's unfortunate that LePage tried to revise history and disparage a civil rights leader a day after Martin Luther King Jr. Day. \n LePage today also had harsh words for a Maine congresswoman who is among more than 40 House Democrats so far to say they are skipping Trump's inauguration. He said Rep. Chellie Pingree should resign if she doesn't attend. \n \"They're trying to bully us out of believing our Constitution,\" LePage said of Democrats. \n Pingree said Monday that \"President-elect Trump's actions go beyond any kind of reasonable debate\u2014they threaten the constitutional values our country is based on.\" \n Pingree's office today called LePage's remarks about Lewis divisive and inaccurate. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Maine governor offers U.S. Rep. John Lewis an erroneous history lesson"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pfc. Chelsea Manning posed for a photo wearing a wig and lipstick. President Barack Obama today commuted the sentence of Manning, who leaked Army documents and is serving 35 years. \n WASHINGTON >> President Barack Obama commuted the prison sentence of Chelsea Manning today, allowing the convicted Army leaker to go free nearly three decades early as part of a sweeping move to offer clemency in the final days of his administration. \n Manning, who will leave prison in May, was one of 209 inmates whose sentences Obama was shortening, a list that includes Puerto Rican nationalist Oscar Lopez-Rivera. Obama also pardoned 64 people, including retired Gen. James Cartwright, who was charged with making false statements during a probe into disclosure of classified information. \n \"These 273 individuals learned that our nation is a forgiving nation,\" said White House counsel Neil Eggleston, \"where hard work and a commitment to rehabilitation can lead to a second chance, and where wrongs from the past will not deprive an individual of the opportunity to move forward.\" \n Manning, a former Army intelligence analyst, has been serving a 35-year sentence for leaking classified government and military documents to the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks. She asked Obama last November to commute her sentence to time served. \n Manning has spent more than six years behind bars. She was convicted in military court in 2013 of six violations of the Espionage Act and 14 other offenses for leaking more than 700,000 documents and some battlefield video to WikiLeaks. \n She was known as Bradley Manning at the time of her 2010 arrest and is being held at the military prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Manning was an intelligence analyst in Iraq and has acknowledged leaking the documents, but has said it was done to raise public awareness about the effects of war on civilians. \n She attempted suicide twice last year, according to her lawyers, citing her treatment at Leavenworth. \n Chase Strangio, an American Civil Liberties Union attorney representing Manning, said the president's action \"quite literally save Chelsea's life.\" \n \"We are all better off knowing that Chelsea Manning will walk out of prison a free woman, dedicated to making the world a better place and fighting for justice for so many,\" Stangio said in a statement. \n The U.S. Army declined to comment. \n Cartwright, the former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, received a pardon, the White House said. He pleaded guilty in October to making false statements during an investigation into a leak of classified information about a covert cyberattack on Iran's nuclear facilities. Prosecutors said Cartwright falsely told investigators that he did not provide information contained in a news article and in a book by New York Times journalist David Sanger, and said he also misled prosecutors about classified information shared with another journalist, Daniel Klaidman. \n The Justice Department sought a sentence of two years, saying employees of the U.S. government are entrusted each day with sensitive classified information. \n \"They must understand that disclosing such information to persons not authorized to receive it has severe consequences,\" prosecutors wrote in a sentencing memorandum filed this month. \n Commutations reduce sentences being served but don't erase convictions. Pardons generally restore civil rights, such as voting, often after a sentence has been served. \n Most of the other people receiving commutations were serving sentences for nonviolent drug offenses. \n Associated Press writers Darlene Superville, Vivian Salama, John Hanna, Eric Tucker and Danica Cota contributed to this report. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama cuts short Chelsea Manning's prison sentence"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Interior Secretary-designate, Rep. Ryan Zinke, R-Mont., a former Navy SEAL who just won his second term in Congress, was an early supporter of President-elect Donald Trump and, like his prospective boss, has expressed skepticism about the urgency of climate change. \n WASHINGTON >> Donald Trump's choice to head the Interior Department on Tuesday rejected the president-elect's claim that climate change is a hoax, saying it is indisputable that environmental changes are affecting the world's temperature and human activity is a major reason. \n \"I don't believe it's a hoax,\" Rep. Ryan Zinke told the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee at his confirmation hearing. \n \"The climate is changing. The debate is what is that influence and what can we do,\" said the Montana Republican. \n Trump has suggested in recent weeks he's keeping an open mind on the issue and may reconsider a campaign pledge to back away from a 2015 Paris agreement that calls for global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. \n In contradicting Trump, Zinke cited Glacier National Park in his home state as a prime example of the effects of climate change, noting that glaciers there have receded in his lifetime and even from one visit to the next. \n Still, he told Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., that there is debate about how much humans have influenced the climate. \n Likely to win Senate confirmation, Zinke sketched out a variety of purposes for the nation's vast federal lands, from hiking, hunting, fishing and camping to harvesting timber and mining for coal and other energy sources. \n An admirer of President Theodore Roosevelt, Zinke said management of federal lands should be done under a \"multiple-use\" model set forth by Gifford Pinchot, a longtime Roosevelt associate and the first chief of the U.S. Forest Service. \n Zinke also pledged to tackle an estimated $12 billion backlog in maintenance and repair at national parks, saying parks and other public lands should be a key part of Trump's infrastructure improvement plan. \n Zinke has said he would never sell, give away or transfer public lands \u2014 a crucial stance in his home state of Montana and the rest of the West where access to hunting and fishing is considered sacrosanct. \n Zinke feels so strongly that he resigned as a delegate to the Republican National Convention last summer because of the GOP's position in favor of land transfers to state or private groups. But Zinke's commitment to public lands has come into question in recent weeks. \n The Interior Department and other U.S. agencies control almost a third of land in the West and even more of the underground \"mineral estate\" that holds vast amounts of coal, oil and natural gas. \n Zinke's position on public lands came under fire after he voted in favor of a measure from House Republicans that would allow federal land transfers to be considered cost-free and budget-neutral, making it easier for drilling and development. \n Zinke \"says he's against transfer of federal lands, but there's a big gap between what he says and what he does in that regard,\" said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, the nation's oldest and largest environmental group. \n Zinke told senators Tuesday that he flatly opposes all sales or transfer of federal lands. \n Indeed, his support for public lands was a crucial reason why Zinke was chosen by Trump. The president-elect and son Donald Trump Jr. both oppose sale of federal lands. The younger Trump, an avid hunter, has taken a keen interest in Interior Department issues and played a key role in Zinke's selection. \n Zinke also reiterated his support for coal production on federal lands as part of an all-of-the above energy strategy \n Sen. Maria Cantwell of Washington state, the top Democrat on the energy panel, asked Zinke about modernizing the federal coal program, saying it was important \"to make sure American taxpayers aren't short-changed for the benefit of corporate interests \n Zinke promised to review the coal program and said he thinks taxpayers \"should always get fair value,\" whether it's coal, wind power or other energy sources. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Interior nominee Zinke disputes Trump on climate change"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Luis Alberto Rodriguez, 43, waits for a friend to pick him up from temporary housing in Miami. \n MIAMI >> In a hotel room in suburban Miami, Luis Alberto Rodriguez wept when he heard that a government policy granting residency to Cubans who arrive on U.S. soil was ending. That means it could take two years or more before his wife and two children still in Cuba can legally join him here. \n Rodriguez arrived in Laredo, Texas, on New Year's Eve, a journey that took him through 10 countries. He had hoped his family would be able to follow shortly afterward, maybe flying to Mexico before walking across the border under the \"wet foot, dry foot\" policy that sent back Cubans intercepted at sea but gave those who reached dry land an automatic path to legal residency. \n \"It was exhilarating finally making it onto U.S. soil, and then a whirlwind of emotions days later,\" when news came that the policy would end, Rodriguez said. \"It was such a shock. \u2026 I don't know when I will see them. \" \n On Thursday, a little more than two years after Cuba and the U.S. began re-establishing diplomatic relations, President Barack Obama decided to end the \"wet foot, dry foot\" policy, moving yet another step closer to normalizing ties that had been frozen for nearly a half-century. The change forces Cubans to follow the same rules as immigrants from other countries, formally applying for legal immigration status and waiting their turn behind a long list of people who applied before them. \n Cuban leaders were not the only ones irritated by the \"wet foot, dry foot\" policy. It also rankled an increasing number of U.S. elected officials, who accused some Cuban immigrants of abusing their privileges by claiming benefits under federal aid programs even if they returned to Cuba to live. Millions of dollars were defrauded from Medicare that way, they said. \n Cubans' special status also angered immigrants from other countries, including those who felt they faced the same kinds of political challenges at home that Cubans had faced under the late Fidel Castro and his brother Raul Castro. Moreover, they said, many Cubans, particularly in recent years, went to the U.S. primarily for economic opportunities, not because of persecution. \n \"For the longest time, Cubans have had all the privileges here,\" said Honduran immigrant Mario Hernandez as he walked outside a busy bookstore in Miami with his wife, daughter and grandchildren. Some Cubans have become millionaires, Hernandez said. \n \"No one enjoys as many advantages. But hopefully there will be no more of that.\" \n Haitian community leaders unsuccessfully lobbied the U.S. government for years to extend a similar \"wet foot, dry foot\" to Haitian migrants fleeing poverty and political persecution. While both groups made perilous journeys to Florida in rafts and rickety boats, risking possible death or capture by the U.S. Coast Guard, the Cubans who made it to land were assured of a warm welcome. Haitians, on the other hand, had to go straight into hiding \u2014 if they weren't caught and detained first. \n \"Now the boat we're in is getting tighter, because now our Cuban brothers and sisters are getting into the same boat,\" said Haitian-American community organizer Sandy Dorsainvil. \n Cuban immigrant Rodriguez said he's resigned to wait for his family to navigate the backlog of U.S. immigration applications rather than have them risk deportation or even death if they try to follow him into the country illegally. \n \"I don't want them to risk their lives in any way,\" he said. \n Immigration advocates, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and Service Employees International Union officials said the Obama administration's decision to end \"wet foot, dry foot\" was disappointing and would only serve to make all immigrants more vulnerable. \n \"Now they're going to add to the rolls of the undocumented, and that's not good for them and not good for our community,\" said Randy McGrorty, executive director of Catholic Charities Legal Services. \n In the Florida Keys, law enforcement officials said they expect to encounter fewer Cuban migrants now that there's no immediate benefit to reaching land. And Monroe County Sheriff Rick Ramsay said Cubans who do attempt landing in the island chain may start treating his deputies differently. \n \"Once they made it to land, it was open arms and smiles and taking pictures,\" Ramsay said. \"They were different from migrants from other foreign countries who, when they hit the shore, the first thing they want to do is vanish into society. They'd see a patrol vehicle and they'd try to run, flee and hide.\" \n A surge in Cuban migrants \u2014 fearing the end of the U.S. policy \u2014 began in December 2014, when Washington and Havana began re-establishing diplomatic relations. The exodus created problems in Central America, and the Coast Guard increased its patrols in the Florida Straits, Atlantic and Caribbean because of the spiking number of Cubans taking to the sea. \n Nearly 200 Cubans have come ashore just in the Keys since Fidel Castro's death on Nov. 25. As of Monday, 1,893 have attempted to reach U.S. soil by sea since the fiscal year began Oct. 1, according to Coast Guard figures. More than 7,400 Cubans were intercepted at sea in the one-year period that ended Sept. 30 \u2014 a 60 percent increase from the 4,473 tallied the previous year. The number who made it ashore without alerting authorities or who died at sea is unknown. \n Rodriguez is worried about Cubans who started out when the \"wet foot, dry foot\" policy was still in effect and are now stranded at sea, in Central America or still waiting to leave Cuba after selling their belongings to pay for their journeys. \n \"All our brothers who are still traveling through land and waters, hoping to make their lives better, I feel saddened that they will not make it,\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Cubans bemoan end of 'wet foot, dry foot' immigration policy"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n moke rises from a burnt out shelter at a camp for displaced people in Rann, Nigeria, Tuesday Jan. 17, 2017. Relief volunteers are believed to be among the more than 100 dead after a Nigerian Air Force jet fighter mistakenly bombed the refugee camp, while on a mission against Boko Haram extremists. \n MAIDUGURI, Nigeria >> A Nigerian air force fighter jet on a mission against Boko Haram extremists mistakenly bombed a refugee camp on Tuesday, killing more than 100 refugees and aid workers, a Borno state official said. \n Military commander Maj. Gen. Lucky Irabor confirmed an accidental bombardment in the northeastern town of Rann, near the border with Cameroon, saying \"some\" civilians were killed. \n It was believed to be the first time Nigeria's military has admitted to making such a mistake in a region where villagers have in the past reported civilian casualties in the near-daily bombings targeting the Islamic militants. \n The Borno state official, who was helping to coordinate the evacuation of wounded from the remote area by helicopters, said more than 100 refugees and aid workers were among the dead. He spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. \n Doctors Without Borders said its team based in Rann counted 52 bodies and were treating 120 wounded. \n \"This large-scale attack on vulnerable people who have already fled from extreme violence is shocking and unacceptable,\" said Dr. Jean-Cl\u00e9ment Cabrol, the aid group's director of operations. \"The safety of civilians must be respected.\" \n The International Committee for the Red Cross said six workers with the Nigerian Red Cross were among the dead and 13 were wounded. \"They were part of a team that had brought in desperately needed food for over 25,000 displaced persons,\" spokesman Jason Straziuso said in a statement from Nairobi, Kenya. \n Two soldiers were also wounded, as well as Nigerians working for Doctors Without Borders, Irabor said, without giving a precise figure. \n The general, who is the theater commander for counterinsurgency operations in northeast Nigeria, said he ordered the mission based on information that Boko Haram insurgents were gathering in the area, along with geographic coordinates. \n It was too early to say if a tactical error was made, he said, adding that the bombing would be investigated. \n Doctors Without Borders spokesman Etienne l'Hermitte in Geneva urged authorities to facilitate cross-border land and air evacuations. \n \"Our medical and surgical teams in Cameroon and Chad are ready to treat wounded patients. We are in close contact with our teams, who are in shock following the event,\" the statement said. \n Villagers have in the past reported some civilian casualties in near-daily bombardments in northeastern Nigeria. \n Some of the schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram in 2014 and freed last year have said three of their classmates were killed by air force bombardments, according to the freed girls' parents. Of the nearly 300 schoolgirls who were abducted, 196 remain missing. \n The bombings have helped drive Boko Haram out of many towns and villages and, according to Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari, the insurgents' last stronghold in the Sambisa Forest last month. \n Boko Haram's 7-year-old Islamic uprising has killed more than 20,000 people and forced 2.6 million from their homes, creating the continent's worst humanitarian crisis, with the United Nations warning some 5.1 million people face starvation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Official: Nigeria mistakenly bombs camp, kills more than 100"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Most young Americans are concerned about the media's ability to report on Donald Trump and his efforts to obstruct coverage of his administration, and most think it's at least somewhat likely he will make it harder for Americans to express dissent. \n NEW YORK >> Most young Americans are concerned about the media's ability to report on Donald Trump and his efforts to obstruct coverage of his administration, and most think it's at least somewhat likely he will make it harder for Americans to express dissent. \n That's according to a new GenForward poll of Americans aged 18 to 30, nearly two-thirds of whom say they're either very (25 percent) or somewhat (38 percent) concerned about Trump trying to impede journalists as they report on his incoming administration. \n \"I am really concerned that Trump tries to muddy the waters, that his attitude is to try to block the press from doing their job,\" said Becky Berenbon, 22, a graduate student who lives in West Bloomfield, Michigan. \"I think the media will try to hold him accountable, but he will do what he can to stop them.\" \n GenForward is a survey of young adults by the Black Youth Project at the University of Chicago with the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. \n Most young people in the poll said Trump is likely to make dissent and protest more difficult. Twenty-two percent are very confident he will do so, and another 36 percent say they're somewhat confident. More than 7 in 10 young people say they have little to no confidence that Trump will show respect for people he disagrees with. \n \"I don't think he'll outwardly limit free speech. But I think (the Trump administration) will limit or not acknowledge people's opinions they disagree with,\" said Desiree Batista, 22, a college student from Woodbridge, New Jersey. \"There will be a rise in different protest movements, but I don't know how the administration will view it. And I also think that he thinks all press is good press, even if it's people smack-talking him.\" \n In general, young people express little confidence in the media. Seven in 10, including similar percentages across racial and ethnic groups, say they have little confidence or none at all in the media to report the news fully, accurately and fairly. \n Eileen King, a 23-year-old waitress from Norfolk, Virginia, who backed independent candidate Gary Johnson in last year's election, said she didn't trust the media, preferring to get her news from a diverse set of conservative and liberal friends on Facebook. \n \"I don't know that the media will give him a fair shake, but I also don't think it matters,\" King said. She said her biggest concern would be that an unfettered Trump would ignore the media's traditional role of a watchdog and \"present an ugly face to the world.\" \n Trump made the media part of his campaign in an unprecedented way, using his celebrity \u2014 along with a penchant for saying the outrageous \u2014 to draw hours upon hours of free coverage. But he is also quick to condemn news reports he does not like. \n During his campaign, Trump incited his rally crowds to boo reporters, singling out individual journalists with derogatory names such as \"sleazebag.\" Last week, during his first news conference as president-elect, he lashed out at a reporter from CNN and refused to field a question from the network. \n Young adults have mixed opinions on whether the media have thus far gone too easy on Trump \u2014 or too hard. Overall, about a third say news coverage has been too easy, another third say it's been too tough, and the remaining third say coverage has been fair. \n Batista, for one, said the media spent far too much time on Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server and not enough time examining Trump's background. But many Trump supporters cheered the candidate's harsh treatment of the media. Saleena Dayani, a 20-year-old student from Fayetteville, Georgia, said journalists' coverage of the president-elect has been \"the opposite of fair.\" \n \"The major networks like CNN are totally unfair to him,\" said Dayani, who voted for Trump. \"They look at one bad thing and they want to stretch it like a piece of gum. They are only focusing on negatives and not the positives.\" \n Trump's transition team has signaled it wants to shake up how the White House press corps will cover the new administration, floating the idea of doing away with the press secretary's daily briefing or moving it to a more spacious location outside the building. \n The head of the White House Correspondents' Association has called any move to push reporters out of their White House workspace \"unacceptable.\" \n \"I imagine the media will do their best,\" said Alice Ma, a 19-year-old student from Jupiter, Florida. \"But that might not be good enough.\" \n The poll of 1,823 adults age 18-30 was conducted Dec. 9-12, 2016, using a sample drawn from the probability-based GenForward panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. young adult population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4 percentage points. \n The survey was paid for by the Black Youth Project at the University of Chicago, using grants from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and the Ford Foundation. \n Respondents were first selected randomly using address-based sampling methods, and later interviewed online or by phone. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Poll: Young Americans doubt media's ability to cover Trump"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. \n WASHINGTON >> In a sometimes contentious confirmation hearing, education secretary pick Betsy DeVos pledged Tuesday not to dismantle public education and said she wasn't selected for the job simply because of her wealthy family's generous contributions to the Republican Party. \n Sen. Patty Murray of Washington state, the top Democrat on the Senate Health, Labor, Education and Pension Committee, asked DeVos point blank to pledge that she would not seek to privatize public schools or take money away from them. \n DeVos, who has spent more than two decades advocating for charter schools and school choice, promised to work to address \"the needs of all parents and students.\" \n Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., a former education secretary, expressed confidence that DeVos is an \"excellent\" choice for the job. \"She is on the side of our children,\" he said. \n But as other Republicans praised President-elect Donald Trump's pick, Democrats grilled her on a range of issues from child care to students with disabilities and making public colleges and universities tuition-free. \n Asked outright by Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont if she got the job because of her family's political contributions, DeVos said: \"As a matter of fact I do think that there would be that possibility. I have worked very hard on behalf of parents and children for the last almost 30 years.\" \n On tuition-free public colleges and universities, DeVos said: \"I think we also have to consider the fact that there is nothing in life that is truly free. Somebody is going to pay for it.\" \n She skirted Sanders' question on whether she would support making child care free or much more affordable for low-income families as is the case in many countries around the world, saying only that she feels strongly about \"parents having an opportunities for child care for their children.\" \n \"But it's not a question of opportunity,\" Sanders fired back, raising his voice. \"It's a question of being able to afford it!\" \n Responding to fierce criticism from teachers unions that she is working against public education, DeVos told the committee that she will be \"a strong advocate for great public schools.\" \n \"But,\" she added, \"if a school is troubled, or unsafe, or not a good fit for a child \u2014 perhaps they have a special need that is going unmet \u2014 we should support a parent's right to enroll their child in a high-quality alternative.\" \n Murray said she was \"extremely disappointed\" that DeVos has not yet finalized her financial and ethics disclosures ahead of the hearing. She also asked whether DeVos will divest herself of any family business enterprises that may represent a conflict of interest in her job, including one student loan refinancing company. \n \"Where conflicts are identified, they will be resolved. I will not be conflicted. Period,\" DeVos said. \n DeVos, 59, also said she will seek to address rising higher education costs and massive student debt, but also advance trade and vocational schools as well as community colleges because \"craftsmanship is not a fallback \u2014 but a noble pursuit.\" \n Another priority for DeVos will be weakening \"burdensome\" federal regulations and giving local communities greater control over education policies. \n \"President-elect Trump and I know it won't be Washington, D.C., that unlocks our nation's potential, nor a bigger bureaucracy, tougher mandates or a federal agency,\" DeVos said. \"The answer is local control and listening to parents, students and teachers.\" \n DeVos, the wife of Dick DeVos, the heir to the Amway marketing fortune, has spent more than two decades advocating for charter schools in her home state of Michigan, as well as promoting conservative religious values. \n In a letter addressed to the committee, 38 prominent education groups and teachers' organizations expressed concern that DeVos' track record bodes ill for public education. \n \"Over the course of her career as a major campaign contributor, soft-money donor and lobbyist, DeVos has used her considerable wealth to influence legislation and the outcomes of elections to advance policies that have undermined public education and proved harmful to many of our most vulnerable students,\" the letter said. \n LGBT groups also have protested Trump's choice of DeVos, saying she has funded conservative religious groups that promote what they consider to be traditional family values, including one organization that supports conversion therapy \u2014 counseling of gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender people with the aim of changing their sexual orientation. \n In an apparent response to that criticism, DeVos said in her statement, \"Every child in America deserves to be in a safe environment that is free from discrimination.\" \n DeVos supporters, meanwhile, applauded her nomination. Eva Moskowitz, CEO of Success Academy Charter Schools, said that American public education \"is in deep crisis,\" with 35 countries outranking American schools in math and 20 in reading. \n \"I believe Betsy DeVos has the talent, commitment and leadership capacity to revitalize our public schools and deliver the promise of opportunity that excellent education provides, and I support her nomination as U.S. secretary of education,\" Moskowitz said in a statement. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "DeVos pledges not to undo public education, pushes choice"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People photograph the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket booster as it makes it's way into the port of Los Angeles Tuesday morning. \n LOS ANGELES >> The first stage of a SpaceX rocket that landed on a platform floating in the Pacific Ocean after a weekend launch has arrived in the Port of Los Angeles. \n Spectators watched Tuesday as the landing barge entered the harbor with the first stage of the Falcon 9 rocket standing vertically. \n Justin Everhart of nearby Long Beach described it to the Daily Breeze newspaper (http://bit.ly/2jGXkqg) as \"a testament to human achievement.\" \n The Falcon 9 put 10 satellites into orbit Saturday after being launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base northwest of Los Angeles. \n When the rocket's second stage took over to complete the trip into orbit, the first stage descended toward the ocean and fired its engines to land on the barge. \n SpaceX intends to reuse first stages to lower launch costs. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Recovered SpaceX rocket arrives in Port of Los Angeles"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Judge William Pryor, U.S. Court of Appeals, Eleventh Circuit, moderates a panel discussion during the Federalist Society's National Lawyers Convention in Washington. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump has met with one of the judges on his short list for potential Supreme Court nominees, less than two weeks before he is expected to announce his choice for the nation's highest court. \n Judge William Pryor, an Alabama-based judge on the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, met with Trump in New York on Saturday, said two people familiar with the meeting. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the meeting had not been publicly announced. \n Trump said last week that he would select a candidate to fill the seat of the late Justice Antonin Scalia within his first two weeks in office. He has promised to seek someone in the conservative's mold and said he is working from a list of 21 people, mainly conservative state and federal judges in their 50s. \n For nearly a year, the court has had only eight justices, which means they can deadlock at 4-4 deadlock on decisions. \n The likely confirmation of Trump's choice by a Republican-controlled Senate would restore a fifth vote for conservative outcomes in cases involving voting rights, the power of unions and in class-action lawsuits, lost with Scalia's death. Trump also has said he wants an abortion opponent on the bench, although it would take a second Trump appointee to bring about dramatic change on that issue. \n Other potential Trump nominees include state Supreme Court judges Allison Eid of Colorado, Joan Larsen of Michigan, David Stras of Minnesota and Don Willett of Texas, and federal appellate judges Steven Colloton, Thomas Hardiman, Raymond Kethledge and Diane Sykes. \n Trump hinted last February that he had two favorites on the list of 21, Pryor and Sykes, although there is no indication that he's made a final decision. \n Many factors come into play in choosing a Supreme Court justice, including age and gender. Typically, presidents seek nominees who have the potential for a long tenure in the lifetime appointments, seeking nominees under 60 years old. Pryor is 54. \n Trump's victory rewarded Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's strategy of refusing all year even to consider President Barack Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to take Scalia's seat. McConnell announced on the night that Scalia died that the vacancy should be filled not by Obama, but by the next president. The Kentucky Republican was criticized for his stance by Obama, other Democrats and many legal scholars. \n Pryor also is a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an independent agency that sets sentencing guidelines for the federal courts. \n He was the Alabama's attorney general from 1997 to 2004. His predecessor in that job, Sen. Jeff Sessions, is Trump's pick for U.S. attorney general, and the two \u2014 both natives of the city of Mobile, are said to have a close working relationship. \n In a statement in 2005 following Pryor's nomination to the Eleventh Circuit, Sessions hailed Pryor as someone who \"personally does not believe in abortion. He does not believe it is right. He believes it is wrong.\" \n Pryor once called the 1973 landmark abortion decision, Roe v. Wade, the \"worst abomination in the history of constitutional law.\" \n He has also warned against the danger of \"activist judges\" influenced by personal beliefs. When he was appointed to the Eleventh Circuit, he said he would put his personal feelings aside and follow legal precedent. \n Locally, Pryor had a reputation as a scholarly attorney general, more interested in the law than rough-and-tumble politics. \n After getting a ninth justice on the court, the next big question will be whether liberal Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, and Justice Anthony Kennedy, the pivotal vote closest to the court's center, will retire during a Trump administration or try to stay on the bench in the hope that Trump is not re-elected in 2020. Ginsburg is 83, Kennedy is 80 and Breyer is 78. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump meets with Supreme Court candidate"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis., accompanied by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., left a Jan. 10 news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. Premiums and the number of uninsured would soar under a Republican bill scuttling President Barack Obama's health care overhaul that Congress passed last year, lawmakers' nonpartisan budget analyst estimated today, in a report underlining the GOP's risks as it starts a fresh push to dismantle and replace that statute. \n WASHINGTON >> Premiums and the number of uninsured would soar under a Republican bill Congress passed last year scuttling President Barack Obama's health care overhaul, lawmakers' nonpartisan budget analyst estimated Tuesday in a report underlining the GOP's risks in its fresh push to dismantle and replace the health law. \n The Congressional Budget Office report wrote that under that 2016 repeal bill, premiums for policies bought from online marketplaces established by Obama's law would rise up to 25 percent a year after enactment of the GOP measure. They'd about double by 2026. \n There'd also be 18 million more uninsured people a year after enactment and 32 million more by 2026, the report projected. \n The numbers served as a flashing yellow light for this year's effort by President-elect Donald Trump and congressional Republicans to annul Obama's law and \u2014 in a more complex challenge \u2014 institute their own alternative. While Republicans have produced several outlines for how they'd recraft Obama's 2010 statute, they've never united behind one plan despite years of trying and there are many unknowns about what will happen in insurance markets while the GOP effort is underway. \n The report also became immediate political fodder for both sides in what is expected to be one of this year's premier battles in Congress. \n Trump seemed to complicate that fight over the weekend when he told The Washington Post that a forthcoming GOP plan would provide \"insurance for everybody.\" In contrast, some congressional Republicans have used a more modest description, saying plan will offer \"universal access.\" \n The 2016 bill that CBO analyzed did not replace Obama's law with a GOP alternative, which Republicans have insisted will be an integral part of their health care drive this year. \n Because of that omission, Donald Stewart, spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the report \"assumes a situation that simply doesn't exist and that no one in Congress advocates.\" AshLee Strong, spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., called the estimates \"meaningless\" because they ignored plans for legislation and regulatory actions by the incoming Trump administration aimed at revamping how people could obtain coverage. \n Even so, Republicans have cited last year's bill \u2014 which Obama vetoed \u2014 as a starting point for their 2017 drive to erase his law. Finding unity among Trump and GOP lawmakers on what a new plan should look like is expected to be a challenging task \n Democrats used the report as ammunition to assail the Republican health-care push. \n \"Nonpartisan statistics don't lie: it's crystal clear that the Republican effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act will increase health care costs for millions of Americans and kick millions more off of their health insurance,\" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said in a written statement that used the law's formal name. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "CBO: 18 million more uninsured if health care law killed, not replaced"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday accused the outgoing U.S. administration of trying to undermine President-elect Donald Trump by spreading fake allegations. \n MOSCOW >> President Vladimir Putin took a parting shot at the Obama administration today, accusing it of trying to undermine Donald Trump's legitimacy with fake allegations and \"binding the president-elect hand and foot to prevent him from fulfilling his election promises.\" \n In his first public remarks about an unsubstantiated dossier outlining unverified claims that Trump engaged in sexual activities with prostitutes at a Moscow hotel, Putin dismissed the material as \"nonsense.\" \n \"People who order such fakes against the U.S. president-elect, fabricate them and use them in political struggle are worse than prostitutes,\" Putin said. \"They have no moral restrictions whatsoever, and it highlights a significant degree of degradation of political elites in the West, including in the United States.\" \n Separately, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the dossier, compiled by former British spy Christopher Steele, was a \"rude provocation.\" The diplomat contemptuously called its author a \"runaway swindler from MI6,\" Britain's foreign intelligence agency. Trump has rejected the sexual allegations as \"fake news\" and \"phony stuff.\" \n The statements by Putin and Lavrov reflected the Kremlin's deep anger at President Barack Obama's administration in a culmination of tensions that have built up over the crisis in Ukraine, the war in Syria and allegations of Russian meddling in the U.S. election. \n Putin said the allegations were part of efforts by the Obama administration to \"undermine the legitimacy of the president-elect\" despite his \"convincing\" victory. \n Asked about Putin's remarks, White House press secretary Josh Earnest said it \"was not the first time the intelligence community has had some uncomfortable things to say about Russia.\" \n \"These are the kind of things I'm sure the Russians would rather not to hear, but ultimately, and this is something that the next administration is going to have to decide, there's a pretty stark divide here,\" he added. \n Putin voiced hope that \"common sense will prevail\" and Russia and the United States will be able to normalize relations once Trump takes office Friday. \n \"I don't know Mr. Trump,\" Putin said. \"I have never met him and I don't know what he will do on the international arena. I have no reason whatsoever to assail him, criticize him for something, or defend him.\" \n Putin ridiculed those behind the dossier for alleging Russian spy agencies collected compromising material on Trump when he visited Moscow in 2013 for the Miss Universe pageant. \n \"He wasn't a politician. We didn't even know about his political ambitions,\" Putin said at a news conference. \"Do they think that our special services are hunting for every U.S. billionaire?\" \n Putin also sarcastically suggested that Trump, who met the world's most beautiful women at the pageant, had a better choice for female companionship than Moscow prostitutes, even though Putin claimed \"they are also the best in the world.\" \n He said Trump's foes are ready to go as far as to \"stage a Maidan in Washington to prevent Trump from entering office\" \u2014 a reference to the alleged U.S. role in organizing protests in the Ukrainian capital's main square, Maidan, that forced the nation's Russia-friendly president from power in 2014. \n \"People who are doing that are inflicting colossal damage to the interests of the United States,\" Putin said. \"How can you do anything to improve U.S.-Russian relations when they launch such canards as hackers' interference in the election?\" \n At a separate news conference, Lavrov also said Moscow hopes for better relations with Washington once Trump takes office. \n Russia and the United States can reach common ground on nuclear arms control and other issues if each country proceeds from its national interests and shows respect for the other side, Lavrov said. \n He voiced hope that Trump's team will consist of pragmatic people \"who will not engage in moralizing and will try to understand the interests of their partners just as they clearly uphold their own interests.\" \n Lavrov denounced the foreign policy of the Obama administration and its allies as \"messianic\" attempts to impose Western values on the rest of the world, which has led to instability and conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere. \n He said Moscow is inviting representatives of the Trump administration to talks Monday on Syria in Kazakhstan \u2014 discussions brokered by Russia, Turkey and Iran. He voiced hope that Russian and U.S. experts could discuss fighting terrorism in Syria. \n Asked about Trump's recent remarks in which he indicated he could end sanctions on Russia for its 2014 annexation of Crimea in return for a nuclear arms reduction deal, Lavrov said Moscow was ready to hold nuclear arms talks with Washington. \n Lavrov noted he didn't see Trump's words as an offer to cut arms in exchange for canceling the sanctions, rather as an expression of readiness to look at reviewing the sanctions while engaging in negotiations on arms control, among other issues. \n Like Putin, Lavrov rejected allegations of Russian meddling in the U.S. election as \"absurdities\" and \"fakes\" intended to hurt Trump. \n He said U.S. intelligence agencies have failed to produce any evidence to back those claims, adding that officials who engaged in the effort \"deserve to be fired, as they receive their salaries for nothing.\" \n Lavrov described the allegations of Russian election meddling in the U.S. vote as the final \"spasms of those who realize that their time is coming to an end.\" \n \"The time of foreign policy demagogues is over, and, feeling hurt, they fabricate all kinds of fakes,\" he said. \"First, officials leak fakes to the media, then media start spinning them and, finally, officials comment on them as facts.\" \n Lavrov also accused U.S. officials of repeated attempts to recruit Russian diplomats in the U.S. as spies, including a deputy chief of mission. \n In her final speech as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power accused Russia of pursuing a policy of \"deny and lie\" to raise doubts about its actions in Syria and Ukraine, to undermine international institutions and, citing U.S. intelligence analysis, repeated allegations that Moscow used a well-crafted, multipronged attack to disrupt the U.S. election through hacking and misinformation. \n \"I know some have said that this focus on Russia is simply the party that lost the recent presidential election being 'sore losers,'\" Power told the Atlantic Council, a Washington think tank, \"but it should worry every American that a foreign government interfered in our democratic process.\" \n She said the U.S. must reassure its allies that Russia will pay a price for interfering in other nations' sovereign affairs, and that means maintaining sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine as well as meddling in U.S. politics. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Putin: Obama administration trying to undermine Trump"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "COURTESY RYAN FINLAY \n The Akebono Theater building in Pahoa as seen Monday night after a large fire destroyed much of the structure. \n A part of Pahoa Village Road on the Big Island remains closed this morning as crews remove hazardous parts of buildings including a historic theater and restaurant that were gutted by a massive fire on Monday. \n Police closed the roadway early Monday from Kaleo's Bar & Grill to Kauhale Street after the fire destroyed three properties including the Akebono Theater and Luquin's Mexican Restaurant. \n It's unknown at this time when Pahoa Village Road is expected to re-open. \n Firefighters responded to the blaze shortly after midnight Monday and brought the fire under control at 2:45 a.m. \n Fire crews are still at the scene today to extinguish any smoldering hot spots as county excavator crews dismantle hazardous parts of the building, said Battalion Chief Matthias Kusch. \n There's a large amount of wood that collapsed, he said. \"The overhaul portion is a prolonged task.\" \n Damage was estimated at more than $1.8 million. Kusch said the cause of the remains under investigation. \n Police are looking for any witnesses to help determine the cause. The blaze started at a vacant pawn shop at 15-2948 Pahoa Village Road. \n Foul play is not suspected. \n Anyone with information is asked to call police at 935-3311 or Det. Wendal Carter at 961-2383. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Cleanup after fire guts historic theater keeps road closed"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Law enforcement officials worked at the Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., June 12, following the a mass shooting. Audio recordings of 911 calls released today by the Orange County Sheriff's Office show mounting frustration by friends and family members who were texting, calling and video-chatting with trapped patrons of the Pulse nightclub where Omar Mateen opened fire in June. \n SAN FRANCISCO >> The widow of the Orlando nightclub gunman has been charged with helping her husband in the months leading up to the June massacre that left 49 people dead, according to an indictment unsealed today. \n Noor Salman, 30, is due in federal court in Oakland today, following her arrest a day earlier on the Florida charges. \n The two-count indictment accuses her of knowingly aiding and abetting her husband, Omar Mateen, in providing material support and resources to the Islamic State group between April and June of last year. It also says she knowingly misled police and the FBI after the June 12, 2016, attack at the Pulse nightclub. The charging document does not give additional details on Salman's actions. \n Salman is from the San Francisco Bay Area, and in the aftermath of the Orlando attack that also left her husband dead, she returned here with their son, whose name she has since sought to change. She was repeatedly questioned by FBI investigators over whether she had any knowledge of her husband's plans. \n Her attorney Linda Moreno said after her arrest that she \"had no foreknowledge nor could she predict what Omar Mateen intended to do that tragic night.\" \n Salman told The New York Times in an interview published in November that she knew her husband had watched jihadist videos but was \"unaware of everything\" regarding his intent to shoot up the club. Salman also said he had physically abused her, which her attorney reiterated Monday. \n \"Noor has told her story of abuse at his hands,\" Moreno said. \"We believe it is misguided and wrong to prosecute her and that it dishonors the memories of the victims to punish an innocent person.\" \n The San Francisco office of the FBI said Salman was taken into custody Monday morning in Rodeo, which is the small Bay Area community where she grew up and where her family lives. She is being held about 30 miles away at Santa Rita Jail in Dublin. Previously, jail records stated that she had been arrested in Dublin. The reason for the discrepancy wasn't clear. \n U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said in a Monday interview with MSNBC that \"from the beginning, we were going to look at every aspect of this, of every aspect of this shooter's life to determine not just why did he take these actions \u2014 but who else knew about them? Was anyone else involved?\" \n Salman met Mateen online and the two married in 2011. \n They lived in Fort Pierce, Florida, at the time of the shooting. \n Mateen pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group in a 911 call during the three-hour standoff that ended in his death. Forty-nine patrons were killed and another 53 were hospitalized. \n \"Nothing can erase the pain we all feel about the senseless and brutal murders of 49 of our neighbors, friends, family members and loved ones,\" Orlando Police Chief John Mina said Monday. \"But today, there is some relief in knowing that someone will be held accountable for that horrific crime.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Orlando nightclub gunman's wife faces charges tied to attack"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Russian President Vladimir Putin attended a Jan. 11 meeting with Russian prosecutors in Moscow, Russia. Putin today said he doesn't believe that President-elect Donald Trump met with prostitutes in Russia, calling the accusations part of a campaign to undermine the election result. \n MOSCOW >> Russian President Vladimir Putin said he doesn't believe that President-elect Donald Trump met with prostitutes in Russia, calling the accusations part of a campaign to undermine the election result. \n Unsubstantiated allegations made against Trump are \"obvious fabrications,\" Putin told reporters in the Kremlin today. \"People who order fakes of the type now circulating against the U.S. president-elect, who concoct them and use them in a political battle, are worse than prostitutes because they don't have any moral boundaries at all,\" he said. \n Putin said that Trump wasn't a politician when he visited Moscow in the past and Russian officials weren't aware that he held any political ambitions. It's \"complete nonsense\" to believe that Russian security services \"chase after every American billionaire,\" he said. \n The Kremlin has denied that it holds any compromising material on Trump after U.S. intelligence officials informed the president-elect about unsubstantiated reports that Russia had compiled potentially damaging personal information on him. \n Trump in a news conference on Jan. 11 lashed out at some media organizations for publishing the unverified material about alleged Russian intelligence gathering on him and Democrat Hillary Clinton. The Russian aim was to leverage the information to shift U.S. policy toward Russia, including by potentially blackmailing Trump, according to memos shown to the president-elect and President Barack Obama by U.S. intelligence agencies. \n Trump said it was \"disgraceful\" that intelligence agencies had allowed \"fake\" information out, comparing this to the actions of Nazi Germany. \n The U.S. tycoon-turned-politician was last in Moscow in 2013 for the staging of the Miss Universe contest that he owned. He hoped unsuccessfully to meet Putin, tweeting in June that year about the possibility the Russian leader would attend the beauty pageant. \n Trump is \"a grown man, and secondly, he's someone who has been involved with beauty contests for many years and has met the most beautiful women in the world,\" Putin said. \"I find it hard to believe that he rushed to some hotel to meet girls of loose morals, although ours are undoubtedly the best in the world.\" \n ", "author": "By Bloomberg News", "title": "Putin says he doesn't believe Trump met prostitutes in Russia"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "A siren malfunctioned at Camp Smith in Halawa in the middle of the night, waking many residents. \n The malfunction occurred at approximately midnight. The loud sound of the siren at the Marine Corps Base continued for about an hour, according to John Cummings, spokesman for the Honolulu Department of Emergency Management. \n Honolulu firefighters responded and shut it off. The cause of the malfunction is unknown at this time. \n Cummings said they reported the malfunction to military officials. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Faulty siren shatters silence of Halawa night"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Well wishes were written on a wall of hope during a March 6 remembrance event for the ill-fated Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Joint Agency Coordination Center in Australia said today that the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 had officially been suspended after crews finished their fruitless sweep of the 46,000-square mile search zone west of Australia. \n SYDNEY >> The nearly three-year search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 ended today, possibly forever \u2014 not because investigators have run out of leads, but because the countries involved in the expensive and vast deep-sea hunt have shown no appetite for opening another big phase. \n Late last year, as ships with high-tech search equipment covered the last strips of the 46,000-square mile search zone, experts concluded they should have been searching a smaller area immediately to the north. But by then, $160 million had already been spent by Malaysia, Australia and China, who had agreed over the summer not to search elsewhere without pinpoint evidence. \n The transport ministers of those countries reiterated that decision today in the joint communique issued by the Joint Agency Coordination Center in Australia that announced the search for Flight 370 \u2014 and the 239 people aboard the aircraft \u2014 had been suspended. \n \"Despite every effort using the best science available, cutting-edge technology, as well as modeling and advice from highly skilled professionals who are the best in their field, unfortunately, the search has not been able to locate the aircraft,\" said the agency, which helped lead the hunt for the Boeing 777 in remote waters west of Australia. \n \"Accordingly, the underwater search for MH370 has been suspended. The decision to suspend the underwater search has not been taken lightly nor without sadness.\" \n Relatives of those lost on the plane, which vanished during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014, responded largely with outrage. A support group, Voice 370, issued a statement saying that extending the search is \"an inescapable duty owed to the flying public.\" \n Without understanding what happened to the plane, there's a \"good chance that this could happen in the future,\" said K.S. Narendran, a member of the group. \n But last year, Australia, Malaysia and China agreed that the hunt would be suspended once the search zone was exhausted unless new evidence emerged that indicated the plane's specific location. More than half of those aboard the plane were Chinese. \n Since no technology currently exists that can tell investigators exactly where the plane is, that means the most expensive, complex search in aviation history is over, barring a change of heart from the three countries. \n There is the possibility that a private donor could offer to bankroll a new search, or that Malaysia will kick in fresh funds. But no one has stepped up yet, raising the bleak possibility that the world's greatest aviation mystery may never be solved. \n For the families of the aircraft's 227 passengers and 12 crew members, that's a particularly bitter prospect given the recent acknowledgment by officials that they had been looking for the plane in the wrong place all along. \n In December, officials investigating the plane's disappearance recommended that search crews head north to a new 25,000-square kilometer (9,700-square mile) area identified in a new analysis as where the plane most likely crashed. But Australia's government rejected that recommendation, saying the results of the experts' analysis weren't precise enough to justify continuing the hunt. \n \"Whilst combined scientific studies have continued to refine areas of probability, to date no new information has been discovered to determine the specific location of the aircraft,\" the transport ministers of the three countries said in their statement. \n The lack of resolution has caused agony for relatives of the flight's passengers, who have begged officials to continue the hunt for their loved ones. \n \"The whole series of events since the plane disappeared has been nothing but frustrating,\" said Grace Nathan, a Malaysian whose mother was on board Flight 370. \"It continues to be frustrating and we just hope they will continue to search. \u2026 They've already searched 120,000 square kilometers. What is another 25,000?\" \n Investigators have been stymied again and again in their efforts to find the aircraft. Hopes were repeatedly raised and smashed by false leads: Underwater signals wrongly thought to be emanating from the plane's black boxes. Possible debris fields that turned out to be sea trash. Oil slicks that contained no jet fuel. A large object detected on the seafloor that was just an old shipwreck. \n In the absence of solid leads, investigators relied largely on an analysis of transmissions between the plane and a satellite to narrow down where in the world the jet ended up \u2014 a technique never previously used to find an aircraft. \n Based on the transmissions, they narrowed down the possible crash zone to a vast arc of ocean slicing across the Southern Hemisphere. Even then, the search zone was enormous and located in one of the most remote patches of water on Earth \u2014 1,800 kilometers (1,100 miles) off Australia's west coast. Much of the seabed had never even been mapped. \n For years, search crews painstakingly combed the search area in several ships, largely pinning their hopes on towfish, small vessels equipped with sonar that sent information back to the boats in real time. The ships slowly dragged the towfish through the ocean just above the seabed, hoping the equipment would detect some trace of the plane. Unmanned submarines were used to examine areas of rougher terrain and objects of interest picked up by sonar that required a closer look. \n The search zone shifted multiple times as investigators refined their analysis, all to no avail. Some began to question whether the plane had gone down in the Southern Hemisphere at all. \n Then, in July 2015, came the first proof that the plane was indeed in the Indian Ocean: A wing flap from the aircraft was found on Reunion Island, east of Madagascar. Since then, more than 20 objects either confirmed or believed to be from the plane have washed ashore on beaches throughout the Indian Ocean. But while the debris proved the plane went down in the Indian Ocean, the location of the main underwater wreckage \u2014 and its crucial black box data recorders \u2014 remains stubbornly elusive. \n If the plane is never found, the reasons for its disappearance and crash will probably never be known, though Malaysia has said the plane's erratic movements after takeoff were consistent with deliberate actions. \n The sister of the pilot, Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, slammed authorities for ending the search without settling the mystery, saying her brother will never be absolved of suspicions he deliberately crashed the plane. \n \"How can they end the search like that? There will be finger-pointing again,\" Sakinab Shah said. \n The transport ministers praised the efforts of the search crews and said the search had presented an \"unprecedented challenge.\" \n \"Today's announcement is significant for our three countries, but more importantly for the family and friends of those on board the aircraft. We again take this opportunity to honor the memory of those who have lost their lives and acknowledge the enormous loss felt by their loved ones,\" the ministers wrote. \"We remain hopeful that new information will come to light and that at some point in the future the aircraft will be located.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "MH370 hunt ends, maybe forever, after nearly 3 years, $160M"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 19, 2013 file photo, Prince performs at the Billboard Music Awards at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. The Minnesota judge overseeing Prince's estate holds a hearing Thursday, Jan. 12, 2017, on whether to declare his siblings as his heirs, and who should manage the rock superstar's estate going forward. No will has surfaced since Prince died of an accidental painkiller overdose in April 2016. \n MINNEAPOLIS >> \"Money Don't Matter 2 Night,\" Prince once sang. But his money matters a lot to the IRS, and the case provides a cautionary tale not just for the wealthy, but not-so-rich Americans as well. \n Prince's estate has until Saturday to file an estate tax payment for the late rock superstar, and the taxes are expected to ultimately swallow nearly half the estate's estimated $200 million value, meaning a likely windfall of roughly $100 million for the government. Estate law experts say Prince could have prevented that. Here are the issues: \n WHY THERE'S SO MUCH MONEY \n Prince left no known will when he died in April of an accidental painkiller overdose, and apparently did nothing to shelter his assets from the taxman. So, federal and state taxes will claim roughly half of it, said Mark Bakko, leader of the tax practice in the Minneapolis office of the accounting firm Baker Tilly, which is not involved in the case. \n The value of Prince's estate when he died is subject to a federal tax of 40 percent and Minnesota's tax of 16 percent. With exclusions and deductions, the total bite will be closer to 50 percent. The estate can seek an extension for filing the return but can't delay the first payment. \n DAMAGE COULD HAVE BEEN LIMITED \n Experts say Prince could have set up an estate plan with trusts to benefit any relatives and charities he chose \u2014 while leaving little if anything to be taxed. \n \"The reality is there are only three options,\" said Robert Strauss of the Los Angeles estate law firm Weinstock Manion, which isn't involved either. \"There's family and friends, there's charity, and there's Uncle Sam. And most clients would rather that Uncle Sam got less.\" \n Instead, Prince's six siblings are expected to equally split what's left. \n Estates worth under $5.45 million for individuals and $10.9 million for couples aren't subject to federal estate taxes. But David Herzig, a tax law professor at Valparaiso University, said the case is a reminder that there are good reasons to have a will and estate plan, even if taxes aren't an issue, because they can set up trusts that keep assets private and out of the probate process. \n \"(People) think they have to be as rich as Prince before they need estate plans,\" said Jeffrey Scott, a St. Paul estate attorney. \"If your net worth is a couple hundred thousand dollars, you need some kind of estate plan.\" \n COMING UP WITH THE CASH \n The estate doesn't have to pay the entire bill by Saturday. Big estates can make payments over time. \n That helps because Prince wasn't very liquid. A recent inventory listed about $110,000 in cash, about $830,000 in gold bars but no stocks or bonds. It also listed real estate worth about $25.4 million. That inventory doesn't include his entertainment assets, which are still being valued. \n LESSONS FROM MICHAEL JACKSON \n It's not clear whether the IRS and Prince's estate will agree on the value of his music catalog because it's difficult to put a dollar value on such assets. \n The experience of Michael Jackson's estate suggests a long slog in court if they can't agree. Jackson died in 2009. The tax case finally goes to trial in Los Angeles next month over more than $700 million in taxes, interest and penalties. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Tax deadline looms for Prince estate; government to get half"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this May 9, 2008, file photo, male sage grouses fight for the attention of female southwest of Rawlins, Wyo. Republicans in Congress are readying plans to roll back the reach of the Endangered Species Act after decades of complaints that it hinders drilling, logging and other activities on public lands. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This Nov. 4, 2013, file photo shows a salmon making its way up the salmon ladder at Nimbus Hatchery in Rancho Cordova, Calif. In control of Congress and soon the White House, Republicans are readying plans to roll back the influence of the Endangered Species Act, one of the government's most powerful conservation tools, after decades of complaints that it hinders drilling, logging and other activities. \n BILLINGS, Mont. >> In control of Congress and soon the White House, Republicans are readying plans to roll back the influence of the Endangered Species Act, one of the government's most powerful conservation tools, after decades of complaints that it hinders drilling, logging and other activities. \n Over the past eight years, GOP lawmakers sponsored dozens of measures aimed at curtailing the landmark law or putting species such as gray wolves and sage grouse out of its reach. Almost all were blocked by Democrats and the White House or lawsuits from environmentalists. \n Now, with the ascension of President-elect Donald Trump, Republicans see an opportunity to advance broad changes to a law they contend has been exploited by wildlife advocates to block economic development. \n \"It has never been used for the rehabilitation of species. It's been used for control of the land,\" said House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop. \"We've missed the entire purpose of the Endangered Species Act. It has been hijacked.\" \n Bishop said he \"would love to invalidate\" the law and would need other lawmakers' cooperation. \n The 1973 act was ushered through Congress nearly unanimously, in part to stave off extinction of the national symbol, the bald eagle. Eagle populations have since rebounded, and the birds were taken off the threatened and endangered list in 2007. \n In the eagles' place, another emblematic species \u2014 the wolf \u2014 has emerged as a prime example of what critics say is wrong with the current law: seemingly endless litigation that offers federal protection for species long after government biologists conclude that they have recovered. \n Wolf attacks on livestock have provoked hostility against the law, which keeps the animals off-limits to hunting in most states. Other species have attracted similar ire \u2014 Canada lynx for halting logging projects, the lesser prairie chicken for impeding oil and gas development and salmon for blocking efforts to reallocate water in California. \n Reforms proposed by Republicans include placing limits on lawsuits that have been used to maintain protections for some species and force decisions on others, as well as adopting a cap on how many species can be protected and giving states a greater say in the process. \n Wildlife advocates are bracing for changes that could make it harder to add species to the protected list and to usher them through to recovery. Dozens are due for decisions this year, including the Pacific walrus and the North American wolverine, two victims of potential habitat loss due to climate change. \n \"Any species that gets in the way of a congressional initiative or some kind of development will be clearly at risk,\" said Jamie Rappaport Clark, president of Defenders of Wildlife and a former Fish and Wildlife Service director under President Bill Clinton. \"The political lineup is as unfavorable to the Endangered Species Act as I can remember.\" \n More than 1,600 plants and animals in the U.S. are now shielded by the law. Hundreds more are under consideration for protections. Republicans complain that fewer than 70 have recovered and had protections lifted. \n \"That tension just continues to expand,\" said Jason Shogren, professor of natural resource conservation at the University of Wyoming. \"Like a pressure cooker, every now and then, you've got to let out some steam or it's really going to blow.\" \n Congress reconvened last week with two critics of the law holding key Senate leadership positions \u2014 Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso as the incoming chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works and Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski as chairwoman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. \n Spokesman Mike Danylak said Barrasso will seek to \"strengthen and modernize\" the management of endangered species but offered no specifics. \n Barrasso's predecessor, Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, suggested in an interview that one species should be removed from the list every time another is added. Another Republican, Alaska Sen. Dan Sullivan, said he wants to limit applications for protections to one species at a time. \n In the House, Rep. Tom McClintock of California, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Federal Lands, said he wants to ease logging restrictions in national forests to reduce tree density blamed for catastrophic wildfires. \n Some Democrats, too, have been frustrated with the law: Minnesota Rep. Collin Peterson and two other Democrats joined 11 Republicans last week on a bill to end protections for wolves in the Great Lakes and Wyoming. \n Simply by striking a few key words from the law, it could be transformed from a tool to protect huge areas of habitat for imperiled species into little more than limits on hunting for protected animals, said J.B. Ruhl, a Vanderbilt University law professor considered a leading expert on the act. \n Trump's position is unclear. A strong advocate for energy development, he has lamented environmental policies he says hinder drilling. But his appointment of Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke as Interior secretary was seen by some conservationists as a signal that Trump will support protections for public lands to the benefit of fish and wildlife. \n The Trump transition team did not respond to requests for comment. The incoming administration already has immigration, the health care law repeal and infrastructure improvements atop its agenda. \n If the administration or Congress wants to gut the law, \"they certainly can do it,\" Vermont Law School professor Patrick Parenteau said. \"The real question with the Endangered Species Act is where does it rank?\" \n Advocates and senior Obama administration officials argue the law's success is best measured by extinctions avoided \u2014 for 99 percent of protected species, including black-footed ferrets, whooping cranes, American crocodiles and hundreds of others. \n \"There's a lot of evidence that some species are conservation-reliant,\" Ruhl said. Political fights over certain species have dragged out for decades, he added, because recovering them from \"the brink of extinction is a lot harder than we thought.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "GOP targets landmark Endangered Species Act for big changes"}

{"date": "January 17, 2017", "text": "A high surf warning has been issued by the National Weather Service through most of the Hawaiian Islands from Wednesday noon through 6 a.m. Thursday. with waves on northwest shores rising between 20 to 25 feet. \n A high surf advisory has been issued for west shores of Oahu, with waves expected to rise between 14 and 18 feet. \n The weather service warned that beach goers can expect strong breaking waves, large shore breaks and rip currents, making swimming difficult and dangerous. \n \"Anyone entering the water could face significant injury or death,\" the Weather Service said. \n The weather on Wednesday is expected to be sunny in Honolulu ranging from 70 to 82 degrees Fahrenheit and on the Oahu's north shore, a high of 79 degrees with east winds at 10 to 15 mph. \n ", "author": "By Gary T. Kubota gkubota@staradvertiser.com", "title": "More high surf due on northwest shores"}

