{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of State John Kerry speaks in New York. Kerry is threatening to cut off all contacts with Moscow over Syria, unless Russian and Syrian government attacks on Aleppo end. \n WASHINGTON >> A year after Russia waded into the war in Syria, aiming to flex its national security muscles and prop up beleaguered Syrian President Bashar Assad, Moscow appears no closer to one of its military goals: getting the U.S. to coordinate combat operations in the civil war. And prospects of a diplomatic resolution seem dim. \n The yearlong offensive of airstrikes and ground combat in Syria, however, has showcased some of Moscow's newer military capabilities and underscored President Vladimir Putin's willingness to go to war to protect an ally \u2014 particularly one that hosts a critical Russian base on the Mediterranean Sea. More broadly, it put Russia at the center of the conflict, providing an opening for diplomatic cooperation between the U.S. and Russia to end the civil war. But it also further complicated the U.S.-led campaign to wipe out Islamic State militants who found a haven amid the chaos. \n The diplomacy was collapsing this week with the U.S. threatening to end all Syria-related cooperation unless the bombardment of Aleppo stopped. Russia responded that the U.S. was encouraging extremist attacks on Russian assets. \n Russia has demanded that the U.S separate the anti-Assad rebels it has supported from al-Qaida-linked militant groups, who often intermingle. But the U.S. has been unable to do so, and instead has said it remains focused on defeating the Islamic State group. \n The bickering and diplomatic stalemates have threatened to compound other U.S.-Russian issues, such as economic sanctions or the annexation of Crimea. \n As members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Thursday demanded to know the Obama administration's \"Plan B\" for Syria, Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken laid out the administration's view. \n \"The leverage (the U.S. has) is the consequences for Russia of being stuck in a quagmire that is going to have a number of profoundly negative effects,\" Blinken said, adding that Russia will be seen throughout the world as complicit with Assad as well as with Hezbollah and Iran \"in the slaughter of Sunni Muslims,\" Syria's largest religious group. \n Under blistering criticism from senators, Blinken said the administration was \"actively considering other options\" for how to end the bloodshed. Syria's civil war has cost 500,000 lives and created the worst refugee crisis since World War II. \n A year ago, worried about its naval base on Syria's coast and determined to shore up Assad, Moscow began to build up its military in Syria, sending in aircraft, fighter jets and troops. \n Against the backdrop of an early failed U.S. program to train moderate Syrian forces, Putin began launching airstrikes in Syria on Sept. 30, 2015. Moscow insisted it was targeting Islamic State extremists. But in the ensuing months, Russian airstrikes pounded rebel strongholds and civilians, largely in areas where there is no Islamic State presence. According to military officials and humanitarian groups on the ground, the Russians have bombed hospitals, schools and, recently, a U.S. aid convoy, killing throngs of innocent civilians either deliberately or inadvertently, because of their use of powerful but imprecise \"dumb\" bombs. \n Concerned about safety in the increasingly crowded skies over Syria, the U.S. set up a communications link with Russia to de-conflict the airspace and reduce the risk of collisions. That minor cooperation will continue even as other cooperation is ruled out. \n According to U.S. officials familiar with the discussions, the Russians made it clear to the Pentagon from the start that a key long-term goal was joint military coordination with the U.S. \u2014 a move military officials and others stridently opposed. \n Russian leaders, said one senior U.S. official, had a singular focus during the talks with defense officials and that was to be able to project themselves as military allies with the United States. The official was not authorized to discuss the issue publicly so spoke on condition of anonymity. \n \"Putin had several objectives entering into Syria. One was to demonstrate Russia is a global power,\" said Evelyn Farkas, former U.S. deputy assistant defense secretary and now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council in Washington. \n But last week the negotiations to set up a joint military implementation center collapsed, and it became clear that Russia was not going to make good on its publicly stated effort to control Assad or force the government to abide by the cease-fire. \n \"I think this has proven to be tougher than the Russians expected,\" said Derek Chollet, a former assistant defense secretary for international affairs and now a senior adviser at the German Marshall Fund. \"I see no evidence that Russia's intervention in Syria is increasing its diplomatic or political influence\" around the world. \n \"In fact, if anything, what I've heard from Europeans is that the intervention in Syria last year was so shocking in its brutality that it quashed any sort of momentum there was to lift sanction against Russia in Ukraine,\" he said. \n Meanwhile, the fighting, according to experts, has revealed an array of technological and strategic weaknesses within Russia's military and its command structure, including its lack of precision targeting, a cumbersome decision-making process and, at times, limited real-time awareness about what is going on at the battlefield. \n The U.S.-led coaltion has also had its share of mishaps on the battlefield, including an airstrike that mistakenly hit dozens of Syrian soldiers just as the cease-fire began earlier this month \u2014 plunging the talks into turmoil. \n Russian's military campaign in Syria, however, did allow Moscow to showcase in combat for the first time its long-range cruise missiles, launched from the air and from the sea. \n Farkas and others say that in the wake of the collapse of the cease-fire and the resumption of all-out war, time is not on Russia's side. \n \"The Russians need to be thinking more carefully, that the Pottery Barn rules apply,\" said Farkas, referring to the often-quoted \"you break it, you bought it\" slogan. \"Russia now has lead responsibility for rebuilding Syria.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia fighting in Syria for a year, still at odds with U.S."}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "JAMM AQUINO / NOV. 2015 \n A barista at Honolulu Coffee Co. pours the finished product of pour over coffee at Honolulu Coffee Company's flagship store in Waikiki. \n MILWAUKEE \u00bb A new study suggests a significant relationship between caffeine and dementia prevention, though it stops short of establishing cause and effect. \n The study, published in The Journals of Gerontology, Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, found higher caffeine intake in women age 65 and older was associated with reduced odds of developing dementia or cognitive impairment. \n Among the 6,467 women in the study, self-reported caffeine consumption of more than 261 milligrams of caffeine was associated with a 36 percent reduction in the risk of dementia over 10 years of follow-up. That level is equivalent to two to three 8-ounce cups of coffee per day, five to six 8-ounce cups of black tea, or seven to eight 12-ounce cans of cola. \n \"While we can't make a direct link between higher caffeine consumption and lower incidence of cognitive impairment and dementia, with further study, we can better quantify its relationship with cognitive health outcomes,\" said Ira Driscoll, the study's lead author and a professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. \"Research on this topic will be beneficial not only from a preventative standpoint but also to better understand the underlying mechanisms and their involvement in dementia and cognitive impairment,\" she said. \n Researchers know that caffeine binds to pre-existing adenosine receptors in the brain, so the findings point to a potential mechanism worth further exploring to determine a causative effect, Driscoll told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. \n \"The mounting evidence of caffeine consumption as a potentially protective factor against cognitive impairment is exciting given that caffeine is also an easily modifiable dietary factor\" with few risk factors, Driscoll said. \n The study was unique because researchers had an unprecedented opportunity to examine over time the relationships between caffeine intake and dementia incidence in a large group of women who consumed different amounts of caffeine, according to Driscoll. \n The findings come from participants in the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Driscoll and her research colleagues used data from 6,467 postmenopausal women age 65 and older who reported some level of caffeine consumption. Intake was estimated from questions about coffee, tea and cola beverage intake, including frequency and serving size. \n In 10 years or less of follow-up with annual assessments of cognitive function, 388 of these women received a diagnosis of probable dementia or some form of global cognitive impairment. \n Those who consumed above the median amount of caffeine for this group (with an average intake of 261mg per day) were diagnosed at a lower rate than those who fell below the median (with an average intake of 64mg per day). The researchers adjusted for risk factors such as hormone therapy, age, race, education, body mass index, sleep quality, depression, hypertension, prior cardiovascular disease, diabetes, smoking and alcohol consumption. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel  \n ", "author": "By Karen Herzog Milwaukee Journal Sentinel", "title": "Could caffeine help prevent dementia?"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man holds a copy of the program for the funeral of Terence Crutcher during services to honor him in Tulsa, Okla., on Sept. 24. Crutcher was fatally shot Sept. 16 by Tulsa Police Officer Betty Shelby. \n TULSA POLICE DEPARTMENT VIA AP \n This undated file photo provided by the Tulsa Oklahoma Police Department shows officer Betty Shelby. Police say Tulsa officer Shelby fired the fatal shot that killed Terence Crutcher on Sept. 16. \n OKLAHOMA CITY \u00bb A lawyer for a white Oklahoma police officer charged in an unarmed black man's death said she was so hyper-focused on the situation that she didn't hear other officers arrive on the scene or even the deadly gunshot she fired.  \n Tulsa officer Betty Shelby, who is expected to plead not guilty to first-degree manslaughter at her arraignment on Friday, experienced what is commonly called \"auditory exclusion,\" a condition in which people in high-stress situations often don't hear sounds around them, attorney Scott Wood said. \n \"She didn't hear the gunshot, didn't hear the sirens coming up behind her just prior to the shot,\" Wood said Thursday. \"And it's not only a common phenomenon described in literature, but it's the No. 1 perceptual distortion by people I have represented who have been involved in shootings \u2014 diminished sound or complete auditory exclusion.\" \n He said that while Shelby's defense won't hinge on whether she was aware of other officers when she shot 40-year-old Terence Crutcher on Sept. 16, it would be important for jurors to know. \n \"It's just one of the many facts that have happened, and I don't think our defense turns on whether or not she knew they were there,\" Wood said. \n Auditory exclusion is commonly reported by officers who fire their weapons, said David Klinger, a professor of criminology and criminal justice at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. \n Klinger, a former Los Angeles police officer who fatally shot a suspect just four months into the job, interviewed 80 law enforcement officers involved in 113 separate cases where they shot citizens. Diminished sound was officers' most commonly experienced perceptual distortion, reported in 82 percent of the cases either before or after the shooting, or in some cases both, his study shows. \n \"Other researchers have documented the phenomenon of muted sound or full auditory exclusion where you don't hear anything in a variety of circumstances outside of policing,\" Klinger said. \n Other distortions include tunnel vision and altered perception of time, in which situations are experienced in slow motion. \n Prosecutors allege in court documents that Shelby \"reacted unreasonably\" by escalating the situation with Crutcher, who she encountered after coming across his vehicle abandoned in the middle of a north Tulsa street. Videos from a police helicopter and a dashboard camera of the shooting and its aftermath showed Crutcher, who was unarmed, walking away from Shelby with his arms in the air, but the footage does not offer a clear view of when Shelby fired the single shot. \n Shelby told investigators Crutcher refused repeated requests to stop and get on his knees and that she feared for her life and thought Crutcher was going to kill her, according to an affidavit filed with the manslaughter charge. \n Another officer, who arrived on the scene after Shelby had already drawn her firearm, used a stun gun on Crutcher, but Wood said Shelby never even realized that officer was there until after she fired the deadly shot. \n Despite the research, Lori Brown, a professor of sociology at Meredith College in Raleigh, North Carolina, said she believes it's dangerous to think a police officer would use auditory exclusion as a possible explanation for killing a man who was not doing anything aggressive. \n \"My response would be to focus on the research on implicit bias that, sadly, most of us have, even African-Americans, about black men, especially a larger black man and the fact that we tend to see them as threatening even when their behavior is in no way aggressive,\" Brown said. \"This may be why the same behaviors in white men often end peacefully but can result in the death of a black male.\" \n Shelby, 42, faces between four years and life in prison if convicted. She surrendered to authorities after being charged last week and is currently free on $50,000 bond. Wood said he expects to enter a not-guilty plea at her arraignment. \n Wood had sought to expedite the arraignment, citing concerns for the officer's safety amid an expected \"onslaught of attendance\" at the Friday hearing, but a judge on Thursday denied that request. \n Crutcher's shooting came four months after former Tulsa County volunteer sheriff's deputy Robert Bates was sentenced to four years in prison on a second-degree manslaughter conviction in the 2015 death of an unarmed black man. Bates has said he confused his stun gun with his handgun. A police investigator maintained Bates experienced \"slip and capture,\" a high-stress phenomenon in which a person's behavior \"slips\" off the intended course of action because it's \"captured\" by a stronger response. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lawyer: Jury should hear about Oklahoma cop's 'auditory exclusion'"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A Chinese fishing boat catches fires during an inspection by the South Korean coast guard in the water off Hong Island, South Korea. \n SEOUL \u00bb Three Chinese fishermen likely died from inhaling toxic fumes when a fire erupted after South Korean coast guard officers threw \"flashbang\" grenades into the fishing boat, officials in Seoul said Friday. \n The latest in a series of violent clashes between South Korea's coast guard and Chinese fishing boats venturing farther from their increasingly barren home waters happened Thursday when a South Korean coast guard vessel tried to stop the Chinese boat from suspected illegal fishing about 43 miles from an island off South Korea's southwestern coast. \n The vessel, which carried 17 fishermen, initially resisted and fled before South Korean coast guard officers managed to board the ship and threw flashbang grenades into its locked steering room, the coast guard said in a statement. Flashbang grenades are non-lethal devices that produce a blinding flash of light and loud sound. \n A fire erupted on the boat and three fishermen found lying in the boat's engine room later died, the coast guard statement said. \n Coast guard officers said the three likely died after inhaling toxic smoke but that autopsies were planned to find the exact causes of their deaths. Authorities will also investigate if the flashbang grenades caused the fire. \n The 14 surviving fishermen were taken to a South Korean port for questioning, according to the coast guard. \n Seoul's Foreign Ministry on Friday expressed regret over the deaths, but noted the Chinese boat was fishing illegally and had tried to flee to avoid an inspection. \n China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment. \n Chinese fishing boats have been going farther afield to feed growing domestic demand for seafood as catches have decreased in waters close to China's shores. \n Chinese boats have regularly had violent clashes with South Korea's coast guard, and in 2014, a South Korea coast guardsman fatally shot the captain of a Chinese fishing vessel who was violently resisting an inspection. \n In 2012, a Chinese fisherman died after being hit by a rubber bullet fired by a South Korean guardsman. A year earlier, a South Korean coast guard officer was killed in a clash with Chinese fishermen. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 Chinese fishermen dead after clash with S. Korea coast guard"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "Puna Geothermal Venture reported a release of steam this afternoon from one of its wells, Hawaii County Civil Defense reported. \n Hawaii County Fire Battalion Chief Gerald Kosaki said Puna Geothermal monitors on the perimeter of the facility registered at 15.7 parts per billion of hydrogen sulfide, \"a very minute amount,\" shortly after the release. \n Monitors in the community did not detect any of the dangerous gas, he said. \n The release occurred at 3 p.m. today, and it was contained and secured by 3:45 p.m. \n The Fire Department monitored the air quality at the site, the perimeter and the surrounding community. \n Civil Defense spokeswoman Kanani Aton said in an email: \"Based on all available data, there is no threat to the public and no evacuation is necessary.\" \n Civil Defense is monitoring the situation, and will notify the public of any changes. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Release of geothermal steam reported; no evacuation of Puna residents required"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Japanese architect Kengo Kuma, left, speaks about his design of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics stadium, background, during a press conference in Tokyo. \n TOKYO >> Japan's government approved a plan Friday for a nearly $1.5 billion contract with a joint venture to build a new main stadium for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. \n Officials said the stadium construction would begin in December, more than a year after an earlier plan was scrapped because of spiraling costs and an unpopular design. \n The Japan Sport Council, a government-funded organization operating the project, said the stadium was scheduled for completion at the end of November, 2019, but still five months behind schedule. The delay had forced a venue change for the Rugby World Cup that Japan is also hosting just before that. \n The cost of an earlier design by the late Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid had risen to $2.65 billion, more than twice the initial forecast. \n The $15 billion contract is just below the 155 billion ($15.5 billion) ceiling set this time for the contractors, a joint venture among Taisei Corp., Azusa Sekkei Co. and the office of Kengo Kuma, an architect who designed the new stadium. \n Olympic Minister Tamayo Marukawa told reporters she would ensure the steady progress of the construction. \n Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike said she would closely watch the expensive project that the city is also part-funding. \"For the burden we have to share, I will ensure it's utilized for the people ofTokyo, and raise my voice when necessary,\" she said. \n The stadium delay is part of Japan's trouble-plagued preparation for the Olympics, underscoring a widespread lack of cost-control. The Japanese organizers have also faced a bribery scandal. They are now also bracing for a possible delay in the construction of roads linking the main Olympic venues near a new fish market project, which has been hit by a construction scandal and tainted underground water. \n The Tokyo metropolitan government is currently reviewing the ballooning cost because of concern about its financial burden and the impact on Tokyo taxpayers. \n The city-appointed panel of outside experts warned in a report Thursday that the total cost could exceed $30 billion without a drastic cost-cutting effort, and suggested using existing facilities instead of building new ones that could likely end up as white elephants. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Japan OKs $1.5 billion contract for new Tokyo stadium"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / 2013 \n President Barack Obama and Israeli President Shimon Peres raise their glasses in a toast after Obama received the Israeli Medal of Distinction from Peres during a State Dinner at President's residence in Jerusalem, Israel. \n TEL AVIV, Israel >> President Barack Obama flew to Israel Friday to pay his respects to Shimon Peres, the former leader whose six decades of work shaping this tiny nation into a powerful and industrious force generated tremendous respect from Obama. \n Peres served stints as prime minister, president and foreign minister during his lengthy political career. He welcomed Obama on his first trip to Israel as president back in 2013 as the two men sought to start a peace process with the Palestinians that has so far failed. \n The United States delegation includes former President Bill Clinton, Secretary of State John Kerry and about 20 members of Congress and several administration officials. \n Air Force One landed in Tel Aviv early Friday morning. Obama will attend Peres' funeral at Jerusalem's Mount Herzl cemetery. This is Obama's second trip to Israel as president and he is expected to return home shortly after the service ends. \n The two leaders enjoyed a friendly relationship and a mutual admiration of the other's intellect and intentions. Upon his passing, Obama said no one did more over the years than Peres to build the alliance between the U.S. and Israel. Obama said the alliance is stronger than ever, notwithstanding tensions over Obama's pursuit of an agreement designed to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. \n The two leaders shared similar visions for a two-state solution to resolve the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Peres' son-in-law and personal physician, Dr. Rafi Walden, said Obama had called the family overnight on Wednesday during Peres' final hours and spoke to Peres' daughter, Tzvia. \"We are deeply moved,\" Walden said. \n Obama awarded Peres the Medal of Freedom, the United States' highest civilian honor, in 2012, saying \"Shimon teaches us to never settle for the world as it is.\" \n In turn, Peres bestowed the Medal of Distinction on Obama, making him the first sitting U.S. president to receive Israel's highest civilian honor. \n \"This award speaks to you, to your tireless work to make Israel strong, to make peace possible,\" Peres said in 2013. \"Your presidency has given the closest ties between Israel and the United States a new height, a sense of intimacy, a vision for the future.\" \n Those who worked with both men said they shared mutual respect and affection. \n \"Even a man into his 90s, Peres was always thinking about the future,\" said Dennis Ross, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former adviser to Obama. \"I think that captured the president's imagination and added to the respect for him.\" \n Ross, who said he spoke often with Peres during the past three decades, said the Israeli leader believed that Obama's heart was in the right place. But \"he wasn't always convinced that the president fully understood the nature of Israel's predicament in the region,\" Ross said. \n Obama and former President Bill Clinton will attend the service for Peres. President George W. Bush had committed to his annual 100-kilometer mountain bike ride with wounded veterans and is not expected to attend. \n Presenting the Medal of Freedom, Obama called Peres a true founding father who knew the necessity of strength. He said Peres also recognized that a nation's security also depends upon the righteousness of its deeds. \"Even in the darkest moments, he's never lost hope in, as he puts it, 'a Middle East that is not a killing field but a field of creativity and growth,'\" Obama said. \n Peres used the moment to reflect on how the United State and Israel are linked in the pursuit of liberty. He also warned that Iran served as a danger to that liberty and was a nation ruled by a leadership that aimed to rule the Middle East. \"They bring darkness to a world longing for light.\" \n Obama has staked his foreign policy legacy on a deal with Iran designed to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons. Ross said that Peres supported efforts to constrain Iran's nuclear ambitions. He also saw some weaknesses in the deal, but felt the best way for Israel to influence the deal was to do so quietly rather than publicly. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Obama arrives in Israel for Shimon Peres memorial service"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton looks out to the audience during a campaign stop in Des Moines, Iowa today. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton received a boost among voters under 30 in key battleground states in a poll conducted after Monday's first presidential debate. \n A poll released today by Public Policy Polling shows Clinton with a large lead among voters under 30 \u2014 a group she has struggled with \u2014 in Colorado, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia. \n In all five states, she has at least a 19-point lead with younger voters in the race with Republican Donald Trump. \n Colorado: Clinton 50, Trump 27, Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson 15 percent, Green Party candidate Jill Stein 2 percent. \n Florida: Clinton 54, Trump 28, Johnson 4, Stein 4. \n North Carolina: Clinton 46, Trump 27, Johnson 19. \n Pennsylvania: Clinton 45, Trump 22, Johnson 11, Stein 4. \n Virginia: Clinton 44, Johnson 24, Trump 21, Stein 2. \n The poll also showed those voters saw Clinton as the clear winner of Monday's debate with Trump. \n Younger voters overwhelmingly supported Clinton's primary challenger Sen. Bernie Sanders, and she has struggled to sway them after Sanders dropped out of the race and endorsed her. \n Sanders has campaigned for Clinton since the Democratic convention, most recently at the University of New Hampshire on Wednesday. \n House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday said millennial interest in Johnson's Libertarian campaign is keeping the race between Clinton and Trump close. \n Pelosi, D-Calif., added that Clinton \"is going to have to make her own case to them as well, because you can only transfer so much.\" \n Overall, Clinton has solid leads of 5 to 7 points among all likely voters in Colorado, Pennsylvania and Virginia. In Florida and North Carolina she had a smaller lead of 3 to 4 points \u2014 48 percent to 45 percent and 49 percent to 45 percent \u2014 but within the poll's margin of error. \n The poll interviewed likely voters on Sept. 27 and 28 through automated phone calls to landlines and online interviews of cell phone only respondents. There were 694 respondents in Colorado, 826 in Florida, 861 in North Carolina, 886 in Pennsylvania and 811 in Virginia. The margins of error for the surveys are 3.7 points, 3.4 points, 3.3 points, 3.3 points and 3.4 points. \n \u2014\u2014 \n \u00a92016 CQ-Roll Call, Inc., All Rights Reserved  \n ", "author": "By Christina Flom CQ-Roll Call", "title": "Post-debate poll shows millennials turn toward Clinton"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, center, poses with a fist bump with Defense Chief Delfin Lorenzana, left, and Armed Forces Chief Ricardo Visaya during his \"Talk with the Airmen\" on the anniversary of the 250th Presidential Airlift Wing on Sept. 13 at the Philippine Air Force headquarters in suburban Pasay city, southeast of Manila, Philippines. \n MANILA \u00bb Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte raised the rhetoric over his bloody anti-crime war to a new level Friday, comparing it to Hitler and the Holocaust and saying he would be \"happy to slaughter\" 3 million addicts. \n Duterte issued his latest threat against drug dealers and users early Friday on returning to his hometown in southern Davao city after visiting Vietnam, where he discussed his anti-drug campaign with Vietnamese leaders and ways for their governments to fight transnational crimes, including illegal drugs. \n Duterte has said his public death threats against drug suspects are designed to scare them to stop selling drugs and to discourage would-be users. But his latest remarks took that crime-busting approach to a different level. \n He said he had been \"portrayed or pictured to be a cousin of Hitler,\" without elaborating. \n Moments later he said, \"Hitler massacred 3 million Jews \u2026 there's 3 million drug addicts. There are. I'd be happy to slaughter them.\" \n He was referring to a Philippine government estimate of the number of drug addicts in the country. Historians say 6 million Jews were killed by the Nazis under Hitler before and during World War II. \n During the presidential election campaign earlier this year and during the three months he has held office, the tough-talking Duterte has threatened to drown drug suspects to fatten the fish in Manila Bay. He also threatened to execute drug traffickers by hanging \u2014 because he didn't want to waste electricity on them \u2014 until their heads were severed from their bodies. \n While Hitler's victims were innocent people, Duterte said his targets are \"all criminals\" and that getting rid of them would \"finish the (drug) problem of my country and save the next generation from perdition.\" \n Germany's government slammed Duterte's comments as unacceptable, and called in the Philippine ambassador to the Foreign Ministry over the matter. \n \"It is impossible to make any comparison to the unique atrocities of the Shoah and Holocaust,\" said Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer in Berlin. \n World Jewish Congress President Ronald Lauder said Duterte's remarks were \"revolting\" and demanded that he retract them and apologize. \n \"Drug abuse is a serious issue. But what President Duterte said is not only profoundly inhumane, but it demonstrates an appalling disrespect for human life that is truly heartbreaking for the democratically elected leader of a great country,\" Lauder said in a statement issued from Jerusalem, where he was attending the funeral of former Israeli leader Shimon Peres. \n The U.S. State Department, which is looking to sustain its longstanding alliance with the Philippines, called the comments \"troubling.\" \n \"Words matter, especially when they are from leaders of sovereign nations, especially sovereign nations with whom we have long and valued relations with,\" spokesman Mark Toner told reporters. He repeated U.S. calls for Philippine authorities to investigate any credible reports of extra-judicial killings. \n U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, top-ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was more blunt. \n \"It is reprehensible and frankly disgusting that a democratically-elected leader is talking about the mass murder of his own people, with Hitler's Holocaust as his inspiration no less,\" he said in a statement. \n Philippine Rep. Teodoro Baguilat wondered if the president was suggesting that \"it's open season now for all addicts, no more rehabilitation, just kill them systematically like what the Nazis did with the Jews.\" He expressed fears that Jewish businesspeople might boycott the Philippines. \n Also critical was Phil Robertson, Asia deputy director for Human Rights Watch, who said it was baffling why anyone would want to compare themselves to \"one of the largest mass murderers in human history.\" \n Robertson said that in today's context, Hitler would be accused of crimes against humanity. \n \"Is that what Duterte wants? Does he want to be sent to the international criminal court? Because he's working his way there,\" Robertson said. \n Amnesty International said Duterte \"has sunk to new depths\" and urged governments around the world to condemn his \"extremely dangerous outburst.\" \n A spokesman for Yad Vashem, the Jerusalem-based world center for Holocaust research and commemoration, declined to comment on Duterte's remarks. \n Duterte's campaign promise to end corruption and crime, especially illegal drugs, within six months of taking office on June 30 carried him to an overwhelming victory in May's presidential election. \n Since the vote, more than 3,000 suspected drug dealers and users have been killed and nearly 700,000 others have surrendered in his crackdown. Duterte has asked for a six-month extension to finish the job. \n His supporters and many Filipinos exasperated with widespread crime have welcomed his tough approach, but a growing number of critics, including U.N. officials, the European Union and the United States, have voiced concerns over the widespread killings and human rights violations. \n He reacted Friday by calling critics from the European Union a \"group of idiots in the purest form.\" \n Duterte lashed out at the U.S., his country's longtime treaty ally, and the E.U. for finding fault with his methods, saying European countries were hypocrites for not doing enough to help the large numbers of refugees fleeing from the violence in the Middle East. \n \"There are migrants escaping from the Middle East. You allow them to rot and then you're worried about the deaths of about 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 (people in the Philippines),\" he said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Duterte 'happy to slaughter' drug suspects; mentions Hitler"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Workers examine a section of the roof at the Hoboken station where a train crashed into the building, Thursday Sept. 29, 2016 in Hoboken, N.J. A rush-hour commuter train crashed through a barrier at the busy Hoboken station and lurched across the waiting area Thursday morning, killing one person and injuring more than 100 others in a tangle of broken concrete, twisted metal and dangling wires. \n HOBOKEN, N.J. >> Fabiola Bittar de Kroon was in a rush to catch the train. \n When she dropped off her toddler daughter at daycare on Thursday morning, she barely had a moment to chat. \n \"She was dropping off the daughter, I was closing up the stroller,\" daycare director Karlos Magner recalled. \"We had a good talk for like a minute. And she said she was in a rush.\" \n De Kroon sprinted off to the Hoboken Terminal. \n A short time later, a train traveling too fast crashed through a barrier and into the station, killing de Kroon amid falling debris and injuring more than 100 other people. \n Daycare director Maria Sharp said de Kroon, who had recently moved to the United States from Brazil with her husband and daughter, was very involved, always wanting to know how her daughter was growing academically. \n \"You just saw a smile on her face every time she came to pick up her daughter,\" Sharp said, \"and that's what I keep seeing.\" \n De Kroon, 34, worked for the software company SAP in its legal department in Brazil until earlier this year, when she moved to New Jersey after her husband got a job with an international liquor company. \n SAP spokesman Andy Kendzie said the company was \"shaken by the news\" of the train crash and de Kroon's death. He said the company expressed its deepest condolences to de Kroon's family and friends and to all of those affected by the \"tragic event.\" \n Cecilia Marques, a former co-worker at a company that specialized in travel to Brazil, said she was saddened and shocked by the news of de Kroon's death. \n \"I am speechless and feel like the world stopped for some moments,\" Marques said. \"I had the privilege to get to know and work with Fabiola for some years, and I can say she was a great, talented, big and genuine heart.\" \n De Kroon, a 2011 master's degree graduate from Florida International University's College of Business, previously lived in Florida but was a Brazil native, according to her Facebook account. \n Dolf Wiemer, a former LG Electronics co-worker who lives in Brazil, said he knew the couple well and in April had visited them before they moved to the U.S. De Kroon was excited about the change and her husband's major career move, Wiemer said. \n The de Kroons, he said, were \"an international couple not avoiding any adventure by even moving countries in (pursuit) of a better (life).\" \n \"Even if this means that you have to follow your partner and have to get used to other cultures and ways of living,\" he said. \"It is tragic that she had to be in such a bad place at that time while pursuing their dreams of life.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Mother killed in train crash had recently moved from Brazil"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Nate Parker, the director, screenwriter and star of \"The Birth of a Nation,\" poses at the premiere of the film in Los Angeles. \n NEW YORK >> In an interview with \"60 Minutes,\" Nate Parker was unapologetic for a 17-year-old rape case that has surrounded his film, \"The Birth of a Nation.\" \n In excerpts from the interview to air Sunday shared exclusively with The Associated Press on Thursday, Parker said he was \"falsely accused\" and declined to make any apology. The woman who made the accusation killed herself in 2012. \n \"I was falsely accused.I went to court.I was vindicated,\" Parker says. \"I feel terrible that this woman isn't here.her family had to deal with that, but as I sit here, an apology is \u2014 no.\" \n In the interview, Anderson Cooper presses Parker on whether he did something morally wrong. \n \"As a Christian man . just being in that situation, yeah, sure,\" says Parker. \"I am 36 years old right now . my faith is very important to me . so looking back through that lens . it's not the lens I had when I was 19 years old.\" \n Parker, who stars in, directed, co-wrote and co-produced \"The Birth of a Nation,\" instead argued that his film, about Nat Turner's slave rebellion, deserves more attention than himself and the rape accusation, made when he was a student at Penn State. Parker was acquitted in the case. \n \"I think that Nat Turner, as a hero, what he did in history, is bigger than me,\" said Parker. \"I think it's bigger than all of us.\" \n \"The Birth of a Nation\" first debuted in January at the Sundance Film Festival where it was hailed as an antidote to the then-raging \"OscarsSoWhite\" backlash. Parker's film immediately sparked widespread Oscar expectations and a bidding war among distributors. Fox Searchlight, an Academy Awards regular, landed it for a festival record $17.5 million, with the assurance of a nation-wide release. It's to open in theaters next Friday. \n But the newfound attention on Parker put a spotlight on a rape case from when he was a sophomore and wrestler at Penn State University. Parker was acquitted, though his college roommate, Jean Celestin (who helped create \"The Birth of a Nation\") was initially found guilty of sexual assault. That conviction was later overturned when the accuser declined to testify for a retrial. \n Parker and Celestin allegedly harassed the accuser on campus. The incident spawned a successful civil lawsuit by the woman against the college. But the accuser, after several previous attempts, committed suicide in 2012. Her brother, identified only as Johnny, told The Hollywood Reporter that the rape case \"was obviously that point\" at which she changed. \n In recent weeks, Parker has sought to deflect attention away from himself. At a closely watched press conference at the Toronto International Film Festival earlier in September, Parker deflected questions about the case. \n \"I would encourage everyone to remember, personal life aside, I'm just one person,\" said Parker. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Nate Parker unapologetic in '60 Minutes' interview"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "Firefighters this morning battled a 10-acre brush fire near the Molokai Airport that came close to one house. \n The firefighters arrived at the scene at 8:31 a.m. and found a half acre burning about a quarter of a mile south of the airport, a Maui Fire Department spokesman said in a news release. \n The fire got as close as 50 yards from one home, but no damages or injuries were reported. \n About 10 acres of brush burned when the fire was brought under control at 10 a.m. \n The fire was extinguished at 1:52 p.m. \n Sixteen firefighters from three stations, a county Department of Public Works water tanker and the fire department's Air 1 helicopter were involved in fighting the blaze. \n The blaze appeared to have started in some brush a quarter mile south of the airport off Maunaloa Highway. \n The cause has not yet been determined. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Molokai brush fire comes close to house near airport"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A police officer talks with a man during a protest Wednesday in El Cajon, Calif. Dozens of demonstrators on Wednesday protested the killing of a black man shot by an officer after authorities said the man pulled an object from a pocket, pointed it and assumed a \"shooting stance.\" \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n A man covers his eyes with police tape during a protest, Wednesday in El Cajon, Calif. Dozens of demonstrators on Wednesday protested the killing of a black man shot by an officer after authorities said the man pulled an object from a pocket, pointed it and assumed a \"shooting stance.\" \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Demonstrators yell at police during a protest Wednesday in El Cajon, Calif. Dozens of demonstrators on Wednesday protested the killing of Alfred Olango, a Ugandan refugee shot by an officer after authorities said he pulled an object from a pocket, pointed it and assumed a \"shooting stance.\" \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Pamela Benge, center, spoke of her son, Alfred Olango, at a press conference today in San Diego, Calif., to address the killing of Olango, a Ugandan refugee shot by an El Cajon police officer on Tuesday. In an emotional appearance before reporters, Benge said her son Alfred was joyful and loving and was not mentally ill. \n EL CAJON, Calif. \u00bb An unarmed black man fatally shot by an officer in a San Diego suburb was unjustly killed and the police department and chief prosecutor are trying to sway public opinion by only releasing a single, favorable frame from video of the shooting, representatives of the man's family said today in demanding the full video be shown. \n After two nights of angry protests in El Cajon, where the shooting occurred Tuesday afternoon, Alfred Olango's family gathered with lawyers and religious leaders and urged people to continue demonstrating but implored them to do it peacefully to honor his memory. \n Olango's anguished mother said her son was a good, joyful man who suffered a \"mental breakdown\" over the recent death of his best friend and needed compassion when police encountered him. Pamela Benge said her family had escaped war-torn Uganda to come to the U.S. for safety and she asked why police didn't just shock her son with a stun gun or shoot him in the leg. \n \"He needed someone who was going to calm him down and then take care of the situation,\" she said, her voice thick with emotion and dark glasses covering her eyes. \"Not to come and just finish his life.\" \n Olango's sister had called police three times Tuesday to report that he was sick, \"not acting like himself,\" and was walking in traffic. It took officers more than an hour to respond. Once they arrived, the shooting took place within about a minute. \n Police released a still frame from a bystander's video that showed the 38-year-old Olango with his hands together at chest level and pointed at an officer directly in front of him. Police Chief Jeff Davis said Olango refused to obey orders to remove a hand from his pants pocket and was shot after he swiftly drew an object from his front pocket and pointed at the officer in a \"shooting stance.\" \n The object turned out to be a 4-inch electronic cigarette, known as a vape pen. \n A lawyer representing Olango's family said at a news conference that authorities were misinforming the public by only showing a single image from the video that supports the El Cajon Police Department's version of events. \n \"It's a wonderful way if you're litigating a case in the media,\" attorney Dan Gilleon said. \"It fits a perfect narrative for them.\" \n The El Cajon mayor defended the decision to release the single frame, saying it accurately represented the situation the two officers faced. \n \"I thought it was way too incendiary to not release something,\" Mayor Bill Wells said. \n Wells said he reached that decision with the police chief and District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis to release the image to counter reports from people saying Olango had his hands in the air and was begging not to be shot. Wells said the video footage did not show either of those things. \n Wells said he met with leaders of the black community Thursday who told him releasing the video immediately could help prevent violence. Wells said he wants to talk to the district attorney to discuss why the video should not be released immediately. \n The San Diego district attorney's office, which controls when videos of officer-involved shootings are released, said there is no time frame for when it will release the video. \n The fatal shooting happened less than two weeks after black men were shot and killed by police in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Charlotte, North Carolina, where violent protests broke out. \n Police in both those cities have released videos of the shootings. A Tulsa officer was charged with manslaughter in the fatal shooting of a motorist. \n Olango arrived as a refugee in 1991 and was twice ordered deported because of a 2001 conviction for selling cocaine, U.S. immigration authorities said. \n But he was released from detention after his native Uganda refused to take him. A U.S. Supreme Court ruling bars detention of foreign nationals after six months if deportation is unlikely. \n Immigration authorities took Olango into custody in 2009 after he served nearly four years for a federal firearms conviction in Colorado but were again unable to obtain travel documents. \n Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Olango stopped reporting to officers in February 2015. Spokeswoman Virginia Kice did not know if officers tried to find him after that. \n Olango's mother said the family came to the U.S. as refugees and she just wanted them to have a better, safer life. \n \"I wanted the children not to be running around, being in fear every night, sleeping in the bush,\" she said. \"I thought a lovely, nice country like this would protect us.\" \n She said she had grieved and prayed for other parents who had lost children in recent shootings by police in the U.S., but \"didn't know that the next time it would be me.\" She now understands their suffering. \n \"There is nothing as painful,\" she said as family members stood nearby wiping tears from their eyes. \"It is so much that you cannot swallow it. You try to swallow it, but the pain overweighs you. It is so bitter.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Family of slain black man wants police to release full video"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "Police are looking for a male suspect who allegedly drove into a police car and tried to injure a police officer this morning during a traffic stop in Pearl City. \n Police said that the suspect intentionally struck a police car at 12:15 a.m. to injure the officer, damaging the officer's vehicle. \n The suspect then fled the scene. \n Police have opened a first-degree criminal property damage case. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Police look for male who drove into police car, fleeing traffic stop"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "Thousands of gallons of treated, digested sewage sludge from the Lihue Wastewater Treatment Plant overflowed into an earthen drainage channel next to the facility early today. \n A county official said the sludge did not discharge into Kalapaki Bay or other bodies of water. \n In an e-mailed statement, acting County Engineer Lyle Tabata said the channel is normally dry except in the event of a significant rainstorm when runoff in the channel flow toward the bay. \n \"There has not been sufficient rain during the past day for runoff from the area to carry sludge to any stream or the Kalapaki Bay,\" he said.  \n Shortly after midnight, sludge was in the process of being transferred to a drying bed when it overtopped the bed and flowed into the channel. \n Approximately 21,000 gallons of sludge overflowed for over 3-1/2 hours before crew members contained it at about 3:30 a.m. \n A crew from the Wastewater Management Division cleaned up the spill by using equipment to pump out the sludge. The area was also disinfected with chlorine granules. \n Officials said the Department of Health has been notified of the spill. Although the spill did not occur near any public access areas, signs were to be posted to inform the public to steer clear of the area. \n Digested sewage sludge, also called biosolids, is the treated solids that are removed from wastewater following separation of the solids from the liquids. \"Treatment is conducted by concentrating the solids and allowing anaerobic microorganisms to digest the pathogens over time in an anaerobic digester,\" said Tabata. \"In this case, the spilled sludge still contained liquid which normally is removed by drying prior to disposal or beneficial use of the dried biosolids.\" \n Dried biosolids are disposed at the Kekaha Landfill. \n ", "author": "By Rosemarie Bernardo rbernardo@staradvertiser.com", "title": "21K gallons of treated sewage sludge spill from Lihue treatment plant"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "CENTRAL PACIFIC HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Tropical Storm Ulika over the two days. \n Forecasters are expecting a wet weekend with the potential for heavy showers as remnants of Tropical Storm Ulika move over the state starting as early as Saturday evening through Tuesday. \n A developing weather system is expected to create unstable atmospheric conditions starting tonight as clouds ahead of Ulika begin to move over the state. Windward and mauka areas can expect showers. But some of the rain will spread to leeward areas. \n The center of what's left of Ulika is expected to bring more moisture and cut off the tradewinds by Monday. \n As Ulika passes south or over the islands Saturday evening through Tuesday, winds will shift to the east or southeast, increasing humidity and the chance of afternoon showers in leeward areas. \n Ulika crossed back into the Central Pacific Thursday morning. The storm continued to weaken overnight, becoming a post-tropical cyclone as windshear tears it apart. It is expected to continue weakening until the remnant low dissipates Saturday afternoon. \n Early this morning, the storm had sustained winds of 35 mph, about 825 miles eastof Hilo. It was moving west at 12 mph. As it weakens, tradewinds should blow the storm's remnants west, toward Hawaii. \n Today should be mostly sunny and breezy with scattered windward showers and isolated leeward showers. \n Skies will become more cloudy tonight and mostly cloudy on Saturday with showers likely in windward areas. Leeward skies will be partly sunny during the day and mostly cloudy at night with scattered showers through Tuesday. \n The forecast calls for a 50 percent chance of rain through Tuesday in Honolulu and south shores of Oahu. \n ", "author": "By Craig Gima cgima@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Unstable atmosphere, Ulika remnants could make for a wet weekend"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "CHICAGO SUN-TIMES VIA AP \n Diann Aldridge hugs her grandchildren, Summer, left, Sincere, right, and Shavae, center, during a vigil for their mother, Nykea Aldridge, in Chicago on Aug. 28. Aldridge, a 32-year-old mother of four, was pushing her baby in a stroller near a school where she'd planned to register her children when she was shot in the head and arm. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Monique Causey holds a portrait of her 14-year-old Malik, who was shot on Aug. 21, at her home in Chicago on Sept. 7. August was the deadliest month for Chicago homicides in two decades, and an analysis of the toll shows more clearly than ever that the blame lies with surging violence in a handful of the city's most impoverished neighborhoods riven by loosely organized street gangs. \n CHICAGO \u00bb Fourteen-year-old Malik Causey loved the way gangs took what they wanted from people on the street, the way members fought for each other, the way they could turn drugs into cash and cash into $400 jeans. \n His mother tried to stop him. She yanked him out of houses where he didn't belong. She cooked up a story about Malik punching her so the police would lock him up to keep him safe for a while. \n Then on Aug. 21, Monique Causey woke to discover that her son had sneaked out of the house. Before she could find him, someone ended his life with a bullet to the back of his head a few blocks away. \n \"I went to him and cried and told him he wouldn't make it,\" Causey said. \"But this fighting, jumping on people \u2026 this is all fun for them. This is what they like to do, you know, so how can you stop them?\" \n Malik Causey was one of 91 homicide victims in Chicago in August, the deadliest month in the city in two decades and the latest milestone for a metropolis becoming known for its murder rate. Already, killings here have jumped 46 percent over the same period last year, climbing past the 500 mark \u2014 a total larger than Los Angeles and New York combined. \n An analysis of the August toll shows more clearly than ever who's dying in the Chicago slaughter and what's behind it: surging violence in a handful of the city's most impoverished neighborhoods, which are riven by loosely organized street gangs. \n Young African-American men are the chief victims. In a city that's one-third black, the overwhelming majority of those murdered in August \u2014 71 \u2014 were, like Malik, African American. Another 11 had Hispanic surnames. Almost half were in their teens or early 20s. \n And more than 70 percent of those shot to death appeared on the Chicago police's \"Strategic Subject List,\" which includes 1,400 people considered likely targets of violence based on gang involvement or criminal record. \n To those outside Chicago, the rising murder toll might suggest a city wracked by widespread violence, but August portrays a much narrower picture of constant tit-for-tat attacks among gang members, with bystanders sometimes caught in the crossfire. \n \"People are arguing on Facebook over the color of some girl's hair, real simple things \u2026 and they carry guns and when they finally catch each other, that's how it be,\" said Derrick House, 51, a former gang member and ex-convict who now works trying to prevent violence. \"When they see the person they looking for, they don't care who else is out there, old people and kids, they just start shooting.\" \n Ronnie Hutchen, 28, was one of the month's first victims. An acknowledged member of the Traveling Vice Lords, he was a veteran of the gang scene in the Austin neighborhood on the city's west fringe, which is dotted by boarded-up houses and of knots of men and teens standing around in the middle of the day. Most of those with jobs or options have fled. \n Police don't know why someone thrust a knife into Hutchen's chest. But he had been in many scrapes with rival gangs, and had 56 arrests over the years, mostly in drug and weapons cases. Also, according to his court file, he'd told a judge that he'd worn a wire so federal agents could listen in on a cocaine buy. \n The Englewood neighborhood on the south side was a particular hotspot for August murders. It's one of the city's poorest areas, with more than 40 percent of the residents living below the poverty level. This year, homicides there are up 171 percent over the same time last year. \n Englewood is among four out of Chicago's 22 police districts that accounted for about a third of August's murders. \n One Englewood victim was Denzell Mickiel, 24, who was shot in the face on Aug. 8 over what police suspect was a gang dispute. At the time he died, Mickiel was awaiting trial for allegedly firing shots at a group of people in 2014. \n Tuesday, Aug. 23, provided a particular glimpse of how the city's murder toll steadily grew. \n On that day, Victor Mata, 22, a member of a faction of the Satan Disciples, was found dead in the front yard of a house. It was the fourth time he had been shot in recent years. \n Christopher Hibbler, 42, who belonged to the Black P Stones, a leading black street gang, died when people in a car sprayed gunfire at the corner where he was standing. \n Tykina Ali, 20, was shot when someone opened fire on her boyfriend's car. \n Johnell Johnson, a 37-year-old member of the Black Gangsters on the city's West Side, was found dead in the street, shot in the face. \n According to community activists, the eagerness to kill wasn't as great years ago when these neighborhoods were dominated by larger, more organized gangs that concentrated on carving out and defending drug turf. \n Now, \"I don't hear much about Gangster Disciples against the Vice Lords,\" said Marshall Hatch, a minister in the East Garfield Park neighborhood where Causey lived. \"I hear block against block.\" \n Abner Garcia was born into the gang-dominated Back of the Yards neighborhood and knew what could happen to him. He joined the Army after high school, then upon his discharge volunteered at a YMCA program to help young men steer clear of gangs. \n On Aug. 13, he was driving down the street when someone inside a van flashed gang signs at him, according to police. Words were exchanged before someone in the van shot Garcia in the head. \n In Chicago's deadliest neighborhoods, a young man can be assumed to be in a rival gang just by being there. \n Arshell Dennis III, 19, the son of a Chicago police officer, came home from college in New York to visit his family and was sitting on their porch when a man walked up and killed him with a bullet to the chest on Aug. 14. \n \"We think it was a case of mistaken identity and he was killed by someone who thought he was in a gang,\" said police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. \n Today, Monique Causey, who works for a company that makes pizzas, thinks her son might still be alive if only she'd been able to move him someplace safer. She spoke of how smart her son was, what a whiz he was with computers and how he understood that he needed to leave behind his life on the streets, go to a safer school in the suburbs, graduate and make something of himself. \n After he died, she discovered, still in the package, a pair of $400 jeans in her son's bedroom. She knows where the money came from \u2014 the same place that killed her son. \n \"The streets,\" she said. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Why is Chicago a murder capital? Clues from a bloody month"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS / FEB. 2016 \n Lady Gaga sings the national anthem before the NFL Super Bowl 50 football game between the Denver Broncos and the Carolina Panthers in Santa Clara, Calif., on Feb. 7. Lady Gaga will headline the Super Bowl halftime show next year. \n NEW YORK \u00bb It's official: Lady Gaga will headline the Super Bowl halftime show. \n The NFL and Pepsi announced today that the pop star will take the stage Feb. 5 at NRG Stadium in Houston. \n Gaga sang the national anthem at the Super Bowl this year in Santa Clara, California. Beyonce, Bruno Mars and Coldplay headlined the halftime show. \n Gaga will release a new album, \"Joanne,\" on Oct. 21. The Grammy winner's hits include \"Poker Face,\" \"Bad Romance,\" \"Born This Way\" and \"Applause.\" \n Fox will broadcast the Super Bowl. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Lady Gaga will perform during Super Bowl halftime show"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "NOAA VIA AP \n In this September photo provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a spookfish that was found off the coast of the Big Island is shown. Federal researchers just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of Hawaii. \n NOAA VIA AP \n In this September photo provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, swallower fish that were found off the coast of the Big Island are shown. Federal researchers just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of Hawaii. \n NOAA VIA AP \n In this September photo provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a Commerson's frogfish that was found off the coast of the Big Island is shown. Federal researchers just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of Hawaii. \n NOAA VIA AP \n In this September photo provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a dragonfish that was found off the coast of the Big Island is shown. Federal researchers just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of Hawaii. \n NOAA VIA AP \n In this September photo provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a glass squid that was found off the coast of the Big Island is shown. Federal researchers just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of Hawaii. \n Federal researchers have just returned from an expedition to study the biodiversity and mechanisms of an unusually rich deep-sea ecosystem off the coast of the Big Island.  \n Scientists with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration told The Associated Press in a telephone interview today that the abundance of sea life sampled in a particular stretch of water off the Big Island points to a thriving deep-sea habitat, but they aren't exactly sure why. The area, about a mile off the south shore of the Big Island, was full of fish including sawtooth eels, dragonfish and many other mysterious deep-sea creatures. \n Much of the ocean surrounding Hawaii is among the least productive water in the Pacific, said the expedition's lead researcher Jamison Gove, a NOAA oceanographer. \n \"Yet we know that Hawaii is this biological hotspot,\" he said. \"So there's kind of this paradox: How can you have so much productivity around Hawaii yet the surrounding ocean waters are literally a barren ocean landscape?\" \n Part of the mission's purpose was to pinpoint why the islands, and this location in particular, are so rich in marine diversity, Gove said. \n They took samples of the area from depths of about 1,500 to 2,000 feet using large trawling nets. They are now assessing those samples in hopes of better understanding potential management and policy needs around the region. They also hope the research will advance understanding of the overall ocean ecosystem, especially the largely unknown and unexplored deep sea areas. \n Jack Kittinger, the senior director of the Hawaii program at Conservation International, told the AP that the Kona coast is \"such a gift,\" full of spectacular life. Some areas of the world's oceans simply have more life than others, he said, and a combination of factors, such as currents, water temperature and undersea topography, likely all play a role. \n \"We really have to do a good job of managing these special, amazing places, and Kona is absolutely one of them,\" Kittenger said. \"If there's one (hotspot) in Kona, there's probably dozens and dozens of them in other places, including in Hawaii. We just haven't stuck anything down there to find them yet.\" \n It will take the researchers up to a year or more to draw their conclusions. But they believe part of the reason for such a rich habitat in this location is the way the seafloor dramatically rises as it reaches the island, bringing nutrients up and creating food for a wide range of sea life. \n \"What we know about the ocean is less than the surface of the moon,\" Kittinger added. \n The team also studied surface slicks, which are the narrow, glassy channels of water that are visible in the coastal ocean waters. The researchers found that these ribbons of water create \"an oasis in the desert\" as they pull together juvenile reef fish, baby sea turtles, plankton and even coral larvae. But the slicks, which are created by wind, tide and undersea structure, also gather other material, such as plastic and land debris, that could be hurting the life that exists there. \n The federal research team was joined by scientists from Bangor University in North Wales, United Kingdom, and the University of Hawaii. \n Another recent expedition by Conservation International and the University of Hawaii was conducted further off the coast of the Big Island at a group of seamounts, active and dormant underwater volcanoes similar to the Hawaiian Islands that never reach the surface. The seamounts, like the area studied off the coast of the Big Island, were also rich in marine diversity, likely for many of the same reasons. \n \"There will always be the unexpected when you go into the deep ocean,\" said Conservation International's Greg Stone, the seamount expedition's lead scientist. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Researchers sample unusually rich deep-sea area off Big Island"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally, Thursday, Sept. 29, 2016, in Bedford, N.H. (AP Photo/John Locher) \n NEW YORK >> Donald Trump says he took the moral high ground at the first presidential debate by not mentioning the infidelities of former President Bill Clinton. But he hinted at them, talked about them immediately afterward and then sent his campaign's top backers out to do the same. \n \"An impeachment for lying,\" Trump said today at a campaign rally in New Hampshire, referring to the effort to remove Bill Clinton from office for lying about his affair with Monica Lewinsky. \"Remember that? Impeach.\" \n The Republican nominee's decision to dredge up the former president's sexual history is a risky move in his campaign against Democrat Hillary Clinton, whose own team isn't fazed by the attack line. Trump critics say it could backfire, elevating her in the eyes of female voters and motivating her base. \n \"The whole notion of trying to get Hillary Clinton to pay for Bill Clinton's infidelities is just strategically a bad choice,\" said Katie Packer, a longtime Republican strategist opposed to Trump's candidacy. Women in particular, she said, see it as cruel. \n Republican pollster Frank Luntz said Trump's reference to Bill Clinton's indiscretions was his low point Monday night among the group of voters with whom he watched the debate. \n \"They were laughing about it because they thought that was Trump at his worst,\" Luntz said, adding that undecided voters are especially turned off by personal attacks. \n The effort also risks drawing attention to the thrice-married Trump's own unflattering history with women. His first marriage ended following a well-publicized affair, and two of his top advisers, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, have had their own well-documented infidelities. The three have had nine wives combined. \n Trump first touched on Bill Clinton's sexual past the weekend before the debate, threatening to seat Gennifer Flowers in the front row. She has said she and Clinton had an affair and he has admitted to one sexual encounter. She didn't appear. Trump did not directly mention Bill Clinton's affairs on stage with the Democratic nominee, but he did refer to them afterward. \n \"You want to know the truth? I was going to say something extremely rough to Hillary, to her family, and I said to myself: I can't do it. I just can't do it,\" he said. \n \"I'm very happy I didn't mention Bill's indiscretions because that's out of respect,\" he told The Associated Press, adding that he'd held his tongue because the Clintons' daughter, Chelsea, was in the audience. \n That restraint didn't last. In talking points later distributed by the campaign and obtained by AP, Trump supporters were advised that \"Mr. Trump has never treated women the way Hillary Clinton and her husband did when they actively worked to destroy Bill Clinton's accusers.\" \n The document mentions Flowers, former White House intern Monica Lewinsky and Paula Jones, a former Arkansas state worker who sued Clinton for sexual harassment. The former president eventually agreed to an $850,000 settlement with Jones, but acknowledged no wrongdoing. \n Trump supporters are advised to say they are not \"blaming Hillary for Bill's infidelities,\" but rather are pointing out that she has \"been an active participant in trying to destroy the women who has (sic) come forward with a claim.\" \n His backers got the message. Giuliani said that Bill Clinton \"disgraced this country with what he did in the Oval Office.\" \n As for Hillary Clinton, he said, \"After being married to Bill Clinton for 20 years, if you didn't know the moment Monica Lewinsky said that Bill Clinton violated her that she was telling the truth, then you're too stupid to be president.\" That was in an interview posted by a reporter from the news website Elite Daily. \n Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge told MSNBC on Wednesday that, \"If we want to dig back through the '90s on comments made about women, we can certainly look to Secretary Clinton referring to Monica Lewinsky as a neurotic loony toon.\" \n While Hillary Clinton's aides aren't thrilled about having her marriage back in the spotlight, they argue Trump's new focus prevents him from making an affirmative case for his candidacy and only underscores the concerns some voters have with his temperament. \n \"She is steady. She is unflappable and so whether he'd done it at the debate or does it at the next debate it's not going to throw her off her game,\" said Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon. \"She's not wired in the same way he is, prone to outbursts.\" \n GOP strategist Packer, who has spent years working to draw women to the Republican Party, said independent, Republican-leaning and Democratic-leaning women alike don't blame Clinton for her husband's affairs or for being angry with the women he slept with. And reminders of them only boost her popularity. \n \"Hillary is never stronger than when she was when she's a victim,\" Packer said. \n ", "author": "", "title": "Dismissing risks, Trump goes all-in on Bill Clinton's past"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Secretary of Defense Ash Carter speaks to sailors on the flight deck of the USS Carl Vinson, today at Naval Air Station, North Island in Coronado, Calif. \n SAN DIEGO \u00bb Defense Secretary Ash Carter said the U.S. will \"sharpen our military edge\" in Asia and the Pacific in order to remain a dominant power in a region feeling the effects of China's rising military might. \n Carter made the pledge in a speech aboard the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson in port in San Diego ahead of a meeting Friday in Hawaii with his counterparts from the 10 member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, which focuses mainly on trade issues but in recent years with U.S. encouragement has sought to engage in a range of defense and military issues. The U.S. is not a member of the organization but has sought to use it as a forum for further developing security partnerships amid regional concern about China's military buildup. \n Among the Asia problems that have arisen for the Pentagon since Carter last met with the region's defense ministers is a sudden and steep deterioration in relations with the Philippines. \n When Carter visited the Philippines in April, he praised the strength of the partnership. He said his visit had inaugurated \"a major new era in a longstanding alliance.\" He was referring to the U.S.-Philippines Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement. \"I'm proud to say this alliance is as close as it's been in years.\" \n That seeming closeness took a sharp downturn when Rodrigo Duterte was elected president in June. In early September, President Barack Obama cancelled a meeting with Duterte after the Philippine leader publicly called him a \"son of a bitch.\" Later, Duterte said he regretted the comment. And just this week, Duterte said joint military exercises of Filipino and American troops scheduled for next week will be the last such drills, although his foreign secretary quickly said the decision was not final. Duterte said the Philippines will maintain its military alliance with the United States because they share a 65-year-old mutual defense treaty. \n \"I would serve notice to you now that this will be the last military exercise,\" Duterte said Wednesday. \"Jointly, Philippines-U.S., the last one.\" \n Even so, Carter said in his speech today that the relationship with the Philippines is \"ironclad.\" \n As host of Friday's meeting in Hawaii of defense ministers of the Associated of Southeast Asian Nations, Carter is expected to have at least informal interaction with Philippine Defense Minister Delfin Lorenzana. \n The Pentagon chief described what he called the next phase of a U.S. pivot to Asia \u2014 a rebalancing of American security commitments after years of heavy focus on the Middle East. \n On Carter's flight from San Diego to Hawaii, a senior defense official aboard the plane told reporters that Carter expects to hear concerns from some Southeast Asian ministers, including those from Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines, about the threat they perceive from an expected return of extremists who have been fighting for the Islamic State group in Syria and Iraq. \n The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity under ground rules set by the Pentagon, said \"hundreds\" of IS fighters already have returned to Southeast Asia from Syria and Iraq and said up to 1,000 more may return as the Islamic State group faces increased military pressure. \n His speech earlier in the day, aimed at reassuring allies unsettled by China's behavior in the South China Sea, came three days after he made remarks at a nuclear missile base in North Dakota about rebuilding the nuclear force. Those comments prompted a strong reaction from the Russian foreign ministry, which issued a statement saying it had interpreted Carter's statement as a declared intention to lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons. \n He said the Pentagon will make its attack submarines more lethal and spend more to build undersea drones that can operate in shallower waters where submarines cannot. \n \"The United States will continue to sharpen our military edge so we remain the most powerful military in the region and the security partner of choice,\" he said. \n He added: \"We're going to have a few surprises as well,\" describing them only as \"leap-ahead investments.\" \n With a broad complaint that China is \"sometimes behaving aggressively,\" Carter alluded to Beijing's building of artificial islands in disputed areas of the South China Sea. \n \"Beijing sometimes appears to want to pick and choose which principles it wants to benefit from and which it prefers to try to undercut,\" he said. \"For example, the universal right to freedom of navigation that allows China's ships and aircraft to transit safely and peacefully is the same right that Beijing criticizes other countries for exercising in the region. But principles are not like that. They apply to everyone, and every nation, equally.\" \n Carter has described Pentagon efforts to execute a \"pivot\" to Asia by shifting, or rebalancing, U.S. forces and attention toward the Asia-Pacific region after a decade and a half of Mideast-focused strategies and operations. \n In April, he said he was putting \"the best people and platforms forward to the Asia-Pacific\" by increasing the number of U.S. military personnel in the region and by sending and stationing advanced weapons system there. He said that includes F-22 and F-35 stealth fighter jets, P-8 Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft, continuous deployments of B-2 and B-52 strategic bombers and the newest surface warfare ships like the amphibious assault ship USS America. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "China, Philippines on agenda for Hawaii military meetings"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY \n Shawn Kaawa \n Hilo furlough inmate Shawn Kaawa, who was scheduled for a probation hearing today, failed to report to the Hale Nani Reintegration Center for his scheduled check-in Wednesday and is now considered an escapee. \n Kaawa, 34, is serving time for prohibited acts related to drug paraphernalia. \n Kaawa has a community custody classification, which is the lowest custody level. \n He is 5 feet 4 inches tall and weighs 165 pounds and has brown hair and brown eyes. Anyone who sees him is urged to call 911. \n Inmates in the extended furlough program live and work outside of the facility but must check in at various times throughout the month. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Furlough inmate skips check-in in Hilo"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson spoke during a campaign rally in Des Moines, Iowa on Sept. 3. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb Call it a brain freeze or another \"Aleppo moment,\" but Gary Johnson has stumbled again in his quixotic presidential campaign. \n The third-party candidate, in a television appearance Wednesday, was unable to produce the name of a single foreign leader he respected. Prodded to come up with something, he finally settled on a former president of Mexico \u2014 but couldn't recall his name. \n \"I guess I'm having an Aleppo moment,\" Johnson said, referencing an episode earlier this month in which he was ridiculed when he came up blank when questioned about the besieged city that has become a focal point of Syria's civil war. \n Johnson's latest misstep played out during an extraordinary and awkward 50 seconds of live television on MSNBC, where Johnson and running mate William Weld were appearing in a town hall. Host Chris Matthews ticked through a list of regions, hoping to jog the Libertarian Party candidate's memories, but to no avail. \n \"You've got to do this,\" Matthews said. \"Anywhere, any continent: Canada, Mexico, Europe, over there, Asia, South America, Africa. Name a foreign leader that you respect.\" \n Johnson hung his head slightly \u2014 \"I'm having a brain freeze\" \u2014 before Weld came to his rescue, offering the names of three former Mexican presidents. Johnson settled quickly on Vicente Fox, calling him \"terrific\" before Weld named his own favorite foreign leader: German Chancellor Angela Merkel. \n As the slip-up ricocheted on social media, Johnson took to Twitter on Thursday in an apparent attempt to poke a bit of fun at himself. \n \"It's been almost 24 hours,\" Johnson wrote, \"and I still can't come up with a foreign leader I look up to.\" \n Johnson's candidacy has attracted interest from members of both major parties who say they're dismayed about their choices this year of Republican Donald Trump or Democrat Hillary Clinton. Still, Johnson has been polling in the single digits \u2014 most voters say they don't know who he is \u2014 and his struggles on foreign policy haven't helped his image. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brain freeze? Gary Johnson can't name favorite world leader"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell and challenger Charles Djou squared off in a debate sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce Hawaii at the Plaza Club in downtown Honolulu today. \n CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Mayor Kirk Caldwell and challenger Charles Djou debate at the Plaza Club in Downtown Honolulu today. \n In the first organized head-to-head debate among mayoral candidates since last month's primary election, mayoral challenger Charles Djou again questioned the track record of Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell while the incumbent again called his opponent out for not offering specific solutions. \n There's a clear choice for Oahu voters, Djou said. \"It is a choice between what the administration says, just to stay the course, do more of the same, and if there's a problem, let's raise taxes or a choice with our candidacy where we recognize there are a lot of problems here facing our community, there's a lot of challenges facing the City and County of Honolulu \u2013 mismanagement and incompetence going throughout our city government.\" \n The vastly over-budget $8 billion rail project is \"the single biggest illustration of that mismanagement and problem,\" Djou said. \n \"There is a clear need to build a broad, bipartisan coalition to fix and address there problems facing our community,\" he said. \n Caldwell said there's a stark difference Djou and himself. \"You've heard me talk about solving problems, describing solutions, blaming no one and accepting responsibility,\" Caldwell said. \"And you've heard from Charles talk about problems, blaming me for everything, and with very few solutions. In fact, sometimes he didn't even answer the question that was asked.\" \n The mayor's job is always fraught with problems, Caldwell said. \"Every day there are problems, it's the nitty-gritty issues of city government that are always there. Placing blame is not doing the job. Describing the problem is not doing the job.\" \n Sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce of Hawaii, the hour-long debate was held at the Plaza Club downtown and moderated by Hawaii Pacific University professor John Hart. \n In the primary, Caldwell finished first with 74,062 votes and Djou second with 72,532 votes, a difference of 1,530. Nine other candidates, including third-place finisher former Mayor Peter Carlisle were eliminated from contention. \n Caldwell and Djou appeared at a Native Hawaiian Chamber of Commerce forum this month. But the format had each contender speak and answer questions separately for about 30 minutes and they did not engage with each other directly. \n Today's forum was held in the midst of a controversy involving a previously scheduled debate on the Insights on PBS Hawaiiprogram on Oct. 27. \n Liberty Peralta, PBS of Hawaii vice president of communications, issued a press release Wednesday stating both candidates had agreed several weeks ago to participate in the debate. But Sam Aiona, a Djou campaign representative, this week told her\"we respectfully decline\" without explaining the situation further. \n Jonathan Kunimura, another Djou campaign representative, disagreed with Peralta's statements. \"Our campaign made no commitment and at no time confirmed our participation in this debate,\" he said. \"The matter was placed under careful consideration and, ultimately, we decided to respectfully decline.\" \n No specific reason was given for declining. Kunimura noted that Djou has participated in 18 other debates and forums and that Caldwell has also recently declined a forum on 'Olelo, the community-access TV network. Djou had also appeared on the Insights program during the primary season and felt other organizations that have requested his presence should have an opportunity to hear his views, \n The Caldwell campaign issued a statement calling Djou's refusal \"extremely disappointing,\" and noted that the challenger had changed his mind on participating in a Hawaii Public Radio forum before the primary. The Djou campaign had cited a scheduling conflict. \"Charles' refusal to participate creates doubt as to his ability to address Honolulu's issues, and to answer the hard questions,\" the Caldwell statement said. \n No televised debates or forums are scheduled at this time. \n The nonpartisan mayor race will be decided by Oahu votes in the general election Nov. 8. \n ", "author": "By Gordon Y.K. Pang gordonpang@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Caldwell, Djou debate record, solutions"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "COURTESY HPD \n Left to right: Officer Mason Jordan, Corporal Edward Tabanera, Chief Louis Kealoha, Officer Joseph Faumuina, Corporal Robert Frank II, Police Commissioner Marc Tilker and Officer John Anthony Funtanilla. Missing is Officer Daniel Walls. \n COURTESY HPD \n Left to right: Chief Louis Kealoha, Corporal Edward Tabanera and Police Commissioner Marc Tilker. \n The Honolulu police officer, who four months ago on Memorial Day chased down a robbery suspect in Kalihi and prevented him from jumping from a freeway overpass, was awarded the department's third highest award \u2014 the Bronze Medal of Valor \u2014 this week. \n Police Chief Louis Kealoha made the presentation to Cpl. Edward Tabanera, who is assigned to District 5 which encompasses Kalihi, at an awards ceremony held Wednesday at the Ala Moana Beach Park's McCoy Pavilion Auditorium. \n Also cited for their participation in the May 30 incident were fellow officers Cpl. Robert Frank II and Joseph Faumuina, John Anthony Funtanilla, Mason Jordan and Daniel Walls, who received Certificates of Merit. They are assigned to the same district. \n The six officers on Memorial Day responded to a report of an assault at 4:49 p.m. at a Kalihi convenience store, which was later classified as a second-degree murder case. \n When the officers arrived at the Aloha Island Mart, at 2314 N. School St., they found the victim, 48-year-old Riley Meade, who was unresponsive on the ground. \n A witness told the officers that a possible suspect had fled on foot. While checking the area, Tabanera saw a man who matched the suspect's description, and he pursued the suspect on foot to the H-1 Gulick Avenue overpass. \n The suspect, 19-year-old Rimoni Pologa-Seiuli, climbed over the railing and threatened to jump onto the freeway. \n Corporal Frank and Officers Faumuina, Funtanilla, Jordan and Walls arrived at the scene and surrounded the suspect, a police statement said. \n The officers pleaded with Pologa-Seiuli for an hour before he told Tabanera, \"It's over for me, I ain't going back to jail.\" He added, \"Tell my daughter that I love her.\" \n The suspect then attempted to jump, according to the affidavit, but Tabanera managed to grab his leg and the other officers quickly converged to help pull the 200-pound suspect back onto the sidewalk. \n According to the affidavit, a man had waved down an officer to report that he had seen two men \"throwing punches\" at the convenience store. Meade appeared to retreat as Pologa-Seiuli chased him and continued to punch him, the witness said. \n Prosecutors charged Rimoni Pologa-Seiuli with first-degree assault. His bail was set at $100,000. \n The Medical Examiner's Office has said Meade died when his heart suddenly stopped during a violent physical struggle, and had hypertension and hardening of the arteries, which contributed to his death. The manner of death was ruled a homicide. \n Pologa-Seiuli's case is on the docket in Circuit Court pending the outcome of mental fitness hearings. His next court hearing is scheduled for Oct. 6. \n Also recognized by the police department at the awards ceremony with the Bronze Medal of Merit was Lt. Yiu Kay Chan, who is assigned to the Kapolei-Waianae District 8, for overseeing the planning, construction, and opening of the new Waianae Police Station. \n Lt. Ben Moszkowicz, Sgts. Jason Allen and High Shin Lin, Cpl. Joseph Tabarejo Jr., and Robyn Gonsalves also received Certificates of Merit for their assistance in the dedication and grand opening ceremony on the Waianae station. More than 250 people attended the event, including Mayor Kirk Caldwell, students from Waianae High School and other community members. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Honolulu police officer awarded medal for saving man on H-1 overpass"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "U.S. NAVY / SENIOR CHIEF MASS COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST MICHAEL B. LEWIS \n A close-up of the wet spot in the concrete below Tank 5 at the Red Hill Underground Fuel Storage Facility in Jan. 2014. The Navy has completed installation of two more groundwater monitoring wells, bringing to 12 the number of monitoring sites near the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Facility. \n The Navy has completed installation of two more groundwater monitoring wells, bringing to 12 the number of monitoring sites near the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Facility. \n The monitoring wells were installed to check water quality and evaluate how groundwater moves in the vicinity, the Navy said in a news release today. \n Concerns about the safety of Hawaii's potable water supplies were heightened after the Navy in 2014 detected a leak of 27,000 gallons of fuel from a Red Hill tank situated atop a large aquifer. \n Rear Adm. John Fuller, Commander, Navy Region Hawaii and Naval Surface Group Middle Pacific, said in the news release: \"As in the past, testing and independent lab results clearly indicate that all drinking water near Red Hill \u2014 including neighboring drinking water used by the Honolulu Board of Water Supply \u2014 remains safe and meets all Federal and State safe drinking water standards.\" \n Since 2006, the Navy has invested nearly $200 million to modernize Red Hill, the Navy said. \n Navy leaders and other experts will join representatives with the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health, Defense Logistics Agency at a hearing Oct. 6 at Moanalua Middle School to update the public. \n The Navy has said that the facility's 20 World War II-era tanks \u2014 each capable to holding 12.5 million gallons \u2014 are vital to operations at Pearl Harbor. The tanks supply fuel to Navy ships and aircraft as well as to other military services. \n ", "author": "By Gregg K. Kakesako gkakesako@staradvertiser.com", "title": "Navy completes installation of additional Red Hill monitoring wells"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n French President Francois Hollande, right, French Foreign Minister and president of the COP21 Laurent Fabius, second right, United Nations climate chief Christiana Figueres, left, and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon held their hands up in celebration after the final conference at the COP21, the United Nations conference on climate change, in Le Bourget, north of Paris in Dec. 2015. \n WASHINGTON \u00bb A team of top scientists is telling world leaders to stop congratulating themselves on the Paris agreement to fight climate change because if more isn't done, global temperatures will likely hit dangerous warming levels in about 35 years. \n Six scientists who were leaders in past international climate conferences joined with the Universal Ecological Fund in Argentina to release a brief report today, saying that if even more cuts in heat-trapping gases aren't agreed upon soon, the world will warm by another 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit by around 2050. \n That 1.8 degree mark is key because in 2009 world leaders agreed that they wanted to avoid warming of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels. Temperatures have already risen about 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, so that 2 degree goal is really about preventing a rise of another degree going forward. \n Examining the carbon pollution cuts and curbs promised by 190 nations in an agreement made in Paris last December, the scientists said it's simply not enough. \n \"The pledges are not going to get even close,\" said report lead author Sir Robert Watson, a University of East Anglia professor and former World Bank chief scientist who used to be chairman of the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. \"If you governments of the world are really serious, you're going to have to do way, way more.\" \n If carbon pollution continues with just the emission cuts pledged in Paris, Earth will likely hit the danger mark by 2050, Watson and colleagues calculated, echoing what other researchers have found. They said with just a few more cuts, the danger level might be delayed by 20 years, \n In Paris, the countries also added a secondary tougher goal of limiting warming to just another 0.9 degrees Fahrenheit (half a degree Celsius) as an aspiration. \n There \"is no hope of us stabilizing\" at that temperature because the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere already commits the world to hitting that mark, Watson said. \n Watson said a few weeks ago he was in Washington at an event with United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon and former Vice President Al Gore celebrating the accord as a victory. \n \"It struck me that this was naive,\" Watson said. \"This is a real major challenge to stay even close to 2 degrees Celsius.\" \n That 2-degree danger mark is on a continuum with harmful effects already being felt now at lower warming levels, Watson said. But he added: \"As you go more and more above 2, the negative effects become more and more pronounced, more and more severe.\" \n The report wasn't published in a scientific journal. Six outside scientists looked at for The Associated Press and said the science behind it was sound and so were the conclusions. \n \"It is a good summary of what is common knowledge in the climate expert community but not widely appreciated by members of the public and even policy makers,\" said Stefan Rahmstorf, head of Earth system analysis at the Potsdam Institute in Germany. \"So indeed it is a useful reminder notice to the world about what is at stake.\" \n On Tuesday, scientists at Climate Interactive In Asheville, North Carolina, who weren't part of the report ran a computer simulations using pledges from the Paris agreement and found that dangerous mark arrives around 2051, said group co-director Drew Jones. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Scientists: World likely won't avoid dangerous warming mark"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER \n This graphic shows the projected path and intensity of Tropical Storm Ulika as of 5 a.m. today. \n Tropical Storm Ulika continued to weaken overnight. \n At 5 a.m., Ulika's winds decreased to 45 mph, down from 60 mph Wednesday. \n Ulika is still in the East Pacific, about 1,030 miles east of Hilo. The storm is moving northwest at a slow 7 mph. But it is expected take a sharp westerly turn on Friday as it breaks up and tradewinds blow what's left of Ulika toward Hawaii. \n Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 35 miles from the center. \n Ulika's remnants could bring increased humidity and an increased chance of showers over the islands starting as early as this weekend. \n ", "author": "Craig Gima", "title": "Ulika weakens further overnight"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n People examined the wreckage of a New Jersey Transit commuter train that crashed into the train station during the morning rush hour in Hoboken,, N.J. today. \n ASSOCIATED PRESS \n The scene of a train crash in Hoboken, N.J. today. A commuter train barreled into the New Jersey rail station during this morning's rush hour, causing serious damage. \n HOBOKEN, N.J. \u00bb A rush-hour commuter train crashed through a barrier at the busy Hoboken station and lurched across the waiting area this morning, killing one person and injuring more than 100 others in a grisly wreck that renewed questions about whether long-delayed automated safety technology could have prevented tragedy. \n People pulled chunks of concrete off pinned and bleeding victims, passengers kicked out windows and crawled to safety, and cries and screams could be heard in the wreckage at the station just across the Hudson River from New York City as emergency workers rushed to reach commuters in the tangle of twisted metal and dangling wires. \n The New Jersey Transit train ran off the end of its track as it pulled into the station, smashing through a concrete-and-steel bumper. It apparently knocked out pillars as it ground to a halt in the waiting area, collapsing a section of the roof onto the train. \n \"All of a sudden, there was an abrupt stop and a big jolt that threw people out of their seats. The lights went out, and we heard a loud crashing noise like an explosion\" as the roof fell, said Ross Bauer, who was sitting in the third or fourth car when the train entered the historic 109-year-old station, a bustling hub for commuters heading to New York City. \"I heard panicked screams, and everyone was stunned.\" \n The train's engineer was pulled from the mangled first car and hospitalized in critical condition. He was cooperating with investigators, Gov. Chris Christie said. \n A woman standing on the platform \u2014 identified as Fabiola Bittar de Kroon, 34, of Hoboken \u2014 was killed by debris, and 108 others were injured, mostly on the train, Christie said. Seventy-four of them were hospitalized, some in serious condition, with injuries that included broken bones, bumps and gashes. \n \"The train came in at much too high rate of speed, and the question is: 'Why is that?'\" Christie said. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said investigators will determine whether the explanation was an equipment failure, an incapacitated engineer, or something else. \n Some witnesses said they didn't hear or feel the brakes being applied before the crash. \n The National Transportation Safety Board sent investigators. Among other things, they will want to know whether the engineer was distracted or fatigued, said Bob Chipkevich, former head of the agency's train crash investigations section. \n Investigators were working to extract the two black-box data recorders that would show how fast the train was going. \n None of NJ Transit's trains is fully equipped with positive train control, a safety system designed to prevent accidents by overriding the engineer and automatically slowing or stopping trains that are going too fast. Positive train control relies on radio and GPS signals to monitor trains' positions and speed. \n The NTSB has been pressing for some version of the technology since at least 1990, and the industry is under government orders to install it, but regulators have repeatedly extended the deadline at railroads' request. The target date is now the end of 2018. \n \"While we are just beginning to learn the cause of this crash, it appears that once again an accident was not prevented because the trains our commuters were riding lacked positive train control,\" said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, D-N.Y. \"The longer we fail to prioritize investing in rail safety technology, the more innocent lives we put in jeopardy.\" \n But both Cuomo and Christie said that it is too soon to say whether such technology would have made a difference in the Hoboken crash. \n Over the past 20 years, the NTSB has listed the lack of positive train control as a contributing factor in 25 crashes. Those include the Amtrak wreck last year in Philadelphia in which a speeding train ran off the rails along a curve. Eight people were killed. \n NJ Transit trains do have an alerter system \u2014 a sort of dead man's device \u2014 that can sound a loud alarm and then stop a train if the engineer goes approximately 15 to 20 seconds without adjusting the controls. But it is not clear whether that would have made a difference either. \n The train was not equipped with an inward-facing camera in the cab that could give a fuller picture of the operator's actions. \n The train consisted of four passenger cars and a locomotive at the rear. Passengers said it was crowded, with standing room only in the typically popular first few cars, but authorities had no immediate estimate of how many were aboard. \n The Hoboken terminal handles more than 50,000 train and bus riders daily, many of them headed into New York City. After arriving at Hoboken, they take ferries or PATH commuter trains across the river to the city. \n NJ Transit service was suspended in and out of Hoboken, all but assuring a painful commute for many. Christie said engineers were examining the station's structural integrity and it was too soon to say when it might reopen to NJ Transit trains. \n The train had left Spring Valley, New York, at 7:23 a.m. and crashed at 8:45 a.m., authorities said. NJ Transit spokeswoman Jennifer Nelson said she didn't know how fast the train was going when it crashed through the barrier. \n William Blaine, an engineer for a company that runs freight trains, was inside the station and ran over to help. He said he saw the train's engineer slumped over the controls. \n Jamie Weatherhead-Saul, who was standing at a door between the first and second cars, said the train didn't slow down as it entered the station. She said the impact hurled passengers against her, and one woman got her leg caught between the doors before fellow riders managed to pull her up. \n Michael Larson, an NJ Transit employee working in the terminal about 30 feet away, said he saw the train come in fast, go over the \"bumper block\" and lift up into the air, stopping only when it hit the wall of the station's waiting room. \n As the train hurtled into the depot amid concrete dust and dangling electrical wires, \"I couldn't believe what I was seeing,\" he said. Half the first car was destroyed, with some passengers crawling to try to escape, Larson said. \n More than 100,000 people use NJ Transit trains to commute from New Jersey into New York City daily. \n A crash at the same station on a PATH commuter train injured more than 30 people in 2011. The train slammed into bumpers at the end of the tracks on a Sunday morning. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "1 dead, over 100 hurt in train crash at New Jersey station"}

{"date": "September 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this Sept. 14, 2016 photo, a worker from the Ministry of Health sprays mosquito insecticide fog in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, a day after two new Zika virus infection cases were detected in the country. \n NEW YORK >> U.S. health officials are advising pregnant women to postpone travel to 11 countries in Southeast Asia because of Zika outbreaks in the region. \n The advisory issued Thursday targets travel to Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Maldives, Myanmar, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. \n The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Zika has been in some areas of Southeast Asia for years, and some residents may be immune. But a number of U.S. travelers have become infected there in the last year, so there is a danger to visitors. \n Most infected people suffer a mild and temporary illness, at worst. But infection during pregnancy can causes severe brain-related birth defects. The virus is spread primarily by bites from infected mosquitoes. \n ___ \n Online: \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Zika travel advisory issued for 11 Southeast Asia countries, including Philippines"}

