{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Penn State senior Mary Krupa plays with \"Sneezy\" the squirrel on the campus' Old Main Lawn. \n STATE COLLEGE, Pa. >> Penn State students know her as the Squirrel Whisperer, or even Squirrel Girl. Which suits Mary Krupa just fine.  \n Four years ago, the 22-year-old senior became an internet sensation for placing tiny hats on the ubiquitous rodents that live near Penn State's landmark Old Main building, and coaxing them to hold miniature props. \n Though her Penn State career is winding down, Krupa is still up to her old tricks. Her photos of \"Sneezy the Penn State Squirrel\" continue to garner thousands of likes on Facebook and have been featured in magazines and calendars. \n \"It's nice to make something and see that people like it. But I didn't think it would last this long or become this popular,\" said Krupa, who graduates next month. \n She began interacting with Penn State's famously friendly gray squirrels her first week on campus in 2012. Krupa idly wondered what one would look like with a hat on its head, and, pleased with the result, sent a photo to her grandmother, who loved it. \n With Penn State reeling from the Jerry Sandusky sexual abuse scandal, Krupa decided her fellow students could also use a laugh. \n \"Everyone was really just down in the dumps, and I figured that Penn State needed something good to take their mind off things, cheer up. And so I started posting these pictures on Facebook.\" \n Krupa's anthropomorphized Sneezy would become an unofficial mascot \u2014 Penn State's very own Rocket J. Squirrel or Chip and Dale \u2014 and, over the course of her college career, the English major dreamed up many amusing scenes for the squirrelly star. \n There's Sneezy pushing a tiny shopping cart filled with acorns. Sneezy holding a jack-o'-lantern at Halloween. Sneezy raking leaves, rooting for the home team and drinking tea, mostly while wearing an assortment of squirrel-size hats. \n Mara Fitzgerald, 21, a Penn State student from Pittsburgh's Squirrel Hill neighborhood, is a longtime fan. \n \"I honestly knew who she was before I even got to Penn State because my older sisters went here and they told me about her,\" she said. \"My mom knows who she is. I think everybody does.\" \n Krupa is an unlikely celebrity. Growing up in a wooded neighborhood outside State College, she had always been fond of the birds, squirrels and other wildlife around her house. \n People were another matter. \n Diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome, a milder form of autism, Krupa said she was a loner in high school, antisocial and awkward. Sneezy helped Krupa come out of her shell. \n \"The squirrel's actually a good way to break the ice, because I'll be sitting here patting a squirrel and other people will come over and we'll just start like feeding the squirrels together and chatting about them,\" she said. \"I am a lot more outgoing.\" \n On a mild November afternoon, Krupa looks for Sneezy in and around the majestic trees bracketing Old Main, calling softly, a container of roasted, unsalted peanuts under one arm. \n A few minutes later, a plump female climbs up Krupa's arm and takes a seat on her lap. It's the current incarnation of Sneezy (there have been several). Krupa strokes the squirrel, then places her favorite hat \u2014 a fruited concoction made with her brother's 3D printer \u2014 atop Sneezy's head. It promptly falls off, and the squirrel scampers away. \n Even after she graduates, Krupa plans to stay in the area \u2014 ready to welcome the next class of Penn State squirrels. \n \"They're definitely wild animals, and I always respect them for being wild animals,\" said Krupa, who is minoring in wildlife science. \"But at the same time, it's neat that they're willing to let me interact with them. We do seem to have this mutual trust.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Campus critters are nuts for Squirrel Girl"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Santa Clara County sheriff's deputies looked for jail escapees Rogelio Chavez and Laron Campbell today in San Jose, Calif. \n SAN JOSE, Calif. >> One of two inmates who sawed their way out of a California jail and vanished last week was recaptured, authorities said. The search continued for the other one.  \n The Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office said Laron Campbell was taken back into custody and was being transported back to Santa Clara County. It wasn't immediately clear where the arrest occurred, and no other details were released. \n Deputies are still searching for Rogelio Chavez, it said. \n Chavez and Campbell escaped with two other prisoners last Wednesday night from Santa Clara County's main jail by cutting through the bars covering a second-story window and then rappelling to the ground on a bedsheet rope. The others were quickly apprehended. \n Earlier today, heavily armed deputies surrounded a mobile home in San Jose in which they believed Chavez was hiding \u2014 but came up empty-handed. \n Deputies placed nearby schools on lockdown and searched several places throughout the county after receiving tips of the possible location of Chavez, said Santa Clara County Sheriff's spokesman Sgt. Rich Glennon. \n Santa Clara County Sheriff's SWAT team was dispatched to a mobile home parked on an east San Jose street. \n \"He was not discovered at that location but we continue to search and our investigators remain in the area processing information and interviewing witnesses,\" Glennon said. \n A woman who helped Chavez after he escaped was arrested Monday on suspicion of being an accessory to a crime, Glennon said. \n Emily Vaca, 35, of San Jose, helped Chavez evade authorities by driving him around the county. She was arrested Monday after authorities raided a motel in Gilroy, where Chavez was believed to be hiding, Glennon said. \n Chavez and Campbell are facing possible life sentences if convicted of burglary, extortion, false imprisonment and other charges on which they were being held. Chavez had been held at the jail since August and Campbell since February 2015. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Inmate who escaped from California jail recaptured"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue workers carried the bodies of victims of an airplane crash in a mountainous area near La Union, Colombia, today. \n LA UNION, COLOMBIA >> Colombia's worst air crash in two decades snuffed out a storybook run by a Brazilian soccer team, and authorities are digging in trying to figure out why a chartered jetliner crashed in the Andes, killing all but six of the 77 people aboard. \n The country's aviation agency said today that the British Aerospace 146's cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder had been found among the wreckage strewn over a mountainside and were already being studied by experts. \n Initially, Colombian officials said the short-haul jet suffered an electrical failure, but there was also heavy rain when the crew declared an emergency and the plane disappeared from radar just before 10 p.m. Monday. \n Authorities also said they were not ruling out the possibility the aircraft ran out of fuel minutes before it was to land at Jose Maria Cordova airport outside Medellin, a report given to rescuers by a surviving flight attendant. Officials said they hoped to interview her Wednesday. \n Emotional pain resonated across the region over the loss of much of the Chapecoense soccer team from southern Brazil, which just two years after working its way into Brazil's top league for the first time in decades had fought its way into the championship of one of South America's most prestigious tournaments. \n The aircraft, which departed from Santa Cruz, Bolivia, was carrying the team to Wednesday's first game in the two-game Copa Sudamericana final against Atletico Nacional of Medellin. Twenty-one Brazilian journalists were traveling with the team. \n South America's soccer federation canceled all scheduled matches in a show of solidarity, while the Real Madrid and Barcelona clubs interrupted their training sessions for a minute of silence. Brazil's top teams offered to lend players to the small club for next season as it rebuilds, saying: \"It is the minimum gesture of solidarity that is within our reach.\" \n In a moving gesture, Atletico Nacional asked that the championship title be given to Chapecoense, whose upstart run in the tournament electrified soccer-crazed Brazil. \n Three players were among the survivors. Alan Ruschel was reported in the most serious condition, facing surgery for a spinal fracture. Teammates Helio Zampier and Jakson Follmann also suffered multiple trauma injuries, and doctors had to amputate Follmann's right leg. \n A journalist also underwent surgery and two Bolivian crew members were in stable condition, hospital officials said. \n The aircraft is owned by LaMia, a charter company that started in Venezuela but later relocated to Bolivia, where it was certified to operate last January. Despite apparently limited experience, the airline has a close relationship with several premier South American soccer squads. \n Earlier this month, the plane involved in the crash transported Barcelona forward Lionel Messi and Argentina's national team from Brazil following a World Cup qualifying match. The airliner also appeared to have transported the national squads of Brazil, Bolivia and Venezuela in the last three months, according to a log of recent activity provided by Flightradar24.com. \n Before being taken offline, LaMia's website said it operated three 146 Avro short-haul jets made by British Aerospace, with a maximum range of around 2,965 kilometers (1,600 nautical miles) \u2014 about the distance between Santa Cruz and Medellin. \n Hans Weber, a longtime adviser to U.S. aviation authorities, said the aircraft's range deserves careful investigation. He noted that air distance between cities is usually measured by the shortest route but planes rarely fly in a straight line, with pilots steering around turbulence or changing course for other reasons. \n Given the model of the plane and the fact that it was flying close to capacity, \"I would be concerned that the pilots may have been cutting it too close,\" Weber said. \n A spokesman for Bolivia's civil aviation agency, Cesar Torrico, said the plane was inspected before departing for Colombia and no problems were reported. \n Gustavo Vargas, a retired Bolivian air force general who is president of the airline, said: \"We can't rule out anything. The investigation is ongoing and we're going to await the results.\" \n Moments before the plane took off, the team's coaching staff gave an interview to a Bolivian television station in which they praised the airline, saying it brought them good fortune when it flew them to Colombia last month for the championship's quarterfinals, which they won. \n \"Now we're going to do this new trip and we hope they bring us good luck like they did the first time,\" athletic director Mauro Stumpf told Gigavision TV. \n The team, from the small Brazilian city of Chapeco, was having a breakout season. It advanced to the Copa Sudamericana finals after defeating some of the region's top teams, including Argentina's San Lorenzo and Independiente. \n The Chapecoense club is so modest that tournament organizers ruled its 22,000-seat stadium was too small to host the concluding match of the two-game final and moved it to a stadium 300 miles (480 kilometers) to the city of Curitiba. Some fans in soccer-mad Brazil were so enchanted with its magical run that they started a campaign online to move the final match to Rio de Janeiro's iconic Maracana stadium, where the 2014 World Cup final was played. \n \"This morning I said goodbye to them and they told me they were going after the dream, turning that dream into reality,\" Chapecoense board member Plinio De Nes told Brazil's TV Globo. \"The dream was over early this morning.\" \n \u2014\u2014\u2014 \n Associated Press writer Fernando Vergara reported this story in La Union, Colombia, and AP writer Joshua Goodman reported from Bogota. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Hunt begins for cause of crash that wipes out Brazilian team"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n President-elect Donald Trump, center, ate dinner with Mitt Romney, right, and Trump Chief of Staff Reince Priebus at Jean-Georges restaurant tonight in New York. \n WASHINGTON >> Air conditioning company Carrier Corp. says it has reached a deal with President-elect Donald Trump to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana. Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence plan to travel to the state Thursday to unveil the agreement alongside company officials. \n Trump confirmed the meeting on Twitter late Tuesday, promising a \"Great deal for workers!\" \n Trump spent much of his campaign pledging to keep companies like Carrier from moving jobs overseas. His focus on manufacturing jobs contributed to his unexpected appeal with working-class voters in states like Michigan, which has long voted for Democrats in presidential elections. \n The details of the agreement were unclear. Carrier tweeted that the company was \"pleased to have reached a deal\" with Trump and Pence to keep the jobs in Indianapolis. \n Neither Wilbur Ross, Trump's pick for commerce secretary, nor Steven Mnuchin \u2014 the banker picked to be treasury secretary \u2014 would discuss specifics about the agreement on Wednesday. But Mnuchin told CNBC's \"Squawk Box\" that Trump and his administration are \"going to have open communications with business leaders.\" \n He said Trump called the CEO of Carrier's parent company and said it was \"important to keep jobs here.\" \n Both Trump and Pence, who is ending his tenure as Indiana governor, are expected to appear with Carrier officials Thursday. \n In February, Carrier said it would shutter its Indianapolis plant employing 1,400 workers and move its manufacturing to Mexico. The plant's workers would have been laid off over three years starting in 2017. \n United Technologies Electronic Controls also announced then that it planned to move its Huntington manufacturing operations to a new plant in Mexico, costing the northeastern Indiana city 700 jobs by 2018. Those workers make microprocessor-based controls for the HVAC and refrigeration industries. \n Carrier and UTEC are both units of Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies Corp. \u2014 which also owns Pratt & Whitney, a big supplier of fighter jet engines that relies in part on U.S. military contracts. \n In a September debate against Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, Trump railed against Carrier's plans. \n \"So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this,\" Trump said. \"We have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States.\" \n Carrier wasn't the only company Trump assailed during the campaign. He pledged to give up Oreos after Nabisco's parent, Mondelez International, said it would replace nine production lines in Chicago with four in Mexico. He criticized Ford after the company said it planned to invest $2.5 billion in engine and transmission plants in Mexico. \n Chuck Jones, president of United Steelworkers Local 1999, which represents Carrier workers, said of Tuesday's news: \"I'm optimistic, but I don't know what the situation is. I guess it's a good sign. \u2026 You would think they would keep us in the loop. But we know nothing.\" \n The event Thursday in Indiana will be a rare public appearance for Trump, who has spent nearly his entire tenure as president-elect huddled with advisers and meeting with possible Cabinet secretaries. He plans to make other stops later this week as part of what advisers have billed as a \"thank you\" tour for voters who backed him in the presidential campaign. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Carrier Corp. says it has deal with Trump to keep jobs in Indiana"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n South Korean President Park Geun-hye made a live televised address today. \n SEOUL, South Korea >> South Korean President Park Geun-hye's conditional resignation offer appears to be causing cracks in what previously had been a strong push for her impeachment, with opponents now struggling to set a date for a vote to strip her of power. \n Park offered Tuesday to leave office if parliament arranges a safe transfer of power, triggering an immediate backlash from opposition parties, which called the overture a stalling tactic to help the president navigate through a huge political scandal involving her shadowy confidante. \n Leaders of the country's three main opposition parties met Wednesday and agreed to stick with their plan to try to vote on an impeachment motion as early as Friday. But they also said they'd meet again if that plan does not work, meaning they're bracing for the possibility that a Friday vote might not take place. \n Much of their hesitation to pick a clear date is due to the fact that there are not enough opposition lawmakers to pass an impeachment through parliament, and they would need help from dissenters in Park's ruling Saenuri Party. \n The three opposition parties and anti-Park independent lawmakers have a total of 172 seats in the 300-seat National Assembly. A passage of an impeachment motion requires at least 200 votes in favor. About 40 ruling party lawmakers have expressed their willingness to vote to oust Park. \n But after Park's resignation offer Tuesday, made in an address to the nation, anti-Park lawmakers gathered and agreed it would be best for Park to resign in April, after the installation of a neutral Cabinet that can help ensure a stable power transfer until a new president is elected, according to the office of Hwang Young-cheul, one of the lawmakers who attended the meeting. \n They said they would still take part in a possible impeachment vote on Dec. 9 if details for an April resignation aren't worked out through negotiations, Hwang's office said. \n Opposition parties have previously said a vote on Park's impeachment would take place either on Friday or Dec. 9, because parliamentary plenary sessions are already scheduled on those days. \n \"It's true that some cracks have taken place at anti-Park forces in the Saenuri Party after her speech,\" said an official at the main opposition Democratic Party, formerly known by its Korean-language name, Minjoo. \n The official, who requested anonymity because he wasn't authorized to speak to the media, said opposition parties are using unofficial, backroom channels to see if they can still secure enough Saenuri lawmakers who would align with their impeachment drive. \n If impeached, Park's presidential powers would be suspended until the Constitutional Court makes a ruling on her fate. The court would have 180 days to deliberate. \n Park, in her Tuesday speech, continued to deny accusations by prosecutors that she colluded in the criminal activities of her longtime friend Choi Soon-sil, who, despite having no official role in government, allegedly had a say in policy decisions and exploited her presidential ties to bully companies into giving large sums of money to businesses and foundations that Choi controlled. \n Prosecutors have indicted Choi, two ex-presidential officials and a music video director known as a Choi associate for extortion, leaking confidential documents and other charges. \n The scandal has sparked mass protests every Saturday in Seoul. About 30,000 anti-Park demonstrators gathered in the city's downtown area on Wednesday, according to protest organizers. \n Park, who has immunity from prosecution while in office, has refused to meet with prosecutors. She has, however, agreed to undergo questioning by a special prosecutor. \n On Wednesday, she picked a special prosecutor among the two candidates recommended by opposition parties. The special prosecutor has 120 days to lead an independent investigation into the scandal. \n \"I will only focus on truth as I investigate,\" Park Young-soo, the special prosecutor, told reporters. \"I will not be distracted by the circumstances and thoroughly investigate (the case) based on law and principle.\" \n Park Geun-hye is the daughter of late dictator Park Chung-hee, whose 18-year rule ended after he was gunned down by his own intelligence chief in 1979. \n Adding to Park's woes, one of her former aides was hospitalized Wednesday with self-inflicted wounds while under investigation for alleged bribery. A Busan police official who did not want to be named, citing office rules, said Hyun Ki-hwan, who served as senior presidential secretary for political affairs from July 2015 to June this year, cut his left wrist with a box cutter in a Busan hotel room, but was not in a life-threatening situation. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "South Korean opposition struggles for clear impeachment plan"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, left, listens to Russian President Vladimir Putin during their meeting at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru, on Nov. 19. \n MANILA >> Russia's ambassador to the Philippines said Tuesday that Moscow is not discussing a military alliance with Manila, but rather a partnership and friendship that would see Russia supply arms and transfer technology to the long-standing U.S. ally. \n Ambassador Igor Khovaev told a media forum that the two countries' economic and trade commission will start work soon to identify specific areas of cooperation. The commission's Russian co-chair will be visiting Manila soon, he added, without giving a date. \n Khovaev said Russia is open to all options for bilateral cooperation, including the long-term supply of military hardware \"without political conditionality\" like adherence to human rights. He was apparently alluding to the U.S. Congress' conditions for release of military assistance. \n Since becoming the Philippines' president in June, Rodrigo Duterte has had an uneasy relationship with the U.S. He has declared his intentions to bolster relations with China and Russia \u2014 whose leaders he has met recently \u2014 as he revamps Philippine foreign policy, which has long leaned on Washington. \n Khovaev said Duterte is also expected to pay an official visit to Russia next year. \n Russia is \"interested in long-term cooperation\" that is comprehensive and includes \"all forms \u2014 supply of arms and weapons, staff training, maintenance, transfer of technology,\" he added. \n Aside from supplying arms and weapons, Russia is also open to cooperation in all areas, including building infrastructure like railroads, supplying electric equipment, oil and gas ventures, increasing tourism, trade and people-to-people contacts, he said. \n \"Everything is possible,\" he said. \"What we need is a wish list from our Filipino partners.\" \n Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenza is due to fly to Russia next week. He said he will discuss defense cooperation with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Kuzhugetovich, and will shop for Russian military equipment, specifically sniper rifles for ground troops. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Russia eyes supplying military hardware to the Philippines"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "CRIMESTOPPERS \n Nathaniel Foster \n A 26-year-old man charged in the shooting death of a 24-year-old man at an illegal McCully game room argued about money with the victim before gunfire broke out, according to a court document. \n A preliminary hearing for the suspect, Nathaniel Foster, is scheduled for Wednesday on a second-degree murder charge in connection with the death of Kioco Melson. Foster is being held in lieu of $1 million bail. \n At about 9 p.m. Wednesday, police responded to several gunshots coming from the area of South Beretania Street and Poha Lane. A witness led officers to the second floor of the game room located at 2203 South Beretania St. where they observed Melson's body covered with a blanket. \n Witnesses told police a man they referred to as \"Jaimaca,\" identified as Foster, had fatally shot Melson. One of the witnesses told officers both Melson and Foster worked at the illegal gambling room. \n The witness said he saw the two men arguing with each other as Melson sat in a chair and Foster stood near the door of the game room. Police said Foster then pulled out a black semi-automatic gun from his fanny pack and shot Melson multiple times, said the court document. \n Another witness said he heard both men talking about money before Foster abruptly opened the door and allegedly shot Melson several times. The document said Foster then stood over Melson as he was laying on the floor and shot him several more times before he fled. \n The medical examiner's office determined Melson died from multiple gunshot wounds. The manner of death was classified as a homicide. \n A SWAT team located Foster at a Kalihi apartment and arrested him Saturday. \n ", "author": "Rosemarie Bernardo", "title": "Witnesses: Argument over money preceded fatal game room shooting"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this July 20 photo, a law enforcement officer takes Gregory \"Joey\" Johnson into custody after he started to burn an American flag in Cleveland, during the third day of the Republican convention. \n WASHINGTON >> President-elect Donald Trump said that anyone who burns an American flag should face unspecified \"consequences,\" such as jail or a loss of citizenship. But the Supreme Court has held that flag-burning is a form of speech protected by the First Amendment, and top congressional Republicans quickly distanced themselves from Trump's views. \n Trump's words, expressed on Twitter early this morning, put him at odds with the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who was in the majority in the 1989 decision that protected flag burning. \n \"Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag \u2014 if they do, there must be consequences \u2014 perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!\" Trump said in a tweet. \n It was not immediately clear what prompted the tweet. \n Trump has called Scalia, who died in February, a great judge and said he would appoint someone to fill Scalia's seat who is much like the conservative legal icon. \n But in 1989, Scalia signed onto an opinion written by the liberal Justice William Brennan that struck down a criminal conviction under Texas law for burning a flag during a political protest. \n Asked about that vote decades later in an interview on CNN, Scalia said he would outlaw flag-burning \"if I were king.\" But the First Amendment exists to protect \"speech critical of the government. That's the main type of speech tyrants would seek to suppress,\" he said. \n The White House echoed today that the First Amendment should prevail in such matters. \n \"We have a responsibility as a country\" to carefully protect the rights enshrined in the Constitution, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said, adding that the burning of the U.S. flag offends most Americans, himself included. \n House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said that he does not \"support or believe in the idea of people burning the American flag. I support the First Amendment.\" He added that Congress has no plans to take action against flag burning. \n And Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky weighed in against Trump too, saying: \"The Supreme Court has held that that activity is a protected First Amendment right, a form of unpleasant speech, and in this country we have a long tradition of respecting unpleasant speech. I happen to support the Supreme Court's decision on that matter.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Trump suggests 'consequences' for any flag-burners"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n This August image provided by TheLantern.com shows Abdul Razak Ali Artan in Columbus, Ohio. \n COLUMBUS, Ohio >> The Somali-born student who carried out the car-and-knife attack at Ohio State University stewed over the treatment of Muslims while apparently staying under the radar of federal law enforcement, underscoring the difficulty authorities face in identifying and stopping \"lone wolves\" bent on violence. \n Abdul Razak Ali Artan was not known to FBI counterterrorism authorities before Monday's rampage, which ended with Artan shot to death by police and 11 people injured, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press. \n That's in contrast to several other recent attacks, including those in New York City; Orlando, Florida; and Garland, Texas, in which those blamed for the bloodshed had previously come to the attention of federal agents. \n Law enforcement officials have not identified a motive for the Ohio State violence but have suggested terrorism as a possibility. FBI agents continued to search Artan's apartment for clues. \n The mode of attack \u2014 plowing a car into civilians, then slashing victims with a butcher knife \u2014 was in keeping with the recommended tactics of jihadist propaganda. And Facebook posts that were apparently written shortly before the attack and came to light afterward show Artan nursed grievances against the U.S. \n He railed against U.S. intervention in Muslim lands and warned, \"If you want us Muslims to stop carrying lone wolf attacks, then make peace\" with the Islamic State group. \n \"America! Stop interfering with other countries, especially the Muslim Ummah. We are not weak. We are not weak, remember that,\" he wrote, using the Arabic term for the world's Muslim community. He also warned that other Muslims are in sleeper cells, \"waiting for a signal. I am warning you Oh America!\" \n The posts were recounted by a law enforcement official who was briefed on the investigation but wasn't authorized to discuss it publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. The posts were taken down after the attack. \n On Tuesday, a self-described Islamic State news agency called Artan \"a soldier of the Islamic State\" who \"carried out the operation in response to calls to target citizens of international coalition countries.\" The Islamic State has previously described other attackers around the world as its \"soldiers\" without specifically claiming to have organized the acts of violence. \n Artan's social media rants seemed at odds with the portrait of the young man painted by neighbors and acquaintances. \n Jack Ouham, owner of a market near the home on the outskirts of Columbus where Artan lived with his parents and siblings, saw the Ohio State student almost every day when he stopped in for snacks but never alcohol or cigarettes. \n He was never angry, Ouham said. \"Very nice guy. It's just shocking to me,\" he said. \n Artan graduated with honors from Columbus State Community College last May, earning an associate of arts degree. A video of his graduation ceremony shows him jumping and spinning on stage and smiling broadly, drawing laughs, cheers and smiles from graduates and faculty members. \n The school said he had no behavior or discipline problems while he was there from the fall of 2014 until this past summer. \n He started at Ohio State in August as a business student studying logistics management. \n A law enforcement official said Artan came to the U.S. in 2014 as the child of a refugee. He had been living in Pakistan from 2007 to 2014. It is not uncommon for refugees to go to a third-party country before being permanently resettled. \n Federal and local authorities grappling with the pervasiveness of Islamic State propaganda \u2014 FBI Director James Comey said earlier this year that agents had \"north of 1,000\" terrorism-related probes \u2014 will no doubt look to see if they missed any red flags that could have placed Artan under investigation. \n Several acts of jihadist-inspired violence in the past two years have involved individuals known to the FBI. \n The FBI investigated Omar Mateen, the Orlando nightclub gunman, for 10 months in 2013 after he boasted of mutual acquaintances with the Boston Marathon bombers and said things to co-workers that suggested he had radical, violent intentions. Agents found nothing to justify continued scrutiny and closed the matter, but looked into him again the next year as part of a separate investigation into a suicide bomber who attended the same Florida mosque. \n Federal authorities in 2014 looked into Ahmad Khan Rahimi after he was accused of stabbing a relative and his father expressed concerns he might be a terrorist. The FBI said it found nothing in its databases tying Rahimi to terrorism and closed its review. Rahimi was charged in September with setting off bombs in New York and New Jersey. \n FBI counterterrorism authorities have a \"number of trip wires\" set up to spot would-be jihadists and have a generally good sense of individuals who are drawn to terrorist propaganda, which is why many people who have gone on to commit violence have at some point come under scrutiny, said Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the George Washington University's Program on Extremism. \n \"If you look at most quote-unquote successful terror attacks in the U.S. \u2026 they've always had some touch point with law enforcement and been on law enforcement's radar in some point in their radical trajectory,\" Hughes said. \n Classes for the 60,000 students at Ohio State were canceled after the attack but resumed Tuesday. The school planned a vigil for Tuesday night. Three of the victims remained hospitalized but were expected to recover. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Ohio State attacker stewed over treatment of Muslims"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n In this December 12, 1991photo Mohammed Rashed, center, convicted of the 1982 PanAm jetliner bombing, listens to his unidentified PLO interpreter, left, during his appeals court hearing in Athens, Greece. \n BUFFALO, N.Y. >> A Jordanian-born Palestinian who was imprisoned in the United States for putting a bomb on a Hawaii-bound flight in 1982 has been relocated to the West African country of Mauritania. \n Mohammed Rashed's attorney said Monday that Rashed, who had been held in federal detention outside Buffalo, was removed from the United States earlier this month. \n Rashed finished serving his sentence in 2013 but removal efforts were stalled by diplomatic complications. Rashed's stated destination of choice was the West Bank. \n The plea deal reflects the balancing of two government interests that are sometimes in conflict: securing lengthy prison sentences for dangerous felons while also incentivizing their cooperation against higher-value targets through the prospect of an early release. Rashed's cooperation has already been extensive by some accounts, including providing information about a 1986 airplane explosion that killed four Americans and a 1982 Berlin restaurant bombing that killed a child, former Assistant U.S. Attorney General David Kris wrote in a 2011 article for the Journal of National Security Law & Policy. \n The man believed to be the matermind of the Pam Am Flight 830, Abu Ibrahim, who is on the FBI's most wanted terrorists list, has never been captured. Ibahim, who in 1979 formed his own terrorist faction \u2014 \"15 May\" \u2014 named after the date of Israel's founding, was known for crafting sophisticated plastic explosives that could be smuggled in bags and suitcases and that relied on a unique delayed-timing device. \n The August 11, 1982, bombing of Pan Am 830 was set in motion when Rashed, wife Christine Pinter and their son traveled to Tokyo with fraudulent identification documents. Rashed tucked the bomb beneath window seat 47K, pulled the pin, engaged the timer and got off in Japan. Toru Ozawa, a 16-year-old vacationing with his family, occupied the same seat on the next leg. \n The bomb exploded as the plane crossed the Pacific Ocean, filling the rear passenger cabin with smoke, screams and blood. \n Ozawa was killed as he cried out for his parents. More than a dozen others were injured. The pilot managed to land the plane despite a gaping hole in the cabin floor and bulge in its exterior. \n \"The sad thing about this is Toru Ozawa is dead. He'd be a man with a family, and it was heartbreaking,\" said Dan Bent, then Hawaii's U.S. Attorney. \"He was killed right in the presence of his family. He was eviscerated by this bomb.\" \n A piece of gold-plated nickel located inside Ozawa's body helped link that explosion to others by Ibrahim. Another big break came after a 15 May defector FBI betrayed Rashed to the FBI. \n Rashed flew back to Baghdad after the bombing, and though at large for years, was arrested in Athens in 1988 with a phony Syrian passport. The Greek government refused to extradite Rashed and insisted on prosecuting him. \n In Greek court, Rashed delivered long, rambling monologues that veered between didactic and combative. \n He denied being a terrorist and called the charge a \"frame-up,\" insisting his real name was Mohammed Hamdan \u2014 the name on his passport \u2014 and that he was a PLO fighter in Beirut at the time of the Pan Am explosion. But he also said the Palestinians, as victims of the \"Zionist establishment,\" were justified in using \"violence against their conquerors in any way they deem appropriate.\" \n A three-judge panel convicted Rashed of the bombing and sentenced him 18 years in prison \u2014 a punishment later reduced to 15 years. \n He was released for good behavior in 1996, after just eight years. The FBI whisked him out of Egypt in 1998 and returned him to the U.S. for prosecution. \n After years of legal wrangling, he struck a deal that allowed for his release in 2013, after less than 25 years in custody. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Terrorist who planted bomb on Honolulu flight released to West Africa"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ASSOCIATED PRESS \n Rescue workers search at the wreckage site of a chartered airplane that crashed outside Medellin, Colombia, today. \n MEDELLIN, Colombia >> A chartered plane carrying a Brazilian first division soccer team crashed outside Medellin while on its way to the finals of a regional tournament, killing 76 people, Colombian officials said today. Six people initially survived, but one of them later died in a hospital. \n The British Aerospace 146 short-haul plane, operated by a charter airline named LaMia, declared an emergency and lost radar contact just before 10 p.m. Monday (0300 GMT) because of an electrical failure, aviation authorities said. \n The aircraft, which had departed from Santa Cruz, Bolivia, was transporting the Chapecoense soccer team from southern Brazil for the first leg Wednesday of a two-game Copa Sudamericana final against Atletico Nacional of Medellin. \n \"What was supposed to be a celebration has turned into a tragedy,\" Medellin Mayor Federico Gutierrez said from the search and rescue command center. \n The club said in a brief statement on its Facebook page that \"may God accompany our athletes, officials, journalists and other guests traveling with our delegation.\" \n South America's soccer federation extended its condolences to the entire Chapecoense community and said its president, Alejandro Dominguez, was on his way to Medellin. All soccer activities were suspended until further notice, the organization said in a statement. \n Dozens of rescuers working through the night were initially heartened after pulling three passengers alive from the wreckage. But as the hours passed, and heavy rainfall and low visibility grounded helicopters and complicated efforts to reach the mountainside crash site, the mood soured to the point that authorities had to freeze until dusk what was by then a body recovery operation. \n Images broadcast on local television showed three passengers arriving to a local hospital in ambulances on stretchers and covered in blankets connected to an IV. Among the survivors was a Chapecoense defender named Alan Ruschel, who doctors said suffered spinal injuries. Two goalkeepers, Danilo and Jackson Follmann, as well as a member of the team's delegation and a Bolivian flight attendant, were found alive in the wreckage. \n But Danilo later died while receiving hospital treatment, team spokesman Andrei Copetti told The Associated Press. \n The plane was carrying 72 passengers and nine crew members, aviation authorities said in a statement. Local radio said the same aircraft transported Argentina's national squad for a match earlier this month in Brazil, and previously had transported Venezuela's national team. \n British Aerospace, which is now known as BAE Systems, says that the first 146-model plane took off in 1981 and that just under 400 \u2014 including the successor Avro RJ \u2014 were built in total in the U.K. through 2003. It says around 220 of are still in service in a variety of roles, including aerial firefighting and overnight freight services. \n Alfredo Bocanegra, the head of Colombia's aviation authority, said initial reports suggest the aircraft was suffering electrical problems although investigators were also looking into an account from one of the survivors that the plane had run out of fuel about 5 minutes from its expected landing at Jose Maria Cordova airport outside Medellin. \n A video published on the team's Facebook page showed the team readying for the flight earlier Monday in Sao Paulo's Guarulhos international airport. It wasn't immediately clear if the team switched planes in Bolivia or just made a stopover with the same plane. \n The team, from the small city of Chapeco, was in the middle of a fairy tale season. It joined Brazil's first division in 2014 for the first time since the 1970s and made it last week to the Copa Sudamericana finals \u2014 the equivalent of the UEFA Europa League tournament \u2014 after defeating two of Argentina's fiercest squads, San Lorenzo and Independiente, as well as Colombia's Junior. \n \"This morning I said goodbye to them and they told me they were going after the dream, turning that dream into reality,\" Chapecoense board member told TV Globo. \"The dream was over early this morning.\" \n The team is so modest that its 22,000-seat arena was ruled by tournament organizers too small to host the final match, which was instead moved to a stadium 300 miles to the north in the city of Curitiba. \n \"This is unbelievable, I am walking on the grass of the stadium and I feel like I am floating,\" Copetti told the AP. \"No one understands how a story that was so amazing could suffer such a devastating reversal. For many people here reality has still not struck.\" \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Brazilian soccer team's plane crashes in Colombia; 76 dead, 5 survive"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "Firefighters were busy this morning extinguishing two house fires on different parts of the island. \n In Ewa Beach, a 2-alarm fire broke out at a two-story townhouse at 91-593 Kuiloloa Place at about 5:10 a.m. \n Arriving firefighters saw heavy smoke coming from a utility room outside of the unit, said Fire Department spokesman Capt. David Jenkins in an email. \n Firefighters had the fire under control by 5:25 a.m. and extinguished by 6 a.m. \n No one was home at the time of the fire. \n Jenkins said other residents at the townhouse complex evacuated after they smelled smoke and heard other neighbors alerting them of the fire. No injuries were reported. \n At about 2:44 a.m., firefighters responded to a fire at a vacant, single-family home at 45-643 Kaneke St. in Kaneohe. \n Eighteen firefighters responded and saw smoke and flames flaring from the front of the home, Jenkins said. \n Firefighters used foam to prevent the fire from spreading. The blaze was brought under control shortly before 3 a.m. and extinguished at 3:08 a.m. \n Investigators are still determining the cause and damage estimates for both fires. \n ", "author": "Star-Advertiser Staff", "title": "Firefighters extinguish fires in Kaneohe, Ewa Beach"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "ROSEMARIE BERNARDO / RBERNARDO@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police said speed appears to be a factor in the crash that killed three people on Farrington Highway in Kapolei on Monday night. \n CRAIG T. KOJIMA / CKOJIMA@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A car crashed into a tree Monday night, killing three people on Farrington Highway in Kapolei. \n KIM YUEN / KYUEN@STARADVERTISER.COM \n A car smashed into a tree Monday night on Farrington Highway in Kapolei, killing three people. \n KIM YUEN / KYUEN@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police tape marks the scene on Farrington Highway in Kapolei where three people died when their car hit a tree Monday night. \n GOOGLE EARTH \n This map shows the location of a crash on Farrington Highway in Kapolei that killed three people Monday night. \n KIM YUEN / KYUEN@STARADVERTISER.COM \n Police tape blocks a tree that was hit by a car Monday night on Farrington Highway in Kapolei. Three male victims were pronounced dead at the scene. \n Three people are dead after the speeding car they were in hit a tree in Kapolei overnight. \n Police said the three male victims were in a car traveling \"at a high rate of speed,\" when the driver lost control of the vehicle, which went onto the sidewalk and smashed into a tree at about 11:15 p.m. Monday. \n The victims were pronounced dead at the scene, according to an Emergency Medical Services report. \n Hawaii Tokai International College issued a statement late today saying that the school \"regretfully confirms that two of the victims of last night's fatal single-car crash in Kapolei were students at HTIC.\" \n  The students are from Japan and their families have been notified, school officials said., adding that they are awaiting official confirmation of the identity of the third victim. \"Our thoughts are with the students and their families during this difficult time,\" the statement said. \n The vehicle was traveling town-bound on Farrington Highway and the crash happened near Papaiaulu Avenue. \n Police closed Farrington Highway between Noulu Street and Kowelo Avenue until about 4 a.m. as Traffic Division officers investigated the crash scene. \n Police said speed appears to be a factor in the crash. It's not known if drugs or alcohol was involved. \n With this crash, there have been 49 fatalities on Oahu roads this year, compared to 44 at this time last year. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "3 dead after car hits tree in Kapolei"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "GO AKAMAI.ORG \n Police blocked Kailua-bound lanes of the Pali Highway near Waokanaka Street this morning after a tree fell near the tunnel. \n State Department of Transportation crews finished removing a more than 50-foot tall tree around 9:15 a.m. today and re-opened all lanes of the Pali Highway, DOT spokesman Tim Sakahara said. \n \"All lanes are open,\" Sakahara said. \n Maintenance crews closed Kailua-bound lanes of the Pali Highway at the first tunnel after the tree fell around 3:30 a.m., which disrupted both town-bound and Windward-bound traffic this morning. \n Police officers blocked traffic from continuing on Pali Highway at Waokanaka Street. \n Sakahara did not immediately know the type of tree that fell but said it most likely was knocked down by a combination of wind and rain. \n The tree did not land on the Kailua-bound lanes of the Pali but hung so precariously that crews blocked traffic and began cutting into the it, which also caused town-bound drivers to slow, Sakahara said. \n \"It was in a precarious spot above the tunnel entrance,\" Sakahara said. \n Crews had to bring in extra equipment with buckets to make sure they did not drop parts of the tree onto utility boxes and wiring above the tunnels and cause additional damage, Sakahara said. \n \"It's definitely a difficult-type job, especially given the conditions there,\" he said. \n ", "author": "By Star-Advertiser staff", "title": "Pali Highway reopened after 50-foot fallen tree removed"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "AP PHOTO/RICK BOWMER, FILE \n In this July 30, 2013, file photo, Tania Bjornlie, from Patagonia, holds one of the new Patagonia day packs a during set up at the Outdoor Retailer Summer Market in Salt Lake City. Patagonia announced on Mon. Nov. 28, 2016, that it raised $10 million to be donated to nonprofits focused on the environment by donating all of its Black Friday sales. \n Ventura, Calif. \u00bb Patagonia says its Black Friday \"fundraiser for the Earth\" has shattered expectations by bringing in $10 million in sales that will be donated to nonprofits focused on helping the environment. \n The outdoor clothing maker previously announced it would donate 100 percent of its global retail and online sales on Black Friday. It says it expected to reach $2 million in sales, but instead generated five times more. Patagonia says the fundraiser \"attracted thousands who have never purchased anything from Patagonia before.\" \n Ventura, California-based Patagonia hasn't said exactly which groups the money will be going to, but says they are \"underfunded and under the radar.\" It also has a list of groups which have previously received grants from the company. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "Patagonia donating its $10M in Black Friday sales to charity"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "San Francisco \u00bb San Francisco Bay Area health officials were trying to determine if three people who died and five who were sickened after eating Thanksgiving dinner at a church event got sick there or at the assisted living facility where they all lived. \n Sutter Delta Medical Center in Antioch said in a statement Monday it received eight patients with \"probable food-borne symptoms\" between Friday and Saturday. \n Three of the patients died, four patients were treated and released, and one remained hospitalized, the hospital said. \n \"We do not believe there is any risk to the general public,\" said Dr. Louise McNitt, deputy health officer for Contra Costa County. \n It's unclear exactly what caused the illness, she added. \n All eight lived at the same assisted living facility and ate a free Thanksgiving dinner at the American Legion Hall in Antioch along with other residents and staff members who did not get sick, McNitt said. \n The traditional Thanksgiving dinner of turkey, mash potatoes, stuffing, green beans, bread and pies was served by the Golden Hills Community Church, which has held the event for several years, said Dr. Marilyn Underwood, environmental health director for Contra Costa Health Services. \n Volunteers prepared the mashed potatoes, green beans and stuffing on site, at a commercial-grade facility. The rest of the meal, including the turkey, was donated by other food facilities, Underwood said. \n They served 835 people who included homeless people, residents of assisted living facilities, and anyone who wanted to have a good holiday meal, she said. \n McNitt said that no other reports of illness related to the dinner have been received and that officials were trying to determine if there were other people who got sick but didn't seek medical care. \n McNitt and Underwood declined to provide the name of the living facility or any details about the eight patients citing patient privacy concerns. \n Contra Costa County coroner's officials said they could not release the names of those who died pending notification of next of kin. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "3 dead, at least 5 sickened after Thanksgiving dinner"}

{"date": "November 29, 2016", "text": "PCO MALACANANG PALACE VIA AP \n Norwegian Foreign Minister Borge Brende chatted with Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte during a meeting on Friday in Davao City, Philippines. \n CAGAYAN DE ORO, Philippines >> Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Tuesday he will go ahead with a planned trip to a southern city against the advice of security officials after an advance team of presidential guards was wounded by a roadside bomb in the volatile region. \n Military spokesman Col. Edgard Arevalo said seven presidential guards, including an officer, were injured by the bomb as they traveled in a military convoy to an army camp in Marawi city, in an attack by suspected Muslim militants. \n Two other soldiers based in the south were also wounded in the attack, police said, adding that some of the soldiers managed to return fire and wounded some of the militants. \n The injured members of the Presidential Security Group were airlifted to a hospital. \n Duterte said he wants to take the same route as the injured guards, adding in jest that the vice president could take his place if something happens to him. \n \"The advice was to postpone. I said, 'no, I'll go there and if possible take the same route,'\" Duterte, who is known for his brashness and foul language, said in a speech in northern Nueva Ecija province. \n \"Maybe we can have a little gunfight here, gunfight there,\" he said. \"If I can't make it \u2026 that's why we have a vice president, Leni Robredo. We can have a gentle president in exchange for the discourteous mouth.\" \n Duterte plans to travel to Marawi to meet military officials overseeing an offensive against local Islamic State group sympathizers in Butig town. The military says about 40 militants have been killed and several soldiers have been injured in the offensive. \n Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said he suspects the militants attacked the convoy to divert the military's focus from the offensive, and they probably were not aware that the presidential guards were on board. \n ", "author": "Associated Press", "title": "President Duterte to travel despite guards' injuries"}

